

w
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
; FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HHj
Direct Steam Driven HYDRO-EXTRACTOR.
HOBART.
JSpf.
Ijadley’s Orient jjotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
Are used by Leading Squatters, Wool Scourers, Meat Works.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St, Sydney, N.S.W.
'
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand {jACON
CHUBBS
DOORS
*HationaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
o-
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
all,
U Ha ikfrt.
TELEPHONES
FOR PASTORALIST, STOCK, and
GJ *Y* A 'PTniff WHU IT Write for our FREE BOOK on
PXaXAUA W UXVJI TELEPHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM,
Sllvertown Telegraph Works Coy.,
279 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY ,
I
I
Royal
Dutch
k
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
Aroma,Strewjtfu'Purity:
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
e&s
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in. less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
* Sole Makers— SEND POE, CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS, Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
.Also largest mailers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
H ELI DON SPA WATER
Saves such wear and tear 1
of the Digestive Organs, J
COLLIN & C 0.,,
Agents. '
The Bulletin
Tol. 28.—N0. 1439.]
[Thursday, September 12, 1907.
Piegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


RECENT TECHNICAL BOOKS.
Livingstone, Design and Const, of Commutators, 7s, p. 6d.
Chatter, How to Use Water Power, 3s, post fid.
Wev Telephone Troubles, Location & Remedy, 2s 6d, p. 3d
Eccles Food Preservatives : Their Advantages and
Proper Use, 1905, 6s fid, post Bd.
Shaxby, Elern. Electrical Engineering, 3s 6d, posted.
Buskett, Fire Assaying, - Gold, Silver, Lead, etc.,6s6d,
post 6d. Hicks, Mineral Oil Testing, 3s, post 3d.
Dissected Model of a Motor Car, ss, post fid.
Eichhorn, Wireless Telegraphy, 10s 6d, post 6d.
Oravath and Lansingb, Practical Illumination, illus., 15s,
post 9(1.
Garter, Modern Flax, Hemp, and Jute Spinning and
Twisting : A Pract. Handbook, 9s, post 6d.
Standage, Agglutiliants of all Kinds, 7s fid, post Bd.
Sayers, Experiments on Hot Water Systems, 3s 6d, p. 4d.
Jeffries, Aust. Building Estimator, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Richey, Building Mechanics’ Ready Reformer, leather, 8s, 1
post 6d. Sayers, Brakes in Tramway. Cars, 4s, p. 4dJ
Hawkesworth, Reinforced Concrete Design, 14s, post Bd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . -
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Core op
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
G. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE*
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
IMP HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL. JUJUBES *»«
Unlike Oough Medicines, do not cauae gastric discomfort or digestive derangement. „
“ The Practitioner ” eiys Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6a.
THE RED PAGE
CHARLES BACHELAIRE: A DEFLNITION
man Baudelaire, this mystic, this
visionary, who in 1857 sang his
bizarre and grotesque chants from the
Hotel Pimodan till the cafes clanged
of his fame (or infamy), and the glittering
salons placed him under a ban of excom-
munication, has gone like a wind-blown cry
that wakes the sleeping dark and echoes out,
smothered in infinity. And France, her
shoulders in the yoke of morality—but a
light, but a new yoke, be it written —at the
cries that roused fear and conjured up
phantoms to dance and wavpr about her
pathway ; at the voice that dared to disclose
the realities of death, hidden, not far, beneath
a bright and comfortable exterior ; at the
voice that sang dead life, dead love, dead
hopes, beautiful and worthy of adoration—
France shrugged the shoulders in her
wonted excited fashion, and put fingers
in her ears. The path of virtue (French
virtue) was too full of joyaunce and
careless disregard to be disturbed and
shadowed by such a croaker, who dreamed
his awful nightmares and trapped them in
his brain till the nervous fingers and inclina-
tion gave them to paper, thence to the world.
The unnatural themes were not tp be denied;
only deprecated. The satjn cheeks would
grey and wrinkle, the superbest shoulders
moulder, the ripe mouth of beauty laugh no
more —what then, messieurs ?
Out of sight, and studiously out of mind,
on the verge of their lives’ horizon, veiled
and distance-hidden, they believed the
narrow gate open to earth’s wayfarers day
and night. They had dreamed of the tomb’s
marble silences. But they steadfastly re-
fused to gaze with distinct vision through
the field-glass of Baudelaire’s imagination,
which brought this body-temple almost to
their feet—so close as to imagine its very
shadow about them.
But the -Apostle of Decadence—Sturm, in
an elegant study of the subject, says Baude-
laire is Decadence —cried mournfully, insist-
ently, and with such evident conviction,
that, when the first shock of his elegies had
ebbed away, France, forgiving but not for-
getting, recovered sufficiently to withdraw
the fingers from her ears, and extend the
cold hand of patronising friendship to her
latest genius. If his words were tears, still
there was a glitter of rainbows in them ; and
his self-imposed hair-cloth shirt was his own,
not their, irritation. Therefore, Hail,
Charles Beaudelaire !
J*
With the publication of his first and only
real sensation, The Flowers of Evil, the
critics" rose humming round this bold in-
truder, who had dared to distil such gall
and wormwood into the domestic hive and
honey-pots. North, east, south, and west,
they swarmed round him stinging. But the
poet had his defenders and admirers. With
acknowledgment to Sturm aforementioned :
Thiery not unjustly compared him with Dante,
to which Barbey d’Aurevilly replied : “ Baude-
laire comes from Hell, Dante only went there. .. .
After the Flowers of Evil there are only two pos-
sible ways for the poet who made them blossom:
Either to blow out his brains or become a Chris-
tian.
One is quite certain that Baudelaire recog-
nised a full-blown tribute in this; an acknow-
ledgment of the intense impression he
always aimed at creating; of the vividness
of the macabres of his riotous and drug-
stirred temperament. Victor Hugo con-
gratulated him on “ having dowered the
heaven of art with one knows not what
deathly gleam; you have created a new
shudder.” Picture the recipient’s gratifica-
tion at this great praise from so eminent a
litterateur as Hugo, who, though he could not
see eye to eye with this weeping wanderer
on Parnassus’ slopes, was still able to dis?
cern a melancholy beauty and inspired arti-
fice in all his melodies. Thus Charles
Baudelaire, wrapped in a deadly weariness
and ennui that never left him, satiated and
disgusted with Nature as she stood naked
before him —the Nature his warped aesthe-
ticism would have clothed with fantasies of
art till she should cease to be natural—with
his own unnatural glorification of death and
its symbols—Baudelaire, the iconoclast,
with broken china under his feet, went on to
fame. Ballade-mongers crawled from their
dens into the bright boulevard sunshine, and
sang a dirge-like chorus to his baton. French
poesy was overrun with imitating aspirants
who followed—a long way behind—with a
huge ambition to “create a new shudder.”
And A. C. Swinburne, the passionate singer
of the beauty Hellene, of sea magic and sea
witchery, did not scruple to plagiarise ideas
of style, at least, for his ballades and verses
from the symbolist who haunted France
with his shrill echoes.
Theophile Gautier, who met Baudelaire at
the Hotel Pimodan in 1849, when the latter
was but a young man, describes him as
suave and polished, and, even then, cynical
with the terrible cynicism of the seer who
detects the gloomy foundation beneath all
fair things: “He had italics and capital
letters in his voice. ...” And the disease ?
The visions dancing, the demoniac puppets
which piped to him ? Ask the sensation-
seekers who shared in the hasheesh seances
at the Hotel Pimodan, the drug-orgies in the
dim rooms, where faint light flung myste-
rious shadows, and no footfall echoed on
the muffled floor; where, under the dispen-
sations of hasheesh, lithe arms cradled
and swung the spirit to the sound of
crying violins, far into the meads
of nightmare of voluptuous visions, and
more-than-shadow phantoms. Admiration of
Thomas de Quincy’s Confessions, first init-
iated Baudelaire into the mysteries of
opium and, charmed with the surcease
it brought him, he sought in hasheesh the
sublimest of phantasies. And the curious
effect of this drug is recorded in The Arti-
ficial Paradise , a disjointed, feverish account
of the writer’s impressions under its influ-
ence :
The senses become extraordinarily acute and
fine. The eyes pierce Infinity, hallucination com-
mences, external objects take on strange appear-
ances, and present themselves in forms hitherto
unknown.. .. Sounds are perceived to have a
color, and color becomes musical.
To the devotee of symbolism, how slippery
this descent to Avernus.
A dreamer from youth onward, he rein-
forced his phantoms with these narcotics
until body and brain gave way. And the
end is pitiable. Broken down by excesses,
the poet fled to Brussels to recuperate, and
airay his shattered mental forces by change
of scene. Then he wrote to Paris ; probably
the last time he ever lifted pen :
I have coquetted too, too long with this Delilah.
... My last hopes are gone... Reft, I await the
black dawn and the Philistines... My dreams
are all wrong...
A general paralysis chained every muscle ;
he became hopelessly insane. So he lingered
on incapable of movement, with no sense
but faint sight, and Paris sighed with relief
at the report of his decease three months
later.
In that little prose poetic querulousness
of his, At One O’clock in the Morning, his
great desire overwhelms his soul’s eternal
satiety, and he cries into the silences :
“ Souls of those whom I have loved, whom I
have sung, fortify me... and Thou, Lord, my
God, accord me such grace as shall produce some
beautiful verse to prove to myself I am not the
least of men...”
The grace was forthcoming, and Baudelaire
lives in the van alongside Victor Hugo and
Paul Verlaine.
Even without his opium-dreams and
hasheesh excesses, the divine afflatus is
wonderfully strong and consistent. Here
is corroboration in some stanzas of that
sparkling lyric, “ To a Brown Beggar Maid ” :
White maiden with the russet hair,
Whose garments, through their holes, declare
That poverty is part of you,
And beauty too.
Your sabots tread the roads of chance,
And not one queen of old romance
Carried her velvet shoes and lace
With half your grace.
..... •
In place of stockings, worn and old,
Let a keen dagger, all of gold,
Gleam in your garter for the eyes
Of roue’s wise;
Let ribbons carelessly untied
Reveal to us the radiant pride
Of your white bosom, purer far
Than any star;
And you will count before your glass
More kisses than the lily has ;
And more than one Valois will sigh
When you pass by.
... And meanwhile you are on the tramp,
Begging your living in the damp, . . .
And shilling bangles in a shop
Cause you, with eager eyes to stop,
And I, alas ! have not a sou
To give to you.
Then go, with no more ornament,
Pearl, diamond, or subtle scent,
Than your own fragile naked grace
And lovely face.
Here also, in some golden lines from “ A
Landscape ” :
I would, when I compose my solemn verse,
Sleep near the Heaven as do astrologers ;
Hear the high bells, and with a dreaming mind
Hear their calm hymns blown to me on the wind.
Out of my tower with chin upon my hands,
I’ll watch the singing, babbling human bands;
And see clock-towers like spars against the sky,
And heavens that bring thoughts of eternity.
. . . The threads of smoke that rise above the
town;
The moon that pours her pale enchantment down.
Then I will dream of blue horizons deep;
Of gardens where the marble fountains weep;
Of kisses, and of ever-singing’ birds—
A sinless idyll built of innocent words.
. . . Draw the sun out of my heart, and there
With burning thoughts making a summer air.
In the termination of one of his longer
poems, “The Voyage,” symbolic of the
human’s search for the happy valleys of
Atlantis, note the brave, pathetic music :
But when at length the slayer treads us low, „
We will have hope and cry, “ ’T>s time to go .
As when of old we parted for Cathay
With wind-blown hair and eyes upon the bay.
. . . O come all ye whose wandering joys
Are set upon the scented lotus flower,
For here we sell the fruits’ miraculous boon ;
Come ye and drink the sweet and sleepy power
Of the enchanted, endless afternoon.
And that pealing clarion stanza from “The
Beacons ” : _
A shout cried by a thousand sentinels,
An order from a thousand bugles tossed,
A beacon o’er a thousand citadels,
A call to huntsmen in lone woodlands lost.
I may be tilting at a very large
but' this drug-drunkard, this utterly blase
Troubadour of the Tomb, has given the world
—that world with the hearing ear and the
understanding heart—a sheaf of lyrics that,
for dainty artifice and exquisite melody,
have never been surpassed.
This deadly sin of Decadence, this sin of
his, has the merit (if sin can possess merit)
of originality, at least. It was not that
mimicry, unhealthy imitation of pioneer
inspiration or cult, good or bad—puppets
stolen from the bazaar of books, and clothed
in a thin veil of originality, taken to the
stalls, and passed off on the thought-
less bargainer and truth-seeker. Charles
Baudelaire was the Source. Immediately
ambitious incompetents, cafe jongleurs, kid-
napped his children unblushingly, dressed
them in cheap garments, and drove them
forth into the boulevards and market places
to earn their pence. And as little sins earn
small penalties, so for them, the thieving
jongleurs aforesaid —were the stripes of
faint praise and the dungeon of oblivion.
Neither very harmful in reality. But to
return to our Satan and his sin, and so to
the cause thereof, if there be one. Whence
this skeleton dancing in the loud markets,
and under blazing windows, to the music of
a weird barrel-organ, whose themes were so
harrowing yet so melodiously beautiful ?
To my idea, clues to the secret are found
in two of his prose poems, from one of which
I have already quoted : At One O’clock in the
Morning, and The Double Chamber. In the
former he prays for fame ; and in the latter,
written most surely under the spell of his
narcotics, he is jubilant and god-like in the
presences of his voluptuous dream-goddesses
and the glamor of the bizarre dream-chamber.
At the knock on the door he awakes to the
drab realities of life, to the narrow world.
“Horror! I remember, I remember. Yes,
this kennel, this habitation of eternal
weariness, is indeed my own.” So depressed
and satiated he was with all that life can
show him. And thence, I take it, the
secrets of his inspiration to be .first, his
intense ambition of fame at all hazards, and
second, the terrible depression of his soul
outside the “ inner chamber.”
Thus Baudelaire raised his skeleton and
trained it carefully, and on the cord of
imagination led it round the streets and
squares to dance to his music. At first it
was draped with classic wreaths and shining
draperies, and the many onlookers gazed, and
listened, and were duly horrified. (This was
the time of such verses as “ Contemplation ”
and “The Irreparable.”) But the skeleton-
bear master was not content, was not satis-
fied ; all the town must know of it, and so
be made to remember. At the next appear-
ance the whole countryside rang with the
horror of the dancer, naked in all its
hideousness, and of the mad singer and liis
swaying dirges. (About this time Baudelaire
wrote that evilly charnel poem, ‘ ‘ The Corpse, ”
and the terrible “ Causerie.”) With kindred
performances, inflamed and fevered by his
hasheesh moments, thus he mounted to the
pavilion of fame, with the incompetent mim-
etics babbling at him as he rose.
Jt
Dreams may become material, shadows
substantial, as Charley Baudelaire found to
his cost, when his phantoms bound him
motionless on his truckle bed in Brussels,
and then slowly, surely, strangled him.
M.L.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
Life in Ancient Athens (Macmillan, per
Dymoclt’sj, by Prof. Tucker, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, gives an interesting description of the
social and public life of the citizens of classical
Athens. The book, well illustrated, treats with
great detail of the habits, manners, dress and
amusements of the Athenian ; and Tucker’s
personal method makes us realise that the Athenian
was just a bloke, and not a bad sort of bloke, either.
SPLURGE
Here is another novelist of the nude —an old
offender, for the mention of whose name we do
not see any need. This author gives us the nude
decorated with, say, a lone black garter. . There
is nothing prurient in the nude; there is much
deliberately suggestive in the lone blade garter.
The heroine is a mysterious lady of high degree
who dines elaborately and alone at a Swiss hotel.
The menu is given in detail—there is a class of
reader avid of knowledge of the food of high per-
sonages. First, “she toyed with some caviare,
then she ate a delicate truite bleu ,” next “the
tenderest selle d’agneau au lait and the youngest
green peas made their appearance,” but “it was
not until a fat quail arrived that she again
tasted her claret—wonderful claret at that.
.. . What would she eat next? The maitre
d’hdtel appeared with a dish of marvellous
looking nectarines. . . And then he returned
with a strange-looking bottle, and this time
the dignified servant poured the brilliant golden
fluid into a tiny liqueur-glass.” Meantime, at an
adjacent table, the hero, having “ progged at
some olives with his fork,” was having soup, sole
au vin blanc, two mutton chops a’ Va/nglaise,
and four (4) glasses of port. And then “ a strange
sense of loneliness came over him.” It might have
been the port. “No features at all!” he said to
himself. “ Yes—he was wrong, she had certainly
a mouth worth looking at again. It was so red.
Not large and pink and laughingly open like Isa-
bella’s, but straight and chiselled, and red, red,
red.” She also had eyes. “Were they black, or
blue, or grey, or green? He did not know, he could
not think—only they were eyes—eyes —eyes.”
We are not told much about her nose; but pro-
bably it was just nose—nose—nose.
As for him, he was “so tall and straight, and
fair and strong,” and he “probably wore silk
socks, and was ‘ beautifully groomed.’ ”
“ ‘ Yes, you are a baby 1’ she said. ‘ A great,
big, beautiful baby, Paul.’
“If Paul had been a girl he would have
pouted.” _
We cannot avert the suspicion that Paul did
pout.
“ And slowly her red lips melted into his young
lips in a long strange kiss. . . . And (later on)
they melted into one another’s arms, and cooed,
and kissed, and were foolish and incoherent.
More concentrated more absorbed —than the
sternest Eastern sage—absorbed in each other.
The spirit of two natures vibrating as One. . . .
She purred as a tiger might have done, while she
undulated like a snake.” Also, “no Roman
Empress, with her bath of asses’ milk, could have
had a more wonderful toilet than she.”
So, in this juicy Ouida-esque diction the love
affair progresses, accompanied by retinues of
servants and a chef from Paris. And, omitting
most of the purrings and the undulations, the end
is that she disappeared, and left him a beautiful
gold collar for his dog. The subsequent happen-
ings are in the most approved melodramatic
manner. There ought to be a prohibitive tariff
on such books. N. 2. F. 4.
The little ironies of Hall Caine :—“ Among the
acutest of the small miseries of my existence has
been that of seeing a man, or more frequently a
woman, take up and lay down in the midst of a
running tire of desultory conversation, in the
trains, on the steamers, in the halls of hotels, or
on the seashore, a story on which perhaps I my-
self have spent all my strength, and have written,
as I imagined, with my heart’s blood.”
According to Albert Dorrington, in The Book
Monthly (England), “the Maorilander is too
beefy to write, too comfortable with his rosy
cheeks as compared to the gaunt man of the Aus-
tralian plains. It is the man whose soul has been
blistered by the sun and tortured by the arid bush
who comes along with a bit of literary fire in his
pocket—a story or a poem shining like a bit of
opal. No, the milk-and-red Maorilander is not
for literature yet, anyhow, and when his time
comes it will probably be on different lines from
those which we see shaping in Australian litera-
ture —a joke flung against a tragedy.”
It may interest “Ambitious” (Red Page, B.
11/7/’07.), in search of “ a reliable literary guide”
(writes John P.), to learn that there is such a
thing—a Yankee production, 1001 Places to Sell
MSS. (The Editor Publishing Co., 150 Nassau-
street, New York, U.S.A., one dollar postfree.) It
is reliable and is right up to date. It gives signed
statements of editorial needs, covering all the
Yankee and the leading magazines of England.
Published by the same company, there is The
Editor , a bright monthly magazine of “ Informa-
tion for Literary Workers” (one dollar 25
cents per annum post free). Present scribe
can recommend it from experience as being the
most helpful thing he’s come across in seven
years of disappointment. It is devoted en-
tirely to writing as a profession. Every month,
under the heading “The Literary Market,” it
gives the latest needs of the magazines, and fre-
quently their rate of pay. This little magazine is
full of “meat.” It is edited by an author, Leslie
W. Quirk, who is also the writer of a book How
to Write a Short Story. (Same Co. 50 cents post-
paid.) This deals specifically with the short story,
and gives valuable hints on the preparation of
manuscripts. Quirk knows the ropes, and his
little book is invaluable to the man who wants to
succeed. By way of personal advice to “Ambi-
tious,” I would say: “Choose carefully a
few good magazines that make no secret
of their rate of pay, and that pay promptly
on acceptance. (When a mag. is reticent
about its rate of pay, look out ! (Having
thus deliberately selected your targets, keep ham-
mering at them. Your first yarn might pass un-
noticed, but, if your work is good, it will compel
attention. The Yankee magazines are out after
new men, and they read too carefully to miss
much. Keep hammering. That’s the secret.
But, 0, mv friend, bestow your attention upon
those magazines that boldly hang out the ‘pay
upon acceptance ’ sign ! They alone are worth
while. The others are a vexation to the flesh.
They hold your accepted masterpiece for five
years in order that you may have a chance to die
before publication.


Jl
No. 202. £7/18/6.
*
No. 204.—£7/5/-.
ARTISTIC
CABINETS
At ANTHONY HORDERNS'
...FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 202. — Music Cabinet, in solid Maple,
fumed old Mahogany, 4ft. 6in. high, 2ft.
6in. wide, shaped bevelled mirror, 16in. x
7in. on top, clear glass door and movable
shelves, £7/18/6.
No. 204. —Musio Cabinet, in Maple, fumed
old Mahogany, 4ft. 9in. high, 27in. wide,
bevelled mirror on top, 14in. x 9in., fall-
down doors, with clear glass panels, £7/5/-
No. 201. Music Cabinet, 4ft. Bin. high,
23in. wide, bevelled oval mirror, 13in. x
9in. on top, clear glass door and movable
shelves, finished Rosewood color, 70/-.
No. 206.— Corner Cabinet, in Walnut, 2ft.
3in. wide, bevelled mirrors, 7in. x 6in., 45/-
No. 208.— Elegant Cabinet, 4ft. wide, in
solid Mahogany, finished Rosewood, very
elaborately carved, 2 drawers and 2 cup-
boards, open space between, bevelled
mirror in centre, 24in. x2oin., side mirrors,
bevelled, lOin. x 7in., £22/10/-.
Also sft. wide, centre 30in. x 26in., side
mirrors, llin. x 9in., £27/10/-.
No. 207.— Handsome Cabinet, 4ft. wide, in
Old Mahogany, with drawer and cupboard,
shaped bevelled mirror, 26in. x 22in., good
carvings and well finished throughout,
£lO/17/6.
No. 201 .—£3llol-,
No. 206.-45/-
No. 208. — £22/10 j-,
FINE^
FURNITURE
Made by WHITE WORKERS
for WHITE AUSTRALIANS
... and sold at .. .
Am\tlk®iay HorJums’
L@w
... at the .. .
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM
On THE HISTORIC SLOPE of
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
No. 207 .—£10117/6.
No. 196. —
No. 203 .—70/
No. 190.— Ohina Cabinet, in solid Maple,
fumed old Mahogany, sft. 6in. high, 2ft.
9in. wide, large drawer at bottom, shelves
covered in Plush, £B/8/-.
No. 203. — Music Cabinet, in solid Walnut,
4ft. 6in. _ high, 21in. wide, bevelled mirror
16in. x 6in. on top, clear glass doors with
2 bevelled mirrors, 6in. x Bin., above
movable shelves, lock and castors, 70/-.
Without fancy mirror top, 50/-.
No. 205.— Corner Cabinet, 24in. wide, Maple,
finished old Mahogany, oval bevelled side
mirrors, 12in. x 9in., 72/6.
No. 198.— Music Cabinet, finished Rosewood
color, 6ft. high, 22in. wide, shaped bevelled
mirror, 14in. x 10in., on top, clear glass
door, movable shelves, £4/18/6.
Send for...
Illustrated
Furniture
Catalogue,
Post Free anywhere.
No. 205. £3/1216.
No. 198.— £8/81-.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
Only Universal Providers, New Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.


MAKE MONEY
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
W(h \, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for tlie McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPP3GB£__
C-B-
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB-
the most successful corset design ever created.
Are
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
gz®P
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holds sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL BTYLES
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to
J. E. N WPORT, SOUS St Co.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
SFREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 23.
We receive hundreds
of testimonials
daily.
We send your pre-
sent by return post
We have no furth-
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
k
7 N© MONEY REQUIRED WHATEVER— SimpIy
send us a post card with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents.
C-pp for selling 12 articles of
*■ 1 jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our “ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
Rrpp for selling
only 6 ar-
ticles. We
will send
a Solid
Gold Pin
Sol id
Gold Pen-
dant and
Necklet or
Bangle
or Ring,
or lady’s
c- ~ 1 ! j
ĸ
jW-Free^'Sice,
we will send
you your choice of
any articles picked from
our Catalogue of novelties
which we send with the jewellery
IW-PlinA jfO The party selling the 12
ft ICC SU* articles in the shortest tune is
entitled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
Send Us Your Name and address.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
' New South Wales
k
-*ar° u r
Only
Address
DO YOU WANT TO HEAR
the conversation of your
friends—music —singing ?
Are you “hard of hear-
ing” and denied those
pleasures? If you are not totally deaf—nor born deaf—your hopes may revive, because relief is at hand.
THE ELECTRICONS GAVE ME July 17th, 1907.
PERFECT HEARING. 29 Buckhurst Street, S. Melbourne.
L. R. VERNON CO. Dear Sirs, —I am thankful to say that the Electricons which I obtained from you
some time ago have restored my hearing. I was as deaf as a post for years, and your Electricons cured me.
Will you please send your Book to a few of my friends whom I know are deaf, and I shall always be pleased to
recommend your Electricons to anyone who is hard of hearing.—Yours truly, M. JOYNER.
THEY WILL. HELP YOU. The Electricons are entirely different from any other Appliances. They
do not hurt, will not collapse in the ear, and are so sensitive that they catch the faintest sounds.
EASILY APPLIED. WRITE TO-DAY FOR BOOKLET
THE L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOU.
WINES Be,t oriv of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
#
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriaqk Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made East, Is.
Up-to-Datr Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
op Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. .Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love. Is Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Krrut-
ker Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, 1 s. Scientific W restling, Is. 3d. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St.. Melbourne
WINCHESTER
:* •• .
' , *V 1 1
,- t. •
*
■
im
wssk rr&i
try*
f: ; y y
M Repeater w
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
for field or Tra|> Shooting.'
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, FRUIT
SALT.’
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt* on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
OAUTION.-Sm Capaule marked ENO'S ‘ FRUIT MlTi* Without It you have h
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
taparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd.. * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. BIN O S Patant.
Sold by Chemists , Ac. everywhere.
ARTE US
eaKfas’g P°S B poiuls-.
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION.
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION,
Everyman and
Injure the complexion, *?“£ C c A rtER’S LITTLE LIVER
Remove the cause by using CAR c n tion> Begin at
PILLS, and above all tongs, hg uVer pILLS< Liver
once with CARTER S Li 11 resist the wonderful
Complaints never have and never
efficacy of these gentle little pills. fc
cautioned to observe that gremlin*
Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
The Public are
Carter’s Little
k


m
Va
%
V,
/A
There’s nothing so
bad for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
or when there
is inflamma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
filler’s
*Cherni Sectoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind,
ftopared by Dr. J. C. Ayer St Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A*
ķ
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut qu. stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODE: 8
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port_in the worbj. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and out • nee'al offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
(I ABOUT
CHESTS
II
SCOTT’S EMULSION
The Evidence
from Neal Street, Glen Innes,
N.S.W.,October 21,1905. “ My
little James suffered greatly
from chest troubles and I
decided to give Scott’s Emul-
sion a trial. The results have
far exceeded my expectations.
From the first bottle I noticed
an improvement ur_u uow, after
continuing treatment for
a wmie, he is restored to com-
plete good health and strength.
He looks well, and eats and
sleeps splendidly, which is
entirely due to Scott’s Emul-
sion.” (Mrs.) J. Sullivan.
The Reason Why
He Looks Well
The cod liver oil used for
making Scott’s Emulsion is
the best in the world; though
costly to buy, it is far more
powerful to heal and strength-
en than any other. By the
original Scott process of
manufacture, it is broken up
into tiny globules which the
weakest digestion can tackle
with ease. No chest case is so
far gone, nor yet so trifling,
but Scott’s will bring benefit
that will astonish
you.
This best of all
emulsions is
guaranteed by
“ the fishman
with the fish”
on the package.
TRADE MARK
scorn
■ EMULSION
Prom all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines
O^INQTO/y
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy -
' INFLUENZA,
COUCHS,
Ask for Banning ton's CO L °bronCH rTI S.
and seethatyou get it ASTHJVIAj^
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Himyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITT, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
*« Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity-”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Mote the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
By Royal
Warrant to
ĸ
His Majestj
the King:.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
k
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
K WORLD'S CURE
FOR
■ Coughs, Colds,
■ Bronchitis, Asthma,
■ and other
I Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge;
" £ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
00PYBI6HT.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
COCOA 1C
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body, >
because it contains a
much higher proportion )
of actual nutriment .
than ordinary Cocoa.
1
PLASMON OATS)
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle 1
of HusK and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment \
with easy coo King.
PLASMON ;
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE '
TO ,
GOOD HEALTH.
i
AsR Tor them.
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORES.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Done It All Before.
Oh! her eyes flash invitation when the formal
conversation —
Very formal conversation —first begins to bore you
both,
So you edge a little nearer and begin to hold her
dearer,
And you think that she’s the only—you would
almost take your oath.
When a queer old thought comes peeping from a
brain cell that’s been sleeping,
And you leave the rest unfinished and sit staring
at the floor,
For you’re slowly realising—and it’s really quite
surprising—
It’s a simple repetition of a thing you’ve done be-
fore.
But she sits behind the curtain, and you whisper,
“ I am certain
This is Innocence Incarnate—l shall talk about
the crops.”
But she glances at you slyly when you praise old
Shakspeare highly,
And she talks about “the garden,” and your
breathing nearly stops.
“There’s a seat somewhere about here ! Do you
think they know we’re out here ? ”
Then you recollect your former resolution —
“ Nevermore I ”
But her head is on your shoulder, and you feel a
trifle older,
When Last Summer comes and whispers : “ You
have done this all before / ”
There’s a novelty about it, and there really is no
doubt it
Is a foolish occupation, most distasteful to the
wise;
But your wisdom does but bore you when the girl
is waiting for you,
And your vows are all forgotten when you look
into her eyes.
Later on, perhaps, you’ll rue it, then you’ll swear
you “always knew it
Was a certainty that later she would vote the
thing a bore.”
Still, you feel a bit dejected at the ending you
expected,
For in previous existences it chanced so oft before.
VIO.
KODAK.
Ballade of the Market Place.
What of the harvest we would reap
From those dear dreams we know of old ?
The dearest dream went all too cheap
When in the open mart ’twas sold.
Our warmest tints, now'leaden-cold
Beneath Time’s fingers that deface,
Yet caught, ere they grew grey with mould,
The favor of the market place.
Within our hearts we delved full deep
In search of treasures manifold ;
We chaffered for the chance to keep
Chill guineas for our rainbow-gold ;
In songs we sang, in tales we told,
In pictures that we starved to trace,
We coined our souls that we might hold
The favor of the market-place.
Vain as the visions born of sleep,
The favor failed. No longer bold
We learned in humbleness to creep,
In humbleness our souls controlled,
To fresh-lit shrines the idle strolled,
“New songs !” still cried the populace,
And to some stranger-singer doled
The favor of the market-place.
0 fellow-craftsmen, crowned and stoled,
In this your hour take heart of grace;
So many who are dead cajoled
The favor of the market-place !
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
Ballade of Quest.
A breeze-hung bird in the litten sky,
A sweet dear breath from the sunswept lea,
Low dash of oars, and you and I
Adrift on the long tide drowsily.
Where shall the end of the journey be,
When Night stoops dark thro’ the sunset gate?—
The ripples flicker, and bend, and flee.
Love is our steersman, but where is Fate ?
Out of the warm world echoing high,
Is a lilting song flung distantly.
The lean reeds rustle, the banks go by,
The waves part softly for you and me.
What shall our eyes, love-burdened, see
Ere darkness lowers as black as Hate ?
Oh ! Sweet the Sun and the wind’s low glee,
For Love is our steersman ; but where is Fate ?
Swifter the wet oars flash and fly.
Our Souls are strong and our hearts are free.
The grey gulls swim in the heights and cry,
A sunset streams thro’ our Arcady.
Oh ! what shall deafen love’s harmony
When earth is widowed, and stars are late ?
Time hath his secret, and I have thee !
The steersman is singing; but where is Fate ?
L’ Envoi.
Prince, when the feast and the revelry
And the lights are gone, and the shroud is
straight,
Shall we find —She and I and Love, we three—
Harnessed with thunder, this strange old Fate ?
M L
C. ALLAN MARRIS.


Jfu, Seal of 7 2ua/itif
Zj4rt L ‘
Trade dlarft!
SYDNEY Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
.Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
fnnr.tnnt
r THE TIE THKT BINDS.
CADBURY'S COCOA can be obtained in eveiy corner of the British Empire
' ' / ||^ y^ e ? that fOl ' ,Stre /^^^ ,F 'T Ur& is,unequalled.
, yfl
w /if
BRITISH if\'
/^:i^T|| GIJ,ANA \$J!
THE GIFT™ 0 "
■rr, •>
*
m
P
M
COUNTRY
WHf
to her COLONIES
Tlie New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
Man u factored in
Richmond Virginia
by Larus,&Brother C
OM
Lo Agenfs, Sydney
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
MECIM. HOaiDR
Scotch whisky
n
Wj
A
36
A
Z
Z
Yt
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
Beautiful Home Decorations
ķ
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities,
“OCR FAVORITE” tOU) EVA NIKE (Washable) -Rich and
durabie as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and wasMng
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures.
etc ', class folding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied,
fnlrn-f AI a*SY *® raac ', B *” Fo / decorating the briUiant white and
any fUl chulagloss Burtace for Furniture, Metal Beds and
OT) :‘|AI*OEIIV» BATH TUB EVAMEE. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
The Roofing' That Lasts.
Wholesale Agents : E. RICH <a CO. LTD.. Sydney & Brisbane
i c 2 <5S STfST. j?
<-*i ra
c::. s
F=
m
r
Pt


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1439.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1907.
Price 6d.
POSSIBLY A RAT.
The now tariff will bear very heavily on the poor man.-Remark made 291,372,910,845,399,927 times in the Importers' which, at other times,
wouldn't care if the poor man was in Gehenna.
THE EMBRACED ONE: “WHY THIS SUDDEN AFFECTION? AND WHAT IS IT THAT I SEEM TO SMELL?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A astralin /or the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin wonld oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ 'The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alioays is.
Special "Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate ar y part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse , Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian sub jects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention . The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mate nr >t in Ulrich and White •
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of suflicient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and.
Qotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco.—lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metaladvertising plates, size 6'fi.n. x Vein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1907.
THE IMPORTER AND THE TARIFF.
Loud and bitter and terrible in the land these
days is the cry of the importer. He is an anti-
Australian in almost every case, because the
industrial advancement of Australia would be
his undoing ; and he is a Tory practically all the
time, with a contempt that is taller than a cathedral
for trades unions and democratic politics, and
with a godlike mockery for his country and his
country’s progress. Yet just now he professes,
in an awkward and unconvincing way, to be
torn with anguish lest the “poor man” should
suffer by the tariff, and he wails greatly in the
Argus and S.M. Herald and Telegraph over
the alleged sufferings of “the workman ” and his
wife, and over the alleged privations of “the
toiler,” and the coming woes of “the poorer
classes.” Meanwhile he is lending a hand to the
workman by adding the duty, and a good deal
more than the duty, on to goods that he
obtained before the tariff came into force, and by
putting imaginary duties on to things that
the tariff doesn’t even mention. Of course,
that trick can’t last for ever. Increased
competition under the new tariff will rapidly
bring things down to the old level, and
far below it; and considering the outrageous
height of the old level the event can’t happen too
soon. But for the time a huge confidence trick is
being worked by many of the importing and
trading tribe, in the hope of rousing a deluded
public to a storm of indignation—serviceable
indignation that will blow the tariff endways,
and obliterate these prospective Australian in-
dustries that would supply work and good wages
for the people, and profitable employment for
Australian capital, and which would tend to
reduce prices, and attract population, and make
the country strong for defence, and would, in
general, do good to everybody save the importer.
* * * *
In all his press wailings the importer, as far as
possible, ignores the very existence of Australian
industries. For all the recognition he gives
them, Australia might be as bare of manufac-
tures as the land of the Hottentots. There are
any number of lines in which Australian factories
can get ready, within a. month or two .from the
time the tariff passes and the Australian market is
definitely secured, to supply the whole Australian
demand, but the importer has never heard of any
Australian industry, or of any possibility of one.
His attitude is that Australia makes nothing,
will make nothing, can make nothing; that
everything is and must be imported; and that
consequently “the duty will be added to the
price of the goods.” And it is here that he weeps
about the “poor workman,” in whose company,
at other times, he wouldn’t be found dead —or
even injured, or drunk. As a matter of fact, his
dread of Australian manufactures is very real.
The importer, as we know him, is an excre-
scence, a needless and useless and hideously
expensive intruder between the manufacturer
and the retailer or the consumer; and with
the new tariff he sees his end approaching.
Plenty of countries do almost entirely with-
out him, and he doesn’t want Australia
to find that it can do without him. When
things are locally manufactured there is a
lamentable tendency on the manufacturer’s part
to have his own warehouse—as, say, piano-manu-
facturer Beale has in Sydney—and sell direct to
the retailer or to the public. If that awful state
of things happens in Australia, the importer will
have to go and find employment. Until a week
or two ago he was batting on a good wicket, with-
out the necessity of any useful employment. An
article that costs, say, Bs. or 10s. at the factory in
Manchester or .Lyons or Pittsburg would be
brought out to Sydney free of duty, and priced in
the York-street warehouse at 20s. The retailer
bought it at that figure because he hadn’t sufficient
capital to enable him to trade direct with Man-
chester or Lyons or Pittsburg, and he couldn’t
even go there to make acquaintance with the
manufacturer, and, if he got to Lyons, he wouldn’t
know the language in any case, and if he went to
Pittsburg he couldn’t make himself intelligible,
never having learned to speak through his
nose. Then the retailer sold the article
at prices varying according to his assur-
ance and his opportunities, and the final
purchaser paid the original cost four times over.
For the amount of real work he does the importer
is the best paid man in the Commonwealth,
save one—the big country landholder who dum-
mied his estate in the cheap, wicked old days.
» * * *
But with a great upspringing of local manufac-
tures all this would be changed. The article
which costs Bs. or 10s. in the Lyons factory might
possibly, at first, cost 12s. or 15s. in a Sydney fac-
tory which worked shorter hours, and on a smaller
scale, and had to get its experience as it went
along. But the goods wouldn’t be dragged from
a factory in Kent-street to a warehouse in York-
street merely that the great middleman, who
would then be of no use to man or beast, might
make a big profit out of them. They would go
straight to the retailer, or even, perhaps, to the
public, at 15s. The cost of production might be
much more than it is now, but the price
to the consumer would still be much less.
As another case in point—a case parallel with
that of piano-maker Beale— the great Sydney
firm of Anthony Hordern and Sons manu-
factures furniture on a huge scale, and sells its
furniture direct to thp public; it cuts out the
great importer and the smaller retailer and their
two profits in a single act. Imagine thousands of
such establishments, and the importers’ great
warehouses would be empty caverns, and the im-
porter himself would be as extinct as the dodo. A
man in that position could hardly tell the truth,
even if he wasn’t out of practice. In a lofty way
he occasionally remarks that his only objection to
Australian goods is their inferior quality; that
when they rise to the level of the imported article
he would as soon handle them as any other kind.
But in his soul he knows that they wouldn’t need
to be “handled” by him, any more than a fish
requires to be pawed over by three men, at great
extra cost and some detriment to the fish, on its
way from the fishmonger’s slab behind the counter
to the customer in front of the counter.
• * > • *
In answer to these charges, the Foreign-trader
asks scornfully: “If an Australian manufacturer
can produce an article and sell it to the trade at
less than the importer’s price, why doesn’t he do
it, and why does he want Protection?” The
answer is simple enough. The manufacturer
makes one or two or three articles. The importer
deals in a hundred or more. If it seems worth
while to crush the manufacturer of some special
article—that is to say, if the manufacturer looks
like becoming a serious competitor—the importer,
working under Freetrade conditions, simply drops
the price on that article till the manufacturer is
ruined and out of the way. The other 99 articles
that the importer deals in carry the loss easily
enough while the competition lasts. When the
manufacturer is industrially dead, the price of the
hundredth article goes up again ; and the cost of
the destruction of an industry, and of the Aus-
tralian capital invested in it, and the expense of
turning into the street a few score Australian
workmen who were trying to earn bread for their
families, hardly makes a scratch on the surface
of the great aggregate importers’ balance-sheet.
The thing only requires to be done once, for as a
rule, when the manufacturer is once down he is
down for good. His factory and his machinery
have been taken by his creditors, and he can’t
start again without new machinery, and no one
will trust him with the money to buy it, knowing
that it would only be the same experience over
again. The present writer struck the great im-
porting mystery when he was very young. At
the age of 23 he was one of a firm which owned
a confectionery work (aggregate sales about
£22,000 a year) in a certain Maoriland city.
There were three other similar establishments in
the town, and the four paid good wages to perhaps
150 or 200 employees. The importers were
friendly enough, and a scale of prices was main-
tained which paid all parties in a reasonable way.
Then a fifth factory started, and the importers
reckoned local industry was being over-done, and
in an indifferent sort of way they dropped the
price of English and French confectionery nearly
one-half. It made no perceptible difference to
them ; the hams, and cornsacks, and tea, and all
the miscellaneous groceries, provisions and sun-
dries, carried the loss on confectionery easily
enough, but the local men paid an average of 7s. 6d.
in the £ and disappeared—all save one, who had
the good fortune to be a general importer himself,
and whose factory was only a side line. Then the
price of sweets went up as unobtrusively as it had
come down, and, save that about 150 people were
out of employment, there was no perceptible dif-
ference in that small Maoriland city. It is only
when a Protectionist tariff starts the competition
in a multitude of directions at once, and when the
duty, added to the price of the imported article,
makes the loss really serious, that the manufac-
turer gets a fair chance against the great organised
importing conspiracy.
* * * *
As an employer of labor, the importer repre-
sents about the minimum. He keeps clerks,
warehouse employees, commercial travellers, a
cat, and a night watchman, and that is practi-
cally all. The manufacturer would employ these
just the same, and about ten times their number
of workmen as well, and the workmen, being in
Australia, would give employment to Australian
farmers and tradesmen, whereas the importer’s
workmen are mostly in Europe, busy giving em-
ployment to European farmers and tradesmen.
Then the manufacturer encourages Australian
invention and enterprise ; in every factory there is
a chance to devise some new machine, or some
improvement on an old one something that
means progress and increased wealth. The ware-
house produces no invention, unless some clerk
invents a new style of day-book, or somebody in-
vents a new and plausible advertisement. As
recently as last week the S. M. Herald lamented
that “in N.S.W. there would seem to be a
lack of the inventive faculty,” as compared
with Victoria, and pointed out that in
1906 N.S.W. inventors took out only 453
patents, whereas Victorian inventors took out
807. Apparently this is an evidence that the
importer’s warehouse doesn’t tend to inventive-
ness. There is no machinery about the ware-
house except the crane which lifts up the
foreign goods, and the truck in which they are
wheeled across the floor. But if the importer is
a useless member of society, his profits seem to be
in inverse ratio to his value. In N.S.W., at all
events, he is amazingly rich compared with the
manufacturer, and he is able to pay for advertise-
ments on a scale that the manufacturer finds im-
possible, and the daily papers hold him in pro-
found reverence as a consequence of the adver-
tisements, and explain to the public that he is a
public benefactor, and that the country couldn’t
get on without him.
* * * *
It is quite natural that the importer—like the
venal papers that he hires—should be solid on the
lie that “Protection raises prices.” Certainly he
buys less and less of his goods from Freetrade
Britain, and more and more from protected foreign
countries, and he does this because Protection re-
duces prices, and enables him to buy more cheaply;
but he can’t afford to preach what he knows to be the
fact. For, as already mentioned, Protection and
the expansion of local industries would kill his
easy, lazy, profitable job. He might even have to
become a manufacturer himself, and that involves
many troubles. The manufacturer has to pay
large sums to people like the Mort’s Dock Co. to
build machinery for him. He has to pay other
Australians to build him a factory, for he needs a
factory as well as a warehouse, whereas the
importer’s factory is built for him by somebody
else, and his machinery is provided and
worked by somebody away in Europe or
America. Then the manufacturer must be
swift in the pursuit of new inventions and
improvements, while the importer has all
manner of fellows doing that hard work for him
in all manner of countries, without any brain-fag
to himself. The manufacturer has to keep an
intent eye on all the stages of his work, to know
the cost and method of every process, and to
watch for every chance of making production
swifter, better and cheaper; the importer only
requires the capacity of the huckster to bargain
for the article when someone else has done all
these things. The difference between the two
men is similar to that between Columbus, who
discovered America, and the cheap tripper who
buys a Cook’s ticket and goes to Uncle Sam’s
country in a straw hat and a checked suit, or
between the man who invented the locomotive
and the person who has a season ticket between
Sydney and Newtown.
* * * *
The case against the importer is, in short,
that he is a stumbling-block in the way of
invention, a drag on the wheels of enter-
prise, a hindrance to the growth of popula-
tion, and an enemy to the country (because
his interest lies in the destruction of all except the
crudest Australian industries, and the destruction
of the Australian capital invested in advanced
industries, and the ruin of the workmen who de-
pended’ on them for a livelihood); that he is a
person of lofty, top-hatted, tail-coated arrogance;
that he is in almost every case a bitter Tory, and in
most cases a hypocrite-by-necessity (because he has
to profess that his interests are those of ‘ ‘ the poor, ”
lest the votes of “the poor” should righteously
biff him off the face of the land). Also, he is
charged with being the promoter of an undue
growth and preponderance of a most undesirable
class the ill-paid but oily shop-walker, the
suave, apologetic, badly-remunerated seller of
things, the feeble, stooped, small-salaried clerk.
And further, he is the promoter, because his profits
lie that way, of the unreasoning prejudice against
Australian goods, of the unreasoning prejudice
against Australia itself which naturally follows,
of the Stinking Fish party which ensues in the
ordinary course of events, of the Six Hatters and
Petriana and suchlike myths and lies and slanders
which are the inevitable result of the Stinking
Fish policy, and of the anti-national habit of
snarling “colonial rubbish” when the produces
of Australian industry heave in sight. There are
other counts in the indictment, but these are
a few to go on with.
THE CRUMBLING WOOLLEN MILLS.
In the Representatives the other evening, Page, of
Queensland, one of the most rabid Foreign-traders
in the House, said that a blind man could have
seen that a duty on woollens was coming. The
question was whether the Customs Department
had recently “leaked” regarding the new
tariff on these goods. Spruce Myth threw in
some information which suggested to him that
there had been a leak ; whereupon Foreign-trader
Page scoffed at the alleged leak with the remark
just quoted. Page was right; an Australian
tariff that even pretended to protect must neces-
sarily, and almost for a start, pick out the woollen
manufacturing business as one that ought to be
cultivated, but which, nevertheless, is impossible
without higher Protection.
* * * *
It is so obviously an Australian industry. Last
year the Commonwealth exported £22,645,769 of
wool; in the same twelve months it bought
£2,739,754 of woollen piece-goods, yarns, etc.,
from foreign countries, besides £53,506 worth of
blankets, and probably three-quarters of a million
pounds worth of made-up apparel in which there
was more or less wool. The wool that it sent to
the other side of the world it got back from the
other side of the world turned into cloth at an
enormous increase of cost, and pretty often adul-
terated into the bargain. It thus not only lost
the labor of turning the wool into cloth, but it
also paid for the dragging of its own wool back-
wards and forwards, and it paid vast unnecessary
amounts in commissions, insurances, and the
other things by which the middleman makes an
excuse for taking a bite out of producer and con-
sumer. No wonder Page, the Foreign-trader, said
that a blind man could see a duty on woollens
coming. Even a Foreign-trader can see what a fool
of a system the present system is, and that it
ought to be stopped.
-r * * *
But the old, easy Foreign-trade remark is flung
out — ‘ ‘ If the wool is here waiting to be woven, and
the backs are here waiting to be covered, why
don’t you sail in and start woollen mills ? You’ve
got the natural Protection that distance gives—
the Australian manufacturer won’t have to pay
for dragging his wool backwards and forwards.”
There is one absolutely final answer to that. Not
one, but a score of Australians have made the
attempt, and in almost every case the result has
been disastrous. When the Commonwealth was
established and something in the way of Protection
was assured, a co. was formed to equip and run a
woollen mill at Parramatta. For the first two
years the co. showed a profit of something over 6
per cent. The third year it didn’t show 4 per
cent. After that there was silence. Not
only did it pay no further dividend, but
presently the bank stepped in—and every-
body knows what that means. Then there
is the case of the Queensland Woollen Mills,
of Ipswich. In 1901, for the first year of the Com-
monwealth, this co. paid a dividend of 2\ per cent.
(£1225). Since then it has not paid a farthing,
but has made a net loss of £24,232. Its capital was
£46,678 ;so that, in the five years of the old Federal
tariff, it lost a little over one-half of its capital.
Under the Queensland State tariff on woollens —
mostly 25 per cent. —the company, though its
dividends were always small and very irregular,
nevertheless did build up some reserves. Under
the old 15 per cent. Commonwealth tariff all
those reserves have disappeared, and one-half of
the capital has already been written off. There
is, in fact, but one woollen mill co. in Australia
which is giving even a moderate return on its
capital; that is the Ballarat co. But that case is
misleading, because some time ago it wroteoff half
its capital, so that the 10 per cent, dividend works
down to an actual 5 per cent. And as against the
Ballarat, paying the unusual 5 per cent., there
are the Footscray (Vic.) mills closed down, the
Breakwater (Geelong) mills idle, the Castlemaine
mill paying per cent, (and that, it seems, at
the expense of the machinery), the Queensland,
Lobethal (S.A.), and Parramatta (N.S.W.) mills
paying nothing, and in two cases, at any rate,
making heavy losses. In the face of these actual
experiences it is no use asking why Australia
doesn’t cover its own back with its own wool.
The old Queensland 25 per cent, duty was not
enough to furnish even a small regular return to
the man who put the necessary money into the
business; the Commonwealth’s 15 per cent, has
been simply ruinous. This is not a case of
theorising; it is a matter of hard, ascertained fact.
* * * *
The Ballarat co. is the one concern to which
the Foreign-traders and the half-hearted Pro-
tectionists point when they are asked to make the
duty effective. Well, the case of the Ballarat co.
will stand studying. First there is the fact al-
ready mentioned that, in its early struggles, it
lost half its capital, which was written off, so
that the present 10 per cent, duty is only 5 per
cent, after all. Then there is the fact that since
1902, when it began to feel the effect of the lower
Commonwealth duties, not only has the profit
been steadily shrinking, but the company’s debts
have increased from under £lOOO to £21,740 at the
date of the last balance-sheet. It is pretty cer-
tain, therefore, that, had it not had the advan-
tage of a fine organisation built up under the
Victorian Protectionist tariff, the Ballarat co.
would have been in just the same position as the
others. The old Victorian tariff ranged from
25 to 40 per cent. ; tweeds and cloths carried
30 per cent. The Ballarat co. proves that,
with such a tariff ; an Australian woollen
mill, though it lost money at the outset, was
nevertheless presently able to get itself well
established. Its history since 1902 proves that,
in spite of its connection built up under the old
State tariff, the recent 15 per cent, duties are
inadequate to prevent even it from being
gradually starved out. As for new factories that
lack the advantage of having started with Pro-
tection of from 25 to 40 per cent.—well, after the
experiences of the Parramatta, Footscray, and
Ipswich mills, what capitalist would be fool
enough to send his money that way ?
* * ■* *
In the face of the actual experiences, it isn’t
much use inquiring why high Protection is neces-
sary. It is, in view of the proved facts, a question
of high Protection or no woollen industry ; if the
industry is wanted —if the work is wanted for
Australian hands, and employment is wanted for
Australian capital—then it is proved by experi-
ence that not only much higher Protection than the
old 15 per cent., but higher Protection than even
the old Queensland 25 per cent, duty, is abso-
lutely necessary. Here, however, are some of
the reasons why it is necessary:—
(1) Australian wages are higher and hours of;labor
shorter. Said G. H. Reid ; “ How are we going to com-
pete with these underpaid, sweated countries until our
own labor is underpaid and sweated too 1 ” (First debate
on the Tariff, 1901.) “We have to compete with the
pauper labor of Europe ; and it is only by cheaper labor
that an Australian manufacturing industry can hope to
do away with the necessity of Protection.” (Melb.
Herald, 21/8/’06.) As Australia doesn’t propose to try
cheap labor and misery, Protection, as G. Reid says, is
indispensable.
(2) The foreign woollen mill, working on a big scale,
can specialise, even as does that great American boot-
maker who has a gigantic factory for right boots and a
mammoth factory for left boots. Until the Australian
market is secured to the Australian manufacturer, he
cannot specialise. He has to be like the trifling suburban
store that stocks a little of everything. This non-
specialisation means high costs. If the mills had all or
nearly all the Australian market, there would be room
for specialisation ; and with that would come a reduc-
tion in prices.
(3) The Australian woollen mill is a woollen mill. It
isn’t half a woollen mill and half a cotton mill. Also
there is no market for old rags in Australia, as England
has at Dewsbury and elsewhere. The English rag quota-
tion is as real a thing as the wool quotation. At latest,
in the Dewsbury wholesale rag market, old socks and
stockings were worth 375. 6d. per cwt.
(4) The Australian manufacturer must use Australian
wool, the best in the world. The English and German
manufacturer mixes it with South American, a harsher
wool, worth on .an average 2d. per lb. less. That is why
to the expert the Australian cloth feels better, and why
it is better. But the foreign cloth, made partly of the
wool that costs 2d. per lb. less, looks as good.
(5) “Dumping” is known in this market as in most
others. End-bf-season stuff —the stuff that the “ home ”
market hasn’t absorbed—is bundled off to Australia and
other places that don’t matter.
(6) The prejudice against Australian manufactures costs
money to break down, and the cost has to be added to
the manufacturers’ charges. Quite a lot of people still
prefer to dress in the rags raked out of London slums and
the cast-off socks bought at Dewsbury for 375. 6d. per
cwt. And even people who don’t prefer that, expect to
get Australian goods cheaper than foreign stuffs of the
same quality.
These are some of the reasons why the recent
15 per cent, duty wasn’t anything like enough to
keep the Queensland Woollen Mills from losing
half its capital in five years—why, it wasn’t
enough to keep the bailiff out of at least
one N. S. Wales factory, and to prevent the
Footscray mill from shutting up altogether,
sacking all hands, and scattering its plant to pay its
creditors. They are also good enough reasons why
the old Queensland 25 per cent, duty wasn’t
sufficient either, as the history of the Ipswich
mill proved. Lyne now proposes 35 per cent.,
and anything less than that will probably mean
slow starvation. It will certainly mean handi-
capping the industry by making it difficult for it
to raise money to get in the necessary plant;
and from that point of view alone it would be
cheaper in the end to put on the 35 per cent, at
once. We shall get better machinery that way,
and a speedier reduction in costs and prices.


THE RAW-MATERIAL HOWL.
Australian manufacturers would make a better
fight against their common enemies, the Foreign-
trade press and the Importers, if some of them
were not so hideously and insanely selfish. When
the howl was first started against the tariff, it
was the voice of the Importer lamenting over the
burden which he said was to be imposed on the
poor working classes. Now the anti-Australian
press finds among certain selfish Australian manu-
facturers quite enough traitors to do the dirty
work of the Importers. One of the worst samples
of this sort of national treachery is a circular
issued by the firm of Fuerth and Nall, of
Hosking-place, 84£ Pitt-street, Sydney, and dated
August 24, 1907. The howl of this firm is
for the removal or lowering of duties on
its raw material; and as a howl it is mag-
nificent in its impudence, splendid in its delibe-
rate misrepresentation, and the whole unmitigated
hog in its brazen selfishness. The Freetrade press
and George Reid pin their faith to this sort of
“moderate Protectionist” in the coming struggle,
because he announces that he wants low duties or,
better still, no duties at all on his raw material.
But if everybody’s raw material goes untaxed,
there will be no duties at all, and without duties
there will be no manufacturing industries, ex-
cept the making of a few paper boxes. For
the raw material of one man is the finished pro-
duct of another ; the raw material of the tanner
is the salted hide, which is the finished product of
the man who breeds and slaughters animals. The
finished product of the tanner is the raw material
of the men who make boots, portmanteaux, trunks,
harness, and saddles. And the boots are raw
material to the man on the land, who puts
them on to go out and grow the bullock that sup-
plies the hide. So the circle is complete. The
raw material of the music teacher is the finished
piano, and the raw material of the engine-driver
and the Railway Department is the highly-finished
locomotive. But the firm of Fuerth and Nall
wants the whole blessed tariff shaped especially
to encourage the business carried on at Pitt-
street, Sydney, and the Devil take the rest and
the country generally.
• * * •
The articles on which Fuerth and Nall
desire the duties reduced or abolished are
strawboard, glue, brown paper, surfaced papers,
and tinted boards. These are its raw materials.
And the most amazing part is that one of
the reasons urged why some of the indus-
tries should not be protected is that the men
who have built them up are wealthy people. In
the case of the glue-makers, it is argued that if
they get Protection they mat raise their prices,
and Messrs. Fuerth and Nall use about half a
ton of glue monthly. The circular also affirms
that surfaced papers are not made in Australia,
and that there is no likelihood of any plant
being laid down, as the quantity required is too
small and too varied to establish a paying in-
dustry. Which is just a plain unvarnished
whopper. Not only are papers of excellent quality
surfaced in Australia, but tinted boards also, and
equal to the best German. Previous to the im-
position of the tariff of 1902, the value of Aus-
tralian-made strawboard sold in N.S.W. was in-
finitesimal ; now it runs to thousands of pounds
per annum. Before the Australian factory
started at Broadford (Victoria) strawboards were
all imported from Holland, the only competition
being small lots from Japan. The Dutch straw-
boards were sent out in one stock size only, to
wit, 25 x3O inches. The Dutch manufacturers
would not cut small quantities to any other size,
and it was only wealthy firms like Fuerth and
Nall who could import special sizes in large
quantities. This gave the rich firms a practical
monopoly, for most manufacturers start in a
small way; and it kept down opposition. So pre-
sumably the object of Fuerth and Nall in trying
to kill the Australian strawboard industry is to
revert to the old condition which will crush any
new opponents, as the working up of the stock
size of 25 x 30 inches means a frightful waste of
material. The Australian mills will supply as low
as half a ton of strawboard cut to any size
the machines are capable of making, and their
varieties are exceedingly numerous. All this
makes for economy of working, and makes it
possible for the small man with a little two-
roomed factory to compete with wealthy firms like
that of Fuerth and Nall, which has done so well
under the tariff of 1902 that it has recently
erected a fine new factory.
The Australian strawboard industry has been
established in the face of difficulties. It was
protected to the extent of 20s. per ton.
Freight on strawboard from Hamburg by
cargo steamer is 19s. 6d. per ton; 17s. 6d. by
sailing ship. But during the last year there was
a freight war, and the rate was cut to ss. per ton.
The railway freight on Australian strawboards
from Broadford (Vic.), where the goods are made,
to Melbourne, is 12s. 6d. per ton; to Sydney, c.i.f.,
265. per ton. While the freight war lasted, so
far as Sydney was concerned, the duty of 20s.
per ton was thus wholly wiped out by the fact
that it cost 21s. per ton more to fetch the goods
from the Australian factory than from the Dutch
one. The proposed new duty is 50s. per ton,
but in Europe they have exporters’ com-
binations known as kartels, which sell under
cost to wipe out a new industry in any un-
protected foreign country; and to prevent the
struggling Australian industry being killed in
that manner a duty of 655. per ton would be only
reasonable. The kernel of the howl is that if the
Australian manufacturer uses imported raw
material he will have a hard row to hoe. And
that is what the Tariff wants to set him hoeing.
If he uses Australian raw material he will have
an easy course, but his raw material is another
Australian finished product, and he must
let that other Australian be protected the
same as himself. This idea of using imported
raw material sticks out in every paragraph
of the Fuerth and Nall circular. Dealing
with brown paper, it runs, “ The old duty of £3
per ton should be sufficient if consideration be
given to the large expense incurred in bringing it
out here.” Brown paper known in the trade as
the “best sulphide brown” is made in Australia,
and is the finished product of the paper manu-
facturer, and the fact that it is still imported is
the strongest argument in favor of the proposed
duty of £6 10s. per ton. Under the slight stimulus
of the inadequate tariff of 1902 the manufacture
of stationery went ahead by leaps and bounds. Pre-
vious to its imposition there were no envelope-
making machines in N.S.W.; now there are about
30, and more are being set up every week. The
manufacture of stationery is a clean, wholesome
industry, at which women can work without
suffering in either health or morals. Under the
tariff of 1902 it increased so that firms like Fuerth
and Nall, John Sands and W. E. Smith have all
added to their establishments, the two former
having erected large new factories, while they
have all increased the number of their hands very
considerably. Under the proposed tariff it will
go ahead by bigger leaps and more extensive
bounds, and within three years the whole of the
manufactured stationery used in Australia will
probably be home-made. And the making of it
will provide a healthy market for the labor of
thousands of girls who to-day either live on the
old man, or fight like wild cats for the rare privi-
lege of being sweated behind the counter of a
drapery emporium.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Joseph Carruthers on Australians regarded
as a Community of Thieves.
Carruthers, of N.S.W., said many coarse, silly,
false and insulting things during the political
campaign with which he recently disgraced his
State, but in a certain speech at Arncliffe he
reached the limit of crazy brutality. Speaking of
the proposed transfer of the State debts to the Com-
monwealth, Carruthers, according to the report
of the admiring S.M. Herald, declared that he
was bitterly opposed to any such transfer, because,
if the Australian Parliament became responsible
for the country’s liabilities, “we might wake up
some fine day to find that neither the interest nor
the principal had been paid.” As regards the
principal, the statement, of course, has some
possibility—it might even have some proba-
bility—about it. For fully 50 years the
people of N.S.W. have wakened 365 days
every year, and 366 days in leap year, to find that
the principal hadn’t been paid, and they woke up
this morning to discover that the same old con-
ditions still prevailed. As regards the payment
of the interest, however, there is just this much
to be said: The Australian Parliament, elected
by universal suffrage, represents the people pro-
bably with more completeness than any other
legislature on earth. In fact it is the people of
Australia. It can’t default on its interest
liabilities unless the people default. And the
people of Australia are, on a steady average, quite
as honest and moral and truthful as Joseph Car-
ruthers, and quite as much to be trusted with the
care of their own affairs. Joseph’s suggestion that
the 4,000,000 inhabitants of Australia will become
thieves and scoundrels if their financial concerns
cease to “be under the care of godlike persons like
himself and Jack Evans and Newton Moore is
such a mixture of insane conceit and coarse slander
as few men in high places have ever been guilty
of. The present Australian Parliament certainly
compares favorably, so far as public honesty is
concerned, with Carruthers and his political
associates. So far it has borrowed nothing; it has
paid for all its public works out of revenue; and
it has refunded N.S.W. every penny due to it
(and some millions more than was legally due to
it) with such scrupulous exactness that even the
small hungry soul of Joseph can’t find a peg on
which to hang a coherent charge as to the robbery
of a single coin. Compared with the record of
the old Reid-Oarruthers Government, which
had its financial doings overhauled by a com-
mittee of leading Sydney business men, mostly
of its own choosing, and which was blighted by
about the most scathing report ever thrown at a
pair of discredited politicians, the Commonwealth
Government’s integrity shines out like a star. It,
at all events, has never had financial fakes
laid to its charge, and unpleasant comments
thrown at its figures by its own Auditor-General,
which was the melancholy experience of the Reid-
Carruthers gang in the days when Reid—
supported by Carruthers —did his famous dodge
of shifting some hundreds of thousands of
pounds of loan money into revenue, and was
firmly requested to shift it back again. Com-
paring the two records, the chances are that,
with the debt under Federal control, Aus-
tralia would wake up some day to find that
a sinking fund had been established for the
extinction of the public liabilities. With Car-
ruthers in charge, it is more likely to wake and
find that a soft-footed Premier has been at the
cash-box in the night, using the loan funds for
revenue purposes.
The “ Poor Toiler.”
Consider the case of “the poor man,” about
whom the fatted importer, when he turns over
the pages of the tariff, is so deeply grieved. The
fatted importer doesn’t really care at ordinary
times whether the poor man is in Hell or not, ex-
cept in so far that the damning of a possible cus-
tomer is bad for business. The importer is
opposed to trades-unions; he hates Arbitration
laws and Wages Boards; he thinks that strikes
should be put down by armed force ; he screws as
much rent out of the poor man as he can get; he
objects to the poor man having representatives of
his own class in Parliament, and calls the Labor
Party a curse; he sells the poor man cotton
blankets as woollen, and a gold-washed wedding
ring as nine or fifteen carat; and he wants
to import niggers to steal the poor man’s
job. But when the tariff strikes the im-
porter hard, he uses the poor man as a
handy leaning-post to weep against. He says
he is broken up about the poor man, who will
now lose 2s. 6d. or ss. or even 31s. fid. out of
every £1 of his scanty earnings. And the poor
man, in a general way, shoves the damp fatted
hypocrite off him, and dries himself, and considers
the position doubtfully. He doesn’t quite see
where all this moist, unexpected sympathy comes
in. The poor man lives in an Australian house,
built of Australian material, and there is no
excise on houses. He is quite in the habit of
sitting on a good Australian chair and eating his
meals off a good Australian table. His principal
articles of diet are bread, butter, beef,
mutton, bacon, sugar, salt, pickles, eggs,
jam, and cheese, all made in Australia, and the
tariff doesn’t affect these. He hasn’t the craving
for imported cheese done up in tins, with insects
and streaks of green mould, that the rich man
has, nor does he do much with strange foreign
potted beasts, and he doesn’t yearn for English
hams. He is content with Australian fish; and
Australian fruit is good enough for him. If
he gets very thirsty with swinging a heavy
implement in the hot sun he finds sustenance
and refreshment in a long, cool, Australian beer
from Tooth or Toohey or Resch or the Carlton
brewery or Perkins. He is so content with these
in his humble way that it is only once in a long
time that he drops in at the Union Club and calls
for Dry Monopole. He doesn’t shudder at wear-
ing Australian boots, as the infuriated importer
does. The tweed of Parramatta, Marrickville,
Ipswich, or Ballarat suits him quite well. If his
hat comes from Anderson’s in Sydney, or the
Denton mills in Melbourne, he doesn’t feel dis-
graced. He even washes himself in Australian
water (not imported water), with Australian soap
(not a scented article from Paris put up in a fluffy
box with baby-ribbon tied round its stomach). He
finds his sleep refreshing enough on a bedstead
made at Forster or Hordern’s factory (Sydney)
and with Australian blankets on top of him
he is fairly comfortable. If the money runs
to a piano, the Beale articles, made in Sydney,
is good enough for his modest instincts; he
doesn’t realise that the only really good pianos
are made in Greenland, or that a sewing
machine is quite unfit for use unless it is con-
structed in a factory on the upper waters of the
Amazon. He doesn’t fall down dead, either, at
the thought of smoking Australian tobacco, in
an Australian pipe—in fact, it only requires
the establishment of a mere handful of new
industries to put him wholly outside the operation
of the tariff. Therefore he looks with a dazed
expression when he hears that it is solely about
him that his old enemy, the fatted importer, is
weeping, and he scratches his Australian head
with his large Australian hand, and smells an im-
ported rat. If the importer’s sympathy had come
just after an election, when the worker’s vote
wouldn’t be available again for three years, the
rat might not have smelled quite so uproariously.
But the importer’s amazing discovery, that the
toiler in Redfern and Surry Hills is going to lose
from 2s. 6d. up to 275. 9d. out of every £1 of his
earnings, through the duty on wire netting and
grand pianos, came just before a State election.
And it was put forward as a reason why the said
toiler should vote for a certain State Political
Insect who has no more influence over the tariff
than he has over the temperature of Sheol. And
while he thought over these things, and solemnly
scratched his Australian head with his capable
Australian hand, the rat was getting more aged
every second.
The Unification Movement.
All good Australians who have a regard for their
native land are cordially invited to communicate
with Mr. J. B. Steel, of 192 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney (the office of the National Committee),
and sign the petition that is now being prepared
urging the unification of Australia. Unification,
with an extensive and uniform Local Government
system, is the short road out of a multitude of
difficulties. It simply means that the State
Legislatures will adjourn permanently, and all
their powers, debts, assets and sundries will pass
into the hands of the Federal Parliament. Such
a move would settle the trouble about the transfer
of the State debts and the continuation or other-
wise of the State borrowing powers; all the State
debts would tumble indiscriminately into the
hands of the Commonwealth, and the State
borrowing powers would end because there
would be no States left. Unification would
obliterate all the woes about the division
of the Federal surplus; there would be no
division, for one authority would have all the
assets and all the liabilities. It would close the
squabble about the taking over of the Northern
Territory ; that would pass over to the Common-
wealth with everything else. There would oe one
single railway authority, and then, for the first
time, there would be a chance to get a uniform
railway gauge, so that the great Australian express
train could hustle right through from Adelaide to
Rockhampton without a change. The Federal
authority, having no cantankerous State Legis-
latures to consult, could start building the two
transcontinental lines and the railway bridge over
Sydney Harbor right away. There would be a
saving of six Parliaments and six Governors, and
perhaps 600 officials. The Senate would be either
abolished or reconstructed; the awkward policy
of six members for each State would neces-
sarily vanish when there were no States. There
would be no more Carruthers or Evans or
Newton Moore, while Kidston and Price
could join the Australian Cabinet. There would
be at once a uniform postage stamp. The land-
tax systems would have to be readjusted to make
them uniform, and in the process of readjustment
the graduated land-tax, designed to break up
great estates, would assuredly arrive. Westralia’s
deficit and the Northern Territory’s shortage and
Tasmania’s special grievance about the alleged
incorrect division of the surplus, would all go into
one melting pot and disappear. It would no
longer matter a solitary copper whether Victoria
thinks it has a legal claim on Riverina; or
whether Victoria or S.A. should rightly own the
strip of Debatable Land on their joint border;
or whether Queensland diddled N.S.W. out of
some £49,855 at separation time, which bad debt
has been growing at compound interest ever since;
for all the States and their boundaries and
their petty squabbles would be obliterated.
There would be a great readjustment of railway
systems to give every district the cheapest access
to the nearest port, when once the State influ-
ences, which insist on dragging everything to the
State capital, were obliterated. The continent
would be divided up afresh into a multitude of
small States, each with its local government sys-
tem—not a system embodying two Houses of
Parliament, and a Ministry and Opposition, and
a Governor and Speaker and Black Rod, and the
rest, but a plain county council system, run on
plain business lines. All this can be done quite
simply by the passing of the necessary measure
through the Australian Parliament, followed by a
vote of the people. The permission of the State
Legislatures isn’t in the least degree necessary.
Except as a private citizen, and as an elector with
one vote, the important little State Premier person
wouldn’t be on the stage in this act, and for all
practical purposes he might as well be dead. And,
as already mentioned, persons desiring to sign
the petition are invited to communicate with Mr.
J. B. Steel, at 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
♦
Unexpected Industries.
The Melbourne Argus and its Freetrade corre-
spondents have been making some unexpected
discoveries lately, in the direction of manu-
facturing industries. The Argus drew atten-
tion to the fact that the duty on straw
and fancy hats was iniquitous, as they were
not made here; and it was staggered next
day with a letter from a manufacturer of
all these hats. Then it let a correspondent
loose on the foolishness of taxing the under-
gear of perambulators, and so “handicapping”
the local pram maker. Next day appeared a
letter stating that there were three makers of
pram undergear in Melbourne alone. Taking a
fresh breath, the old lady got going again about
the awful work of taxing natural wool under-
wear, which was all imported, and would
now be far too dear for the poor man. This
time it got a regular knock-down blow from
Foy and Gibson, who make all their own
natural wool goods, and are going to double or
treble their works. Then a most superior person
sent in a wail about the terrible result that would
follow the duty on milk chocolate, which simply
couldn’t be made in Australia. This brought out
Macßobertson, who said that the three articles
used in making this sweetmeat were sugar, milk
and cocoa-nibs. The first two we produce here,
and we import the cocoa-nibs just as England
has to (very soon we should be able to grow
them in the Northern Territory). Mac-
Robertson added that he made first-class
milk chocolate now, but he was doubling his
plant to turn it out by the ton. Both the superior
person and the Argus then subsided. The poor
old Argus has lived in Melbourne for half a cen-
tury, and has kept its bleared eye on the importer
so earnestly all that time that it has hardly heard
of any of Melbourne’s industries. For a few days
after the milk-chocolate rebuff the Argus left the
subject severely alone. Then, taking fresh heart,
it tackled the sugar and flour-bag question, and
asked what was the farmer, also the consumer,
going to do in this matter? Next day came a
letter from a bag maker, stating that he made
those bags, and every other kind of bag used in
Australia ; and the industry was quite an old one,
although under the recent mongrel tariff it had
been bleeding to death. Now he promises to see
that the Australian farmer gets his bags at a
reasonable and regular price, and that he is not
the plaything of the Calcutta jute merchants and
Melbourne speculators any more. This last knock
has, apparently, done for the Argus—at least, it
is taking more than the legal 10 seconds to revive.
♦—
Concerning Lasts and Footgear Generally.
When the Australian tariff was originally an-
nounced, the usual wild and woolly person arose
to point out that the duty on lasts was insane and
suicidal, as it was quite impossible to make them
here. The reasons were (1) we didn’t grow the
wood (American rock maple), and (2) there was no
likelihood of anyone putting down a plant, as all
the lasts Australia would require would be made
in about two weeks or so. The blatant frauds who
wrote this probably rushed into print without
taking the simple precaution of turning up a
directory to see if there were any last manufac-
turers in Australia. As a matter of fact, a
ridiculous person named Raymond has already
laid down a plant costing £15,000, and (God help
him !) has no less than 50 hands engaged turning
out 6000 pairs of lasts per month, and sending them
not only over all Australia but to Maoriland as well.
Still, the usual “ prominent manufacturer” of tne
Sydney morning Foreign-trade press has said
that lasts cannot be made in Australia, and there
is no likelihood of anyone putting down a
plant. Just at present this same absurd person,
Raymond, who persists in making 6000 pairs of lasts
per month in spite of the press ukase that
he doesn’t exist, is getting out a lot of new machinery
from Britain and the United States with a view
to improving the output. In addition to making
lasts the firm has had the hardihood to actually
go in for invention, and has two specialities
known as the “Patent Link Last” and “Fitz
Follower.” So far no Australian wood suitable
for last-making has been discovered excepting
persimmon, which is too scarce and expensive at
A State of Wail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The promulgation of the new Tariff, which will go far
to make Australia an independent and prosperous coun-
try, has reduced the Sydney dailies to a state of chronic
wail. The prospect of a self-reliant Commonwealth,
with a home-made gun in its hand, home-made clothes on
its back, and a respectable balance at the bank, is, to the
Calico Jimmy press, a heart-breaking spectacle. Hence
the sounds of grief which emanate from Hunter-street and
elsewhere.
Have you heard a sound of gnashing ?
’Tis the printing presses crashing—
’Tis the Sydney Yawning Error which is bowed
in grief forlorn;
In its den the anguished Tory
Tells a broken-hearted story,
And his note of lamentation puts the voice of Job
to scorn !
Clad in sackcloth and in ashes,
Lo, the staff in frenzy dashes
With its screed re the importer who is weeping in
his hat;
And the foreman-printer, sobbing,
Reads how William Lyne is robbing—
How-the Commonwealth has fallen with a club on
suffering Fat!
Hear the noise ! —Good Lord, all frantic,
Like a fantod corybantic
The Importer’s press gyrateth ; and upon the
scented gale
Goes the sound of strong men weeping,
Goes the thud of wild men leaping
And the voice of Jeremiah rises in a chronic wail!
All these sounds of lamentation
Ring afar because the nation
Means to weave the blessed garments worn upon
the peoples’ backs;
Means to stand up like a giant,
Strong of arm and self-reliant —
Means to smite the joss of Shoddy with an earnest
public axe !
’Tis because there’ll be high wages,
That the D.T. shouts and rages,
And the anxious Moaning Herald m utters curses
in its sleep;
’Tis because the Asiatic
Will be struck with force emphatic
That the Evening Nooze makes noises like an
old astonished sheep!
Yea, Prosperity’s an evil —
They would sooner see the devil
Than a fearless, brave Australia, filled with
workers glad and hale—
They would sooner see the sweaters
Bind the poor with pauper fetters—
So the Freetrade paper dwelleth in a state of
chronic wail!
But the Commonwealth, unheeding,
Sees a Pathway upward leading—
Sees the Nation of the Future, hears its mills and
foundries boom;
Filled with faith and purpose earnest,
It goes forth in spirit sternest,
While the ghost of Richard Cobden clatters
round its distant tomb !
Down Eternity’s grim steepness
It has cast the joss of Cheapness—
It has broken free for ever from the fetich and
the thrall.
And it gibes the hireling dailies,
For a sign of hope their wail is—
It has proved them arrant liars —it has proved
them traitors all !
While they lied, and while they pandered,
L fting high a starry standard.
Forth Australia marched and left them; it has
lofty peaks to scale.
It has turned its back on sorrow,
And its road is towards that morrow
Where the land will be all brightness, and the
ghouls no longer wail.
VIC.
GRANT HERVERY.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how —write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
Important to Pastoralists.—Do you know
that you can prevent your ewes with lamb dying from
blow-fly, by using the Tyree Spray? Mr. Angus, Rooty Hill,
writes:—“The cost of mustering, carbide, dip powder,
and labor, amounted to four shillings (45.) per hundred
(100) sheep, or one half-penny (Jd.) per sheep.” In large
numbers, two' men and one packet of powder dip will do
one thousand (1000) sheep per day, at a cost of about one
farthing (Id.) per sheep. This is about one-fourth the
cost of "any other method. The results are certain. No
trouble, no work, no loss. Send for printed matter to
Tyree Limited, 314 George Street, Sydney.*
present, and the Australian maker has to use
American rock maple—but it is better that the
Amurkan timber should be made up into the
finished product in Australia, giving work
to Australian craftsmen and employing Aus-
tralian capital, than in Canada, to the ad-
vantage of Canuck workmen and capitalists. The
proposed duty on lasts is 35 per cent. (25 per cent.
British). In face of the fact that the timber
has to be imported from Canada, and pays a duty
of 10 per cent., the duty on the finished last should
be higher. The 10 per cent, on rough maple
blocks should be retained to compel the Aus-
tralian maker to seek a local substitute of some
sort, but the margin on the manufactured article
is insufficient. Under the tariff of 1902, leather
footwear paid 30 per cent. (N.E.I. 25 per
cent.); rubber sand-shoes, 20 per cent.; and
infants’ sizes, 15 per cent. That this duty was
totally insufficient to protect the Australian
manufacturer is proved by the enormous imports
for 1906. The value at the port of shipment of
leather footwear was £118,954 (30 per cent.),
N.E.1., £58,604 (25 per cent.); rubber sand-shoes
(20 per cent.), £50,317; infants’ sizes (15 per
cent.), £54,965. Grand total value (at port of
shipment), £282,840, which was worth, when ifc
reached the Australian public, £848,520, and
represented a tax in aid of foreign industry of
nearly 4s. upon every man, woman and child in the
continent. The prejudice of the public (in N.S. W.
at any rate) in favor of foreign-made boots is
amazing, and of so virulent a type that
people are always prepared to pay more for
the foreign footgear, even to the extent of 10s. on
a high-grade boot. And yet absolutely the best
footgear sold in Australia is home-made. In the
American factories boots are not made in pairs.
One factory turns out boots for the right foot
only, another for the left foot only, and hundreds
of children are employed in the work of pairing
them into the boxes in which they are shipped
abroad. Anyone who reads this, and is wearing
a pair of American boots, will remember that he
has always been unable to get both boots equally
polished. One boot inevitably shines better than
the other. That is due to the fact that the uppers
are not cut from the same leather—they are
made out of different strips, by different men in
widely separated factories, and are then slung
together like couples in a matrimonial agency.
In Australia boots and shoes are made in pairs;
the uppers, if locally made, being cut from the
same strip of leather, and of equal quality, texture
and weight. The new tariff raises the duty on
foreign boots by 5 per cent., and allows British
goods to remain at 30 per cent, all round. This is
another case in which Oom Bill Lyne has been
too modest. To overcome the prejudice, carefully
fostered by the Foreign-trade press, 45 per cent,
would have been only a fair thing. If a good
stiff duty were imposed, some of the best British
manufacturers would certainly open factories here.
The firm of Bostock and Sons has a family secret
for making colored leathers, chiefly kids. At
present the firm draws its supply of goatskins
from Arabia and Persia, two countries in which
thedrought is hard and persistent. Drought is
necessary to the production of good coloring kids,
and out in Oentralia we have a drought that
knocks even the Arabian and Persian samples
endways. But goats can thrive there as long as
the supply of meat and jam tins holds out, and
quite recently, by reason of the duties, some mem-
bers of the big English manufacturing co. pro-
posed to establish a factory in Australia, and
make colored kids for export. A heavy Austra-
lian duty on leather and boots will expedite
the starting of that factory ; the firm does a big
business with this continent, and will no doubt
begin business here with a view to killing two
birds with the one brick. With a low duty, it
will go on killing one bird with the solitary pro-
jectile.
4
Carruthers and the Braddon Blot.
The frantic Carruthers has told a Sydney
suburban audience of a new scheme that has
come into his curious substitute for a mind. It
is, of course, conditional. He said :
It is no vain threat that I utter. If September 10
gives me a majority, as I feel sure it will, I will, without
delay, take a referendum of the people on three specific
questions. They are :
(1) Are you in favor of acceding to the Federal demands
in respect of the capital ?
(2) ARE YOU IN FAVOR OF AN EQUIVALENT TO
THE BRADDON CLAUSE AS A PERMANENT PRO-
VISION RELATIVE TO FEDERAL AND STATE
FINANCE?
(3) Should this State accept the Commonwealth as now
constituted and administered, or take measures to secure
a more liberal and just Constitution ?
Now, what will N.S.W. do about that second
question ? The first draft Constitution made the
Braddon clause a permanent feature, and against
that clause there was engineered in N.S.W. a
wild yelp of “ State Wrongs." In those days
the clause wasn’t described as a provision
whereby three-fourths of the tariff revenue
was to be returned to the States ; it was called a
nefarious device, whereby only one fourth of the
tariff revenue could be retained by the Common-
wealth, so that where the Federal authority only
required £1 it would have to raise £4, and give
the States £3 which they didn’t want. George
Reid, of the then Reid-Carruthers Ministry,
stumped N.S.W. in furious denunciation of the
“ iniquity.’’ The Sydney press cursed it to order.
The State Parliament foamed against it to
order. The campaign practically hinged on
it, for the public got a vague idea
that it was something too dreadful for words.
Apart from The Bulletin, the Braddon Blot
hadn’t even a lukewarm friend. Reid, of the
Reid-Carruthers Ministry, went raging down
to Melbourne, and told the other Premiers that
N.S.W. wouldn’t federate unless the Braddon
Blot was struck out, and wise old men like
Braddon and Turner looked sadly on the
excited man with the Ma State grievance,
and agreed to fix the Braddon clause for ten
years only. It was really a Sydney agitation
which shook things up so badly. Sydney was the
only city which made the existence of the Braddon
Blot a grievance. Now it is the only city which
makes the possible extinction of the Braddon
Blot a grievance. Sydney seems to be able to
make a Ma State grievance out of either side
of •4ie question—any question. And it is a
fool of a grievance that it has got on
hand just now. The Braddon clause doesn’t
expire at the end of 1910, as many ignorant folk
and liars allege. It can be repealed after that
c ] a te_the Reid-Carruthers crowd insisted on
that—but if it isn’t repealed it goes on forever.
If the people of N.S.W. don’t want it repealed
their business is to instruct their Federal repre-
sentatives at the 1909 Federal election to battle
for its retention. It is no earthly use instructing
Joe Carruthers in 1907. Joe isn’t a Federal
representative of N.S.W. He is only a posturing
mountebank, and an advertising fraud, and a
deafening State beetle who won’t mind his own
business.
Concerning Certain Repairs to a Glass-house.
There is a wail from the London offices where
they distribute the £2,000,000 a year of profits
dug out of Westralian mines. The new Aus-
tralian tariff is monstrous, they say, because it
will cost them £50,000 or more a year. It is
pretty certain that it will do nothing of the kind ;
out even if it did, it is time somebody who can so
well afford it paid something more into the Wes-
tralian Treasury—for, of course, all, or practically
all, of any extra £50,000 that the tariff will bring
in will go to the State. Certainly, if these
absentees don’t pay something out of their
millions, other people will have to pay out of
their hundreds. For Westralia can’t go on as it
has been going lately. Its Treasurer puts the
best face on things (naturally, because he pro-
poses to be a constant visitor to his uncle) ; yet
even he has to admit an appalling deficit. Take
the history of the past four years, based on figures
in the official “ Statistical Abstract ”:—
Surplus from Total Total Ex-
Oommonwealth. Revenue, penditure. Deficit.
1903- .. £1,065,244 £3,550,016 £3,698,312 £148,296
1904- .. 1,027,898 3,615,340 3,745,224 129,884
1905- .. 872,992 3,558,939 3,632,318 73,379
1906- .. 780,166 3,401,354 3,490,182 88,828
That looks bad enough ; it looks worse when
three other things are mentioned : (1) The Com-
monwealth has actually reduced its expenditure
in Westralia from £1,620,770 in 1903 to £1,287,506
in 1906, so that it might hand over the largest
amount possible to help the State; (2) the
total amount of State taxation has never
exceeded £266,151 in any one year, and in
the year when the deficit was £148,296 the
State taxation actually amounted to only £235,114,
so that, if the State taxation had been 50 per cent,
more, there would still have been a deficit; (3)
while the State has drifted to the bad to the
extent of £440,387 in four years—£44o,3B7 which
will have to be paid, in addition to the then
current expenditure, at some future time —the
dividends paid by Westralian gold-mining cos.,
almost the whole of them to absentees, amounted
in the four years 1903-6 to £8,236,036, and the gold
rooted out was no less than £33,125,345. The
same gold cannot be rooted out twice ; and surely
no more monstrous thing, has ever happened in
Australian history than that, while a State was
being rifled of this enormous quantity of gold, it
should actually show a deficit on revenue account.
It means that the people who are getting the gold
don’t pay, and that the people who will be left
without the gold will have to pay. The situation
would be bad enough if it ended there; Out it
doesn’t. In the same four years the public debt
has grown from £15,627,298 to £19,222,638; that
is to say, a sum equal to nearly a fourth of all
that had been borrowed in the years before 1903 has
been borrowed during the past four years—bor-
rowed and piled on to the backs of the people.
And the sinking fund gag, with which Westralian
authority tries to stop the cry of alarm, has very
little excuse for itself; for, throwing the sinking
fund in, the net debt has increased from
£14,972,229 in 1903 to £17,622,594 in 1907. More-
over, simply because it has that sinking fund, the
Westralian State Government is piling into loan
account things that any Government of ordinary
honesty would pay out of revenue. It has to
provide the sinking fund ; but it gets even, and
makes the sinking fund a scoff, by charging to
loans what it would pay for out of revenue if
there weren’t a sinking fund. Here are things
which were paid for in 1905-6 out of loan moneys
—the items are dug out of the Auditor-General’s
just-published report for that year, and refer to
only one department:—
Salaries of lecturers, etc.
Salary of farm manager.
Advertising in other States.
Repairs to motor waggon.
Removing fallen trees from Harvey River.
Purchase of stud stallion.
Repairs to glass-house for breeding parasites.
“Repairs to glass-house for breeding parasites”
—for a permanent and reproductive undertaking
that beats even the Maoriland loan expenditure
on “the preservation of scenery,” or the N. S.
Wales item for the purchase of new crockery for a
tourist resort, and it nearly equals the State aid
to religion which Tasmania put into loan account.
A State that includes items like that in its loan
expenditure had better say no more about its
sinking fund. It had better leave off comforting
itself in a vague way that “things look pretty
bad, but then there’s the sinking fund, you
know ” ; it had better make up its mind at once
that things are not only really as bad as they
look, but very likely a great deal worse, judging
by the fact that repairs to a glass-house for bug-
breeding are stowed away among the loan expen-
diture, along with the cost of repairing the motor
waggon that won’t go even now that it is re-
paired.
+
“ Ardyk ” writes
One of your correspondents cannot understand why
teachers should not enthuse over their work. Let him
hearken to my tale of woe.
In September, 1905, about 100 N.S.W. pupil teachers
sat for their final examination. According to regula-
tions then in force, they were offered two classes of
scholarship. By gaining an “A ” scholarship, a teacher
would be permitted to serve two years in the Training
College on a maximum salary of £5O (£2O if his parents
resided in Sydney). A “B” entitled him to £LS (no
salary at all if his parents resided in Sydney). Should
he not wish to enter the college under those conditions,
he could take charge of a small country school at a salary
of £BB, and in 18 months could sit for a 3A certificate.
After three years, and contingent upon good reports, he
could sit for 2A. Then, after three or four years, he
could sit for 18.
Now, numbers could not possibly go through training
under the conditions (I am supporting a widowed
mother). Nearly all were over 21 years of age (I was
23). I can furnish the names of 13 personal acquaint-
ances, all sons and daughters of workers, who were
totally unable to enter because they had an immediate
living to make.
Hence we 40 or 50 started work in the Par Back. Now
here’s the grievance: No sooner were we settled down
there and studying for the 3A exam, than out comes a
new regulation in the Gazette declaring that all pupil
teachers who do not elect to serve two years in the
Training College will be debarred from higher classifica-
tion than 3C. They will never be permitted to sit for
anything higher until they serve two years in the College.
As we completed our course before the regulation
w'as issued, an appeal was sent in signed by about
twenty. We were informed, however, that we had no
legal right of appeal.
The regulation debars from promotion only those who,
unfortunately, were pupil teachers, and does not affect
those who entered the service simply by passing the
small schools examination. Hence a man whom I, when
a pupil teacher, coached for the small schools exam., who
is three years junior to me in the service, and who had
never received any training as a pupil teacher, was last
year permitted to sit for 3A, while I cannot sit until
next March, and then only for a 3C (i.e., three degrees
lower). Moreover, these men, who were never pupil
teachers, can sit for farther promotion without under-
going “ training,” but we ex-pupil teachers are debarred.
And the Department cannot understand why 164
teachers resigned during the last half-year !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Arrah-na-Pogue ”
Criterion “ Human Hearts.”
Royal “ Her Love Against the World.”
Palace “ Miss Lancashire, Limited.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Robin Hood.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairy Maids.”
Theatre Royal “ The Bondman.”
Bijou “ The Coal King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating (last weeks).
Town Hall Butt-Rumford Concerts.
Andrew Mack and “ The Way to Ken-
mare” recall that what in the captain’s but a
choleric word, is in Billjim something that a
constable couldn’t damage his lips by repeating,
wherefore he hands it up to the Bench in writing,
and the Bench says it’s disgraceful and gives
Billjim seven days. There are quite a lot of
Sydney people who wouldn’t dream of going to a
Bilanderson melodrama, and who profess to
regard Bilanderson melodrama as something that
couldn’t possibly interest them ; yet put on
cruder stuff under J. C. Williamson auspices at
Her Majesty’s, placard the town with pretty
pictures of the ieading man, get it into the papers
that he’s really naice, and then sit down among
the fluff and fashion to look and listen, and you
get a fair idea of what the superior attitude with
regard to Bilanderson melodrama honestly amounts
to.
• • • •
All of which is by way of introduction to
an opinion, strengthened after about two years’
calm consideration, that “The Way toKenmare”
isn’t good enough melodrama to even make itself
conspicuous if it were put among Bilanderson’s
lot. It has all the conventional crudities and
absurdities, from the proud, cold Earl who walks
round telling his family secrets to the unknown
loungers at the village pub, right along to the
final scene wherein the hero appears with a leaf
torn out of a book to prove that he is the real
Maguire, whereupon, without further ado, the
proud, cold Earl takes him to a window and in-
troduces him to the assembled tiriantry as his
lawful heir. And through it all wanders the
“ comic relief” who has nothing whatever to do
with the case—the amazing German who pursues
the hardly less amazing Irishwoman through four
acts, and hasn’t the remotest connection with the
alleged “ plot.” Even Bert Bailey, as the keeper
of the pie-stall, generally does manage to give
the hero some sort of a leg-up before Bilanderson
rings down the final curtain ; and in that respect
the Bilanderson melodrama scores over this much-
puffed Mack production.
* * * *
But Andrew Mack to some extent saves it
by his easy, fluent conversation, and to a some-
what greater extent by his easy, fluent warbling.
Though “ Tom Moore ” is more romantic and pic-
turesque, Mack has a better collection of songs
in “The Way to Kenmare,” and on top of that
he shakes a nimble foot—always to the great joy of
the people in front of him. His fluency—which
passes for naturalness—carries off the most artifi-
cial situations ; and then, when interest threatens
to languish, he touches the patriotic button, and
—phzz, the audience bubbles like a bottle of soda-
water. Though he is three-fourths of the whole
business himself, he gets good support in this
piece from Miss Mack Berlein, as the impossible
comic-relief Irishwoman previously alluded to;
from Fred Cambourne, as a car-driver who would
rather be fighting ; and one or two more. But
there is a tail, a long tail, and some of it starts not
very far from the head of the programme.
** * *
“Miss Lancashire, Limited,” at Sydney
Palace, is close upon the fortieth night of its age
in Australia. There isn’t much to be added to
that statement, except that Miss Baines contrives
to introduce a novelty every week, and that the
play seems likely to linger profitably on the boards
for a while yet.
** * *
“ The Fatal Wedding,” revived at Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, is the same old fatality
in a slightly aggravated form. The villain’s yelp,
as he shoots down the abyss, is even more marrow-
freezing than of yore; Cora Williams, the malig-
nant, gives the spasms to every honest woman
present in still surer fashion than she did last
year ; and the heart interest (“heart interest” is
this calamity’s strong suit) is just as dejectingly
complete as ever. Which is to say the show’s
patrons get the identical goods they are after.
The Tin-Can Band incident has been refurbished
a good deal, and the kids present an attractive
picture as they rage joyously about the mansion
of Mr. Howard Wilson, at the invitation of his hor-
ribly precocious little daughter. Miss Dina Cooper
makes Cora, of the flaming velvet clothes, a suf-
ficiently appalling female, while Miss May Cong-
don®does passing well as Mabel Wilson, the
awfully maligned wife and mother. Were the
writer of a carping disposition he would urge
that the character of Toto be handled less strenu-
ously. Does the male cipher from France never
enter or leave a room without leaping high and
clicking his feet together in mid-air? Does he
greet a civil remark on no occasion without such
dumbly epileptic side and forward movements of
the head, neck, shoulders, and arms as an im-
porter might be expected to employ on suddenly
reading in his morning paper that a crushing ex-
port duty had been placed on decayed fish yarns?
This paper trows not, and accordingly begs Mr.
Tom Cannam to desist and make of Toto some-
thing in the semblance of a human being. The
staging of this play is up to the Meynell-Gunn
standard—which is saying a considerable deal—
and in other respects the public gets the worth
of the money the Tariff doesn’t seem to have
ravished from it after all.
** * *
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society did its
best, last Wednesday, to outdo all its other bests
(and it has been besting for 17 years) in its desire
to honor its conductor, Hazon. It was his last
appearance in the grand old capacity. A pro-
gramme of brilliant well-known numbers was
applauded by quite 3000 persons. A note in the
programme reminded the readers of the musical
debt they were under to Roberto Hazon. And
on behalf of the performers Mr. Lachlan Beaton
presented Hazon with a lyre circled with golden
laurel. Mrs. Grace Miller Ward was the soloist.
** * *
“ Human Hearts,” billed as “the sweetest
play on earth,” had a “beautiful production ” (see
bills) at Sydney Criterion on Saturday last. The
piece is inane drivel, thickly sprinkled over with
moral platitudes which evoke great applause
from the gallery. It is probably on the exceptional
thickness of the moral platitudes that the play
scored the success which it attained in the land
where Dowie of the whiskers became a
prophet. “ Human Hearts ” allows special
opportunities for an audience to practise vicarious,
virtue. There is a happy, honest blacksmith, who
is just six feet of moral platitude and virtuous
attitude; _an idiot brother of his, who plati-
tudinises in every speech ; a chee-ild who hymns
and prays between its virtuous remarks ; a girl
named Ruth, who loves the fathom of blacksmith,
and knows he is in-no-cent what time he is
doing a period in jug, and declares her faith
with much moral platitude; an old blind
mother, who also appeals in every line to
the ready sympathy of the hard citizen in
the gallery; a nigger who plays the same
game ; and even the unwashed comic-relief hobo
platitudinises, and won’t kidnap the chee-ild for
1000 dollars, because it prays so beautifully,
though with 1000 dollars he could proba-
bly keep out of gaol and avoid the com-
pulsory gaol wash for a full month. There is
no thought of probability, reason, coherence,
characterisation, nor even of plot in “Human
Hearts” ; it is just a series of pegs on which are
hung moral platitudes which excite the moist-eyed
applause of the more or less wicked characters in
the audience. This critic is probably an extra
tough and hardened ruffian, for he found the
moral platitudes infinitely wearisome.
* * * #
Of the “Human Hearts” Co. Ernest
Leicester is a fine, robust actor, big in size and
voice, with a good figure and an easy style. The
others reach a fair degree of capacity, but the
man who has the very “fat” part of the hobo
with the Moral Platitude doesn’t trouble to be a
consistent character at all. He’s half-a-dozen
different shades of hobo throughout the evening.
* -* * *
There is no change at Sydney Tivoli,
and none is needed. The bill with the springing,
tumbling Price and Revost at the top, and the
four juggling Geraldos at the bottom, and a very
fair sprinkling of singers in between, is the best
the house has had for months, and does H.
Rickards proud.
* * *
“A farcical musical play” was the char-
acter given to “ The Dairy Maids,” now proceed-
ing at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), and five people
had a hand in the mixing of it. Two librettists
concocted the story (which is mostly a string of
echoes of the past) and arranged the dialogue,
which is generally commonplace. Two composers
had to do with the music, and two song-writers
are credited with the lyrics, one of them being the
same Paul Rubens who put in the major portion
of the music. Rubens, at a first hearing, is the
principal disappointment in this mixed assem-
blage of farcical musical playwrights. He was
the sole author and composer of “ Three Little
Maids,” a dainty and tuneful work whence the
plan of “The Dairy Maids” probably sprang.
There were some charming duets in the piece
that G. P. Huntley dominated, but in the present
instance the music is what is called graceful—
ominous term !—rather than melodious. It has a
flippantly pretentious manner at times, but it
can’t pretend to bite the ear of those citizens who
make light music popular by whistling it in the
street. In short, “ The Dairy Maids ” is full of
songs with choruses that leave no dint on the
memory. Some of them have doubtless been
abandoned since the first night. Most of these
musical numbers are more acceptable for the
“business” incidental to them than on account
of the air furnished by the orchestra.
• * * *
The scores of girls in “ The Dairy Maids ”
are martyrs to discipline, it seems. In the first
act they study industry at the Model Dairy Farm
of one Lady Brudenell, who ought to be an
elderly Tabitha, but is really Miss Clara Clifton.
On the Farm they milk the cow with the crumpled
horn, and make butter with great violence, and
talk of nothing but young men. The men are
sailors —the stale young nautical subjects of
musical comedy—and when they arrive at the
butter foundry they dance and sing with the
girls until the proprietress returns to vent her
indignation. Her anger, by the way, is mingled
with some anxiety on behalf of an elderly ship’s
doctor (Bantoek), who has been sent into a far-off
paddock with a pail to milk a raging black bull.
As a chastisement for their leaning towards young
men, the girls are despatched to the academy of
Miss Pyechase (Miss Emma Temple), where they
improve their figures with Sandow exercises. The
gymnasium scene in the second act is practically
the scene in Pinero’s “ The Amazons,” multiplied
by 12 and set to music. More had been ex-
pected of it than appeared on Saturday night,
but as far as the display of feminine physical
culture went it was a success. Having scored a
success with the Sandow Girl in all her bearings,
the entertainment becomes rather broadly farcical.
Two of the young men disguised as pantomime
she-males invade the sanctity of Miss Pyechase’s
establishment. Memories of “ Charley’s Aunt ” flit
amidst the turnioil of misunderstandings until
the curtain—speaking of Saturday night—falls at
11.25. With half-an-hour of superfluous song
and action deducted from the account, “The
Dairy Maids” should seem sweeter for being
shorter. But the piece on close inspection will
never look as clever as it looked in the London
notices. None of the effects are quite novel.
* • *
There are no conspicuous triumphs in the
performance, as it happens. Among the men,
Fred Leslie has the most effective part; his girl
make-up is humorous, and he gets perhaps as
much applause as though he were a keen-edged
comedian, instead of a rasping blade. Neverthe-
less, it is only the dancing of Leslie that pene-
trates one’s critical faculties. His mumming is
too extravagant. He gives a pantomime turn to the
situation, and merges the funny in the ridiculous.
Roberts plays a quiet second fiddle to Leslie,
and Lauri is good—very good—as a go-as-he-
pleases seaman who pairs off most of the time with
Miss Connie Milne. In the place which Miss Milne
fills well enough Miss Young would be stronger
with less effort, but that vigorous mezzo-soprano
is restricted to a sentimental soprano balladiste’s
character, wherein a girl with a thinner voice and a
wistful eye might be utilised to better advantage.
Miss Fanny Dango, the new-comer, has plenty to
do,*and does it satisfactorily, with a small singing
voice and a fair amount of “ go.” And there are
others. None of them are so valuable in the tout
ensemble.a,s Miss Temple, who looks and acts her
character as the mistress of the academy better
than smiling Miss Clifton realises the acerbities
of the dairy farmstress. For the chorus and the
scenery there is nothing but praise with a capital P.


Insure
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
David Jones, Ltd., of the White House, George-
street, Sydney, opposite the G.P.0., has issued the
firm’s well-known and much-looked-for spring- and
summer catalogue. This time it consists of 150 pages
illustrating the rich and rare things that a man may buy
for the fond and the fair. The printing of the catalogue
is unusually good, and the illustrations of the ruehings
and chiffons, the embroidery headings, insertions,
and sets are simply beautiful. And the goods
themselves are even more beautiful than the
illustrations. It is only when he starts to wade
through one of these catalogues that mere
man realises the infinity of things with which the
fair sex improves its looks, comfort and figure. The
name of the variety of appliances is legion, and the prices
seem to range from a few pence away to any figure to
which the purchaser cares to go. Although, in the
course of natural law, the bulk of the catalogue
is devoted to the rich and the rare, mere man
has his corner in which are piled the things com-
monplace but useful, unostentatious but comfortable.
A feature of the showrooms at David Jones, Ltd., just
now is the superb display of drawn-thread work, which is
made on the firm’s own premises by an expert. The
White House has become a universal providery as
regards home requirements, and everything that the
heart of man can desire or the soul of woman rave for,
can be found in the great white building that towers up
opposite the G.P.0., in George-street, Sydney.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
At Melbourne Princess’s the picture-drama
of “Robin Hood” will be received with all the
respect it deserves what time “ Raffles ” is being
prepared for action. The people who strike
attitudes in Sherwood Forest and the Norman
fortress are the veriest creatures of fiction.
Nobody believes in them. All the same, the play
in its “prettiness,” and its posturings, and its
pauses whilst Walter Whyte warbles songs of love,
is entitled to the benefit of comparison. Inviting
comparison with, for instance, “The Ragged Earl”
of Andrew Mack, the drama of Julius Knight,
Miss Elbert Orton and Co. comes through the
ordeal with flying colors. “ Robin Hood ”is an
admirable specimen of the sugar-coated, wedding-
cake drama, and any amorous spinster who puts a
piece of it under her pillow may expect to dream
of a future husband in four be-eautiful acts.
** * *
Bland Holt’s farcical tragedy of ‘ ‘ Riding
to Win,” at Melbourne Royal, was for 12 nights
only, a special revival of “ The Bondman ”
having been bespoken for Saturday next by
General Desire. The bike-drama deserved a
longer fate than a fortnight, if it were only for
the sake of the poor blind girl who emphasises
her affliction by wearing a cap of sorrow. Miss
Harrie Ireland is the benighted young woman, and
her muslin cap, with long weepers hanging from the
sides, is as eloquent in its way as the headgear of
wickedness, which marks her for reprobation on
ordinary occasions. This is one of her rare
chances to be good and gentle in melo-
drama, therefore she makes the most of
it. The cap is full of expression. It signi-
fies that she is necessarily blind. It commands
sympathy to the same extent that the
villain’s cigarette invites suspicion. And it sets a
reflective journalist wondering what the effect
on the audience would be if Miss I. were to sud-
denly lapse into one of her orful bad characters,
and throw her woeful cap upon the stage, and
say “D—n.” By the way, the restored “Bond-
man,” with George Rignoid in the name part as
before, will run for only 12 nights.
The Holloway co., at the Bijou, will intro-
duce “ The Coal King” on Saturday. Melbourne
has a hazy recollection of a previous Holloway co.
in “A King of Crime,” and if the King of Coal
is a lineal descendant of the previous monarch, he
will be hailed as a scorcher. The potentate got a
somewhat glowing notice in The Bulletin for
his Sydney performance three months ago.
m* * *
The Clara Butt co. is making its second
appearance at Melbourne Town Hall to-night
(Thursday). On Saturday (14th) the Voice of the
Century will be heard again, also on the 17th
and 19th. The concert on the 19th will be a
matinee, and the prices of admission on all occa-
sions will be mostly half-a-guinea and five shil-
lings. There is a select number of seats at a
guinea, but these are confined to the centre sec-
tions of the balcony, so the ad vt. states, and nowise
person will risk his life in the attempt to capture
one of them.
* # *
A new turn at Melbourne Opera House is
due next Saturday, by which time the bill will be
sorely in need of a tonic. Meanwhile Henri
Alexander is lying on his back in order to juggle
with his feet, Tom Dawson is reappearing after
an interval of absence, the imported Cranston is
performing a new sketch, and twenty things of no
particular importance are happening as before.
*- * * *
“The Blue Moon” is close to the end of
its tether at Adelaide Royal. The piece is much
like many other Asiatic song-and-hop:and-frivol
successes of the past, and the arrangement of the
incidental dances is perhaps its brightest feature.
Eight performances were given last week. Among
the crowd of principals, the loudest local applause
has gone to Harold Parks, the Adelaide youth
(with London experience) who plays the Cockney
soldier. The Svengalis having left the Tivoli,
the ordinary Tivoli band (which had moved over
to the Hippodrome for a brief season) has resumed
business at the old stand. The musical Brescians
(with flickergraph) are still at the Town Hall, and
great is the flick thereof.
This, from Melbourne Argus, is another
dreadful falling in for the importing crowd which
always rises up and says off-hand : “ These goods
can’t be made in Australia” :
Ballarat, Friday.—lt having been stated that a parti-
cular cloth used in cap-making could not be produced in
Australia, a sample was forwarded by the Customs officials
to Mr. C. E. Grainger, the manager of the Ballarat
Woollen Mills, asking him if the statement was correct.
Mr. Grainger decided that the best answer would be
to supply material similar to the sample. Weaving was
begun at half-past 7 on Friday morning, and the spinning,
milling, and finishing were completed in four and a half
hours. The produce was apparently superior to the
sample, and it was forwarded during the afternoon to the
Customs authorities.
But the old yarn is only killed in one place to
break out in another. A deputation has just
waited on the Minister for Customs re the duty
on imported advertising, and explained that it is
quite impossible to print Wise’s Directory in
Australia.
Carruthers should calmly contemplate his
Anti-Federal Foolishness from outside a fraternal
measure of that peace-promoting beverage—
D.C.L. Whisky. Viewed with the eye that
D.C.L. has brightened, the foolishness of Car-
ruthers would be patent, even to its parent, shiver-
ing in his undisguised intellectual nakedness.*
Probate is being applied for in the Vic-
torian Courts of the will of Edward Jones
Brewster. He was appointed Chairman of Quarter
Sessions at Port Phillip practically the first
Judge there—on March 27,1839. He arrived in
the ship John Barry, with 200 immigrants. The
first Court was held May 13, when Mr. Horatio
Nelson Carrington acted as Crown Prosecutor.
The deceased was brother to Abraham Brewster,
a great Irish lawyer, afterwards Lord Chancellor.
While in Melbourne Mr. Brewster invested in
Bourke-street lots. After a time he retired from
the law and became a parson of the Church of
England. He was absent from Australia for half-
a-century, and was returning a few years ago to
Melbourne to see how the unearned increment
looked, when he died at the Cape of Good Hope,
at the age of 86 years. So, like Moses on Mount
Pisgah, he only saw the property in the distance,
but at least he had had the rents to comfort him,
which Moses hadn’t. The Bijou theatre is on the
site of one of the Brewster allotments.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: The latest cavilling at Melba —as she is a
famous Australian woman, her compatriots naturally
bark at her somewhat —was all on account of her happen-
ing to be a passenger for Burrumbeet, near Ballarat, by
the Adelaide express. Melba, and her son, and her son’s
wife, and the 16 servants (including two French cooks),
who travelled with them, were fully entitled to leave the
train at Burrumbeet, and take their luggage with them.
The fact that it is unusual for a prima donna and her
army to invade Burrumbeet per express train is not her
trouble, anyhow. Her rights as a passenger are not
affected by the unusualness of the proceeding. She and
the army had booked for Burrumbeet, and the Victorian
Government Department had sold the tickets. But be-
cause the unloading of the luggage was a 20 minutes’ job
(owing largely to the scarcity of porters at God-forsaken
Burrumbeet) “ the railway officials complained of the
long stoppage of a train running as express between
capitals separated by hundreds of miles. It was said that
such a thing had been unheard of previously, and should
not have been allowed. It was also stated that even the
Chief Railway Commissioner had no power under
the regulations to delay for such a length of
time an inter-State express with English mails
on board unless in very urgent circumstance.” In the
foregoing paragraph, which is part of the Age report of
Melba’s arrival in Victoria, the songstress is put pretty
much in the light of a personage who was taking unwar-
rantable liberties with the railway service of her native
land. Yet her sole offence consisted in her having taken
tickets for Burrumbeet. Had she come along to the Mel-
bourne terminus, the “ railway officials” (salute !) would
have had no complaint. They were snorting at a good
customer. Melba had paid for her travelling, and she
asked nothing for her money that the Railway Depart-
ment. does not contract to supply to any ordinary pas-
senger to Burrumbeet. Fifty times a year the travelling
public are inconvenienced in one way or two by the car-
riage of dead-head Governors or Judges, but never a word
is said about that in the newspapers—not even though
there are English mails concerned in the matter.
“ Snell ”: Showmen assure me that Andrew Mack is
the keenest pro. on the business side that ever came to
Australia. He makes the work of the ordinary manager
a mere sinecure, for he spends all his time, when not
actually acting or sleeping, out chasing business, and he
hunts for it with an energy and audacity that woul i be
the making of a whole regiment of commercial travellers.
Merry Andrew employs a good motor car to hustle with,
and during his Melbourne stay he contrived to cut a
figure at every R.O. function within a radius of 25 miles.
He even made casual breaks as far as Ballarat to tell
little stories and sing little songs to a gathering of R.O.
orphans, or an assemblage of a Roman Oatholic Voung
Men’s Association. “ Andrew Mack would make money
out of a two-headed calf and a second-hand magic lan-
tern,” one manager assures me.
The visiting mummer, songster, or what not,
seizes on, and adheres to, his or her pose with
a clingsomeness that is very awful. Thus Tittell Brune
for month after weary month blithered about her “ dear
gy-urls,” and wept and sentimentalised over those foolish
young women till many a mere male cursed low, and
wandered away to drown remembrance of Brune in Beer.
Andrew Mack’s particular stunt is Ireland—lreland and
the Faith. All priests come alike to Andrew; and
if you said a word against the dear old land he
doesn’t live in, and never means to live in so long as he
(Andrew) can help it, he’d burst into tears and serve a sum-
mons on you, or sing “ The Wearin’ o’ the Green ” at you,
or something. And now we have Clara Butt, who should
be a class or two (or three) above that sort of thing, and
her babes. “ Indeed,” she tells the Quiver (Eng.), with
much artlessness, “ I am not at all sure that I do not
sing my best to the chicks in the nursery. The babies are
always-over joyed to have their mother sing them to sleep,
and children are truthful, if sometimes rather severe,
critics,” etc., etc. If the Butt lady is going to make the
same use of her innocent babes that Ada Ward and Dowie
did of the Deity, and Tom Mann does of the “ chains ”
which don’t clank about the limbs of the local toilers,
Australia is in for a shock.
“Blue Peter”: There is a great deal in the way an
actress goes off the stage when she finishes a song. It is
the exit that gets the encore just as often as the song
itself. The English musical comedy girl realises this,
and makes her exit a fine art. Fan Dango, who, by the
way, is the sweetest thing in girls we have had in these
parts for a long time, gets a large proportion of her
success out of her disappearances, and even wooden Olive
Morrell could make an audience take a second sample of
her duck-like voice by the coy little way she tripped off
the stage.
Prodigal sons in our time do not go home for the fatted
calf. They find it at the theatre.
“ Blister ” (from Ballarat) : Society is making timid ad-
vances to Melba, now homing at Ercildoune, but that
can-be-haughty lady is not likely to forget the chilliness
of her reception when she sold her notes at the local
theatre from one guinea downwards. Dolores was buried
in floral offerings; but Melba, because of a supposed affront
to the statued city, never got so much as a dandelion,
and the dress circle would have been more than usually
draughty if the management had not given away guinea
seats at the last moment to an army of deadheads. But
if Melba was ever aware that a hatchet needed burying,
her “gracious acceptance” of an invitation to a race
meeting at Dowling Forest set the Ballarat Tart Society
(they call it Art, but it is really Tart) thinking, individu-
ally, how to accomplish a tour de force or a %>at& de foie
gras or something or other Frenchy that might tickle
Melba’s rather jaded palate.
“ J.A.0.”: Stated (B. 6/9/’O7) that tenor Caruso’s
recent conviction in New York for too effusive admira-
tion of feminine charms places him in the category of
“ prohibited immigrants,” and will prevent his landing
to fulfil a £40,000-a-year engagement. If such be the
case, and I do not for one moment believe it, any more
than I believe the £40,000 gag, it is playing it pretty low
down on the “eminent.” The case was of a most
trumpery description, with all the appearance of a put-
up job. The woman who laid the charge didn’t
appear in court to support it, and Caruso was con-
victed on the more-than-likely apocryphal evidence of a
New York “ copper.” The enormity of the offence may
be gauged from the fact that a Tammany magistrate
could only perform a Dago sacrifice to the tune of five
dollars—a modest quid. Even if Caruso may have been
too demonstrative, he probably got some encouragement
—such things have happened before to the men who
trade upon the high C’s. As to Caruso’s saying that he
doesn’t care, in all likelihood he doesn’t. He can get
ocher engagements ; the sufferers will be the Amurrikan
opera-goers. In any case, I should like to wager that
nothing of the kind hinted at will occur. [The Bulletin
cheerfully takes up “ J.A.C.’s” bet.]
“ Poneke ” (from Wellington, M.L.): George Musgrove
didn’t leave his troubles behind him when he left Aus-
tralia ; in fact, his trials won’t cease till he gets quit of
Mohwinkel and co. Up in Auckland there was a row
with a feller named Foller, whom Mussy fined £lO
because he was unable to play a part he is said to have
been engaged to play, and which conductor Slap, declares
any ordinary musician ought to master in a few hours.
Foller is now suing G.M. for the tenner. In Wellington
matters were only middling, as the warblers made in
Germany maintained their erratic propensities. If Golli-
wog was down on the programme, his part was more than
likely to be taken by Otto Steifelhammer. There was a
bit of a wait, the other night, during which time,’tis
said, a healthy scrap happened behind the scenes.
Rupp w’as absent from the next afternoon per-
formance of “ Hansel and Gretel,” and Peter the
Broom-maker was represented by a substitute,
apparently run into the gap at the eleventh hour and
the fifty-ninth minute. After the first few bars, he
floundered hopelessly. In desperation, he capsized his
bundle of purchases about the stage, and he and Mudder
got together, and gathered them up, and untied the
strings, and examined the contents in order to gain time,
and they held a sort of committee meeting to see what
could be done. Now and then Mudder sang a line, and
Peter gazed at her in blank dismay. Meantime, Slapoffski
waved his baton wildly, and the band played as if for very
life, and the building fairly shook with the crash of
sound. Presently a fist from the wings chucked a score
at Peter. Peter then sat on the table, and fairly bellowed
till the curtain mercifully fell. Oh, save us from any
more German opera ! Can’t someone be found with the
courage and the wit to gather up a troupe of intelligent
musicians, who will keep faith with patrons, and at
least serve outjwhat is on the programme ?
A. WALCOTT, winner of Goulburn-Sydney
Road Cycle Race.
Now is the season when the young man’s fancy, and
eke his best girl’s, turns lightly to thoughts of lazing
languorously by summer seas ; wherefore, already
Bilanderson’s Wonderland City is astir. For the City is
to boom this summer. At present the place looks and
sounds like a saw mill; but the show is booked to open
for Eight Hour Day. Amongst the novelties are to be
“ The Rivers of the World,” a vast skating rink, and the
“ biggest helter skelter in the world.”
“ Melb.” : The death of Horace Bent, minstrel, has just
been mentioned at the meeting of the Dramatic and
Musical Association. Horace was not recuperative, like
Tom. He came from Geelong, and it must be nearly half
a century since he began in the burnt cork line. Funny
man once, with his loose knees, something like Tommy
Hudson’s, and the slight impediment in his voice. He
ought to have been able to retire on a sugar plantation,
like William Barlow of the Blue Tail Fly. Bent’s most
prosperous tour was through America, with Kohler the
Cornetist. When down, he couldn’t pick up. Bent was
broke.
The impersonation of “living statuary” was a pro-
fitable profession at various periods anterior to the
present time of boom. Perhaps the most notable case
was that of Nelson’s adored Emma Hamilton, who started
as a Goddess of Health for a pill fiend, and kept going till
she had been the mistress of a captain, a baronet, an
“ honorable,” an ambassador (she married him), and an
admiral. She acquired great wealth and spent it, and
her last pose was as a sort of living skeleton at Calais. She
was 52 then and had no audience.
The latest play, not produced yet, but pro-
mised for this month, is a four-act piece by Henri Bataille,
to be called “ The Naked Woman ” —just that and nothing
more.
Mr. Gerald M. Braham, son of the late David Braham,
the Melbourne solicitor, has been engaged as leading man
to accompany the well-known English actress, Ada
Marius, on an autumn tour through the provinces. It
was the father of this lady who played lead with Mrs.
Bernard Beere when that lady toured Australia.
Braham’s professional name is Gerald Malvern, after the
suburb in which he was reared.
“ Blue Peter ” : Two of the best songs in the London
production of “The Dairy Maids” were left out m Mel-
bourne because they were too local to be understood out
of England. One was “ Dover-street.” Dover-street is
full of clubs, including a number for women. It was
during the run of “ The Dairy Maids ” that a crowd of
suffragettes made an uproar in the ladies’ gallery of the
House of Commons, and had to be hauled downstairs,
kicking and screaming, by policemen. Walter Passmore
ran it into “ Dover-street”’ —
I got a nice ride in a policeman’s arms,
And it saved me a cab to Dover-street.
It was the hit of the evening. The other song was “ Hello,
I ittle Stranger,” which could easily have been localised.
The songs interpolated instead fell rather flat. All the
same, it is a good show, and compares very favorably
with the London one—beats it altogether in the gymna-
sium scene.
“0.K.”: One is oppressed rather than impressed by
the awful goodness of these contralto songstresses. There
was poor old Antoinette Sterling of yore. When she
wasn’t walking on to the concert platform, with religious
frenzy in her eye and a bogus hymn-book (it was really a
little book of song words) in her hand, she was commun-
ing w'ith Social Purists, and Women Christian Leaguesses,
and similar representatives of aggressive virtue. Per-
haps one ought not to blame her for singing “ The Better
Land,” “ The Lost Chord,” and a lot of songs in which
God was mentioned by name or indirectly referred to.
A contralto’s best effects are always gloomy. But in
Antoinette’s case the gloom was so thick and holy that
you could bag it and sell it for soot. Then there
was Ada Crossley. She was run on the Per-
sonal Goodness ticket, whereas, if she had been a
soprano, her maidenly virtues would never have figured
in the business. Her best song ended with “ God ” in a
verse that told of death and burial. _ Every time she
started to sing “Home, Sweet Home,” in any Australian
city she was always overcome by emotion. She left the
platform amidst murmurs of “ Poor dear !” and “Noble
girl!” and other tributes of the respect which only con-
traltos can command from a concert audience. And now
there is Clara Butt working her dear children for all that
they are worth, talking of them to interviewers,
getting photographed in the act of fondling her
little ones or dropping sugar into the teacup of
their papa. The domestic virtues of Clara Butt were
getting on Melbourne’s nerves ere she started to sing in
public. And what did she sing—O, dear brethering, what
did she sing? Well, in the first part of the first concert
she warbled “ Night Hymn at Sea” in duet with her own
dear husband, and in the second part she sang “ Land of
Hope and Glory ” and “ Abide with Me.” When a miser-
able sinner drops incautiously into a concert where a
fashionable contralto is conducting the service, he can
only stare at his boots and feel himself out of place..
It is dimly suspected that Andrew Mack, the Irish
dramamonger, is not even Irish in his parentage, and
that, despite his well-advertised visits to convents and
other sectarian institutions, he is not a Roman Catholic
by persuasion. He is said to be only R.C. by theatrical
profession.
“ Star Harrie Ireland, the tall, Titian-haired member
of Bland Holt’s co., is, to my mind, easily the best dresser
amongst Australian actresses, and, for the matter of that,
can give points in striking frocking to. the smartest im-
portations. The admiration for artistic architecture in
stage gowns is perfectly legitimate. I often find more
artistry in one dress than in a whole drama, and the bold-
ness, brilliance, and originality of many of the superior
garments of the slim daughter of old Ireland have
provoked enthusiasm where Sutton Vane, author, has
left me cold or vindictive. Miss Harrie’s elegant creations
are her own inspirations. She conceives the lofty gown
in moments of exaltation, and works it out like a poem.
If she should ever get tired of drama, the feminine world
should make an earnest demand for her as a dress
designer.
The latest banality in theatrical ideas, which seems to
have struck the U.S. and Paris simultaneously, is
the representation of living personages in plays. In a
recent Parisian piece, “ The Hostage,” the character of a
Yankee yachtsman was so realistic an impersonation of
James Gordon Bennett, of N. Y. World, that the big
audience greeted it with a shout of recognition. In the
same piece a well-known cardinal figured as an aged
churchman. In “Les Jacobins,” another French play,
“ make-ups” of other Parisian notabilities figure in the
cast. Even G. Bernard Shaw drops into the habit, and,
in “ Major Barbara,” presents a footlight edition of
Andrew Carnegie. In the Yankee production, “The
Lion and the Mouse,” a living representation of John D.
Rockefeller is made to do things which even the callous,
money-grubbing original would go grey at.
The Westralian State Government recently
got its actuary, E. T. Owen, to prepare a report
upon (i.e., against) the tariff. The report solemnly
declared, among other things:—
Articles of common consumption will become sensibly
dearer.
Farmers and other producers will suffer through a
restricted market, and diminished prices for their pro-
ducts.
It seems then that the tariff will —
Make products “ sensibly dearer,” so that the buyer
will pay more.
Make the same products cheaper at the same time, so
that the producer will get less.
Enlarge the local producers’ market by shutting out
foreign products.
Restrict the local producers’ market at the same time.
It’s a great theory.
This is the age of specialists, and it is not the
business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, under the Employers’
Liability Act of ’97. Insurance is a science, and when
people who are not experts dabble with it they generally
come to grief. So the wise employer takes out a policy
in the South British Co., of Maoriland (Head Office for
N.S.W., 12 Bridge-street, Sydney), which secures him
against all such claims, just and unjust alike. It spares
him time, worry and expense.*
The Admirable Fitchetfc has again rung
the bell. A Melbourne religious weekly ”e-
marks :—“ Without wishing to criticise, we were
a bit amused to hear Dr. Eitchett speak of him-
self as ‘the head of the Church.’. .. We do
wish some of these ‘reverend ’ gentlemen could
realise how peculiar it sounds to students of the
New Testament to hear the prerogative of the
great Founder of the Church coolly assumed by
one of His professed followers.” This outburst,
by the way, comes from a paper which assumes
the ambitious title of the Australian Christian.
However, the Christian is in a pretty good
position to throw mud at Filchitt, for it
only contains a page and a half of liftings out of
its 16 pages of ads. and editorial matter.
“ K.” : A wily person is Defence Minister
Tom Ewing—Thomas Thomson Ewing, whose
double Christian name sounds like two thuds
with the foot of an elephant. He spoke, in
scoffing style, to the squatters, farmers, etc., at
the Agricultural Society’s show in Melbourne.
“The Government should let you alone—leave
you to manage your own business,” he said, using
a hoary Tory cry. Whereat the farmers cheered
loudly. “Therefore,” Ewing went on, “when
the Government builds a railway which raises the
value of your land from £1 to £10 an acre, I hope ”
(with a tearful snuffie in his voice) “that you will try
to bear it with Christian fortitude.” Whereupon
the gathering, when the remark had soaked in,
called upon Ewing in a loud voice to sit down.
The bucolic person grows fierce under satire.
THE SHOW THAT SHOCKED THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His Majesty King Edward was so disgusted at the im-
propriety of a cafi chantant in Marienbad that he rose
and left as a protest.— Cable Message.
Oft we’ve chuckled while some fairy
Sung the suddenest of rhymes ;
Oft we’ve witnessed plays that should have made us blush ;
We have gazed on costumes airy
And we’ve had to face at times
The chance of being smothered in the crush.
We have seen the houris dancing
In the restaurants of Said ;
Heard the songs that in the ’Frisco dives they sing—
We have lingered o'er entrancing
Poses by some Paris maid—
But we’ve never seen a show that shocked a King.
What was it made the crimson
Glow suffuse his royal cheek,
Beneath his regal whiskers turning grey ?
Too little had the limbs on
So resilient and sleek ?
Or did they point too heavenly a way ?
Were the songs they sang all tinted
With too deep a royal blue ?
Too recklessly their figures did they swing?
Were enchantments more than hinted
To his royal Nibs’s view
By the ladies in the show that shocked the King ?
Was it in art histrionic
That they overstepped the mark,
And made King Edward feel a trifle faint?
Did some shapely maid Teutonic
Too hilariously lark ?
Or do a Milo act without the paint ?
There’s an eager empire waiting
In anxiety to know
What was the awful, frightful, dreadful thing—
For a Blue Book to be stating
What ’twas happened at the show
That went and shocked his Majesty the King.
There’s a fear upon the nation
That at last he’s lost his nerve,
And its heart to-day is sinking and appalled,
(In the lack of information)
That a shapely female curve
Should so affect a gentleman who’s bald. !
Can it be his pulse is tardy ?
Can it be his youth is run ?
Can it be that he has had his final fling ?
When the Ned who once was hardy
Frowns on what before was fun,
When there’s such a thing as shows that shock the King ?
N.B.W.
MILTON MACGRKGOR.


DEAFNESS and NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes ;—“ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
The Well-Known and Hiohly-Esteembd Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 16 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S. W.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
Education by Post. —Until recently young
people in the country who desired to better their finan-
cial condition by the pursuit of knowledge have been
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining expert instruc-
tion in general educational, business or technical
subjects. This state of things has now been remedied,
and the facilities of the greatest private educational in-
stitution in Australia may now be brought to their very
doors. Stott and Hoare’s Business College has elaborated
a system of practical and comprehensive postal instruc-
tion in Bookkeeping, Shorthand, Typewriting, Penman-
ship, Ari thmetic, Correspondence, Electrical and Mechan-
ical Engineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Pen and Ink
Sketching, etc., and effective methods are employed to,,
prepare by post candidates for all public examinations.
The Principal will forward a beautifully printed descrip-
tive booklet, entitled “ Home Study,” on application to 1
Dept. B., Stott and Hoare’s Business College, Moore
Street, Sj dney.*
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
One of the most deserving institutions in
Australia is the Sydney Foreshores Vigilance
Committee. It seeks to prevent the entire shores
of beautiful Sydney Harbor being shut against
the people by private landlords, and to undo the
work of the desecrating monster who has blighted
so much natural beauty with the staring board on
which the public is urged to buy something for
next-to-nothing and get a coupon. They are
almost all traders’ advts. that blot out the sun
along Sydney Harbor, and the same kind of
trader wants to blot out Australian industries
and all hope of building up a great Australian
nation by Foreign-trade for his own paltry little
profit. . He has no soul. For the same cash con-
sideration he would wipe out the national ideal or
the beauties of Manly Bay indiscriminately. He
would probably advertise his three-and-sixpenny
hat on the fair face of the moon if he could get
so far.
A VOICE FROM THE
CLOUDS.
MAUDE : “ You remem-
ber Charlie , the one
that said he'd never
marry when I died?
Well, I can see him. ”
MADGE: “Poor fellow.
How's he looking?”
MAUDE: “ Pretty good! He's pushing a pram
up George-street, and there are two kids
in it."
Sugar and sand are more satisfactorily
associated in the making of a character than in
the building up of a grocery business.
The last block of vacant land in Collins-
street, Melbourne, is about to be crushed flat
under a pile of buildings. It is situated just
above the tabernacle where Bevan, of the long
hair and the Chinese admiration, earns a fat
salary by saying nothing in particular to hardly
anybody each Sunday. The Baillieus, most inde-
fatigable of land-speckers, have got their claws on
the block, and are running up a tall building for
residential flats and offices.” Ever since David
Syme evolved or adapted this method of money-
making, people have been rushing along to copy
him. The balance of dead weight in doctors’
plates has been surging from one side of Collins-
street to the other for the last two years. Each
new building is rushed by themeds., for it’s worth
a lot per year to be roomed in a really up-to-date
building.
* * * *
Recent European papers have been telling
a yarn that runs a dead-heat with the Australian
stinking fisherman’s story of the drowning
Lascars whom the Gentle Deakin and Tariff
Bill Lyne were alleged to have held off the Aus-
tralian coast with pitchforks and things. The
European yarn is regarding some gypsies who
got to the summit of the St. Bernard Pass, and
were then stopped by the Swiss guard from
entering Switzerland. When they turned back,
the Italian guard wouldn’t let them go that way
either, so at latest advices they were camped on
a glacier waiting for the next avalanche to arrive.
The monks of the St. Bernard hospice were giving
them food, but, according to this story, they
weren’t allowed to give them shelter at the
hospice, because the hospice is in Switzerland,
and the undesirable immigrants must not enter
Switzerland. It is probably a magnificent lie;
but it is interesting, all the same, as indicating
that other countries besides Australia have im-
migration laws on to the tail of which the local
Stinking Fish parties can hang their Petriana
myths.
* * * *
Melbourne divorce-petitioner Wicks has
got through the court at last, but it was a stormy
passage. After listening to much strenuous
swearing last February, Justice Hodges decided
that Mrs. Wicks had been too friendly, so his
Honor gave Wicks his decree nisi. But as Wicks
was leaving the court with it, his sisters and
cousins, and his wife and her sisters and cousins,
waylaid him in the sacred precincts, and rebuked
him with ginghams, etc. He escaped, and went
about his business; but before the decree was
made absolute an ex-mate of his, whose name had
been casually mentioned in the case, came over
from “the West,” and told the Attorney-General
things which induced that party to intervene.
From the Westralian’s tale it appeared that he—
an ex-councillor of Fitzroy—and Wicks had been
exceptionally gay dogs at onetime; but he assured
Chief Justice Madden that he was committing
his present act solely because he had suddenly
resolved to lead anew life and not be any sort of
a dog any more. The worldly-wise C. J. listened
to his amazing tale, noted the denials of Wicks
and sundry other implicated persons, and then
observed that, though the yarn might be true,
the narrator’s reason for telling it probably wasn’t,
so he (Madden) wasn’t going to accept the tale of
the ex-dog without corroboration. As that
corroboration wasn’t forthcoming, Wicks was
“decreed absolute.” But as he was departing in
a pleased frame of mind, the attentive females
above referred to once more collided with him in
a corridor, and a hot engagement ensued, result-
ing in one black eye, one scratched cheek, one
damaged hat, four wrecked umbrellas, and several
minor casualties. So between two running en-
gagements in the corridor and two sets of Costs
Mr. Wicks isn’t likely to be particularly doggy
for some time, no matter what his dogginess pre-
viously amounted to.
* * * *
“ Perish ”: To the query, “Does the street
ice-cream vendor hibernate?” I return a resound-
ing No. There is a brand of small boy, owning in-
nards of some brand of nerveless metal,
who will joyfully assimilate ices with the
thermometer lOOdeg. below zero in the
sun. As a fact, the ice-vendor does a
two-fold business in winter time,
since he then also retails hot peas at
Id. per plate. He caters mostly for
a particularly marvellous breed of
Australian juvenile, who is capable,
given the ready cash, of demolishing
ice-creams galore, and then imme-
diately polishing off several plates of hot
peas. Thus this interesting problem
arises: (1) Does the cold of the ices over-
power the heat of the peas ? Or (2) does
the warmth of the peas master the low tem-
perature of the ices? Or (3) do both forces
amalgamate, and form one congenial whole ? Or
(4) does the boy get sick ?
* * * *
The Darley divorce case (Sydney) suggests
again the pressing need to add to woman’s rights
the right to stand some of the responsibility for
her wickedness. The wife in this case charged
her husband with the horrible crime of incest.
The Judge disbelieved her entirely, acquitted the
man of the noisome charge, refused the wife a
divorce, and ordered the husband to pay alt Costs.
Net result—the husband is left with a wife of a
singularly undesirable type, and a bill of Costs.
Perhaps if in such cases women had to pay the
expenses of their own perjuries, or go to gaol for
the Costs, they would be a little more careful.
Certainly they would find it harder to get lawyers
to represent them.
* * * *
That gay old singer, Tom Bent, explains
how he came to remark that Frenchwomen have
long flat feet. It seems to have been partly the
fault of Under-Treasurer Meakin, who travelled
with him. Says Thomas :
Well, in Paris I wanted to buy a pair of shoes for my
nine-year-old grandchild. We went to a shop, and they
showed me boots about that long (indicating a
length of about 18in. with his hands). So I said, “ Why,
Meakin, why is this?” He said, “Don’t you know that
the women here have long flat feet ? ” I said, “ I don’t,
but we will have a look.” So we stood at the door of the
hotel and looked, and half of the women we saw were
bareheaded, and they had long flat feet. That’s the real
explanation.
Thomas has been getting into trouble with ze
gallant gentlemen of France for other reasons.
He said the other day that his opponents ought
not to “shoot in the back like a Frenchman.”
Next morning a fierce, spiky-moustached French
Consul was waiting outside his door. And Tommy,
who doesn’t want to be shot in the paunch any
more than in the back, apologised humbly through
the Evening Herald.
*' * * *
Do you easily catch cold ? If so you need
a remedy that will not only soothe and strengthen
the lungs, but will also act as a tonic. Angier’s
Emulsion does both, and is the remedy above all
others for coughs, colds, and all lung affections.
It lis wonderfully soothing, nnd a great help to
digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
CAPITAL HAS FLED FROM THE COUNTRY.
VINCENT CRUMMLES : “ Lend you sixpence! Why, darn it, sir, if I had sixpence I'd start
a Number Two Company .”
Last year, N.S. Wales put up one record :
Of every 1000 little Australians who arrived
in 1906 without passing through a wed-
ding ring, only a trifle over 182 died before
1906 was over. Seeing that of the other
little Australians only 66 per 1000 died, or just
about one-third as many, it doesn’t seem much
even yet to be proud of. In the past 10 years,
26,348 of the nameless little strangers have
arrived and 6550 have stayed less than a year. If
only the same proportion of them as of the others
had died, it would have been equal to a flow of
4205 immigrants—only 2345 would have died
instead of 6550. Things are improving; but
N. S. Wales is still wasting a great many more
little Australian immigrants than it can afford.
* * * sic
It isn’t always the fault of the tangle of
red-tape in the Lands Department that settlers
don’t get their business done as swiftly as they
would like. A Victorian woman to whom a
Crown grant was due lately applied for the
document, and signed her name —“ Elizebth ”
O’Smith, orMcJones, or something. The
Department doesn’t care to assume
too much, so it wrote asking the
lady if her name was “Eliza-
beth.” She replied that it
was, and signed herself “ Eli-
sabath.” The “Lands”
again corresponded, and
desired the dame to spoil
her name as it appeared
on her birth certificate.
She replied that she
hadn’t got one, and
didn’t know such a
thing was necessary
for a lease, and added
that she was the De-
partment’s humble
servant, “ Elizebeth.”
The Department cor-
responded some more,
and got a cheerful reply,
as from an old friend,
ending “ Yours truly,
Eliza.” Having recovered
from the shock, the sedate
person who looks after that
particular pigeon-hole desired
the dame to kindly forward her
marriage certificate. She replied
that she had lost the run of her
“lines” since her husband died, and
that she had no one else “in view” at pre-
sent; also, she signed herself “ Lizzie,” as her late
husband had always called her that. The corres-
pondence, which was becoming quite friendly, got
no further, as the Department decided to call
her Elizabeth and chance it.
* * * *
The other day, in a Sydney suburban
police court, a woman sued her husband for main-
tenance before a Bench that wasn’t too copious in
its thatch. The husband explained that, although
he had treated his wife in as fair a manner as
possible, she was not satisfied, and had insisted
on dragging him before the court, saying: “I’ll
see if I can’t get something more out of that
blanky old bald-headed blank of a magistrate ! ”
The case was dismissed. Any magistrate whose
wool _ had seen its best days might naturally
dismiss a case like that.
* * * m
“ Rob ” (from Westralia) : Re “ Wang’s ”
par. (B. l/8/’O7) concerning the decease of the
words “boshter” and “bonzer.” lam afraid
Melbourne is sadly behind the times with its
slang. In W.A. the “rotter” has ousted the
“ blitherer ” entirely, and an extra special sort of
“rotter” is a “rorterer.” Also, “Bog into it”
is not now fashionable, and, to be quite up to
date, one must “Hop his bloomin’ frame right
into it.”
The backbone of the country has been
down to the Melbourne Show, giving the annual
display of its fine sturdy independence. Thirty-
two deputations in four days harassed the wearied
Ministers, Premier Bent getting the lion’s share,
of course. They didn’t want much—only Bent’s
surplus and a bit more. They occupied pounds’-
worth of time, yet a simple letter would have
done the work equally well in most cases; and, as
usual, the most needy districts made no appear-
ance—their residents couldn’t afford to visit the
Show. Bent wearied at last, and, when a
delegation asked £6OO of the £I2OO needed for an
operating ward at St. Arnaud hospital, he offered
£3OO or nothing. The deputation hum-ed and
ha-ed. “ Well, say £2O0 —and my time is limited,*’
jerked out Thomas. The deputation closed with
the £3OO offer, and got outside hastily. One lot
from Laanecoorie way fared worse. It wanted a
railway. Bent listened, then : “ How much will
you give?” “Nothing,” replied the spokesman.
“So will I,” retorted Thomas. “Next, please.”
A LAPSE
OF MEMORY.
“ Oh, Edward, why have you thus forgotten
yourself?”
“ There! Knew I’d left SHUMTHING on the
tram!”
A Newtown (N.S.W.) dentist, who is too
guileless for this world, was fined, the other day,
£2 and 7s. costs, with the alternative of a month
in the skilly department. He had sued a bad
customer for £7 and got a verdict. The customer
came along with the smooth, polished, artificial
smile of the intending murderer, and paid. He
told the dentist not to waste 2d. on a receipt
stamp, but just to write “ paid ’’ and his signature
on the summons. The toothmonger trusted him,
even as people used to trust Caesar Borgia, and he
went and gave the incriminating document to the
police.
THE LINK THAT KINDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Another thing he observed was the large number of
both men and women who were to be seen by people
leaving church, waiting about with jugs and bottles for
the hotels to open .—Premier Bent on London.
In a quiet Sydney suburb, down a narrow, dingy street,
Stands an unpretentious pub where Sunday sinners love
to meet,
And on Sunday mornings early, when the saints are all
at prayer,
And the Law has turned the corner and the place seems
wholly bare,
You may see the local toiler, with a furtive glance
behind,
And an air of pious cunning on his countenance resigned*
Make an acrobatic movement that would almost shame a
goat
As he scales the backyard entrance with a jug beneath
his coat.
When the chimes ring out in Fleet-street from the bells
of grey Saint Paul’s,
When the ’buses cease from traffic and the thirst of
London calls,
When the mighty Pulse is throbbing for a space less
hurriedly,
And the air is impregnated with a weird expectancy,
Then from street and grimy alley they come trooping out
apace,
Bearing each a jug or bottle to the common trysting-
place,
With the needful tuppence tightly clutched, impatiently
they stand,
Whilst behind the door Bung waits them with a beer-
pump at his hand.
There s a moral to this rhyming, but I've looked for it in
vain,
Still in word and phrase and stanza there is one thing
written plain—
In the Sunday Jug of London and the Sydney Jug one
finds B
Just another illustration of the cherished “ link that
binds.”
N.S.W.
VELDT.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Ansemia, Insomnia, etc.
CURES
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45*47 Melville St., Hobart, Tap.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SAME HAT—DIFFERENT SHAPE.
I ■
THIS is an illustration of the
A same hat we showed you in
last week’s issue, with the crown
up.
It gives you an entirely dif-
ferent shape of hat—creased.
It is the newest, and can be
altered about in many shapes
like a Panama. Is n6glig6 and
most comfortable.
It is made of genuine Fur that
will give long wear, and its colors
are Medium Grey, Light Fawn
and Dark Fawn. Brims are
3J inches wide.
Price 12/6,
Postage 9d. Extra.
PE APES & CO. LTD., Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“ Melb.” : I referred to the largest wooden
ship in the world (the Shenandoah) as being at
this port. Bent negotiates about buying it, as a
training-ship, a la the Sobraon, in Sydney Har-
bor. Arriving here on its melancholy voyage
from Baltimore to San Francisco, the skipper
wired home as to what he should do with his
enormous cargo of coal. “ Sell it ’ came back.
So it was turned out upon the Port Melbourne
pier. Carrying coals from America to Australia !
I have just been down admiring this fine old tub.
It sits like a drake on the water—the stamp of
our yoretime Donald M‘Kay, James Baines,
Lightning, Marco Polo, Red Jacket, Rangatakei,
and Sovereign of the Seas. How they were built
into Australian homes! What A. B. crews they
had ! And now the Shenandoah tumbles in
here helplessly.
* * * *
Some remarks made by the Welsh Uni-
versity students at Bangor to Ed. Rex, last
month :
Hip hip hurrah ! Hip hip hurrah ! Hip hip hurrah !
Bravo ! Bravissimo ! Siss Boomdra ! Siss Boomdra ! Siss
Boomdra !
SSiberaboo ! SSiberaboo ! Hullabaloo ! Yah !
College boys ! Bangor boys ! Yah! Yah! Yah!
These disturbances, shouts and rows constitute
the “official cheer” of the young men who
acquire learning, but no sense of humor, in the
land of Griffith Griffiths, and Owen Owens, and
Evan Evans, and David ap Llewellyn ; and a
menagerie could make as good a noise as that.
Governor-General Northcote had the time
of his life in Westralia. There he met the hairy
white aborigine in all his ’possum-skin, and
Northcote, a jaded person, accustomed to the
meretricious glitter of an effete and artificial
oivilisation, found things too much for him. The
fresh, uncouth and bearlike breeziness of circum-
stances blew him over. He stood severe shocks
at Geraldton, and he was bumped at Day Dawn,
but it wasn’t till he reached Cue that the off-hand
ways of the sunset land made him feel that the
vast orb of his fate had got him down and bitten
him. Nothing really terrible happened at Day
Dawn. The Mayor funked at reading the
address, and the job was passed on to an ex-
Mayor, and the ex-Mayor, aided by some friends,
was rehearsing the address at home in disha-
bille when the vice-regal train came in.
The ex-Mayor ran his hardest to the sta-
tion, with the address in one hand and
certain official clothes in the other, but when
he arrived there in a great perspiration, he
couldn’t struggle through the crowd. But at
Cue the Mayor rushed blindly on destruction.
In the midst of the banquet and the revelry in
the overcrowded hall, he rose and called on the
Governor-General for a song. Probably no
Governor-General was ever asked to warble to a
mixed company before, and the invitation was
frigidly declined. The State Governor also
refused to sing. In fact the two Governors rose
and retired in some disorder, like the Scotch
army at Solway Moss, and, as no one thought of
getting them a vehicle, they tramped to the
train in the darkness, a policeman showing them
the way. There was trouble also about a con-
fused official Junch at which hardly anybody
turned up, and about a speaker who frankly told
the Governor-General that the Government wasn’t
worth a hang, and about many other things.
But the general feeling seems to be that if his
Excellency had got off his frozen dignity and
sung “Tommy, make room for your Uncle” at
Cue, things would have gone much better than
they did.
THE ELEMENTS.
WAITER (urbanely): “Looks like rain, sir!”
CUSTOMER (regarding the soup): “My oath, it
does; tastes like it, too!”
“The other cat” is an epithet usually
occasioned by the suspicion that there is a peri-
patetic and erring Tom on the back fence.
“Martin Luther ” discourses :
The Navigation Boards of Australia, once composed of
old men who had been to sea in sail 30 years after Nelson,
but never in steam at anytime, are very slowly becoming
modernised into usefulness. The Boards of Melbourne,
Sydney, and Brisbane are even threatening to know
something of modern navigation ; yet the man in sail and
the man in steam still greatly misunderstand each other.
Of the many thousands of youngsters who go to sea,
probably not 30 per cent, remain sailormen. The others,
quickly disillusionised of marine romance, take to long-
shore work after a voyage or two. These are the failures
of the game—the least adventurous of the recruits. For
ever after they' stay ashore, and years gild the lifnejuicer
they sailed in, and the modern steamer by contrast shows
up so badly in the way of romance that they talk only of
the delight of sail, and the unsailorlinessof steam. Occa-
sionally there is a gathering of old hands wherein the
steamship sailor is forgiven his steamer if he began in
steam, and consequently knows no better.
The other day a repast of ancient mariners was served
in North Queensland, held, according to the menu, “at
two hells in the second dogge watch, Lat. 27° 32'5.,
Bong. 153° 1' E., ye tide at ye fulle, ye weather moderate,
yelanterne hung outte.” The food included, “Souppe
de Blackwall pea, turkey buzzard le main hatch hen-
coop, club-hauled apples, cheese de jumper, Liverpool
pantiles, liquids as necessary, sufficient without waste.”
Fourteen ancient mariners attended, and a good half of
them had left the sea, and nearly all of them w'ho were
become landsmen sighed for the days of sail. For that is
the way of a man, to thirst for the water he drank last
year ; to stubbornly uphold the old against the con-
quering new.
* * *
“Melbourne,” about two notable hotels: —
Menzies' and Scott’s have just issued elegant souvenirs
in a literary way, with copious photos. Mr. and Mrs.
Menzies, sen., came from Liverpool in 1852 by the
Cleopatra, which narrowly escaped being burnt on the
voyage. They' established Menzies’ Hotel in Latrobe-
street, where it became the fashion. A removal was
made to the present site, corner of Bourke and William
streets, bought by Menzies in 1867. A sum of £32,000
was spent in improvements and additions to the present
building. David Mitchell, Melba’s father, was contractor.
The site had been originally bought by Wedge, Batman’s
surveyor, in 1837, for £67. Mrs. Menzies, sen., who sur-
vives, has abundant recollections of distinguished
guests, who included Mathews, G. A. Sala, Twain,
Barry Sullivan, Toole, Leslie, Nellie Farren, Bouci-
cault, Wilson Barrett, Paderewski, and so on.
Scott’s biggest names include Froude, Trollope, Max
O’Rell, Kipling, Boldrewood, and Mark Twain. Twain ap-
pears to have wandered round among hotels; perhaps
having told all his jokes at one hostelry, he went to
relate them at the other caravanserai. Scott was
originally host of the Port Phillip Club Hotel, the great
squatting resort, in rivalry with the Prince of Wales,
Flinders Lane, now dead and gone. In 1860 Scott moved
to the Clarendon, a small inn on the site of the present
hostelry. The souvenir says that “Scott had a dis-
tinguished air and dignity which imparted a tone of
aristocratic superiority.” Lady Don made his high-class
board-and-lodgery her home (and Wybert Reeve said she
died in a Scotch workhouse). Walter Montgomery
stayed there, and so did Chief Justice Higinbotham.
“The memory of his courtly bearing and chivalrous
nature will always remain a tradition of Scott’s.” Also
“ Adam Lindsay Gordon was a familar figure at Scott’s,
accompanied sometimes by his kindred spirit Kendall.”
Further, the souvenirist alleges that “Marcus Clarke
would look in for a B. and S.” Litterateurs nowadays
think they do best on a bun and seltzogene. Further,
“Chief Justice Madden shed the light of his cheerful
countenance on Scott’s in those early days.” Scott’s
souvenir makes one feel quite mournful. Yet the author
braces up with—“ Many a station property has changed
hands beneath the fronds of the ferns under the glass-
roofed vestibule. Wool season prophecies have been
swapped there between Australia’s best experts.” Let us
get away from the dismal poets to the washed and greasy
men. “There has been many a meeting at Scott’s of
ancient mariners,” adds the souvenir. Yes, very ancient
were some of those mariners, and their knowledge of the
sea serpent was illimitable. Scott died in 1880, when the
house was taken over by the owner, W. C. VVilson. The
2f years of his management added to the prestige. Scott’s
needs extension. They are going to build at the back,
right into William-street.
* * * *
Archdeacon Hindley, of Melbourne,
laments that in the last Vic. census returns 2454
people wrote themselves down as of no religion.
“But,” cries the good prelate, with a sort of
exultation, “what sort of people are they?
During 1906 no fewer than 355 arrested per-
sons stated they were of no religion. If the
rest of the people were proportionately law-
less, the whole of the revenue of the State
would be required to keep up penal estab-
lishments.” This might be conclusive were
it not for the notorious fact that a great
many arrested persons set themselves down
as of no religion in order not to bring dis-
credit upon their creeds, whereas in the
census thousands of careless souls, who have
no more religion than a turnip, set them-
selves down as belonging to the denomina-
tion in which they were born and bred, be-
cause they don’t think it worth while to deny
on paper what in real life they never go to
the trouble to affirm. There were 423,914
alleged Anglicans in Victoria at last census,
and if they all put 6d. in the plate at each
Sunday service the contents of the Anglican
receptacle would be £21,195 14s. per week.
But the contents are nothing dimly resem-
bling that. This is quite as remarkable a
calculation as the Archdeacon’s.
* * * ♦
“U.”: Melbourne’s Deadly Sunday
Afternoon snufflers are right out of it in
congratulating themselves that Lonsdale-
street has been thoroughly purified of its
collective Flossie. Phryne and Lais may not
live in that street nowadays, but they still
make journeys to it from their residences in
other streets not far distant. After all the
labor expended in sweeping them out of
“ Lon,” they simply blow back to it whenever
they think it likely that some kind friend has not
received due intimation of change of address.
* « * *
“ Snell ” : It was a pleasant Sunday after-
noon at a Melbourne seaside suburb. The people
were out in all their “ pretties,” revelling in the
winter sunshine, and the sea sands were crowded.
Five athletic-looking young men, riding abreast
on bicycles, swept down the hill at an illegal pace,
drew up smartly before the hotel, stacked their
bicycles with military expedition, and then
dashed at the pub. Two attacked the doors,
three swarmed over the fences. There was an
almost instantaneous awakening of public interest.
People came scurrying from all directions, and
formed in a long line on the opposite path, watch-
ing the show. Presently the five athletic young
men returned, two via the doors, one through a
window, the other two over the fence. They
looked depressed, and, mounting their bicycles
again, rode away. The raid had been a failure.
The “flying gang” had found only one man
drinking in the pub, and he was the local police-
man, and anyhow he had an alibi. This is becom-
ing a common sight round Melbourne on Sundays,
and is almost as exciting to the citizens as those
farm-raiding expeditions might have been to the
Boers in the old war days.
*■ • • •
Since Adam delved and poor Eve span,
Since first the human race began,
Mankind has suffered countless ills,
But suffered most from coughs and chills.
Foundations they for all disease,
But now the hacking cough must cease,
For science now makes all secure
With W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ J.A.C.” : The metric system is a very-
simple affair, after all. In his opening address,
delivered about six weeks ago, to the annual
meeting of the British Association, the president
said that the standard of measurement, one
metre, “ might be scientifically described as that
of a piece of metal whose length at 0 degree C.”
(that is, freezing point) “ at the epoch A.D. 1906 ”
(carefully observe the date, the measurement
apparently fluctuates, as does a ton of coals),
“ was equal to 1,553,164 times the wave length of
the red line of the spectrum of cadmium when the
latter is observed in dry air at the temperature of
15 degrees C. of the normal hydrogen scale at a
pressure of 760 millimetres of mercury at 0 degree
C.” That’s all, but it has taken a great weight
off my mind.
* * * *
The battle that certain Sydney rag im-
porters are having with two Jews named Myerson
has advanced a stage further. The importers
state that the Myersons obtained from them large
quantities of goods on three months’ credit, a,nd
immediately disposed of the same by public auction
for cash ; further, that they did not advertise
the sale as their own but “ under instructions by
cable from the Bank,” which was a vague way of
putting things. The sale is said to have realised
£5OOO, and the merchants are further annoyed
because they haven’t found the £5OOO. So
they petitioned the Court and asked that the
Myersons should be shoved into compul-
sory bankruptcy. The Myersons are putting
up a robust and rousing fight. They began by
appealing against the bankruptcy proceedings on
the ground that if there was anything wrong
about the auction business, then the buyers of the
goods were accessories, and it was impossible for
any law to be good law which would put a
whole stack of innocent and honorable Gentiles in
so painful a position. Justice Street, however,
decided to let the heap of Gentiles take their
chance, and the proceedings moved on a stage.
“Maori Mac ” : Wanganui (M.L.) has in-
dulged in a long-drawn-out razzle since Webb won
the championship of the sculling world, and
Wanganui is not large enough to stand a pro-
longed jag. At present it suffers from Webbicitis
and enlarged cranium and bad beer, and is a cause
of mirth to other places which don’t own a
champion sculler. Wanganui wished to give its
rowing man a house and section of land, and
deputed its Mayor to take round the inverted bell-
topper. That personage wrote to some 400 other
mayors asking them to open subscription lists in
their respective villages, and then retired to bed,
inkstained but happy. Next day the replies—
heavily sarcastic when not grossly insulting—
began to come in, and Wanganui was staggered.
After 399 specimens of borough councillor
wit had arrived, the Mayor thought the
deluge over, and slowly regained his self-respect.
One week later the Mayor of Taumauiruatanui
sent his answer. He pointed out that Wanganui
would be the only place to benefit by Webb’s
victory ; he mentioned that his ratepayers wanted
all their spare coin to erect a lamp post to the
memory of sundry citizens who had been bogged
in the main street; he casually asked who was
Webb, and whether Towns was a racehorse, a
motor car, or a new game; and he requested
Wanganui’s first magistrate to lend him a fiver
to carry on the huge drainage scheme which he
was endeavoring to complete. He omitted to ask
where Wanganui was, and whether its Mayor
was an Earl, a volcano, or merely a circumstance,
but he doubtless was worrying about the finances
of Taumauiruatanui and may be forgiven.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
DIYLLUSIONMENT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/TOLD her tales of daring deed ;
Heroic breastings of the bar,
And hinted that my usual speed
Was swifter than a falling star.
She harked with sympathetic ear
To yarns of lawless lores I'd lost ;
Myself I pictured unto her
A soul of passion, tempest-tost.
I sighed for some safe anchorage,
As refuge from my certain wreck ;
Some guiding star whose glimmer sage
The wildness of my course would check ;
And she, with tenderness most sweet,
Consented to be all these things —
A light to guide my erring feet,
A star, a port, an angel's wings.
N.S.W.
A model husband I became,
But she possessed a jealous tongue,
Which ghosts of my invented fame
In envious wrangle at me flung ;
The wraiths of girls I never knew
Were dug up by my angry bride,
Until at last she drove me to
Inform her briefly I had lied.
“Oh, wretched man!” she shrieked in grief,
And gasped for breath and shrieked once more;
Whilst I, like a discovered thief,
Sneaked gently, sideways, to the door ;
“ Deceiver, lying wretch and small!
(Oh, that my tongue was trained to svjear !)
Brute ! Villain ! Now I see it all —
You ARE NOT BAD, AND NEVER WERE !”
HAMER.


THE CHILDREN’S NO-LICENSE DEMONSTRATION LaST SATURDAY.
The effects, as will be seen by a glance at the
background, were instantaneous.
A new terror for mere man. Female
canvassers at the polls. Hospital
Saturday was a picnic compared to this.
Awaiting the breaking up
of the drought on election
day.
7 nrtiiu, saving
to work on Tuesday
took timely
precautions against
drought. ' --
Mr. Carruthers in his candidature
pinned his faith to wire-netting and
tears for the wrongs of the Ma State.
Is the young
man hastening to
the polls to fulfil
the obligations of
citizenship?
stsrjr — *
No ; he is hastening to catch the
quarter-past-one boat to pass a
’appy ’aif ’oliday on the ’Arbor with
his donab.
Broody Hen : “ Now that these pesky
elections are over, I trust that I
shall be allowed to bring ,up a
family, as any decent fowl should.
•• Yes, George, I did vote. I voted
for No-License, and—after you with
the decanter, dear—l’m quite done up.”
The publicans have threatened to get up a counterblast to
the recent children’s ‘'No-License” demonstration.
THE LATE STATE ELECTIONS.-A BACKWARD LOOK.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell s Limited, Agents.
David vStorer (Si Sons'
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<a BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
■SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ David H. Richards ” : A fearsome sight
is the Australian aborigine wrestling with a great
grief. A nigger arrives in camp, say, with intel-
ligence of the decease of a countryman. The
females of the tribe immediately set up a howl
like the sound the damned soul emitted before the
advent of Campbell’s New Theology. Anon, this
subsides into a dismal chant or death song, after
which the nigs hurl themselves upon the sphere
with much vigor and simulated anguish. Also,
occasionally, one mourner drops on top of another
rowdy bemoaner, when they bash, bang, and kick
one another with ferocity and aboriginal swearage.
This continues for about an hour. The male of
the tribe squats beside a small fire, banging the
ground with a stick or his fist, his head hanging
like that of a shamed caterpillar. When the in-
telligence reaches the camp early in the day, a
preliminary “mourning” is enacted—the “big
feller cry ” not commencing till nightfall. When
it has at length ended, another nigger, ignorant
of what has occurred, may arrive with the same
sorrowful tidings. Then the weird performance,
with all its features, has to be re-enacted—the
“small feller cry” and the “ big feller cry,” and
the whole ludicrous lot.
IN TOPHET.
OASKUS : “ It’s awful What’s he done to
deserve it? ”
IWATCHUS: “He invented them.”
“ San Remo ” : “ Jimmie Pannikin ”
(B. 15/8/’07) asks if any consistent borrower
of The Bulletin can tell him why out-back
parrots take so kindly to meat. My Bulletin
costs me sixpence ; still, I can tell him.
Every bird, from the tiny wren to the thump-
ing emu, doats, on beef. Let “James Dish”
try some finely-chopped meat on his pet
canary, and hear him say “ Thank you.” It’s
nature’s grand endorsement of the mixed diet.
“How do birds get a taste for meat?” How
does the donkey get a taste for thistles!
“Do parrots ever eat flesh when enjoying their
natural freedom ? ” Great snakes! What are
slugs, caterpillars, beetles, and sundry other in-
sects but meat? Also observe that the common
or barn-door fowl will seize meat before all
other foods ; in fact, I have noticed that meat is
the only food which can make the boss rooster
forget that he’s a man and a gentleman, but only
when he’s very hungry.
* ' # * *
You often sing of England,
And of Ireland, too, and Wales,
And the “ Braes of Bonnie Scotland,”
With her stirring Border-Tales ;
But don’t forget Australia
(No other skies are bluer),
And its famous household remedy—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“Qu;mN.S
Wales State school
teachers have to
wrestle with many
difficulties in con-
nection with the
New Syllabus.
(I hope “Jimmie
Pannikin” won’t
read this, because,
if he does, it’s
sure to make h m
break out again).
But a teacher I
know has had a
trouble that is
just about the
“limit.” He’s
in a small country
school, and his
salary £BB a
year—doesn’t run
to thermometers,
barometers, rain-
gauges, etc., that
ought to be, but
are not, provided
by the Depart-
ment. His in-
spector, never-
theless, insists
upon a rain-
gauge, so my
friend produced a
home-made affair.
He used to catch
the rain in an
empty coffee-tin,
and measure it in
a pickle - bottle,
which he had
laboriously mark-
ed off into inches
and points. He
lost his bottle the
other afternoon.
He left it on the
school verandah,
and shortly after
he had gone home,
some and is tance
away, the local
bottle-oh prigged
it. “Schoolie”
is now engaged
in graduatingan-
other bottle, and has the coffee-tin chained to
the school to prevent further loss. Mean-
while, the local rainfall is not being re-
corded ; but when the new pickle-bottle is ready,
and my friend empties the moisture that is
accumulating* m the tin, he’ll report a good down-
pour I hen the Governmentt Meteorologist will
tell the papers next day that very patchy rains
have been reported from the West, and that
oydney may get the tail of them in about 24 hours.
* ■* * *
Charters Towers, the Queensland goldfield
which isn’t feeling very well, thank you, has got
an idea that cotton may help to keep the billy
boiling. Four miles out of the town, where for
the present they have squeezed even the tailings
dumps dry there is a cotton plantation which
is big and thriving enough to prove that
the plant grows well thereabouts; but still
there is a vast deal to do before the thing
becomes a business that will feed a
family. They have to find out what
particular cotton plant it is that
Charters Towers ought to grow ;
also ginning machinery is needed,
and a market has to be arranged
f° r - In the ordinary course a
syndicate would be formed to
put up a few pounds in the hope
of squeezing out a few hundreds
later on; but Charters Towers
has, instead, formed an associa-
tion, and is putting up its crowns
and half-sovereigns without any
promise of dividends looming in
the background; and Premier
Kidston is smiling on the scheme,
and putting Howard Newport,
the North Queensland tropical
agriculture expert, at the dis-
posal of the society. Other
Queensland towns also think they
smell a revival of cotton-growing
in the neighborhood, and are
breaking out into the same desir-
able sort of society ; Rockhampton,
for instance, the other day put its
hand into its pocket, and with a
speed that almost surprised itself, pro-
duced enough coin to provide a small local
gin—not the kind that is kept in a bottle, nor
black brother Bill’s missus, but the primitive
little machine that tears the lint from the cotton
seed.
* • * *
“D.”: Met an old South Sea whaler
yesterday who remembers Australia as a place
where sea-weary ships used to careen, and he told
me how the crews held rat-Sundayson the eastern
and northern coasts. A number of planks were
laid from ship to beach, he said, and the crew
scattered below banging and rattling pots and
kettles until the frightened rodents streamed
ashore in hundreds. The blubber-fed rat is like
unto no other that goes down to the sea in ships.
Squeeze him, and he drips oil like a sponge.
“I’ve put rats ashore at Port Darwin,” said the
whaler man, “ big as ’possums—South Pole rats
what ’ad fed on whale-beef for a couple o’ years.
Yes,” he added, sorrowfully, “Ostralia ought
to ’ave some fine rats by this.”
* * * *
Before we can sympathise with others we
must have suffered ourselves. No one can realise
the suffering attendant on an attack of influenza
unless he has had the actual experience. There
is probably no disease that causes so much
physical and mental agony, or which so success-
fully defies medical aid. All danger from in-
fluenza, however, may be avoided by the prompt
use of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. The pain
in the chest disappears, the fever subsides, and
the whole body becomes more comfortable. Many
persons find themselves affected with a persistent
cough after an attack of influenza. As this cough
can be promptly cured by the use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, it should not be allowed to run
on until it becomes troublesome. Among the tens
of thousands who have used this remedy, not one
case has ever been reported that has resulted in
pneumonia, or that has not recovered.*
THE WHITE KINS SCORN.
WHITE KID: “ Your father's a Chow.”
YELLOW KID: “ 'E ain't; 'e’s a miner."
“ Yarrum ” : There are a few much-
travelled men in the Illawarra (N.S.W.) district.
T’other day came upon a 63-year-old hermit on
Saddleback. He had never been further from
home than Kiama, six miles away, and he had
only been there “onct.” Hadn’t never thought
of goin’ to Sydney, as he didn’t consider it safe.
Bill, a married son on the next farm, had been to
Sydney when Butler was roaming around ; and a
fellow, wearing a cap and a broken nose, wanted
him to go prospecting to a “ place called the Blue
Mountains.” Bill hasn’t “troubled the city
since.” The old fellow reckons Sydney must be
“ more’n ten times as big as Kiama by this.”
* * * *
The N.S.W, Premier promises to place
£100 on next Estimates for the destruction of
cormorants. But it will require very much
more than £100 to disturb the wily, hungry
fisher to any great extent. At 6d. a head for |
black and 3d. for white-bellied (the rewards 1
suggested), the £100 might be absorbed in
Centennial Park (Sydney) in a day or so, if
the birds would only stand reasonably still.
There are enough of them, anyhow.
The sort of menu that the back-blocker
is fed on ! A report was made to the Broken
Hill municipal council the other day that of
every 100 cattle passing into Western N. S.
Wales from Queensland, 12 were tuberculous
or otherwise diseased. Nothing like this
proportion reaches the big cities; the suspected
beasts are “cut out ” for sale along the road
where there either isn’t any inspection at
all or none worth mentioning. Sometimes
where there is inspection it is made by the
same sort of local authority as lately
boasted in Victoria that he had been eating
diseased meat for 30 years and rather preferred
it like that.
* * * *
“ Whaffor ” sends a note that is interesting
chiefly because of the casual way in which it
mentions mails that run once in three months
or so :
A useless mail is that running per s.s. Wai-Hoi every
three months from Port Darwin to Borooloola. It costs
the Government £l2OO, and carries little or no mail, as
the inhabitants of the plains get their mail from Camoo-
weal every fortnight. For direct communication with
Darwin, a mail was carried from the Katherine River to
Powell Creek, thence to Anthony’s Lagoon; but a retrench-
ing Government has cut off the 150 miles to the Lagoon ;
likewise the £lOO a year. This mail runs every six weeks.
The inhabitants of these regions all pronounce the
quarterly Wai-Hoi mail to be useless and waste of money.
Somebody/however, pulls the strings. The people who
run the steamer also run the Borooloola pub and store,
and it wmuld be awkward for the pub and store if there
wasn’t a boat service.
Even so, The Bulletin hasn’t the heart to kick
Borooloola very hard. Australia helps the Sydney
calico-importer with vast sums spent nominally as
ocean mail subsidies ; and the man who keeps the
pub and store at Borooloola, and the people who
deal at the pub and store, better deserve a lift out
of Australia’s pocket than the Sydney calico-
importer does.
“ The Vagrant ” : Apropos the aged beer-
swiller and his tricks, a champion herewith from
Otago (M.L.). My entrant lives in a pub, and
has a little money—just enough to pay his board
and infrequent washing. Having lived in the
same place for long, he monopolises a corner seat,
wherein he is always to be seen during the hours
of license, and consequently casual as well as
frequent visitors are accustomed to his hoary
head. Those who know not his guileful ways are
liable to say cheerily to him, “ Good day,” or eke
“ Good day, old man ; how’s things? ” Forthwith
the oldster (one of whose poses is that he is very
deaf) will rise, move slowly to the bar, and in a
thin falsetto voice reply —“Well, it will have to
be a small one, then.” And thereafter, without
emotion, he drains a free and foaming beaker to
his victim. This device has never been known to
fail, and its inventor, by virtue of it, is sliding
rapidly adown the hop-scented path that leads to
the beer-shifter’s tomb.
* » « *
“ D.” has a dreadful adventure :
I had a confession of murder made to me recently, and
the' incident has stuck in my memory. I was newly
arrived at a tiny South Coast (N.S.W.) fishing hamlet,
where I’d hired a cottage for a few weeks. It was 8 p.m.,
and I was alone.
A: knock came. I let in a dishevelled little man who
asked brokenly for brandy. lie drank it, sat down, and
swept a bony hand miserably athwart his brow. “ Can
I trust yer?” he asked. I said, “No”; he could not.
He remained unabashed. “If yer knew ’oo I was,” he
said drearily, “ yer might speak less ’arsh—or possibly
more so. ” I didn’t answer ; whereupon in a sudden
burst: “ What is the use of further concealment! ”he de-
manded with passion. “ This yer continual silence is un-
nerving me. I will trust yer because of yer face ; the
fact is I’m a criminal.”
Now, for the first time I observed the evil look about
the man’s weak, be-speetacled eyes; also that his head
was shaped much like that of the boy Quinlan. My start
seemed to cheer him. “ ’Ave yer,” he continued, more
brightly, “’eard about the Smith murder in Melbourne?”
I had ; everybody had. “ I done it,” he announced,
grimly tapping his narrow chest. As I rose agitatedly,
“’Ear me,” he urged, raising his right hand with a cer-
tain dignity. “Fust’ear me. This yer Smith sedooced
me daughter ; he ruined me ’ome, and brought shame
upon me gentle wife. Would any man as was a man have
done other than what I did? ”
“ Why,” I broke in, “you robbed him, you infernal
blackguard! ”
He seemed non-plussed at this, and vaguely muttered
something about “damages.”
Suddenly from without came a woman’s voice of steam
syren quality, crying the name “’Erbert.” the assassin
paled. “ Don’t let her in,” he said. Keeping an eye on
his pistol-hand I edged towards the door. It was flung
open before I reached it. “So there yep sit, me beauty,”
instantly began the large virago who now entered.
“Nigh an hour ago I send yer to borrow a drop of kero-
sene, and here I find yer yet; lyin’, I make no doubt, fer
the liquor, yer human sink.”
Within about seven seconds husband and wife were
finishing- their chat on the road outside. I now class
self-confessed murderers with Deform canvassers as un-
desirables, and people to be kept out of the home at all
hazards.
THE DISADVANTAGE OF AN ANTE
MORTEM DIVISION OF PROPERTY,
DOCTOR: “I’m glad to say your husband has
taken a turn for the better. There is now a
good chatter: of his recovering,”
WOMAN : " What ever shall I dot I've out
down his pants for little Bitty."
‘ ‘ Mario ” : Have any of your readers
noticed horses digging for roots—not through
hunger, mind, but as a matter of pure epicure-
anism. Watched two sleek heavy draughts this
afternoon industriously scraping away in an adja-
cent paddock, and at last went to investigate.
They were removing clover and coarse grass, and
unearthing white, sweet-tasting couch roots. The
whole place looked as if pigs had been running in
it. The old chestnut, who seemed the chief pro-
moter of the mining venture, had a trench sft.
long and nearly a foot deep—-but he was on gold
all the time. There was no dirt-eating business
about it either.
THE OLD GREY HILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back in the hills where the tangled reeds are bending,
Gray swamp and gleam of river foam,
Back where the blue range Stretches out unending,
Where the mountain eagles roam,
On such a day of days amid the tangled heather
By the swirl of the silver rills, ,
Oh, to be once more, in the sweet October weather,
In the heart of the old gray hills.
Well I know the maiden-hair and lady-fern are biding
In soft green nooks in the moss,
And I know the yellow sunbeams in the wattle web are
hiding
In a shadow and shine criss-cross,
And on the tender blue of a heaven washed by rain
In a sacred calm that thrills,
In the sunlight’s golden shine I’d be wandering once again
In the heart of the old gray hills.
Can’t you see the radiance, see the red gums tossing,
In the pleasant western breeze ?
Can’t you see the ripples at the river crossing,
Hear the wind in the she-oak trees?
Can’t you smell the clover and the sweet white heather,
Hear the paean that the bush bird trills ?
Can’t you dream again that we are there together,
In the heart of the old gray hills ?
vie.
KATHLEEN WALRER.


A Silver
Lyne-ing...
to every cloud—’tis true, but not as the result
of Sir William’s extortionate tariff.
For the next six months trade will be par- ■ ■
tially paralysed. Builders won’t build —Coachbuilders will discharge hands —
Retailers will reduce expenses—because the tariff may be altered.
The silver lining to the cloud is shown in our not altering our prices
(except where we pay increased duty). Our enormous stock will carry us for
months. We were large manufacturers under Freetrade, and the present tariff was unnecessary and foolish.
1£ inches long, 15ct. gold,
set with Choice Whole
Pearls, 21/- each.
15ct. Gold, set with Choice
Whole Pearls or Opals,
21/-.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ttoold ?„‘ s J ;r"'' yH ““ 23 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures Cash. 1
“F.H.R.” : Be sea-shells. There is a
plateau of about a thousand acres, known as the
Boyd Wall, situated at the back of Jenolan Caves
(N.S.W.), and as high as most of the surrounding
peaks. In water-worn hollows in this mass of
sandstone there are tons of water-worn stones and
shells. It is the general belief that the sea
covered that part once—not that the sea ever rose
to such a height, but the land must have won a
sweep or something, and so suddenly risen to
affluence. This plateau is shaped like an insect,
the two ends joined by a very narrow neck. I
rode over the neck once, and I shan’t do it twice.
Either side you can’t see anything worth falling
on ; the bottom of the gorge is invisible. There
is a waterfall, and there was a dancing saloon in
that wild spot. My mate did a step to the notes
of my brass whistle, and a curious old-man
wallaroo came bounding up, and seemed to be
very much interested. How that whistle did
echo through those mountains !
• * * *
“ Cict ” sends news of another pest:—
Around southern Biverina the cooky dilates on the
general cussedness of a disrespected person named Pat-
terson, who, with a bag and forethought, introduced the
seed of the purple weed now known as Patterson’s Curse.
This was something under a score of years back. Pat-
terson had a weakness for his Curse, and so had other
people ; as recently as a few years ago numbers of the
wheat-growers, who had been specially favored by
Patterson with a few Curse seeds, were diligently
nursing the thing along with their other hothouse pets.
Being thoroughly acclimatised now, the Patterson Curse
requires no heated apartments. It returns its former
patrons several hundred-fold, and in spring it
streams in a purple torrent along the lanes, and works
its passage into the wheat crops and grazing plots.
The Curse grows about 2ft. high, and adds to the beauty
of the landscape, and if it impoverishes the soil it enriches
the farmer’s vocabulary. Cattle won’t eat it, but the
farmers would gladly eat Patterson. The vegetable is
steadily shoving the cowfeed over the edge just as the
cow-owners would gladly shove Patterson if there was a
1000 ft. drop waiting for him ; and when it waves pic-
turesquely' in the wind it sets people thinking how
Patterson would wave if he were hanging at a suitable
elevation.
* # * »
“ Judex ” : The men who pass most of their
lives in Central Australia must be prepared for
emergencies, or they pass out. “Brumby” Karney,
making across from the overland telegraph line to
East Kimberley (Westralia), had bad luck from
the start, but he pulled through by a margin
about as thick as the edge of a hair. Four days
out the packhorse went lame, and had to be aban-
doned. On the seventh day the blackboy’s hack
devoured something fatal, and handed in its per-
manent resignation. About the fourteenth day
“Brumby’s” horse gave up the argument for want
of grass and water, and went to drink out of the
Jasper waterhole. Then tucker ran short, and
“Brumby” and his nigger put in four days walk-
ing, with only 1J gallon of water and nothing to
eat worth mentioning. They were at the point of
perishing, when they came to a creek with a fine
permanent waterhole, in which were to be seen
plenty of fish. “Brumby” had a short line and
some hooks in his hat, but a close search for half
an hour failed to show anything to put on the
hook. Then a great idea came to “ Brumby,”
and he cut off his corn and used it for bait. He
caught a fish, which became bait in its turn, and,
after that, business was good.. The two loafed
away four days, catching, eating, and smoking
fish. When they got to Durack’s, a fortnight
later, both “Brumby” and the nigger were in
good condition, and they had 31b. of smoked fish
left to prove the truth of this story.
A MISPLACED JEST.
MENDICANT ( whose appeal for a shilling has been
ignored); “ Yah, fat man!”
“Sr” writes in a state of incoherence,
which suggests beer: —
Hi! matey ! yer might stretch er point ’n’ print this
ere yarn. I went without me tucker larst week ter see
ef y’ had printed t’other yarn I sent yer about er bloke
as bashed his missis ; ’n’ besides being blanky hungry, I
was more blankier disserpointed. Print this, willyer?
I’ll do yer a good turn sumday.
Me mate ’n’ me struck er bloke t’other night cuddlin’
er barrel in er back lane. As soon as he sighted us he
took of his coat, put up his props, fell over ther barrel,
squirmed upright agen, and said ter us, “Leave thish
(hie) barrel alone (hie). I foundsh first (hie). It’s
allsh mine.” And he cuddled ther barrel tighter.
Blime ! Laugh ! Et wuz only er dust barrel es some
party ’ad left out fer the dustman.
Eh, print this, willyer ? Don’t be a blanky nark all yer
life.
* * * *
There is a good old saying to the effect that
“ the proof of the pudding is in the eating.” In
other words “you cannot tell till you try.” If
you have a cough or any form of lung trouble
you really ought to try Angier’s Emulsion. Send
4d. postage for a free sample bottle and mention
The Bulletin. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.*
THE LIE SPREADS.
AH HON: “ You buyem cabbagee—one chillon?"
MRS. HARDUP: “ Get out ! You sellem fourpence last week."
AH. HON: “ Wha" for you no leadem newspaper? You no savee talliff! Georgie Leid — he
puttem up plice! Wha' for?”
“Jimmie Pannikin ”: One of the queerest
of my experiences was my first ride on a camel.
I mounted him at Wilcannia so that I could be
specially photographed, for the benefit of relatives
and friends. The ungainly beast creaked at every
joint, as it rose rapidly into the air on the instal-
ment plan, a fathom or two at a time. When the
camel had finished rising, I seemed to be in danger
of knocking a hole in the brilliant blue sky with
my head. “Don’t looked so scared,” said the
photographer, when he was ready to squeeze
the funny-looking little bulb
that hung in front of his
camera. I was looking
exactly as I felt; but I
tried to look otherwise. I
dissembled and assumed the
cloak of hypocrisy. And so
I was “ took.” Abdul Soog-
hee Bhagg, the driver, sug-
gested that I should go for
a little ride across the salt-
bush plain. I agreed. Ab-
dul said something in a
strange tongue, and the
beast started to walk, stag-
ger, rush, amble, trot,
bounce, canter, sprawl, and
gallop in a curious combina-
tion of gaits; likewise he
pranced, leaped, shambled,
and threw himself around.
1 hung on for dear life,
trying to guide the beast
back to the camel camp,
but his neck worked on a
pivot. When I slewed his
head round to the right,
he went to the left, and
vice versa. Becoming an-
noyed and alarmed, I pulled
and tugged and sawed
viciously, until the irritated
ship of the desert bolted.
It was an awful ride. I felt
as if I must surely be shaken
to pieces. The jolting and
jarring and side-stepping
were uncanny. I seemed to
be riding six or seven animals
with entirely dissimilar
methods of locomotion, some
going uphill, some going
downhill, some going round
and round. We must have
travelled for hours and hours
—horrible, haunting hours.
At last the red horizon stood
out just ahead of us. I shut
my eyes and waited for the crash, which would
send tnan and beast over The Edge, hurtling
through space. Presently there was a shock and
a shiver. I opened my eyes. The camel had fallen
off the earth, and I was hanging on to the horizon
with both hands, my feet dangling over The Edge
in space. Thus Coolibah Charlie found me ; and
we sneaked back to Wilcannia, dodging the camel
camp on our way. I shouldn’t be surprised if
Abdul’s missing camel is part of the new comet.
* * * *
The names of the streets in the middle
part of Broken Hill are all appropriate
to the mining city. They run Slag, Car-
bon, Crystal, Argent, Blende, Beryl, Cobalt,
Wolfram, Mica, Talc, Gypsum, Bismuth,
Graphite, Nickel, Galena, Gossan, Garnet, Kao-
lin, Bromide, Sulphide, Chloride, Oxide, Iodide.
Outside this area the street-naming shows the
usual huge desire of aldermen to perpetuate his
own or somebody else’s signature. It is almost
needless to say that aldermen didn’t have the
naming of the other streets —they got their desig-
nations before the aldermen arrived.
« « * •
Sing- a song of Peppermint,
The cure that’s made by Woods.
For one and sixpence worth of cost,
A sovereign’s worth of good,
When the bottle’s opened,
It’s praise all people sing,
’Tis certain such a sovereign Cure
Would set up any King.*
“Polstan”: Strange that, although you
can hardly get merinos through a, gate, even if
you push the beggars, the crossbred spends all his
time looking for open gates and fence-gaps.
Putting weaners out of the question, there is no
animal nastier to drive than the big crossbred.
When he ought to be going through lanes he is in
the adjoining paddocks all the time, and where the
fence is good he makes a passage somehow. It
isn’t an easy matter to get the perverse brute out
again, though. When he’s on the wrong side of
a fence he’s as scared of it (or pretends to be) as
though it were a green dragon with red stripes.
And when it comes to breaking camp he is at his
best. Now, a merino behaves well, and wouldn’t
dream of going through a fence unless shoved
through by the dogs. I’d rather take on a mob
of pigs than one of healthy, fresh crossbreds. You
can always reason with a pig with the aid of a
cart in the lead and a handful of maize every
few hundred yards, but nothing will appeal, to a
sheep. He’s no gentleman.
“Paul Cupid”: The hay was cut, the
weather was unfavorable, cheap men were scarce,
and Boggs wanted a cheap man who could load
hay. A narrow-chested creature shambled along
—a lean-shanked ex-counter-jumper, carrying his
belongings in a carpet bag. Boggs asked him if he
could load hay. Having seen men at the job as
he came along, he thought no skill was required,
and said promptly that he could. A storm was
brewing, and Boggs was heaving hay up to the
man as if a whirlwind had taken charge of the
hay-cocks. He shouted instructions to “keep it
out,” and “don’t get the middle too full,” and
“ bind yer load well.” The employee didn’t
know what these things meant. All he knew was
that he was nearer Heaven than he had ever been
before, and he was alarmed at the circumstance.
When Boggs’s ill-balanced boy led the horses
on a bit, the man could feel the load shaking
like a blanc-inange. The thunder rattled
again overhead, and a few big drops fell
here and there. Boggs walked round the
load, and prognosticated, with much execra-
tion, that it would come off. The load got higher,
and Boggs got more anxious, and he almost died
of his exertions, heaving fodder up to the wretched
creature. The ill-balanced boy—a sort of Bar-
naby Rudge in his way—grew hopeful of seeing
some fun. A flick of the reins made the shafter
give a jerk, and the load came down with a run,
and interred the laborer. Boggs, frothing like an
angry boar, leaped round the fallen heap, cursing
his employee, and calling loudly on him to come
out and be killed with the pitchfork. The ill-
balanced boy was anxious to see the operation.
He cried out gleefully, “I’ll soon fetch ’im out,
dad,” and before his parent could interfere, he
put a match to the load. To the crackling music
of the conflagration, Boggs pursued the thought-
less butfleetloutthroughthestubbles. Whenhere-
turned there was only aheap of burnt debris. Visions
of the hangman menaced Boggs, and he scraped
about in the ashes for the remains of the ex-counter-
jumper. If he had looked up he would have seen
the remains going at the rate of 19 knots an hour
towards the sunset. And the ill-balanced boy
watched Boggs’s antics from afar, and marvelled.
“Hamer”: If there is one thing more
than another that the Maori is fond of, it is
speech-making. I once visited a IMaori dance as
the guest of the evening ; and after the ill-used
concertina had subsided, the dancers stopped
abruptly for prayers. The prayers consisted of a
rhetorical address to the Creator by an old man,
who seemed to imagine that the Creator was sit-
ting up to listen to his oratory. After he had duly
exhibited his talents, and tired himself—l had been
tired for a long time—the pah resolved itself into
a debating society, and argued in grandiloquent
fashion for two hours whether a greeting of friend-
liness should be sent to a neighboring tribe. After
that, breakfast was announced, but it was only
an excuse for more speeches. Over the pork and
eel (which had been cooked together and didn t
taste nice) various Maori orators talked of the
honor they felt in entertaining the pakeha, and
the interpreter, who had thought it necessary to
explain everything, from the prayers down, inter-
preted my short answers, such as “That’s all
right, old man,” or “Don’t mention it,” into
grandiloquent Maori, and made long speeches on
his own account. And when I asked for a drink,
I was given orange champagne. No wonder,
when the chief called for three cheers for the
pakeha friend, I cheered myself. I felt I needed
cheering. The dance had lasted seven hours, and
the speeches six, and I was 14 miles from home
and silence and bed—blessed bed.
“TIMES IS CHANGED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When first I went upon the track,
In eighteen sixty-four,
A shearin’ sheep with Sawbie’s shears
At three an’ six a score,
We ’ad a 'ard an’ bitter time,
An’ shearers’ ’uts was ’ell,
But now in some there’s bedrooms like
The Metropole ’otel.
At night we played at poker on
The stations in the West,
While slush-lamps lit the festive scene,
An’ stank like all possessed.
But now it’s kerosene, in lamps
A ’angin’ from the ridge—
In tony ’uts, so ’elp me cats,
It’s solo whist an’ Bridge !
A shearer now’s a lordly toff,
Who’s ’alf ’is time on strike,
While tother ’alf ’e’s chasin’ graft
Upon a motor-bike.
Next thing ’e’ll ’ump along the tracks,
Instead of ’is ole swag,
Pyjamas and a tooth-brush in
A blinded Gladstone bag.
They don’t use Sawbie’s shears no more,
At three-and-six a pair—
They’ve fakes like barber’s clerks employs,
In town, to cut yer ’air.
While we was grimed from top to toe
With blood, ’an yolk, an’ tar.
They’re spick an’ span as blokes wot serve*
Be’ind a city bar.
The times is changed a lot, you bet,
Since first I took the track ;
The places now is all “inside”
Wot used to be “ out-back.”
You daren’t leave the stock-routes now
On runs, on no pretence,
An’ every ’alf a mile or so
You strikes a (blank) wire fence.
With paddocked sheep, if tucker bags
Buns low, when on the tramp.
You ’aven’t Buckley’s show to strike
A (lurid) lambin’ camp.
The shepherds is all dead an’ gone
(Disgusted an’ rebuffed),
Unless in some museum they
Might ’ave a odd one stuffed.
“Prince Alberts” ain’t the fashion now,
The shearers all wears socks,
An’ runs accounts for underwear,
An’ banks their “ beans ” an’ “ rocks.”
They never busts nor blews their cheques
At shanties on the track—
But then the grog ain’t wot it was
When first I went out-back.
The Western stockmen ain’t the coves
That once they used to be ;
They carries little ’untin’ crops
That wouldn’t hurt a flea.
They ain’t the kind of men at all
That made the echoes crack
With eighteen foot o’ green-hide, when
I first went on the track.
They’re growin’ wheat on Cooper’s Creek,
They say—l ’aven’t looked—
But all the same, I’m certain sure
The flamin’ country’s cooked,
For, though there’s flashness everywhere,
An’ blokes is better dressed,
The Banks owns ’alf the bloomin’ runs,
The rabbits owns the rest.
The stations gives no “ pints o’ dust,”
Nor sugar, beef, nor tea,
An’ Murrumbidgee-whalin’ ain’t
The game it used to be.
The jumbuck’s gone, or goin’ fast,
The cookies ’as the pull,
An’ wheat an’ milkin’ cows ’as took
The place o’ beef an’ wool.
An’ me, an’ all the likes o’ me
Will shortly get the sack,
For nothin’s like it used to be
When first I took the track.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


I st 0« M Wile-
Justice hidden
Combated tfye /
Supoection tnV
fte -S+*res Could
disbe n S e w, "l tiy
loca,! Pvl , A*n« r 't's o*'
.
fty
A*« W «H |
x\ t^e
)) oof! ■
P|elW«f*f«
A
Collection *r,c,ent
-|>'-7^>
CVw better looK I
Out' VYere A r "7ed tjonj .
/o v f\ \
loKf^i'T-oP . «
— > U; s Keeh 00 od enough fay
t°y *r,*s* , I* - *" A^ oH€
hlev»'b^r!
/M r^k wC9 3A‘d
/tie /eJvlised if *oM
tie itnfosyble /or W*">
-to S*/ *»y’ f » i 'k., r '*'^
on the S«V e ''T •
v -A Ibis re/^es^K
S^ntre
<W cK m
fv<»/ K y ,n s to r s * ;^ |
nc.w.
'lfrs IS
||^
/ Voice ..
with OKL v'o»ce. ,
"TS 1 n 0
Kid 'to ™
.
® nl Jj
I \y*<l \
ji+H-c
&V*c* V- H - 1 fVWft ,
%c Q Mien H'H.R, liAve re^u<>e<*
-fc Accent" °f s^7
Jn| Were KejJly rjot^ W6> , \t j j
'jtopoyJ
y
fiyj,
IS worKIHO -for +n e
YA'Smg Sc s f )Cn '.°S
IV%* ?« J )°*"A
v /
' 111 Wmg >1 V' Old
6»|l in A {ortnigt>t
We C*n looK our
people well As t^«-
fist'llC2\tt.
[dent]
~Jo'~> ■ fear olal ctiHj*.
pl <Anf~ you
-z W’tcd orje. y OM Wonf*
it" <Wo»rj Anyone “but"
jjoor old Ton-imy* will yet- ?
MELBOURNE, WHERE THERE WAS NO FLECTION, AND AIL WAS CALM.


It is to be Hoped tHat witH
tHe invention of Odol tHe
proper care of tHe moutH
may become as general as
tHe universal Habit of wash-
ing tHe face and Hands.
■ -*55
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A private letter from London says that
Bernard Wise is now quite convalescent, and will
be as good a man as ever in a few weeks.
Octavius Beale, whose report to the Aus-
tralian Government on patent medicines, birth-
prevention, improper literature, and so on, has
caused such a flutter, is a firm believer in the big
family. He was one of 12 children, and is the
father of 12 living sons and daughters.
James R. Fairfax has just completed fifty
years as a member of the S. M. Hekai.d firm of
John Fairfax and Sons. He worked at case and
in the commercial department on wages before
that. A brother who was taken in with him fell
from a horse and was killed not far from the office.
B. F. Rushton, just appointed Chief
Mechanical Engineer of S. Aus. Railways,
Staited vvorking life in the department as an
apprentice in the fitter’s shop, and has spent the
rest of his days climbing up to the top. And
there was great joy in the S. Aus. Railways when
he got there.
Allan Gibb, the Queensland metallurgist,
who left, a few months ago, to talk Australian
copper to J. Bull, so it was understood, isn’t re-
turning to these parts—for a few years, anyway.
In London, he got the job of looking after some
vast mineral concessions lying around Lake Tang-
anyika, in Central Africa, at something gorgeous
in the way of salary.
The Commonwealth Ministry isn’t as
sturdy a one physically as Australians would wish.
Hardly a member but overworks and under-
exercises. Of late, however, Ministers have
to take thought of their health. Austin
Cha| man now walks a good deal—always to and
from his St. Kilda quarters. Bill Lyne is talking
of horseback exercise, and he wants to know of a
stout cob that will carry a heavy man and a load
of care.
Alfred Deakin passed through Sydney on
his way to Melbourne last week, looking
phv-ieally fit and mentally as keen and enthusias-
tic for work as ever. If he will only make up his
mind not to overdo it when he gets back into
harness. Deakin’s reign should still be a long one.
But he is one of those captains with a conscien-
tious desire to do the cabin-boy’s work as well as
his own, and .puts in a lot of time swabbing decks.
He should learn to save himself.
Premier T. Bent was announced as an
attraction at Wren’s Melbourne Athletic Pavilion
on the public holiday night last week. Wren’s
stoushing emporium was devoted to an axemen’s
o >nipetition on this occasion, and Bent promptly
sta el his intention of being present. As far as
Bent’s patronage can tend to give an appearance of
respectability to Jack Wren’s show, it will be
worked for all it is worth. When Wren beckons,
Tommy waddles to obey the summons.
Another Australian lays claim to a big
invention. Wjlliam L“i vesley, post and telegraph
master at Springsure (Q.), has patented a method
of uniting various telegraph systems, so that they
may be worked jointly and severally. By his
div L-e one operator could transmit to the whole
continent a single message—say, the result of the
Melbourne Cup. It may be taken for granted
that the .-ingle message which all Australia wants
to hear will be the result of'the Melbourne Cup.
WANTS NO ACCENTUATING!
It is my duty to accentuate the position taken up bv
Mr. Irvine. —Knox.
George Essex Evans, poet and story-
writer, settles down into a “stiddy job” in the
employment of the Brisbane Intelligence Depart-
ment, writing up Bananaland’s “great natural
resources,” etc., for British consumption. Sydney
poet Roderic Quinn sometime wrote up N.S.W.
in a similar billet, but a fat-headed Government
required his salary to make up its surplus,, and
handed his job to the office boy or somebody.
The job looked it afterwards.
Lancelot T. Lloyd, who petered out, the
other day, at Sydney, leaves a vacancy for a
N.S.W. official assignee in insolvency. The billet
varies in value from year to year, but it is a good
stiddy job, and is one much coveted by the whole
tribe of mercantile and commercial brokery men.
Assignees have not now the free hand they en-
joyed when Lloyd entered the service, the Judges
having gradually tightened their control over the
officers. Lancelot’s father, G. A. Lloyd, was a
lucky gold-dust buyer and general speculator.
He was also a politician of the ox-like or Brunker
type.
The genial Duffy, K.C., expressed himself
badly the other day when, speaking in a profes-
sional manner, he told a Melbourne divorce case
witness, “You are a cold-blooded liar, we
say.” “What’s that?” jerked out the man in
the box, as he peeled off his coat and prepared to
fall on the stipendiary traducer. He was calmed
down before he could play Tommy Burns ; but he
was a large man and hasty, and it was a narrow
escape for Duffy.
Another mouldy old Sydney hostelry is
being demolished —that known as The Kent,
on the S. W. corner of Goulburn and Pitt
streets. A couple of generations ago
it was known as the Sportsman’s
Arms, kept by William Oatley,
and in 1847 by James Oatley,
afterwards an alderman, and
Mayor of Sydney in 1862.
This tremendous event
in the life of Publican
Oatley is commemor-
ated on an old-fashion-
ed water fountain at
the western point
of Phillip Park, Col-
lege-street. There is
humor in the idea of
putting up a water-
fountain in honor of
a man who sold rum.
James Oatley also
represented Canter-
bury in the fifth
Parliament of New
South Wales, 1865-
6!>. The first Oatley
who emerged from
the herd was a watch
and clock maker in
George-street, Syd-
ney, opposite the
now Town Hall.
There in the ’twen-
ties of last century
he made old grand-
fathers’ clocks, some
of which are still
busy measuring Car-
ruthers’ fretful span
of existence.
Chief J ustice Way
(S.A.) intends to
apply for leave at
the close of the year,
but whether with
the intention of re-
tiring at the end of
his holiday is not known. Way is 72 years
old, and has been Chief Justice for over 31
years. He is still accounted by the Bar to be
by far the ablest Judge on the S.A. Bench, and
he gets all the big cases.
Time brings its revenge whenever Norman
Lindsay draws a caricature of Judkins. Years
ago—not so very many—Judkins was the second
master at the school at Creswick (Vic.) which
Norman Lindsay attended. He doesn’t claim to
have given much tuition to the future black-and-
white artist, but he did his best, he says, what
time his pupil was making sketches on any piece
of paper that came handy. Sometimes he made
a shocking example of little Norman Lindsay.
And now it is the ex-Creswick boy who makes
shocking examples of Judkins.
N.S.W. ex-Minisfcer Broughton Barnabas
O’Conor has a pretty humble opinion of himself.
At St. P(iter’s (Sydney), the other night, he said :
When the coalition was brought about, room had to be
made for Mr. Waddell. The other Ministers looked at
me, and I looked at them. Not one of them showed any
disposition to leave. Unfortunately, I was the weakest
man in the team, and so I made way for a worthier and a
better man.
Anyone who could honestly see “ a worthier and
better man’’than himself in Twaddle, insulted
his country by being politically born—not to
mention the waste of time in being born at all.
Thankful Willmett, for 40 years in busi-
ness at Townsville, which period practically
covers the whole history of North Queensland,
has left a blank, aged 75. For 30 years he was
an alderman, and was many times mayor. He
gained prominence by his initiation of the North
Queensland Separation, movement, which was a
very live animal in Bananaland for many a day.
The failure of North Queensland’s passive revolt
hurried on the Federal movement, which came
later ; the Far North was dead tired of the Tory
boodlers who then held sway at Brisbane, and
voted enthusiastically for giving Brisbane a
master. And the Far North has never repented
that move.
J. F. Mann, who died last week at Neutral
Bay (Sydney), aged 88, tried a couple of times to
make Australian history, but failed. He got
ready to search for Leichhardt, but just when the
expedition was ready to set out Ludwig Leich-
hardt came mooning in a lost sort of way back to
civilisation. Later, he sallied out with Leich-
hardt to cross the contii.but the party dis-
agreed, and nothing worth noting was done.
Before Leichhardt took his dreamy way out into
the desert for the las: time Mann had given
him up as a bad job. Mann published “Eight
Months with Leichhardt.” In 1848 he entered the
Survey Department and remained until 1874. In
1857 he married the third daughter of explorer
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell. For 45 years he
lived in Neutral Bay, the greater part of that
time in the old house used by Ben Boyd in the
whaling days. Mann told this scribe that
Leichhardt would have lost himself in George-
-Btreet.
Still another yarn spun by Parson Tregear, of
Collingwood (Melb.), rescuer of distressed damsels
and chief barracker for Mudkins, has gone wrong.
From his Coward’s Castle on Sunday morning he
bleated the information that “during Councillor
Cornfoot’s tenancy of the mayoralty of Colling-
wood (1905-6) there was a deluge of beer, and one
could swim in it.” Then Cornfoot told Tregear
that if he cared to inspect the accounts he
would find that during the year specified the
beer bill was just £1 14s. 6d., while the “soft
stuff ” had cost him over £2O, of which £l5 had
gone in ginger ale, a thing the “hard” drinker
seldom tastes. Evidently the buzzing little in-
sectarian looked at that “sea” from the insect’s
point of view. Even the dregs in the bottom of a
pint pot are a big enough sea to drown a beetle
in. But if Tregear discusses beer from the insect’s
point of view, he ought anyhow to prepare his
dear brethren by addressing them as “Fellow
Beetles.”
THE OVERCROWDED MARKET.
“A Tea-taster! That don't seem much of a
game."
“ Well , beer-tastin's best, of course, but there's
such a lot at it.”
Tom Darley, master mariner, who had a
share in a wildly sensational divorce case the
other day in Sydney, is an undersized man, with
the queerest ideas of dress. He was for some
time an officer in the employ of one of the “Five
Companies,” but a year or two back he flung up his
job to become a marine superintendent for W.
Scott Fell, when that enterprising individual
chartered a fleet of foreign-owned steamships to
capture the Port Pirie trade, and also to cut into
the coal-chartering business. His old command,
theWillyama, deposited its bones on the South
Australian coast a few months back.
Big John Forrest is a sore-headed poli-
tician these days. He interrupted last week’s
instalment of the Tariff debate to complain that
Lyne seemed to be getting the credit of writing
to England to get a medal for Hughes, the
Westralian diver who rescued the submerged
Dago out of the Bonnie Vale mine. In reality,
Northcote wrote the letter, but the minute on the
official papers asking the G.-G. to write was
Forrest’s (so Big John said), and he made such a
fuss about it that Lyne had to rise and gently
assure his infuriated ex-colleague that everybody
apologised, and was very sorry, but no one, as far
as he could find out, knew what Big John was
mad about. The episode represented a very big
man in a very small aspect.
Thus writes The Bulletin’s Oldest In-
habitant :
Mrs. Emmeline Egan, who died at her residence,
“ Eganville,” Burragorang (N.S.W.), on August 29,
at the age of 65 years, was a native of Wind-
sor, with a lineage straight down from the First
fleet. Henry Kable married Susannah Holmes
immediately after the fleet reached Sydney, Parson
Johnson being the officiating minister. Mr. John
son mentions this first marriage in a letter to Under-
secretary Nepean. With other children they had three
daughters—Dinah, Susannah and Eunice. The first-
named married William Gaudry, who, a century ago, was
clerk in the office of the Secretary to the Governor, and
lived at the foot of the Flocks, about where Globe-street
now is. William Gaudry and Dinah Kable had three sons
and one daughter. The daughter married John Wild, of
Vandeville, near Camden, who was the father of W. V.
Wild, barrister, who represented Camden in the Parlia-
ment of 1859 ; he died aged 28 years. George Gaudry mar-
ried a Windsor girl named Wells. They had ten children —
Emmeline, who married Patrick Egan, grazier, being the
lady recently deceased. On William Gaudry’s death, the
widow married a Windsor miller named Teale. Susannah
Kable married Dr. Mileham, an assistant Colonial Sur*
geon, who died in 1824, and his widow, for over 60 years,
drew a pension of £lOO a year. She died at Vandeville.
Eunice married a well-known wealthy Windsor man, Mr.
Fitz. George Gaudry, Mrs. Egan’s father, was a bit of a
sport in his young days, as were indeed all the Windsor
boys. In 1836 he fought Bishop on Windsor racecourse.
Wild, of Vandeville (he was an army officer, and is buried
in the old cemetery at Cobbittyj, had a grant of 2000
acres, with 200 additional for rocky country, from
Governor Darling, on his guaranteeing to maintain 60
convicts. Most of the grant is still held by the Wilds.
The original Henry Kable became a merchant, having
stores in Lower George-street on the corner of Brown Bear
Lane, and is frequently mentioned in business trans-
actions with Simeon Lord and J. Underwood, all wealthy
men a century ago. Governor Bligh demanded the
attendance of the trio for some reason, and they sent
what Bligh considered an insolent reply. The three were
haled before the magistrates and sentenced to a fine of
£lOO each and “ imprisonment for one kalendar month.'’
That was in August, 1807.
And The Bulletin comes up to breathe out of
this sea of biography with a feeling that it isn’t
much forrarder.
In Oliver Trickett N.S.W. possesses an
official whose chief duty it is to search for new
caves. He is really an underground engineer.
Mr. Trickett is well known to tourists all over the
State as a cave man, and a genial sort of cave
man too, as visitors to Yarrangobilly and Jenolan
have ascertained. His friends feted him, the
other day, prior to a fresh disappearance into the
regions below, d la Mephistopheles when he went
down with Faust.
“P.P.” : Maoriland reckons itself a sober
and righteous community; and yet it has for
years had one member in its House of Reps, who
loveth malt like a brother, and who regularly
turneth Parliament into a hop garden five times a
week during every session. When this gentle-
man has slain the wild beer in its lair and con-
sumed the dead body thereof he shambles into the
Houses, takes off his boots—which he always
persists in placing on the table before him —and
goes to sleep. The other day a messenger endea-
vored to remove the offending foot-gear, and the
honorable member with the ale-leaves in his hair
grew savage. “ Genshelmen,” he muttered,
staggering to his feet, “ I shwon’t havsh my
bootsh removsh. I shproposh th’ Premersh
shoutsh. God savsh sh’ Kingsh ! ”
The cabled remark of Walter Addison,
winner of the King’s Prize at Bisley, that he had
three brothers away over in S. Australia who
could shoot as well as himself, recalls that his
father, a member of S.A.’s Uppish House, can
also handle the gun a bit. A few years ago, when
Victoria was helping itself to the Murray waters.
Father Addison jumped up in the House and
offered to lead an army against the sister State
and forcibly demolish the works in progress.
Luckily for Victoria the scheme was not carried
out. The advent of five Addisons on the border,
each one able to graze Tom Bent’s watch chain
with a bullet at 1000yds., would at least have
caused somebody to cable to England for a war-
ship and a torpedo.
“ Ragpicker ” is reminded of a pugilist :—•
Apropos the scrap between Squires and Burns. A few
notes on John Gully, the pug. and M.P., the most illus-
trious member of the prize ring. Born 1783 at Wick,
between Bath and Bristol, his father being keeper of the
Grown Inn there, and afterwards a butcher. So badly
did Jack manage this business after dad’s demise that he
landed in the Queen’s Beneh Debtors’ Prison, London, in
1805. There he met Henry, or Hen Pearce, known as the
Game Chicken. They arranged to fight. Backers paid
Gully’s debts. They fought in Sussex in the presence of
the Duke of Clarence, afterwards William IV. Gully was
beaten. The Chicken was champion of England, and
Gully claimed the title on his retirement. Nobody was
game to meet him for two years. Then, in 1807, he
fought Bob Gregson, the Lancashire Giant, for 200
guineas a side. He beat Gregson, who was 6ft. 2in.
Gully was 6ft. The battle came off near Newmarket-
road. They fought again, for £250 at side, in Sir J.
Sebright’s Park, Hertfordshire. A hundred noblemen
and other rich, bad characters attended, with horses and
carriages ; and there was such an enormous crfiwd besides
that a rumor flew around of a French invasion. The
county volunteers were called out. Gully beat Gregson
again. Then he retired as landlord of the Plough Inn,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London. In 1808 he took a great
joint benefit with Tom Cribb. He became a betting man,
and prospered. In 1812 he bought his first racehorse,
Cardenio. As an owner he did so well that in 1827 he
gave Lord Jersey 4000 gs. for Mameluke. Gully lost
£40,000 over this horse in the Leger, but still
went ahead. In 1830 he partnered with one Ridsale.
They made a big coup in 1832, winning the Derby with
St. Giles, and the Leger with Margrave. On the Derby
Gully won £50,000, and £35,000 on the Leger. Afterwards
he was mulcted in £5OO damages for assaulting Ridsale.
Gully bought from Lord Rivers a Newmarket estate and
mansion, called Upper Hare Park. From that he re-
moved to Ackworth Park, near Pontefract. He became
member of the House of Commons for Pontefract, hold-
ing the position from December, 1832, to July, 1837.
Partnered with John Day, on the turf. In 1844 they
won the Two Thousand Guineas, with Ugly Buck. In
1846, Gully won the Derby, with Pyrrhus the First, and
the Oaks with Mendicant. In 1854 he won the Two
Thousand with Hermit—not to he confounded with
Chaplin’s Hermit—and the Derby with Andover. Pad-
wick partnered in the latter. Gully became a great
owner of collieries. He was twice married, and had 24
children, twelve by each marriage.
THE ANTI-FEDERAL MOVEMENT.
Turning dog on himself.
When it was alleged that “Ouida” (Louise
de la Ramee) was desperately hard up in Italy,
the London Daily Mail started a fund, and
Marie Corelli sent a cheque, with a slobbering
epistle on the “piteous episode in literary his
tory.” Probably the clack and patronage of
Corelli was the last straw to the portrayer of
heroes with strong, white hands and golden lip-
whiskers. She promptly sent to the Mail an
exasperated telegram from Massarosa: “ Abso-
lutely forbid any mention of me.—De la Ramee.”
The sudden retirement of Superintendent
Booker from the control of Adelaide Fire Brigade
(on an official report that he had ordered whisky
and charged it to the Brigade as “ disinfectants ”)
has made room for W. G. Rickwood, who left
Sydney only two years ago to become Booker’s
deputy and understudy, and is now gazetted as
superintendent. Rickwood was instructor to the
N.S.W. Naval Brigade before he moved to
Adelaide, and was possibly the best rifle-shot in
the Ma State ; anyway, he has often represented
it in inter-State matches, and was always a big
prizewinner at Rand wick.


m
isi
«
.
. >
? t
rx. .
: •:
m
m
mm
mam
Sia
*1
»
- * ->
SBI
IP
331
m
It
* W-
bip
■
is
fis
■
ISIiS
SSSff
HU-
B'S;
■
U
“ And I said to the other Ring', * Have a HAVELOCK
CIGARETTE —it’s the best cig'arette in the world.’ ”


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
runton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every (description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State revenue receipts suffered last month
through the heavy Customs clearances in July. The
total Customs collections for August, 1906—an average
month—were £1,012,926; for August, 1907, they were
only £888,763. Under the new tariff, much less duty has
therefore been paid in the month than would have been
paid under the old tariff ; yet the Foreign-trade papers
have filled dozens of columns with statements showing
how the “excessive duties” have already fallen
crushingly upon the backs of the people in
the shape of higher prices. Higher prices cer-
tainly are being charged in many cases ; the
fact is that importers (and retailers to a less extent)
have sprung at a pretext to rob the public, and at the
same time sicken it of the higher duties—higher duties
which, as shown above, these importers and retailers
have not yet paid. And no doubt a large slice of the
public, misled by a big section of the newspapers, has
fallen into the trap.
Apart from the Customs (Commonwealth re-
funds), tli#-State revenues have, generally speaking, been
steady. There have been shrinkages in some directions,
but especially in N. S. Wales and Queensland the railway
revenue has been fat; in N. S. Wales it amounted to
£39,914 niore than for August, 1906, and in Queensland
the increase was from £276,991 to, £327,668. The aggre-
gate figures for the month were :<£*
. State Revenue Returns for August.
Aug., 1906. Aug., 1907.
N. S. Wales .. £1,029,324 £1,079,451 Inc. £50,127
Victoria .. 746,371 706,527 Dec. 39,844
Queensland .. 312,346 333,929 Inc. 21,583
Westralia .. 289.463 271,818 Dec. 17,645
Tasmania .. 65,632 71,697 Inc. 6,065
And for the two months that have passed since this
financial year began :
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Aug., Julv-Aug.,
1906. 1907.
N. S. Wales ..£1,950,031 £2,205,737 Inc. £255,706
Victoria .. 1,391,575 • 1,471,708 Inc. 80,133
Queensland .. 611,289 694,277 Inc. 82,988
Westralia .. 49, i, 162 461,823 Dec. 28.339
Tasmania .. 135,941 141,724 Inc. 5,783
But here again, in considering the succession of large
increases, the rush of the importers to clear goods during
July must be remembered. For these two months the
Customs collections amounted to £2,128,762, as against
£1,865,183 in July-August, 1906.
The expenditure figures refer, as usual, to only
three States ; and one of them—Westralia—which spends
loan money on such things as the repair of a glass-house
for breeding parasites, doesn’t mention what its loan
expenditure is. Therefore, the return showing expendi-
ture on revenue account isn’t of much value. N. S. Wales
has spent in two months £2,054,404 on revenue account, as
against £1,987,792 last year ; Queensland, £401,597, as
against £363,328. N. S. Wales also has a Public Works
Fund nowadays ; and it is doubtful whether works that
were not formerly charged direct to revenue are not
now charged to the Works Fund. This has long been the
favorite Maoriland way of faking a big surplus. The
N.S. W. loan expenditure for two months has been
£270,302, as against £231,217 in 1906 ; and in Queensland
the total has sprung from £42,050 to £137,989—a
movement which is the least satisfactory feature of
Kidston’s financial policy. On the basis of the past two
months’ operations, Queensland’s loan expenditure is
now at the rate of £827,936 a year ; and that means 30s.
per head, equal to over £2,250,000 a year in N.S.W. ; and
it takes an Owe’-Sullivan to do worse than that.
Westralia, with a revenue of £461,823, and an
expenditure (apart from the things stowed away
in loan account) of £470,510, has a deficit on the
two months of £8687. This brings up the accumu-
lated deficit to £217,415 ; and Westralia is be-
ginning to feel uneasy about it. But Westralia doesn’t
propose to get rid of it by setting vigorously to work to
pay it off ; it just proposes to issue Treasury bills, or
something, to represent this drift into debt, and then the
matter won’t have to be mentioned so often. It will be
lost among the rest of the debt, and Uncle won’t be so
likely to ask questions about it. This is one of the pend-
ing Newton Moore “ reforms.” But any stupid fowl can
poke its head into a hole, and pretend that it has
evaporated.
S. Australia isn’t mentioned in the foregoing,
because that State only publishes Treasury figures once a
quarter, and then they are not. very good figures.
The other day, however, the Price Ministry’s Budget
was delivered—just at the time, by the way, when
Carruthers was crowing about the magnificent
financial results that Carruthers had achieved in N. S.
Wales, and the shocking things that w-ould be bound to
happen if the Labor party wa- given a look-in. Laborite
Price’s Government in S. Australia is far more modest
and far more provident ; it simply says that “ the golden
age appears to have returned” ; and,' while hoping for a
continuance of good times, it points out that the serious
thing to do is “in these good times to prepare for the
bad.” Therefore, instead of remitting taxation, the
Government intends to reintroduce the extra progressive
land-tax, which will bring in £40,000 a year—partly to
breakup big estates, partly because this Government is
sensible enough to see that in such good times the people
can better afford to pay taxes than in bad, and that if
more revenue can be got in now, and spent on public
works, less need be got in in bad times to pay interest on
loans.
A couple of days before the N.S.W elections
the Chief Accountant of the Treasury furnished his boss,
Carruthers, with a return, showing w'hat a great and
good boss he has been. On June 30, 1904, two months
before Carruthers arrived, the debt proper was
£80,033,581, while on August 10, 1907, it was £84,200,869,
an increase of £4,167,218 in the three years. But this
£4,167,218 includes £3,515,890 of trust funds (Savings
Bank deposits, etc.) which have been turned into stock and
Treasury bills; so, as Carruthers puts it, “the real increase
is nominal only; it amounts to £651,398.” This is the usual
tricky Carruthers way of representing matters. The fact
is that there was, when Carruthers arrived, a large float-
ing debt. On June 30, 1904, it amounted to £2,506,709.
Carruthers has turned that floating liability into fixed
liability. He shows that the cash balances have been
transformed from a debit of £2,506,709 into a credit of
£2,019,883. That change has been to a large extent made
by the simple process of turning the floating debt into a
fixed debt. He wiped the slate by giving the State’s
I O U for the score. In the three years and two
months since July 1, 1904, the loan expenditure on
public works has been £4,265,522. Carruthers therefore
hasn’t left off borrowing. But he has had the
remarkable good fortune to strike three phenomenal
years, and he has had surpluses. That is to say,
instead of paying for works, he borrowed money to pay
for them ; and, not having paid for the works out of
revenue, he was able to show large surpluses ; and then,
with the surpluses he paid off some of the debt that he
needn’t have incurred. It was a circuitous way of doing
things ; and Carruthers naturally took it.
And all the time Joseph, or Joseph’s accountant,
doesfc’t mention that, while he has added £4,167,288 to
the fixed debt of N. S. Wales, he has sold at least
£3,100,000 worth of the public estate, and grabbed the
proceeds. Even giving him credit for wiping off some-
thing like £3,600,000 of floating debt, thus leaving a net ad-
dition to the public debt of about £650,000, Carruthers has
therefore not merely borrowed £3,100,000 from posjserijy
—he has done something worse. You can pay pff-a debt;
but it will be a tremendously difficult thing to get back
this revenue-producing land that Carruthers has got rid
of.
* * • #
The Maortland State Land Bank, which
began with a deficit of £137,056, loss on loan flotations and
preliminary expenses :
Loss on Loan
March, Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
1808 .. £23,929 £111,173
1809 .. 17,598 93,575
1900 .. 14,073 £28,142 107,644
1901 .. 20,325 9,889 97,208
1902 .. 29,452 67,756
1903 .. 24,907 43,953 86,802
1904 .. 26,561 20,585 80,826
1905 .. 34,454 46,372
1906 .. 34,048 12,324
Reserves.
1907 .. 44,972 32,648
Out of profits the deficit (loan flotation charge) has been
steadily written down until now' it stands in the books
at £26,741 ; and it is promised that this will go
during the current year. The balance-sheet will then
be clean and free from paper assets. The losses
on loan flotation mean that, in order to gain the advan-
tage of a low rate of interest, loans w'ere floated at a
discount. That discount being wiped out, the office
will begin to enjoy the benefits of the low interest; and
out of the substantial profits that this means—as it has
meant hitherto—it should now' be possible to rapidly
build up a reserve fund. Most certainly a strong reserve
ought to be provided. Maoriland will have its slumps ;
when the size of its borrowings is considered, and when
it is remembered that the borrowings must stop at some
time, and may possibly have to stop just when the State
is in the poorest condition to live on its ow r n resources,
the chances are that the slump may be very severe. So
far there have been practically no losses in this State
bank ; Maoriland has been on the up-grade all the
time the office has existed. “In no case has a loss been
made,” says the Superintendent, “and the Department
has at present no securities on its hands. There is, how-
ever, one small loan just now' which is somewhat doubt-
ful, and may ultimately result in a small loss for the first
time.” That is a hint.
It is not regarded as prudent for a private bank
to owe the public more than about seven times more
than its capital. In the case of theM.L. Advances to
Settlers Office, since practically all its resources are in
securities liable to slump, and none in liquid assets, the
proportion of capital (and reserves are the onlv capital it
can have) ought to be at least one to seven, and probably
more. The debt to the public is £3,560,000, apart from
outstanding interest; so that when this bank has accu-
mulated a reserve of £500,000 (or in that proportion,
if the liabilities move up or down), it may reckon
that it has done its duty to the State and the
depositors, w'ho in this case are debenture holders.
Some fighting for this will probably be necessary on the
part of the people who want to see the finances'of every
State business put on a secure foundation. The tendency
nearly always is to “give the customers the benefit of
it”—which is liable to mean that the conditions which
have made the thing a success are to be changed, and the
next generation will run the risk of not having the thing
at all. Already further concessions are being made—in
the matter of free mortgage deeds, etc.—and though
that doesn’t amount to much, the tendency will have to
be watched.
Further details of this and previous years’ work
follow:
Advances Cost of Expenses p.c.
Outstanding. Management, of Mortgages.
s. and.
1899 .. £1,434,829 £6869 9 7
1900 .. 1,747,329 7267 8 4
1901 .. 2,131,100 6869 6 5
1902 .. 2,368,317 7696 6 5
1903 .. 2,590,543 7316 6 8
1904 .. 2,795,849 7439 5 4
1905 .. 2,753,182 6834 4 11
1906 .. 3,125,069 7989 5 1
1907 .. 3,551,876 8453 4 9
So far, £5,557,258 has been advanced, and £2,005,412 has
been repaid. For the year £767,730 was advanced to 1929
clients—an average of £398 per advance, as against an
average of £322 for the whole lot. When the comparative
average smallness of the advances, and consequently of
the interest and other payments, is considered, the ex-
penses look even smaller than they do above. And even
the whole of those expenses are hot-chargeable against
interest received “£3588 out of the £8453 W'as furnished
as direct payment for services in making valuations, etc.
Under amending Acts passed last year some
important changes were made. As to the settlers’
advances, a sinking fund (included among the reserves
above) has been started ; the object is the excellent one
of getting for the btnk sojne capital of its own. Also
another branch was created —the Workers’ branch, extend-
ing the principle of State aid which has been applied suc-
cessfully to the set tiers. The branch W'as started with a
State loan of £20,0: 0, and the first applications for ad vanees
were considered in January of this year. So far, naturally,
very little has been done : the expenses and interest have
amounted to £516, interest received and valuation fees
total £B2, leaving a loss of £434. Practically, all of this
might wi 11 be regarded as preliminary expenses. The
advances in this,- as in the other department, are all
made on mortgage. The next step will probably be a
pawnshop for the help of those who haven’t got landed
estate—though that may possibly be done better by the
municipality.
* * * *
The A.M.P. management naturally doesn’t like
the Citizens-MutualLife of Australia amalgamation—says
it’s really absorption, and that, anyhow, as the M.L.A.’s
will be all renewal business, the A.M.P. could afford to
undertake to do it for 10 per cent. too. Probably ;in
which case the A.M.P. will no doubt see that its own
poli'-y-holders also get the benefit of a 10 pbr cent, ex-
pense rate, instead of continuing last year’s 13f per cent.
It surely wouldn’t be pri pared to put outsiders on a
better footing than the body of its own old policy-
holders. The fact of the matter is the amalgamation
will do good to the policy-holders of the A.M.P. as well
as of the amalgamating offices. The A.M.P. will now
have to hustle ; it will have to compete with an office
blessed with a fusion of qualities such as no other com-
peting office has ever had ; and for the first time in their
lives some of the A.M.P.’s officers will have to learn how
to really work.
**■ * *
After long negotiations, the Equitable of New
York has handed over its Australian business to David
Fell and Cos., of Sydney, as agents and attorneys ; and
Carlisle Taylor, the general manager for Australia, has
gone back to head office. David Fell, who has for years
been the co.’s auditor in Sydney, will be associated with
Dr. Mackeliar as Australian director—he also has for
years been connected with the Equitable. No new busi-
ness is to be competed for, and the expenses of collecting
renewal premiums are cut down, it is understood, to 3
per cent. This is apart from the small cost of managing
the assets in Australia.
» * * *
Apropos the “bloated manufacturer” that one
be rsa good deal about in the present attack on the new
tariff, note that a parcel of Queensland Woollen Manu-
facturing Co.’B shares, £1 paid, came on to the market
the other day at eighteenpence !
* * * *
It is still asserted that Australian purchasers
of shares in the Marconi Cos. of Canada will get their
scrip from Munro and Munro, of New York, when a
difficulty over the transfers has been adjusted. A report
from Munro and Munro, received by a Melbourne
customer of the Union Bank, harmonises with a previous
report from the Canadian Marconi Cos. But the fact that
scrip was delivered to certain Sydney investors through
the local Union Bank some months ago has not yet been
explained to the satisfaction of those Melbourne in-
vestors who were the first to pay their money to agent
Robinson in exchange for the Munro and Munro receipt-
forms. '
* -* *
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society :
Business Loss on Total Dividend. Re-
Julv, Profit. Property. Loss. (2J p.c.) serve.
1808 .. £1523 £7718 £6195 £10,242
1899 .. 1913 7122 5209 5,033
Profit.
1900.. 2614 603 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written down frpm £177,164 to
£70,866 ; £257 being added to Reserves 20,263
1904 .. 4012 4012 24,275
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 25,151
1906 .. 2874 2874 1737 26,288
(3 p.c.)
1907 .. 3244 3244 2087 27,445
Besides this profit for the year, the directors report
that £1915 was made by the sale of pr perties for
£21,061 ; that is to say, properties standing in the
books at £19,146 have been sold at a gain of £1915 over
book-value. In 1903, when two-thirds of the capital was
written off, these assets were written down by a little
more than 6s. Sd. in the £. In 1905-6 £1544 profit was
made on properties standing in the books at £16,714 ; so
that the past year’s record is the better of the two.
There still remains £201,485 (written-down book value)
of property in hand ; and at the past two years’ rate of
progress —which certainly isn’t much to go by—about
£19,500 might be realised over the book value. But
apparently some comparatively small amount of the
pro erties in hand represents recent foreclosures,
and those values have not been written down.
While on past experience the properties in
hand ought to yield a surplus, nevertheless provision
is rightly being made for the other sort of thing; the
profits on transactions so far are going into a reserve for
that purpose. The size of that reserve isn’t mentioned ;
in fact, these transactions cannot be followed in the pub-
lished accounts at all. Besides its capital, the society
owes £150,097 on debentures ; year by year, as properties
are realised, about £BOOO is paid off this debt. The other
debts total £10,458, as against £7635 twelve months ago.
The increase of £2823, as well as the funds derived from
property sales and not used to repay debentures, has
gone out in advances, which have increased from £43,948
to £57,230. This movement will naturally send up pro-
fits ; for the properties don’t bring in more than about
£3 10s. 6d. per cent. net. Still, the improvement may
not be very large if it is the most profitable properties
that are being turned into cash, and from cash into new
advances. The debentures carry 4 per cent.; and if de-
bentures that carry 4 per cent, can be paid off with pro-
perties that bring in only 3£ per cent, net, it is good
business.
* * * *
The Modern Permanent Building and In-
vestment Society (Melbourne): —
Interest on
Deposits Nominal
Trading Loss on Written and De- Re-
July, Loss. Sales. Off. bentures. serves.
1898 .. £1671 £8,677 2J- p.c. £14,831
Profit. Deficit.
1899 .. 281 15,750 2£ „ 638
1900 .. 9 5,593 2£ „ 6,222
1901 .. 1591 6,548 24 „ 11,179
1902 .. 2383 834 2J „ 9,630
1903 .. 1822 5,377 £2OOO 3 „ 15,185
1904 .. 421 711 1500 3 „ 16,975
Loss.
1905 .. 1423 1256 3§ „ 19,654
Profit.
1906 .. 958 5215 B£ „ 23,911
1907 .. 255 1397 4 „ 25,053
The income during the past year was £13,803, and the
outgo (including interest) £13,548. For the previous
year the income, apart from profit on the sale of Govern-
ment stock, was £14,403, while the outgo was £14,595,
leaving a loss for that year, apart from the transaction
mentioned, of £192. The results of the society’s ordinary
trading have not, therefore, actually fallen back as the
table above would suggest. The principal work of the
society is to get rid of the load of properties which it
found stranded on its shoulders when the boom-tide
ebbed. Those properties were mostly represented on the
other side by deposits and debentures; and the years
since then have been filled with a struggle to make one
burden get rid of the other. For some time past this is
how the struggle has gone
1896. 1906. 1907.
Australian deposits, etc... £169,416 £83,536 £53,440
British ditto .. .. 307,689 149,067 124,556
Mortgages, etc 30,000 Nil. Nil.
Total debt .. .. £507,105 £232,603 £177,996
Now consider the movement of the assets:—
1896. 1906. 1907.
Advances .. £660,083 £306,899 £251,263
Premises .. 78,000 78,000 78,000
Other assets .. 1,125 24,256 24,258
In 11 years £329,109 of debt has been wiped out, at a cost
of £385,687 of assets, showing a loss of £66,578. Eleven
years ago there were reserves of £32,690 ; there is now a
deficit of £25,053, against which there is only a small fire-
insurance fund (not reckoned as a reserve in the table
above). The * aid capital has stood throughout at
£195,897; there now remains nominally intact, there-
fore, £173,844 of capital. It would be interesting to
know how much is really intact; but calculations are
liable to be affected by many circumstances. The situa-
tion is like this: £408,820 of advances (mostly
foreclosed properties) have paid off £329,109 of
debt, and have also added, £23,133 to the fairly-liquid
assets. Using these fairly'-liquid assets to wipe out
debt, then £251,263 of, “ advances ” remain to pay
off the balance of £154,863 of debt. At the last 11
years’ rate, it would take about £210,000 of “ advances ”
to wipe that much debt out, which would leave the share-
holders with £41,000 of “ advances ” and £78,000 (book
value) of premises. But the circumstances previously re-
ferred to may spoil this calculation. The deposits, etc., are
now carrying better interest; therefore the profits, which
have hitherto gone to help out realisations, may be less.
Also, the society has made considerable profit (used lately
to write down properties) out of the repurchase of
deposits, etc., at a discount, and there may now be less
of that profit. Still, that is how the matter stands on the
past record, and it might stand worse.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Cos. (Tasmania) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £5062 £8 17 9 p.c. =£4620 £442 £4781
Dec., 1902.. 5081 817 9 „ „ 4620 461 5242
June, 1903.. 5133 817 9 „ „ 4620 513 5755
Dec., 1903.. 5132 817 9 „ „ 4620 512 6267
June, 1904.. 6f>32 817 9 „ „ 4620 412 6679
Dec., 1904.. 5192 8 17 9 „ „ 4620 572 7251
June, 1905.. 5075 8 17 9 „ „ 4620 455 7706
Dec., 1905.. 5138 817 9 „ „ 4620 518 8224
June, 1906.. 5083 817 9 „ „ 4620 463 8687
Dec., 1906.. 5242 817 9 „ „ 4620 622 9309
June, 1907.. 5238 817 9 „ „ 4620 618 9927
This co. supplies both gas and electric light. The electric
light department always shows a debit balance ; this
past half-year it amounts to £357. That is the co.’s
little joke, however: it only shows that loss after
paying interest on the £16,000 which the co. put into
this department originally. Term after term since
then the capital item has stood at the same £16,000,
though out of profits nearly £IOOO per half-year has been
regularly written off. This past half-year “interest,
alterations, depreciation, and wear and tear” amount to
£lslO ; all other expenses put together amount to £1292.
Allowing 6 per cent, interest on the £16,000, there would
remain £IO3O for depreciation, less the £357 which is
shown as a debit balance ; but that £673 won’t be used
to write down the value of the electric light department
asset in the balance-sheet. It is mysterious book-keeping;
the only possible explanation is that the co. doesn’t want
the electric light business to show up respectably—pro-
bably because so many municipal councils have deve-
loped a habit of going in for electric lighting. The gas
department’s revenue is charged with £2317 for repairs,
renewals, and upkeep for the half-year ; but apparently
nothing is written off for depreciation in that section
apart from this amount. In other words, the reserves
have to cover depreciation which hasn’t been made good
by current patches and renewals—that is, so far as the
gas department is concerned.
The Launceston Gas Cos. (Tasmania): —
Net Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £1147 4 per cent. =£loso £97 £5768
Dec., 1902.. 1111 4 „ „ 1050 61 5829
June, 1903.. 1328 4 „ „ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 „ „ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4 „ „ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 815 4 ~ ~ 1050 7364
Dec., 1905.. 1147 4 „ „ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 „ „ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ „ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 834 4 „ „ 1050 7829
Ordinarily the co. writes nothing' off for wear and tear ;
but now and then a charge is made on profit and loss for
depreciation—£3o9 for the past half-year. That and in-
creased wages, etc., and a higher price for coal account
for the diminished profits. Under the circumstances it is
very doubtful whether enough provision is being made
for wear and tear, apart, at any rate, from the reserves.
In that case, the reserves simply represent worn-out
capital, and will have to be drawn on later for extra-
ordinary repairs and renewals. (Something of this sort
has, in fact, probably happened during the past half-
year.) The position is all the worse for the shareholders
because over £35,000 has been borrowed on debentures ;
so the reserves have to cover the depreciation notonty of
shareholders’ capital but of the debenture capital too ;
and if the reserves are not sufficient for the purpose,
then the shareholders’ capital must suffer. Also deben-
ture interest must be paid whether the shareholders get
anything or not; and the margin of profit is too small to
allow things to be comfortable for shareholders. Asa
matter of fact, though the debentures apparently carry
5 per cent., the capital invested in plant, mains, and
fitttings did not in the past year bring- in more than
about £4 11s. per cent, net all round.
■* * * *
The Wellington Woollen .Manufacturing
Cos. (M. 1,.): —
Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £8,791 8 p.c. = £4281 £2500 £2OIO £19,301
1902 .. 10,773 8 „,, 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new- shares 1413 23,850
1903 .. 9.065 8 „,, 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 .. 9,130 8 „ „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 .. 3,950 6 „ „ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 „ „ 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907 .. 6,708 6 „ „ 4858 1500 350 24,368
That doesn’t look so bad. It is doubtful, though, whether
the position is as good as it looks. The most striking
feature of recent balance sheets has been the growth of
debt. Like this :
1903 .. £17,009 1906 .. £63,724
1904 .. 35,795 1907 .. 70,602
1905 .. 42,862
But observe that while there has been this heavy crop of
liabilities, the amount written off for depreciation has
not increased. In 1903 plant, premises, and stock stood
at £100,061; they stand now at £172,323. There should,
therefore, it appears, be a much larger provision for de-
preciation now than there used to be ; but that much
larger provision has not been made. Apparently it was
necessary to still further extend the machinery and the
stocks; and, either because no further advances were
available, or because the directors would not take the
risk of any further advances, fresh capital has been got
in. But it couldn’t be got in on the old terms ; and
though 6 per cent, preference was offered, only 11,403 of
the 20,000 shares have been allotted. For the past year
ordinary shares as well as the preference people get 6
per cent, (the pref. shares carry div., however,
for only a few weeks); but as to the future of
ordinary shares a few' things have now to be con-
sidered : (1) between them and dividends stand in the-
first place “ sundry creditors and Bank of New' Zealand,
£69,842,” and the bank is no doubt a first mortgagee ; (2)
the 6 per cent, preference comes next after the bank ;
(3) the provision for depreciation made this year, and
whicli barely allowed of the 6 per cent, dividend, was
equal to considerably less than 1 per cent, on machinery,
buildings, and stocks. Year after year 1 rge additions
have been made to plant: the report says thisyear—“The
policy of the directors in keeping the plant abreast of
requirements has been continued, £3BIO being so ex-
pended.” The question is, How much is really addi-
tional plant, and how' much is merely replacement cf
machinery, etc., that has become more or less obsolete?
The accounts, of course, don’t allow an opinion to be
formed; but, taken along with the figures, the con-
sideration isn’t comforting. It supports what the form
and results of the recent share issue would suggest.
And that, chiefly, is that the M.L. 20 per cent, duty on
w'oollens is not enough, and that the industry is gradually
drifting on to the rocks.
* « * *
The. Castlkmaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and Cos., Ltd. (Brisbane)
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898.. £5,965 Nil
1899.. 8,614 Nil £5,854 £2760 11,351
1900.. 10,981 Nil 7,757 3224 14,575
1901.. 9,538 Nil 22,863 1,250
About £90,000 Capital written off.
1902.. 9,026 Nil 9026 10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. = £3750 3749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „ „ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 -- 128 14,714
1906.. 4,177 5 „ „ 3855 322 15,036
1907.. 5,025 5 „ „ 3855 ll7O 16,206
And this shows a bit more.of the history of this co. dur-
ing the last 10 years :
1898. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital £150,000 £77,095 £77,101 £77,104
Liabilities (less cash
balances) .. .. 133,314 63,727 63,646 63,513
Premises, plant, etc. .. 140,709 90,278 89,770 88,984
Hotels 67,846 16,500 16,500 18,700
Stocks and debtors .. 83,351 50,781 51,538 51,161
Revenue .. .. 28,273 25,755 24,054 26,949
Expenses .. .. 22,308 21,772 19,877 21,924
The profit and loss account is only a skeleton ; the record
of the transactions is thrown at shareholders and the
public in two lumps, one on each side of the page. A
great deal depends on the provision (if any) made
for depreciation. Apparently some provision is
made ; the shrinkage in the “ premises, plant,
etc.,” item during the past three years looks like
that, anyway. The shrinkage shown would be in addi-
tion to the cost of any new plant added. On the
other hand, plant, etc., may have been sold; but that
is less likely. Something also depends on the item
“ sundry debtors ” —whether doubtful book debts are
being written off. The record in this respect looks
satisfactory. In 1902 these book debts amounted to
£30,643; by 1905 they were down to £28,652; 1906,
£27,729; 1907, £23,639. That is a good cleaning-up.
But whether the total has been reduced like that through
clients paying up, or through undisclosed profits being
used to wipe off old bad and doubtful debts, it is im-
possible to say. It may be either or some of both. The
hotel account is not heavy ; probably because there was
a severe writing-down a few years ago, nothing has
been written off this item out of profits recently—which
makes profits look better, of course ; in other words,
they gain in appearance at the expense of the old
writing-down.
* * * *
Sands and MoDougall, Ltd. (Melbourne),
printers:—
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902 ..
1903 ..£11,559 5 p.c. =£5561 5000 £998 15.119
1904 .. 12,321 5 „ „ 5561 1916 4,844 19,963
1905 .. 17,592 5 „ „ 5561 3353 8,678 28,641
1906 .. 16,245 5 „ „ 5561 3000 7,684 36,325
1907.. 18,868 5 „ „ 5561 3250 10,057 46,382
The reserves consist of formal reserve fund £35,000,
dividend reserve £SOOO, debenture redemption fund
£2OOO, reserve to meet debenture interest £IB6B, and
undivided profit £7514. The debenture interest was
payable in July. Taking no account of this
interest reserve in either 1906 or 1907, then the gross
profit for the past year was £18,914. There are £50,000
worth of debentures outstanding ; they were lately re-
newed for five years. This liability is secured on the
uncalled capital: the shares are £25 each, of which
£l2 10s. remains to call up. The liabilities other than
debentures five years ago totalled £66,304 ; they are now
£52,691, a reduction of £13,613. As at June 30, before
the half-year’s appropriations in each case, the reserves
have in five years been increased by £24,760. Of this
amount £13,613 has gone to pay off the liabilities just
mentioned ; the other £11,147 is represented by addi and
assets (from £251,931 to £263,078). Meantime, on account
of depreciation, £20,769 has been written off. This writing-
down has kept the plant and property items about station-


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained
and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
BYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
• Manager.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for • andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag' covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has onlv one working part—the hammer —which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. It some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over tin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
■* ■* ■* *
The Insurance Freeman (Liverpool) in its issue
of 1st September wrote : —“ Quietly, unobtrusively, but
none the less surely, The Colonial Mutual Life Office is
becoming a most important factor in the Insurance
World. To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000 in 32
years is in itself a performance unique in the history of
British ordinary life offices, and this achievement is but
one among many of the accomplishments of the Society.”
* * * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
addtess, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. — For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* « * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keamand Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager^*
» * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.— Opening
Ceremony' by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the May-or of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said :—“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which the.y had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £10 of
extras ”*
* * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
•# * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nvmagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
» * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Colltson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
WL * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
ary; that is to say, amounts written off have almost equalled
additions. The increase in assets (£11,147) is nearly all
represented by book debts, which have increased irom
£43,645 to £53,321. No profit or loss account is pub-
lished ; but, looking at the profits, this increase of
book-debts seems fair, and results, one would judge,
from a bigger business, and not from the accumulation of
• ad and doubtful debts.
* * * •
For the first time something definite has been
announced with regard to the profit from zinc treatment
at Broken Hill. In answer to a Glasgow shareholder, who
has been able to find out more than an Australian share-
holder would be likely to be told (before the Board’s eyes
there is always the dread of the shifting of the eontroi to
the other side of the world), the B. H. Prop, people have
replied that “the profit, taking spelter at £23, with a
grade of concentrates of 42 per sent, zinc., l7oz. silver,
and lOJper cent, lead, is approximately 22s per ton.”
That is, of course, per ton of tailings. Why, then, couldn’t
the Zinc Corporation show a profit, seeing that it only
had to pay from 4s. to 6s. per ton for tailings? There
are probably two explanations : (1) the B. H. Prop, came
into the market as a producer of zinc concentrates just
when the Belgian and German zinc-smelters were short
of raw material, and so the co. was able to make un-
usually good terms for the sale of its concentrates ; (2)
the B. H. Prop, can pick and choose its tailings—it
naturally turns aside from stuff which doesn’t suit the
co.’s present process. This latter means a very great
deal to the co.
* * * *
Chairman Govett, of the Zinc Corporation,
addressing the shareholders in London on August 2,
made a clean breast of it. “ Frankly,” he said, “every-
body would appear to have lost his head. ... A case of
a genuine spontaneous movement starting from Mr.
Queneau’s enthusiasm ... inflation and insanity ensued.
... Everyone was filled with exaggerated optimism. ...
Looking back it is perfectly easy to see that although two
years ago it was claimed that the solution of the problem
had been found, in point of fact at that time it had
hardly commenced.” But Mr. Govett is too sweeping.
“Exaggerated optimism” didn’t get the better of
“everyone.” On June 15, 1905, when zinc-treatment
first began to be mentioned in London, The Bulletin
told Govett and Cos. not to make asses of themselves,
and to note that Block 14 was only able to show
2s. per ton profit out of zinc tailings. Then
on Nov. 16, same year, it went over the whole business
again, discussed all the processes at work, and pointed
out that nothing was known about zinc treatment that
hadn’t been known for some time, and that the people
who had been working for zinc under the most favorable
circumstances had made little or nothing out of it. On
the strength of those remarks and a dozen more The
Bulletin declines to admit that everybody lost his head.
The truth about the Zinc Corporation is that
the London crowd, of which chairman Govett is a leading
member, “ fell in ” in the simplest possible way, on a£
count of its own greed and an exalted opinion
of its own smartness. The secret history of the
Zinc Corporation is something like this : Carmichael,
for years experimental chemist to the Broken Hill
Prop., went to London. There, talking pretty much at
large (he had left the B. H. Prop.), he referred to the
millions in the tailings. In an airy way he said that the
zinc could be got out all right, (ft could—in the labora-
tory, to which Carmichael had been confined at Broken
Hill.) The smart London crowd, assuming that Australians
didn't know enough to come in out of the wet, and that
they were leaving millions lying round just because it
hadn’t occurred to them to pick the millions up, scurried
round wrapped in a great cloak of mystery, and mopped
up all the tailings dumps. The crowd was’afraid to make
inquiries to ascertain what was really known about zinc-
treatment for fear that somebody else would smell a rat
and pick up the millions first ; and that is why the smart
crowd got the tailings dumps first and started to look for
a way to treat them afterwards.
To complete the story and add to the irony of
it, it was these dull Australians who got out and left the
smart t’othersiders in to nurse the complete baby. H. J.
Daly, thefirst chairman, soon saw that gold was better than
Zincs at the price ; and then Baillieu, who was chairman
afler Daly, not only left the Board and the co., but nowa-
days is one of the chief props and stays of the rival De
Bavay process.
* * * *
There is nothing unusual in the fact that the
huge lead mill, lately erected by the Sulphide Corporation
at the Central mine, Broken Hill, is not at once doing all
that was expected of it. A concentrating mill never does.
When the Central mill was built, provision was made for
dealing with the slimes in such a way that there were,to
be no slimes—that is, in the sense that other mills have
slimes. They were to be fed to filter belts, which
would drain off the water and carry the product
straight into the granulation (zinc) mill. But slimes are
not dealt with so easily, and the ancient problem is still
causing trouble. In productiveness the Sulphide Cor-
poration has gone ahead lately. Its magnetic and granu-
lation plants are turning out as much as 1900 tons of zinc
concentrates per week, while the product of the lead mill
brings the total concentrates to 2500 tons.
* * * *
British Broken Hill is not doing much with its
eastern vein on the south side of the 800 ft. crosscut.
This body has not shown itself rich at any point; aud,
although it bulges here and there, it is generally narrow
as well as poor.
■* * * *
A gradual widening of the ore bodies as they
go down is a feature of the development of the North
mine, Broken Hill. Also the ore at the 950 ft. level (which
is only just being opened up from the bottom of two
winzes sunk from the 800 ft.) is first-class stuff to look at.
Likewise it assays well, which is even more to the point.
The theory that the North’s ore bodies underlie back into
the Junction North mine gets a very bad knock through
these 950 ft. developments, as at that point the ore is still
underlying away from the Junction North.
* * * *
The old Rupee mine, recently acquired by the
Broken Hill Lead and Zinc Cos., is situated on a flat near
the town or Stephens Creek reservoir, and is a long way
east of the principal mineral belt, alleged by some to be the
extension of the Broken Hill lode. Recently a few plums
were found in what had for years been regarded as a
poor pudding, and the Rupee has been much talked of in
consequence. The lode, which has just been cut at 200 ft.,
was in former days pecked at on the 100 ft. level. The ore
body there is small, but contains bunches of fairy rich
sulphides, principally zinc. In fact, like all the “ out-
side” shows so far worked, the Rupee is small, and
everything about it is small—except the hopes of the
directors.
# * * *
Great Cobar nowadays, being in a public co.’s
hands, publishes its smelting results ; and so the much-
disputed question of the value of Cobar ore is settled.
For eight \< eeks past the 30,822 tons of ore handled aver-
aged 2-4 per cent, copper, ldwt. llgrs. gold, and Bdwt.
silver.
* * * *
Lloyd’s, Burraga (N.S.W.), which is crawling
through the winter on account of a shortage of firewood
fuel, didn’t quite manage to escape a loss in August; but
the deficit was small. There are expenses that can’t be
cut down in proportion to the reduced output. There is
some doubt whether the tramway will be pushed on with ;
all supplies are very dear at present, and the co. recognises
that it has barely enough cash to do the work even under
favorable conditions.
* * • *
The N.S.W. coalfields are putting up a record
in the way of output this year. For the past fortnight
36 of the northern collieries worked full time, and the
oldest inhabitant can’t remember that such a thing ever
happened before.
» * » *
The Bellarnbi Cos. (N.S.W.) has got another
seven years’ contract for the supply of small coal for the
Broken Hill Proprietary’s coke-making requirements.
» * * *
It transpires that the Adelaide Steamship Cos.
is to pay the North Bulii Goal Cos. for its block of shares
in that mine in ships and not in cash.
* * « •
Died in Adelaide last week “ Tom ’’Barnfield,
racing man, who, in mining, was mostly known for his
long connection with Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.). Somehow',
Barnfield got blamed for a lot of things in connection
with the recent erratic history of that co.
* « « *
From Chairman Sam See, of the Grafton Copper
Co.’s mine at Cangai (N.S.W.): “Re Bulletin par.
(September 5) about Cangai. The ore smelted by the co.
up-to date has been taken from the w’est side of the
mountain; the ore taken from the top of the mountain
and from the east side of the property was got out and
shipped to Warafih by the syndicates w'hich held the
properties before the properties W'ere amalgamated. That
ore (sulphides) yielded up to 18 per cent. Since the regis-
tration of this co. not 50 tons of that ore has been
smelted. We are now about to operate on this end of
the lode, which will yield over 15 per cent. Re the sug-
gestion as to concentration, the lode matter for such a
proposition is very large indeed, but was in no way con-
sidered in a recently-published report or. the property.
There is sufficient ore in sight averaging 12 to 14 per
cent, to last four years at a consumption of 400 tons per
month.”
« * * m
Things begin, to look up a little with the
Elsmore, one of the New England (N.S.W.) tin properties
in the strong hands of the Thonemann party in Mel-
bourne. The co. turned the corner at the beginning of
last year ; in the second half it made a profit of £499 ; in
the past half-year it shows £2739, of which £604 is used
to write machinery down 10 per cent. There is £2767 in
hand ; but £2500 of that must go to pay off the vendors.
That, after providing for current accounts, leaves a
surplus of only £67. Still the sheet will be clean, and
then it will take only half the past term’s net profit
to pay 20 per cent, on the modest capital. Water has
to be pumped into the reservoir : this adds something to
costs, w’hich are not strikingly low. So far as can be
judged, the co. turned out about 45 tons of tin (metallic)
in the six months. Profits (gross) were therefore slightly
under £6O per ton ; so, deducting that from the half-
year’s high tin-market average, its costs, added to
realisation, etc., run to over £l2O per ton. And, prior to
the present boom, tin had in only two years averaged
£l2O per ton for the previous 25 years at ieast. Just 10
years ago (1897) it averaged only £6l 7s. 6d. So this and
many othertin cos. are building on rickety foundations.
Recent developments in the market and the
mines have not improved the chances of G. P. Doolette
doing anything with Glassford Creek and Mt. Hector
(Q.), in spite of all the trouble taken in fixing up the
option. Nothing definite is, of course, known yet; but
unless something like a miracle happens between now
and November, the option won’t be exercised. And then
Glassford, at any rate, will freeze.
* * * •
Mt. Cannindah (Q.), whose management got to
loggerheads with 8., M. and Cos. over the latter’s nomina-
tion of a general manager, is now being worked by Philp,
jun., under Thomas Gibb’s direction. It W’as Gibb who
protested against 8., M. and Co.’s nomination ; and the
Board w r as all the readier to hand matters over to Gibb to
do as he pleased with, because Cecil Rae evidently did
not have the opinion about the mine that the Board
thought its general manager should have. Rae, who had
been on 8., M. and Co.’s staff at the Fitzrov, near Rock-
hampton, W’as, however, only on the mine for about four
or five weeks altogether. The recovery of metal is still
poor-about lj) per cent.—but the management says it
sees better things ahead. Money is now' being spent on
an increased concentrating plant and a roaster, which
latter is going to increase the rate of smelting and make
sure of a cent, matte for shipment.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) copper furnaces had a good
run for August, the yield of gold being exceptionally
high—l2,77s tons of ore produced 401 tons blister copper
and 60X50z. gold, or 9dwt. per ton of ore and nearly 15oz.
per ton of fine copper. It is a lucky co. that can get £6O
worth of gold with a ton of copper. The unfortunate
part of the business is that the separation of the tw'o is so
far done in America, but the new'Electrolytic Smelting
Cos. in which Mt. Morgan is interested will alter that. At
present Mt. Morgan’s blister copper is the richest in the
w’orld, limiting the comparison of course to large
quantities. One curious feature of the co.’s monthly re-
turns is that Mt. Morgan recovers more gold than is
nominally in the ore; the excess comes from pyritic
fluxes. The co., in short, puts more ore into the
furnaces than the returns are based on. If Mt. L ell
followed the same system, and did not include fluxes
containing small quantities of gold and copper, the yield
would seem better. But it wouldn’t affect profits.
* * * *
The Mungana, in which the ChillagoeCo. is still
heavily interested, made in the past year a profit of
£32,940, of which it wrote off £10,079. The working
account balance was £35,151, out of which management
costs had to come. For the previous year, this balance
was £33,306 ; and for 1905 it was £7366. Since the co.
was sent out by Chillagoe to have an existence of its own'
2037 tons copper, 5563 tons lead, and 656,8760 z. silver have
been produced, and no dividend has shown up yet; but
on June 30 there was a surplus of cash and more or less
liquid assets amounting to £32,788, equal to about Is. 3d.
per share. Also a good deal of development has been done ;
thus, though much sulphide ore has been exposed, little of
it has been turned to account, because this co. depends
entirely upon the Chillagoe co. for its ore-reduction, and
Chillagoe has not been able to effectively handle much
sulphide, though the new Huntingdon-Heberlein de-
sulphurisers will amend that. On the other hand, though
the management stresses the fact that it has developed
much ore which it hasn’t been able to send to market, it is
just as well to note, in reckoning up the alleged profits,
that the co. has charged up nearly £60,000 of mine expendi-
ture to capital account, and that £43,391 of this expendi-
ture still remains as an asset, to be written off out of
future profits.
* * * *
The - income of the Associated (W.A.), for the
year to the end of March, amounted to £228,693 ; but,
after meeting all claims, only £16,696 remained to
carry forward. Asa result, shareholders will have to
whistle for the usual 2s. dividend, and then it won’t
come. When the accounts were made up, the liquid
assets amounted to £177,000 ; investments in Consols and
shares in other mining cos., £137,000 ; cash and bullion,
£24,000 ; and stores, £16,000. The shoots in the mine
are described as “ high values contained in small veins
and rich patches of telluride, surrounded by large bodies
of low'-grade ore.” Although 109,730 tons W'ere extracted
during the year, the mine gained on the mill to the ex-
tent of 66,682 tons.
* * * »
Chairman G. P. Doolette, at the Oroya-Brown
Hill meeting “ From the inception of the original cos.
the output has been £4,155,000. The output since the
amalgamation of the cos. has been £2,761,000, and divi-
dends have been paid amounting to 3J-times the par value
of the shares Some people have the idea that the
Oroya-Brown Hill is played out. I want to assure share-
holders that such is not the case; for some rears to come
it will, I believe, pay about 40 per cent, per’ annum upon
the face value of the stock. To my mind, Oroyas are a
good 20 per cent, investment at £2 During the
present year we shall pay two more quarterly dividends
of 2s. 6d. each, making the year’s dividends 11s. 6d. In
the coming year it is our intention to fix the dividends
at 2s. per quarter, and these should be maintained for
some years to come.” This may sound optimistic ; but
the outlook is undoubtedly very 'good.
* * * . .*
The west shoot has been picked up in the 19th
north level of the Lake View Consols, and for the first
30ft. or so of driving it assays about 50s. per ton. Local
buying put up the price of shares a shilling or two, but
directly the demand ceased thy eased back again. Asa
result, “ cover ” dupes, who were put in at the top of the
market, plus .commission, are now being asked to hand
out more coin. While the mine looks like lasti' g for
years, there is nothing much in sight for shareholders—
unless the Broken Hill South Blocks, or some of the co.’s
other outside investments, turn up trumps.
* * * *
Once upon a time W.A. gold stocks could be
sold by the thousands in London without any trouble,
and without the market turning a hair. Nowadays, to
sell 100 Ivanhoes. Horseshoes, Kalgurlis, or Fingalls, is a
matter of arrangement, and if 500 shares are thrown on
the market, you can hear the sickening thud in Australia.
Smaller stocks —South Kalgurlis, Hainaults, Associated
Northerns, Cosmopolitans, and Lancefields—are nearly
as hard to sell as a broken window pane, while Hannan’s
Star, Chaffers, North Kalgurli, Brown Hill Extended,
and other “ shypoo ” can scarcely be given away. Bull
Cohen’s policy is to sell everything and buy nothing just
now ; and in the long run, perhaps, this game will prove
the most profitable. At anv rate, it has ueen so far.
• ■» " -* *
8., M. and Cos. still find the Cosmopolitan
Proprietary (W.A.) a source of worry and anxiety. A
bit of good ore is being met with here and there in the
bottom workings, but- the average is so low that only the
most rigid economy makes it payable. At present, the
chief stand-by is a nice shoot of ore in the north end of
the No. li level, which averages from 10 to 15dwt. for a
length of about 100 ft., and for a width in places of 20fc. ;
but how far this patch extends above and below the level
is not known. Various proposals for taking over
other mining properties have been considered by the
Board, and an interest in what is vaguely termed “a
promising W.A. gold lease ” has already been acquired.
W * * *
It is cabled out that the interests of Australian
holders are to be fully protected in connection with the
Boulder Main Reef and Golden Link (W.A.) reconstruc-
tions. Australian holders had reckoned themselves
frozen out of their rights, as it was not possible for them
to apply for the new shares in the time provided. Now
the sudden anxiety for their welfare is looked upon as
suspicious—possibly the ’Ome shareholders didn’t bite as
it was expected they would. As for the merits the
Boulder Main Reef is perhaps a deep-level possibility,
but it will take a lot more money than it is now proposed
to raise to set tie this point; and with regard to the
Golden Link, while it has a little ore in sight, its prospects
are poor, and its management no better.
Golden Pole Cos. (W.A.) may acquire the Great
Western at Wilson’s Patch, near Lawlers, as a second
string. This property was once owned by J. Bull, but
owing to bad management, was abandoned. A party of
three prospectors then took it up, and worked it with
some success until lately, when tributors were given a
look in. The mine possesses a fair width of ore ; and,
provided the alleged values are there, ought to pay if
worked on a large scale.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies Cos. (W.A.) has gone into
voluntary liquidation, and another reconstruction has
been decided on. Judging from what shareholders were
told at the recent meeting in Brisbane, one would think
the future was assured, whereas the cloud overhang-
ing it is so black that even the most hardened optimist
cannot detect any silver lining.
» * * *
Menzies Alpha leases and plant (W.A.) were
auctioned in “lots to suit purchasers ” the other day.
Sale advts. in the local papers paraded the fact that
£60,000 worth of gold has been won from the property,
but they quite forgot to mention that all that and a lot
more was sunk in working expenses, and that the mine is
a duffer at depth. The fact that these things were not
mentioned didn’t, however, help matters much, as the
sale only realised a small sum. The Alpha is one of the
3 )-odd English flotations mentioned in a recent issue as
being either dead and buried or lying about loose in the
Menzies district.
• * * »
Callion leases are still having limelight thrown
on them by the press in Westralia. Those who doubt the
official yarns about the property being “chock-full” of
rich ore are invited to test the reefs for themselves.
Blatchford went along to do this, but found that most of
the gilded assays came, it was said, from parts of the
workings which he wasn’t prepared to risk his life in
sampling. He therefore tested what he could, and gave
up the inspection of the rest of the mine as a bad job.
Blatehford’s report, by the way, has not yet been made
public.
• • * «
Shipments of rich copper ore are still being
sent away from the Whim Well mine, Pilbarra (W.A.).
Realisation charges now run out at about £lO per ton ;
but economies in handling are expected to knock off £2
per ton. The management reckons that there are 200,000
tons, containing £1,000,000 profit, in sight above the
bottom adit level; but even if this estimate is not taken
seriously it doesn’t amount to treason.
» « * *
Garden Gully, long the pride of Bendigo, is
picking up again. The neighboring Sea pioneered the
recovery. That co. did not do so well out of the old
Garden Gully shoot as it expected, because a slide cut off
the gold. Pottering about overhead from the 1544 ft.
level on the course of the slide, manager Dunstan hit
on a few inches of stone. This has since proved to
be a saddle formation, with sft. thickness of quartz in the
cap. Yields have gone an ounce ; and, as the strike was
new, Garden Gully cut out west at 1560 ft., hit the slide,
put up a rise, and got the west leg. So far, it has only
got a few inches of quartz, but it is duff in which the
plums show thickly. The co. has a big area, and
that fact, with the reputation of the mine, has given
shares a pretty big fillip—so big, in fact, that nothing
like their value is in sight. The find would indicate to
most folk the need for poking about a bit in the Bendigo
mines with the diamond drill, as they do in Kalgoorlie.
But there is scarcely a Bendigonian who thinks the drill
can help him. However, as the idea nowadays seems to
be to come nearer to the surface to see if anything has
been left behind, some modern person may yet give the
drill a show.
* * » *
Plateau stocks have been feverish on the Balla-
rat market since the promising development in the South
Star, a few days ago. Anew make of stone, believed to
be a continuation of the Consols lode, rose up from the
bottom of the drive in the 3100 ft. level, and soon showed
sft. in the face. The usual talk of “ jewellers’ shops ”
followed the exhibition of specimens studded with
coarse gold, and shares jumped a few shillings, but
declined under pressure of spec, selling. Should
the stone continue to develop satisfactorily, things
will hum again on the Plateau, thanks to the
Government grant of £SOOO and the big faith of VV. H.
Sewell and co. in deep mining thereabouts. In the dim
past several shoots of gold were profitably worked on the
Consols line, down through the Band and Albion into the
Star of the East. The Star of the East w'orked out the
stone down to 2000 ft., right up to the South Star boun-
dary, but it was not considered payable below 1800 ft.
There is, therefore, a big slice of reef to probe between
the 2000 ft. and this 3100 ft. level.
* » * *
The remarkable record put up last year by the
Vaughan bucket dredge (Vic.) in the way of cheap work
wasn’t a flash in the pan. The co.—mostly Melbourne
people—started in 1904, and out of six months’work in
that year, on a paid capital of £7500 shares (£4OOO of that
represents paid shares), return* and £6OO in divs. The
dredge shifted 196,140 cubic yds. of stuff, which averaged
l‘oo7gr. ; next year 401,720yd5. averaged only 0.96 gr.
For the year £BOO was paid. Last year 437,214yd5. gave
an average of l’o3gr. (9140 z.), out of which £IOOO was
paid. Charles Murison has been in charge of the dredge
all through; and when he looks at the figures,
proud dredge-master. It is doubtful whether any country
in the world can show better or even as good.
* * * *
A man writes to The Bulletin some blistering
words about the Clear Creek (Vic.) float, referred to here
on Aug. 15. Most of the blistering language can’t be
put inside paper covers, and asbestos is too expensive for
a whole issue ; but, anyway, before the co. goes to much
expense, it might be just as well for its own subsequent
happiness if it got another crushing put through under
test conditions. The crushing on which the float was
effected was something over 16dwt.; and it would be as
well to make sure if there is ariy more of that quality
where that lot came from.
* * * *
Senator Clemons says a good deal more about
the tariff these times than he does about the mines at
Rosebery (Tas.). Yet lots of people will remember him
by the Tasmanian Copper Cos. rather than by his Free-
trade fantasies. Reports of this co. for 1906, received
lately from London, recall that, instead of mining and
smelting, it' mines and sells to the foreigner. Yet
Clemons certainly fought the foreigner over the Hercules.
Maybe that little shred of common-sense will be backed
Up b.V a decent fight for the prompt erection of smelters at
Rosebery to treat the Tasmanian Copper Co.’s own ore.
Then from a study of the practical side of mining Clemons
may be driven to throw his Freetrade aside and go in for
an export duty on zinc, to compel the manufacture of
spelter here. Had that been in force, instead of £5000
profit being earned out of the Rosebery ore in the last 12
months, there might well have been three times as much.
The Blinman mine (S. Aus.) has lately, however, pulled
the Tasmanian Copper Co. out of the mire, for it earned
over £30,000 profit out of the co.’s total of £37,574. The
Board proposes to cut the co. into two, and to provide
£50,000 for smelters for the Rosebery, and to devote an
equal amount to the S. Australian properties.
•» * • *
A strange world, my masters ! Here is the dis-
credited, derided Briseis Extended (Tas.) again up on the
top notch. A fortnight ago half-a-crown or so would
have got a sack-full of scrip, as a 10s. call was looming
ah ad, and there wasn't much chance that it would be
paid. A week later £7 was given for shares (there are
2100 of them), so there was a nice little rise for the man who
got in early. All through there has been no “Up, guards,
and at ’em ” message from Paul Northey, or any prelimi-
nary puffing from the Langford locomotive. Somehow
or other the market just rushed shares in a bull-headed
way, so another week may see t he one that taketh not the
prompt profit bewailing his luck. What seems to have
happened is that some seams of tin have shown in the
face of the wash towards the Ringarooma River. This
was where bores had given no return, so the presence of
the tin is as inexplicable as the scurry for shares was
emphatic. The stuff is all shallow dirt, just as it was
nearer the Derby road, where in Baudry’s time there were
a couple of good clean-ups, followed by the booming of
shares to £45. Because people forget these little past
occurrences, they tumble over one another to buy, when
they ought to sit firm till they can measure the value of
the find.
* * • •
“Hail Columbia” Hoover is raging in London
at a report in circulation there that he has made heaps of
money by selling “ Sink ” Corporation and Barrier shares
forward. According to the Rialto, Mr. Hoover loathes
speculation ; and, even if he didn’t, the terms of his
Bewick-Moreing partnership would prevent him specm
lating.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . Durability Guarantesd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M«n.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prloe Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
tj
N
S
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS a SZ^>
Also at Mbmoprkb. BYPNEY.
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
POLITICAL
POINTS
TORY GRANDMA’S FAVORITE DRINK.
It was owing to his (Mr. Watson’s) party that the
grave scandals of the Six Hatters and other such inci-
dents taught our kinsmen in the old country that they
are not wanted in Australia.—S. M. HERALD.
AUSTRALIA : “ Hullo! Got ’em again ?”
Under a purely revenue tariff,” says a
Freetrade shrieker, after quoting another price-
list, “money goes much further.” It does.
Instead of going next door to the young trades-
man, who would get married if he could find a
bit more work to do, it goes to Japan and Norway
and America, and all manner of far places. It
goes so much further, in fact, that travellers have
seen good Australian splosh in Iceland.
Notwithstanding all threats of Closer
Settlement in N.S.W., that Old Man of the Land,
the A. A. Company, paid £4 per share dividend
last year, the best in the past decade. For 80
years this huge blot on N.S.W. land history has
called for drastic legislation, and time and again
Beform has seemed to be going for it with an
effective eraser, but at the annual settlements it
comes up as black and ugly as ever. The blot
gets the better of the blotters. Probably the ex-
planation is that the blot is in dead earnest, and
the blotter isn’t.
A few days ago, when the Stinking Fish
party was going strong in Sydney over the elec-
fon?, a large and very dead and very “high”
whale drifted past the Heads on its way north,
it didn t come into the harbor, competition being
too great.
“Freetrader'’ wrote about the briefest
letter on record to the Sydney papers, the other
day—just “ Where is George Reid?” Well, he’s
in the courts, looking after his fee-trade. George
always did have a tendency to drop his “r’s.”
Still, to do him justice as a speaker, he rarely lost
the run of his exes.
ln view of the frequently-heard wail about
federal oppression and State rights, this resolu-
tion, passed by the Victurian State School
teachers’ Union is interesting : “This conference
believes that the best interests of education would
be served by placing the various State Education
Departments under Federal control.”
The National Defence League (N. S. W.) held
its annual meeting last week. The secretary had
an encouraging tale to tell. As a result of a year’s
agitation, national defence is now a live political
issue, and the adoption of a scheme of compulsory
universal service (which the League advocates) is
imminent. It’s all the work of a few enthusi-
asts, of whom Colonel Gerald Campbell is the
chief. Under his direction the League last year
carried out a good deal of propaganda work, pub-
lished four numbers (16,000 copies) of a really
admirable newspaper, held some scores of meet-
mgs all at a total cost of £lO7. Of course, that
means honorary labor right through, and The
Bulletin is glad to be able to say that a good deal
of that labor is acknowledged as coming from its
office, and especially from artist Norman Lindsay.
The sturdy and wonderful Maoriland
Government, which for 16 years had never known
defeat, is tottering on its basis. Plainly Joseph
Ward is neither a Ballance nor a Seddon. Last
week the long-continued Ministry was beaten by
two votes, and adjourned to “ consider its posi-
tion.” Evidently during the adjournment some
one spoke soft and gentle words to the deserters,
and when the House reassembled, enough of
them came back to enable the Government to
resume its troubled way. But its mana has
mostly departed, and it is a mild apologetic
Government now, not the old iron-handed affair
vvhich used to club its way through all obstruc-
tion, and greet its critics with a terrifying roar
that blew them backwards right out of the door
of the premises.
In each of the last three months the
vyeather in Sydney put up a record ; the first was
the wettest .June, and the second and third were
the driest July and August that the Observatory
rain-gauges have ever known. The coastal
country outside Sydney and a good deal of the
back-country have also had the droughtiest 10
weeks ever known, and some people begin to have
doubts once more about the great natural resources
and the flourishing primary industries. Already,
for instance, there has been a horrible slump in
the export of butter compared with last year’s
figures; and bank managers and mortgage co.
bosses are once more wearing a worried look when
they turn over the securities. These gentlemen
wouldn’t for anything announce to the world that
they are worried, because their concerns are based
on credit, so they must always put the best face
on their affairs; blit they are worried all the
same, and some of them have a lot more sympathy
than they had six months ago with the Australian
struggle to establish “secondary ” industries that
won’t dry up when a drought happens along.
“By the World For-
got” wrote sadly to. the
Melbourne papers lately
saying that he and his fel-
low settlers in the Beech
Forest were like lost sheep,
or strayed geese, or some-
thing, because they had no
railway and could get
neither themselves nor their
produce nor necessaries in
or out, and all that was left
in life was to sit and mope—
and he wanted to know
what Bent meant by it.
Thomas, whose poetry is of
the comic-song class, merely
bellowed back that he had
offered these settlers a line
long ago, but they bucked
at loading their lands suffi-
ciently to give him one-lialf
per cent, interest on the
money laid out, so they got
no line. That’s the worst
of these poetical indivi-
duals, mooning away on
the rim of civilisation, “ the world forgetting,
by the world forgot ”; their dilapidated self-
commiseration soothes their souls, but a little
plain horse-sense would gain them much more
solid support.
Certain N.S.W Farmers and Settlers’
Associations have risen to propose that the duty
on wire netting should be suspended for three
years. The idea suggests a variation which might
also be an improvement. Why not, instead,
suspend subsidies to local bodies for three years,
likewise all the special railway rates whereby the
farmer’s produce is carried at about a quarter the
rate charged to the manufacturer ?
“K”. Is Joseph Carruthers attempting
to burn the Lands scandle at both ends ?
John Madden planted a neat one on Car-
ruthers from the Victorian Show lunch last
week. Quoth he: “ This talk of secession is like
the injured lady who tears up her marriage certi-
ficate, and then thinks that she can bounce the
old man out of the house.”
Poynton, the Foreign-trade person from
South Oss, has violently assured the public that
Australian steel “is only an imitation of steel.”
That’s where he is wrong. As far back as 39 years
ago American experts pronounced the Australian
pig-iron as by far the best that ever reached the
Californian market, and with good iron you can
make good steel. It is Poynton who is only an
imitation—the imitation of an energetic, upstand-
ing, self-reliant Australian. Poynton made his
imitation remarks in the course of a wail about
the duties on steel (there is to be no duty on steel
till the local supply is assured, and even then it is
proposed to let English steel in free), and the
crushing impost on bolts, nuts, etc. (there is no
impost at present on bolts, nuts, etc.).
MORE BAD LUCK FOR THE POOR.
THE BEAK : “ You are fined 10s. or seven days!"
THE DRUNK : “ Yer Swashup, that an’ the cost of the drunk makes it 30s. Why, before the
tariff I could get worsh'n thish fer fifteen bob. Very hard on poor people.”
“ The miners will have something to say
at the forthcoming elections about the burdens
placed on their industry by Minister Lyne,
helped by the Federal Lahor party,” gritted” the
S. M. Herald the other uay. Well, Broken Hill,
Sturt, Cobar, and Kahibah, some of the great
mining constituencies of N.S.W., have spoken.
They said Laborites Cann, Griffith, McDonell,
and Estell—and after looking round and making
threats, the HERALD-Carruthers crowd saw that
it was hopeless to ask them to say anything else ;
so the four were returned unopposed.
For some time past Premier Kidston, of
Queensland, has been chewing over the project of
taking a referendum on the futile Bible-reading-
in-schools question, and lately proposed to Lyne
that the vote should be taken at the next Federal
elections. On the heels of this comes the sugges-
tion that Victoria should do likewise. Lyne
doesn’t think the proposal “reasonable,” but
Lyne should be a lot stronger than that ; he
should tell Kidston and Bent that he’ll see them
darned before he’ll allow; the Federal electoral
machinery to be used in any State sectarian
squabble. That’s one aspect of the matter.
Another is that if the proposed referendum is
taken, the people, inflamed and divided by the
Bible subject, will be just in the humor to vote
the religious ticket in regard to the Federal can-
didates. And the religious ticket is a document
that ought to be burned by the common hangman.
Unobtrusive S. M. Herald telegram from
Clifton,(N.S. W.): —
Recent arrivals from England seeking employment
here state that the unemployed question in all parts of
England is a very serious one, and that thousands are
out of employment. Many practical miners aiid trades-
men would come to Australia if they had the means, as
the wages here are far in advance of those in England.
The average wage for ordinary laborers there is about
18s.-per week, and skilled laborers, such as bricklavers,
carpenters, etc., about 255. per week.
This appeared at the very time when the
Herald wss in the middle of its loudest screech
about how the new tariff would prove “absolutely
disastrous to the working classes ; ” and just when
the dreary Cobdenite paper was strenuously-
advising the unskilled and skilled laborers to be
ready to down Protection at next election—pre-
sumably that they might eventually attain to the
magnificent Freetrade wage of 18s. and 255. per
week, with long intervals of idleness.
The importers’ organs have a beautiful
opinion of their bosses. Brisbane Telegraph
has been stirred up by hangers-on of the colossal
and soulless Standard Oil Trust to curse the duty
on tinned kerosene ; and it makes these state-
ments :
(1) This new duty “ will impose a tax of about £160,000
per annum to benefit a few tinsmiths.”
(2) It is “almost certain ” that the whole of Australia’s
oil requirements will come here in bulk.
So the Telegraph’s bosses, the importers, will
bring in “ the whole of Australia’s requirements”
duty free (bulk kerosene isfree), and then, though
they haven’t paid any duty, they will collect
“about £160,000 ” on account of an alleged and
imaginary duty from Australians. The Tele-
graph presumably knows its bosses ; and it
plainly says they are thieves. The Bulletin
only says that they are the Standard Oil Trust.
The South Aus. Labor Party has just had
its fourth annual palaver. This time the things
chatted over totalled 102,* and ranged from Elec-
tive Ministries to the weight of wheat bags.
Roberts, M.P., is the new president of the United
Labor Party, with its 150 and more branches.
Some day Roberts will write an interesting book.
He has crowded many experiences into his 17
years in Crowland, from the time he found him-
self a young sailor boy stranded on the Port Pirie
wharf to the present day, when he is a big power
in the political world. Just what Roberts was
before he found S.A., or S. A. found him, a lot
of people would give something to know.
When the duty was placed on imported
chairs, Sydney Evening News wept because in
future Australians'would have to squat on their
heels, or take their meals off the mantelpiece—
the idea that Australians could put together such
a marvellous piece of ingenuity as a chair was
naturally absurd. But, as usual, the News mis-
judged other Australians by itself, for already,
on account of the duty, a Maryborough (Q.) man
has started manufacturing good chairs out of solid
pine, with fittings of Flindersia wood ; and in
appearance and strength they are said to compare
' more than favorably with the imported miracle.
And he is only one out of a multitude. As a
matter of fact, Australia makes thousands of
chairs.
Why Australian iron workers are out of
employment. Last year 14 vessels of various
sorts were imported into Australia. One came
from Norway (value £3750), one from Japan
(worth £4000), one from Maoriland (worth £550),
and eleven from Britain
(worth £358,000). Had
these been built in Aus-
tralia there would have
been at least the be-
ginnings of a shipbuilding
industry in this country.
Wanted, a 30 per cent,
duty on imported ships.
ALL HER DOING .
Exhibits intended for the Exhibition of Woman’s Work,
to be held in Melbourne, will be carried between the
States free of all charge. —News Item.
"Lalage, darlint, Oi've kem to say good-bye to
yez. 'Tis a free thrip Oi’ve bin offered on
th ’ ship-boat to Victorrrria.”
"Free trip, indade, you loiar!”
“ Divil a lie , at all. Oi'm, goin' as an example
of woman’s worruk to th' Melbourrne Ex-
hibition.”
Macmillan Brown, the moat recent of the
Wlld '«y«a professors who have been infesting Byd-
*! ey ate ’ Prophesies that the desert interior of
Australia will yet produce its own wild type m-
a,?cmg am** ° f th , e °J d w T d whicb ® volved
Mahomet and Moses and otner shifters of history,
w fc . v v "“/a h f S £ lready P rnduced type,
whet l ier “7 desert influence or not. We have our
°T n da ” cin S d «rvish in Ben Sulieman Carruthers,
who only needs to be backed up by a score of dirty
Norsemen on a sandhill to be the real genuine
Raisuli of the south.
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The question to be considered, in regard to the contri-
bution to the Royal Navy, is not what is best for the
defence of Australia, but what is best for the defence of
the Empire.”— Imported Potentate speaking in Sydney.
What though the Japs have reached the Heads
And laid Carruthers low ?
What though they kill us in our beds
And red our blood does flow?
Though blackened be the countryside,
Our chains will never chafe
While we but know, whate’er betide,
The Empire still is safe.
What if our buildings proud are sent
To strew the globe with dust ?
What though our fairest girls are lent
To feed the Mongols’ lust?
What though Bruce Smith is weltering
In Pitt-street in his gore?
The Pah’ful’s made the welkin ring
In distant Singapore.
Invasion is to some a fact
That’s stern and shocking ; but,
It only means our cities sacked,
Our throats so deftly cut.
Why ask protection, when we know
There’s plenty soldiers where
The Empire gives its nightly show
In rorty Leicester Square ?
Let’s hear no more of all this rot
Of having ships to fly
Our ensign and protect a spot
That doesn’t signify.
And men—we’ll go on training some
Perhaps a dozen files—
In readiness, when orders come
To guard the Scilly Isles.
When fire and sword have cried a hal
Before the ranks of Shem,
And they have strewn the place with salt,
The joke will "be on them:
Though barren is Australia fair,
By no chance will there be
The slightest sign of blood or hair
In Endell-street, E.C.
Why should we have a navy ? If
The squadron will protect
The Empire and serve out the biff,
Australia may be wrecked.
What care we while the joyous song
Of peace from Lambeth rings ;
While Glasgow still is going strong
And dances Highland flings 1
X.B.W.
MILTON MACYREGOR.


J.OOS
AJLIOii
ano
21|-
POST FREE
22/-
We tell YOU that
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS
FOR MEN are
FiRST
OF
ALL
| HONEST
{ BOOTS.
When we say this, we don’t
stop there, we go ahead
AND PROVE IT.
They give Satisfaction to
Wearers in every way.
We will send our Illustrated Style Boo*, post free,
on receipt of a post card with your address.
Our Extensive Mail Order Business is so thoroughly sys ematical that an
accurate fit and promptness of despatch may be confidently relied upon.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Boots exchanged or money refunded if not satisfiod, so that YOU RUN NO R!BK.
BUCKLEY & NUNN,
LIMITED.
FASHIONS
OF THE
DAY.
$
Summer,
1907.
i
m
I
m
i
feie
SPECIAL NOTE ! Fashions of the Period.—A walk through our Showrooms should
he of much interest to ladies who derive pleasure from seeing a combination of good taste
and originality in Dress Creations and other goods of perfect manufacture, all marked at
prices that will effect an important economy to those who purchase, and in every instance
will bear favorable comparison in value with the tariff of other leading firms. We buy
direct from the world’s best centres of manufactures on the most favored terms, which
enables us to sell goods of the best makes, for which we are genuinely noted, at strictly
moderate prices.—BUCKLEY & NUNN, Limited, Victoria House, Melbourne.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE. Posted free on Application.
BUCKLEy S NUNN, LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
P. & B. Building Paper
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — 51 arcus Aurelius.
A WISE PROVISION in a specification ; “ Line the roof to main
building and all shingle and weatherboard walls with P. &B. PAPER. It
OFTEN PREVENTS DISASTERS that may arise from leaky tile or slate
roofs or damp walls, since it is weather-proof and cannot rot. BE WISE 1
BOOKLET, GIVING PULL INFORMATION, POST FREE.
famC
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & 00. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM
BALDWIN,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FOREIGN MANAGER,
A
m
25 Years on the Market.
25 Years on the Market, and selling better to-day than ever
before, is the strongest reason we can give you to induce
you to try the PLUM RAZOR.
The Pltam Razor,
Price
(52?‘
10/0
Post Free
Anywhere
—is always ready—always right—never scrapes or pulls or
gives trouble—the secret is in the steel 1
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Singte Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
TENNIS.
AUSTRALASIA v. WORLD.
These Racquets were used! by Our Men.
AY RE’S
Wilding
Champion
Handicap
Clarence.
m
HERTV
an-H-S-g-is
DO
be?
iLtlui
Z
3
o.
I
RACKET.
3 S
add Postage 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.
SLAZENCER’S
Doherty
E.G.M.
Whitehouse
Demon.
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY.,
Sports Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
zmca
m
COUPON
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping, say
GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.


00
oA
/
Though not one gallon of kerosene has
passed the Customs in Victoria since the tariff
was introduced, and isn’t likely to for months
to come, and though even then it can come in free
in bulk, Is. extra per tin is being charged. Mostly
the grocer gets blamed for this plain fraud and
steal ; but for once, anyhow, he probably isn’t
responsible—it is the Yankee Oil Trust that robs
Australia of the 3d. per gallon. Which recalls
that a Melbourne grocer lately stated in the
press that this trust allows a rebate of .jd. per
gallon to grocers who bind themselves to sell no
other oil. What has become of the law relating
to secret rebates, and haven’t a few f strikers been
gaoled now and then for doing something "in
restraint of trade ” ?
The Price Government made no mistake
when it sent Major Norton to Druid-land
as South Australia’s commercial agent. Nor-
ton hustles like a beaver, and is making
the conservative Londoner order lamb and
eggs in his sleep. The Fogtown merchant
who deals in Danish and Russian eggs scouted
the idea of the final glory of the hen being landed
in decent condition from far-off Australia, and
declined to Mock the article. Then the S.A.
agent laid the biggest Russian egg man
tiil promised 5 to compare samples at his own /
premises. He reckoned that he and Norton would
meet by themselves, and cast an indifferent eye
on the outsides of the eggs, and depart, but
Norton knew better than to waste a good advt.
He turned up with a whole caravan of produce
dealers and pressmen, and got to business at once.
“Tell you what we’ll do,” he said briskly to the
Russian eggist; “you break six of yours and I’ll
break six of mine, and each man’ll swallow his
own.” The Muscovite eggist turned pale and
backed out. Then Norton swallowed the yolks
of six eggs taken at random from an 8. A. consign-
ment, and the name of the Russian egg became
Mud.
Beauty. —There is no topic interests women more
and no possession they prize more highly than beauty. It
has been so through all the ages, and while human nature
remains unaltered will still be so. Hence the Valaze
Institute established by Mile. Helena Rubinstein here in
Sydney caters to a distinct want—and caters thoroughly.
All the advances in beauty culture made by the great
Complexion Salons of Paris and Vienna are practised at
the Institute, and there is scarce a blemish that mars the
human face divine but Mile. Rubinstein has a treatment
to successfully remedy it. Red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, flabbiness, wrinkles, crowsfeet, are but
a few of the unlovelinesses that are permanently removed,
and even the eradication of birth marks and such like
serious blemishes are successfully treated. Ladies should
call into the Valazelnstitute when in town—even a sitting
of face massage had there will result in benefit to ones
looks. The address is 15S Pitt Street, on the second floor.
Also at 274 Collins Street, Melbourne. Ask to see Mile.
Rubinstein herself.*
“ Jfmor” : Oaklcigh council is not the
only one in Vic. that buries the dead land-boon)
horse by resuming allotments in arrears for rates
(B. 15/8/’07). There are others — notably
Williamstown, which led the way in this reform.
When it started on the path some £0000 of rates
were outstanding. This amount has now been re-
duced by half; and the council recently seized
another 200 allotments, which it intends to lease,
and it expects to reap a revenue of £1100 pe>
annum from this source. Now’ it is just about up
to some of the country .councils to hit the loafing
non-ratepayers with the same club.
THE WHISKY OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTE .
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS CFMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 10, 1907.
M y Dear Arint,—
Artist Streeton, who leaves us in a month or so
T >r England and matrimony, sojourns at Mos-
man, where one may meet him any morning swim-
ming through the bush, with a big canvas in his
hand, en route to some sunlit cove of peace about
Bradley’s Head. He has been working constantly
about the harbor foreshores since his arrival.
The Artists' Society intends sending its pictures
(those shown at the Queen Victoria Markets) to
Melbourne. The southern capital is a better
picture-buyer than Sydney. We don’t care for
pictures, because we have the harbor. Melbourne
•as Fisherman’s Bend and the Coode Canal, and
. tbuys pictures because they look unlike these
places.
Miss Jessie Ackermann is, report says, about
to marry Mr. George Throssell, an ex-Premier of
W. A. 1 believe he ran the political show over
there for three months or so once. He is a grand-
father, but that fact hasn’t yet made him a back
number.
To give his officers an opportunity of saying
good-bye to the Sydneysiders, Admiral Fawkes
and his Lady-of-War had a garden party last
VVednesday afternoon. It was an Ash Wednesday
disarrangement, and missuses predominated. A
scared lizard might have learnt something from
the swift glide done by the officers after they had
bowed over their hosts’ hands. Most of them
were back in town within three-quarters of an
hour after the party had begun to Ash. A garden
Eirty isn’t the ideal opportunity for an adieu
etween the man with the gold braid and the girl
with the gold hair, and the time and the place
and the loved one can be better arranged without
outside assistance. One crumb of joy did the
Powerful ones get out of the frisk, and that was
when a belated guest (a physician, who eats his
breakfast porridge Edgecliff-road way) put off in
a waterman’s boat between two laundresses and
two mountains of washing.
Whatever decent-looking, gold-banded males
remained over at the garden party balanced
around the Henniker Heaton girls. Which
reminds that an Australian girl, now on the staff
of a London paper, tells me that the elder Miss
H.-Heaton is engaged to a literary and artistic
young Englishman, a member of the Anglesey,
Jersey and Clarendon families. In fact, he is so
tangled up with the Peerage that, as this is my
busy day, I can’t stop to cut him out and tell
you his exact brands. Moreover, a sun-browned
man from the West once told me that you haven’t
a chance to cut an animal out of a mob unless
you’ve a good dog, and a poodle is no earthly use.
Flag-Lieutenant Digby Willoughby (what a
name for the Family Herald !) has been in this
widely-smiling land barely a month, yet at the
Ashen Garden Party, on Wednesday, he an-
nounced the penitents without looking at a card
of invitation, or waiting for the name to be
spoken into his ear. As one of the guests re-
marked, “ His memory for faces and names must
be phenomenal.”
Two pretty nuns brought along some of the old
lace robes loaned by Cardinal Moran to the
Woman’s Work Exhibition. “What section do
they come under?” mused Miss Rose Scott,
meditatively. “ The grandmother’s section,”
replied one of the nuns, innocently “Doesn’t
all the old lace go under that ? ” Tlie needlework
and wood-carving exhibits are ripping. Rose Bay
Convent shows a six yards long sampler of every
stitch used in needlevyork, from fairy-like lacework
to buttonholesona shirt. Silhouettesof twogenera-
tions of the Blaxland family, done in the early
years of last century, are worth eyeing. The hair
and shadows are touched up with gold paint. A
priest’s robe of tatting is marked “the work of a
life-time.” Poor tatter ! Is it worth while to tat
to such an extent as that ?
Blond laces, miniatures, and funny little fans
belonging to authenticated great-great-grand-
mothers prove that a number of Svdnevsiders
have ancestors, and didn’t just grow,'like Topsy.
The Rhodes, Walkers, and Blaxlanas of Parra-
matta come out strongly in the heirloom line.
So does Miss Rose Scott. Miss Macdonald, of
the Women’s IJni. Hostel, shows an able-bodied
old spinning wheel.
Some carved furniture by Mrs. Jewell would do
credit to any exhibition held anywhere in the
world. The chair carven in waratalis in Aus-
tralian silky oak would be a joy to a wood god.
Miss Laycock’s miniatures—Lady Northcote’s
sweet face looks from one dainty frame—mustn’t
be missed.
The horticultural section has been awfully
neglected. Few of the ladies in that section of
the committee know a daffodil from an onion
bulb, so Jeans is the only trade exhibit. The
Technical College justifies its existence with a
gorgeous bridal robe and a lot of potted preserves.
Some new and marvellous fatuity always comes
out of the land of the wooden ham. The latest is
a controversy that is raging between the Rev. Dr.
Bass, “the well-known American divine,” and
Mrs. H. Knowles, “club woman and writer ” on
the world-old subject of kissing. Dr. Bass opened
by saying in one of his sermons :
Lovers should never kiss until they are married Let
young lovers hold each other’s hands in token of their
pure affection.
Which enraged Mrs. Knowles, who gave the fol-
lowing message to the papers
Eliminate kissing and nothing replaces it In fact I
would even go so far as to say that kissing is absolutely
essential to courtship. *
To this Bass retorted neatly :
Nothing has more of Heaven’s fire or the fire of Hell in
it than the kiss of a lover. The first step of the fiend
incarnate in order to destroy the innocent victim in his
clutches is to get his lips to hers.
The lady tried reason :
So near are the lips to the heart that at the first con-
tact with another’s the two participants can tell imme-
diately whether they innately attract or repel each
other. Therefore, it is most wise that lovers, before thev
blindly mate together, should ascertain by frequent
kisses whether or not the}' are each other’s affinity. The
kiss is the true test.
But Bass remained adamant:—
A kiss goes straight to the heart like the shock of a
galvanic battery. Great God, deliver us from the kissing
devil !
And so on. The press having raised interest in
this question to fever heat, the great heart of the
TT.S.A. is now beginning to opine that neither of
the disputants is qualified to dogmatise on such
a subject anyhow, and the empanelling of an
expert jury is called for—the jury to be composed
of Yankee-born females of title and any Pittsburg
millionaires who don't deserve to be in gaol.
Mr. Bred Shipman, the American impresario,
who has so successfully run a lot of singers
through Australasia, has added Mrs. Blanche
Arral to “Shipman’s Bunch.” He reckons the
star requires only business management to make
her tours the financial successes that they deserve
to be. The lady will lift her high oin Newcastle
towards the end of this month. Then she will
warble northwards. At time of writing Shipman
was dredging Sydney for a master hand on the
piano (male) to accompany the singer on tour.
Miss Gladys Cohen, a daughter of the Neville
Cohens of Elizabeth Bay, is to marry one of the
Nathans, of Auckland. The bride-elect’s family
ranks among the leaders of the Hebrew com-
munity in Australia. The George Judah Cohens
probably sit on the top rung. Four sisters mar-
ried four Cohen men—not four brothers, but all
closely related to the head of the Cohen clan.
Sydney’s best-dressed man, Mr. Tom Lawry,
died last week, aged 42. By post mortem comment
we learn that he was at one time an active sport.
He used to be a lancer, and was always a person-
age in aquatics. His big, dark personality was
one of the regular items of the passing and repass-
ing show in Pitt and George streets. Mr. Lawry
was a bachelor, and his house on KirribiHi Point
was one of the picture-like homes of the Harbor.
Miss Osca Marah, who was cabled as having
sung with success at the Bechstein Hall in
London a few weeks ago, turns out. to, be a former
pupil of Mr. Burns Walker. The name Osca
Marah is an artistic disguise She is only twenty
years young, and has been studying under the two
Reszkes. The gift that Providence handed down
from the shelf to her on the day when good things
were being served out, was a dramatic soprano
voice.
That tireless Maorilander, Miss Constance
Barnicoat, when last heard from had started with
other tourists to make the ascent of Elburz Peak,
an 18,000 ft. affair in the Caucasus, somewhere
near the place where Noah endangered his certifi-
cate by careless navigation. Much climbing of
her own Heaven-kissing hills has tested the lady’s
soundness of wind and limb, and the Maoriland
mountains have given her a certificate which en-
titles her to be received with respect by any peak
on earth.
A new personality is floating around Paling’s,
Mr. Theodore Tearne by name. He brought
letters to Lady Northcote from Princess Christian,
and to a bunch of Australasian bishops from a group
of British gaitered ones. The gentleman looks
somewhat crushed. Living up to letters of intro-
duction from a Princess and a lot of bishops is a
heavy job. Mr. Tearne is here as examiner for
the London College of Music. But he intends to
take root in Australia on his own account, and is
looking for favorable soil to plant himself in.
A betitled girl-descendant of Robert Bruce,
King of Scotland, who was married recently in
London, wore a gown of white tulle embroidered
with spider-web design. An Australian girl
named Bruce used the same device on her
wedding-gown last week. Now it is up to someone
who is descended from Alfred the Great to use a
burnt-cake design. “Scorched bread” happens
to be a f ishionable brown color.
Miss Rose Scott, a niece of the Miss Rose Scott,
was married recently to Mr. Windon, of Rand-
wick.
A ripple—no, a comber—of excitement nearly
swept the members of two Sydney Somebody
families out of their patent leathers and glace
kids last week. A youth from one family and a
girl from the other, both under age, made a runa-
way marriage. The wedded babes protest that they
adore one another even to the extent of living on
his allowance of 10s. a week.
Mrs. Preston and Mrs. Lister Lister have
given At Homes at the Royal Art Society’s
rooms up to date—music, tea, cookies and causerie.
Now and then a guest sees the pictures solely
through being invited to an At Home, and occa-
sionally she or he buys something. First catch
your picture-buyer, put tea on his tail, and get
Miss Sussmilch and Mr. Lardelli to sing at him.
Mrs. Eugenie Duggan Anderson looks in at the
matinees these days of peace and rest. She
drives a pair of fine bays that horse-likers will
remember as hauling the James Fairfaxes, and
her brougham belonged to a former Governor.
Miss Madge Mclntosh, who is here under
engagement for leading parts with Meynell and
Gunn, showed the persistency of a Chinese
in her efforts to “arrive” on the stage.
She was born in India, where her people
bulked some in Calcutta. Her mother was a
noted amateur actress. When the (now deceased)
Majeroni pair went to the Hooghly city, years
ago, solely for the benefit of Mr. Majeroni’s
health, they were importuned to play. Mrs.
Mclntosh got together other clever amateurs,"
and with the distinguished Italians played for
three months in the Indian cities. When her
father died, Miss Mclntosh lived on a guinea a
week allowed her by her mother, and worked in
provincial companies at nothing a week for nearly
a year. To hear her describe the difficulties of mak-
ing an appearance sets one thinking of walking
over the wet blacksoil plains in a pair of vvoodrn
boots. “That is,” she adds frankly, “for one
quite without influence and beauty.” The
visiting Madge is tall, very slender, and grace-
fully curvy. She has Becky Sharp’s coloring, and
is very like the young portraits of Ellen Terry
now strewn through her (Terry’s) memoirs. Only
the visitor’s eyes are big and full and not hitched
up at the outer corners, and her teeth are all
that a widely smiling mouth needs to make
it charming. Also, her elbows are nicely
cushioned and her hands expressive. She has
been on the stage 13 years. Her “arrival”
was a matter of years ago, and the fact that she
is going to stay now that she is arrived has been
fully decided. Leading woman with H. B.
Irving the Madge person was, and she has
played in most of Ellen Terry’s as well as other
rfiles. She used to wear the gowns worn by
Terry, and her description of the Henrietta
Maria frock (in “Charles L”), which is as good as
ever, makes one wish she had smuggled it
away with her. She was the original Vivie in
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession,” the naughty Shaw
play. And, by the way, at the Wentworth
Hotel, where she is staying. Miss Mclntosh ate
her first passion fruit. Now it wouldn’t be Safe
to leave her without police supervision on a
wharf where two tons of fresh passion fruit had
just been unloaded, lest the consignee might
never get even a look at his property.
What Miss Mclntosh has done in the way
of work producing plays, taking out her
own companies, and studying makes one
giddy. It is like reading “ America at
Work.” The smart dressing of the women
here and in Melbourne struck her, but not
with so strong a strike as the appearance
of the waitresses and other handmaidens she sees
in tea-rooms and hotels. She remarks that this
class has no counterpart in England in the
matters of self-poise, looks and smartness. She
touches on the enormous hats now being worn by
the fashionables, but, although the stage sets
the fashion in London, the lady mummer
dare not wear the fashionable hat. It is an
extinguisher of expression. Mrs. George Alex-
ander is the most perfectly groomed woman
anywhere. She is not an actress, but she
looks to the dressing and furnishing of her
husband’s plays. “ Your waist will never do—it
is colossal,” she says to a stage damsel, With a
twenty-one inch zone. “ Make it nineteen.”
The new star wears a plain gold band among
her bunch of jewelled rings, so perhaps there’s
a Mr. Madge. She had only four days’ notice in
which to depart for Australia. Had to pack and
get a tenant for her flat. Such a wrench to leave
that flat. She’d just re-decorated it in cream,
brown, and pink, and had curtains to match—a
little pink and brown introduced into the cream
lace. She sighs and reaches for another passion
fruit, as she thinks of the possibility of Huns in
her flat.
English Society, in the intervals of Bridge,
bankruptcy, and other like brain-wearing pro-
ceedings, turns its intellect to problems of the
following type :
Hard Cask No. 1573, “ Vanity Pair” (3/7/’O7).
A is the hostess at a lunch given in honor of a Colonial
Premier. B, an intimate lady friend of the guest of the
evening (sic.—in the Motherland the Best People now
apparently lunch at night), asks to be put next to him.
A explains that is impossible, as the Duchess of X, who
is among the guests invited, must take precedence and
the place of honor. B arrives early, slips into the
luncheon room, and changes her card for the Duchess of
X’s, and takes her place.
What should A do ?
Out of the many thousands of smart brains that
addressed themselves to the above, only one got
home with the correct answer, which was as
follows :
A should intimate to both ladies, through a servant
that the cards have been changed by mistake, and request
them to be so kind as to move to their right places.
A weird and improbable situation ; and after B
had been thrown out, and the unpleasantness
suffered to simmer down, the X Duchess probably
found herself beside Tummas Bent, listening to a
monologue on Drains or Manures.
Miss Helena Rubinstein, writing from Paris,
makes comment on the fact that woman would
much rather be seen to advantage than heard
to advantage. Pretty little Rubinstein had
just been present at the laborious process of
enamelling the face of a highly-placed lady.
“ She needed it,” adds the writer. To be present
Miss R. had to assume the disguise of one of the
handmaids of the Beauty Salon. The artist laid
on his colors much after the fashion of a painter
in oils. First there was a layer of white, then
many layers with some colors thicker than others.
“The martyrdom of acquiring, and then carrying
such a face about! ” While the bought shop-
countenance is on you all emotion is taboo, and,
if you indulge in mirth or anger, the costly asset
goes to pieces, and you have to flee home in a cab
with the ruins of your face left on your hands.
According to Miss Rubinstein
Enamelling of this sort is done for most rare State
occasions, and it is a proceeding fabulously luxurious
from the point of cost. lam told there are less than a
half-dozen women in Paris who allow themselves this
luxury. Enamel of this sort gives one the face of a doll,
and as much expression as a doll. And it is both the
chagrin and redeeming feature of it that it lasts only
some horns, after which the face is reminiscent of the
streets of San Francisco after Ihe earthquake.
It may interest you to hear that I have been fortunate
enough to get hold of an enamel which will not, it is
true, supply anyone with a new face over-night, but
which will, after several applications, rejuvenate a
furrowed countenance in a most marvellous fashion. The
most curious part of the preparation is that water will
not affect it, and one can perforin one’s daily ablutions
without fear of impairing its efficacy. The contract for
the exclusive handling of this preparation has been signed
to-day, and I consider it one of my proudest business
achievements.
So there’s a great day coming for the Sydney
female. If Helen could only get hold of Prof.
Metchnikoff, head of the Pasteur Institute, and
talk over the sour-milk gerin theory ! A Sydney
man, still in his early prime, got into correspond-
ence with the famous doctor a year ago, and had
sent to him a couple of knobs of dried milk con-
taining the germs that prevent old age. A morsel
of this put into milk inoculates it. A little of
this doped milk is put into next day’s milk, and
so the trick is kept working like yeast. When
we are all doddering pantaloons leaning on two
sticks and getting the old-age pension, the enter-
prising gentleman just quoted will be going to
dances with his grandsons and getting the prettiest
partners.
That beautiful youth, Bischoff van Ryclc, who
wore such marvellously-fitting clothes, drove such
fine horses, and declared Sydney girls to be beau-
tiful and charming, and Sydney itself an under-
study for Heaven, will not return to Australia.
His company (I fancy it’s a huge combine that
buys tea and coffee by the plantation) has ap-
pointed him General Representative for Europe.
It sounds like a cavalry charge. And the pay is
said to resemble a war indemnity.
What stupid things men write about women;!
Here’s from a current magazine article:—
There are only three mysteries remaining about a
woman. First, why she gets off a car the wrong way.
Second, why in travelling with a woman friend there,-
will be always a dispute about paying the fare. Third,
her toilette. The first two will never be explained, the
third only her milliners and ladies’ tailors ha\ e fathomed.
A woman s hat, for instance, might be anything, from a
lamp-shade to a bridal bouquet. Many of them make the
gourmet think of an undiscovered salad. With pins, a
woman can hold her whole framework together, or fasten
a paper parcel. It is next to impossible for her to fasten
a parcel with twine.
I never get off a tram facing tlie tail. I meyer
dispute about paying the fare. I let the
other woman pay it every time. For the rest,
the man knew he was writing “guff,” The
mystery to woman about man’s toilet' 1 is the
whyness of his wearing a stiff wdiite shirt, and a
hard high black silk hat that leaves a' cavern of
hot black emptiness above his head, and a boiled
white rampart of collar about his neck. The hat
looks like a bit of polished railway tunnel stood
up on end and plugged at the top fail'd having
put this thing on be pays sixpence for an eorr
spoonful of whisky, and goes in haste to »
cal meeting, where some one tells him thaV‘if''
country is lost, though they are both standing on
it at that very moment. ® ou
Writes my Brisbane correspondent:
Death has just shifted a landmark from the „
mumty-Albert V. Drury, a Queenslander 0 f 50 v««.
adoption. He was born in Brussels in ’3B. Durinl?
Australian career he was private secretarv tr. hls
every Queensland Governor, and he also held the
of Clerk to the Executive Council from ’867 to lwu
wife, whom he married in 1864, was a aut- Hl !
the late Justice Bring She predeceased he,’ bus
band by three years. The surviving members of m’
family are one son and three married daLhr h
In. his early days A V Drury was somethi f
dandy. Also he indulged in comic song, and he
ully im orted some English music-hall ditties whfch did
the country no visible good, though they amused the sad
dogs and the gay dogs and the merry dogs of the ho,?.
He was a man with a generous heart, aspllndid collection
of photographs, and an ancient uniform-that which h?
wore as a member of the first volunteer regiment raLen
in London under the present order of things raii >ed
Yet another herculean effort is being made hvT„d,
Chelmsford to reach that Mothers’ Union down fron, th J
douds. Mrs Hallidav, the English authority on the
subject, has been guesting under the vice-regal roof and
judiciously baited hooks in the form of invitations te
dine, music and sup, have been dangled in vain before the
eyes of Brisbane’s Best People. e tne
Mr. and Mrs. Ex., together with a judicious selection
then- offspring, attended the inaugural concert of Mp
Sampson’s new Orchestral Society, which discoursed some
very sweet sounds. The combined melody so impressed
his Ex. that he sat right down and wrote to Sampson
(who is absurdly like a penguin when he bows), and in
formed him that the vice-regal two guineas would become
four thenceforth.
A friend just-returned from Ward’s own country has
handed me this interesting document. It is an examine
tion paper drawn up by the Plunket Lord for the bovs of
Wellington College. His Ex. was hugely grieved at
the absence of manners in the Maoriland youth so a
prize was offered for the best replies to these questions
(1) What do you know of the manners of our ancestors
a ”d how do they compare with the manners of the present
(2) How do courtesy and respect for authority benefit
yourself, your school, and your country?
(3) Do you think boys of your acquaintance are as a
rule, polite or not, and why have you come to that
conclusion? "
(4) How does politeness become objectionable when
carried to extreme?
(5) Describe an imaginary walk you have taken with a
lady through the streets of Wellington, or a visit you have
paid her, showing in what way your natural politeness in
manners, action and speech would have been evident
(6) Does old age deserve any special respect and con-
sideration? Illustrate your answer.
Among the, Omrah’s passengers to the Big Fog next
month will be the ambitious little spouse of Philp’g trustv
henchman, B. H. Macartney. She takes a flying trip' to
see how the English public school suits her'big son, and
if he is acquiring the superior British manriah.
Tall horror has overtaken our pretty girls at the dis-
covery that the handsome Major Hayter has a wife—ves
and a family. ' J '
Friday’s golf match ended in a win for Mrs. Webb a
Southerner, who beat the ex-tennis champion, Mant ’bv
a stroke. ’ J
News of the birth, in London, of a son to Mr and
Mrs. D. T. Seymour has reached Brisbane. Babies are
fashionable just now.
Yours Affectionately,
AIKENEHI.


FAT FOLKS I Use “FATCURE”
■ And watch Yourselves Reduce Daily.
‘‘FATCTJRE,” reduces weight safely, permanently and with absolutely
. ) after-effects. Many cases lose four pounds a week under this harmless
weatment. Obesity and corpulency are ugly, ungainly conditions that not only
e one ridiculous, but also create discomfort and ill health. _
wn»; h ? l r?'! 3 are using “ Fatcure ” with absolute satisfaction. It improves the
8 erai health wonderfully, and tones up the system.
SEND OR CALL FOR FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
convenient, come in and let us weigh you privately. No fee. We will give you
full particulars and a Free Sample. If you cannot call, write us.
S** E WATWORTH CO.,
J» Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Entrance also from Market Street,
Enel se 2d. postage stamp, and
we will «e»’d l 4 >»‘p T ’ i «« ,n
closed wrapper and full par-
ticulars. Call if possible.
XWOI3
anoA
Dunlop
Hose
w<p>
.t)
\ tH**-
X
. <(■>
(WW
Gives Excellent
Service
Does not burst f- lasts/or years
Ms\de by Au-str&l ieovs to stead
Austredtea Coßdiftorv.,s.
• SPECIFY DUNLOP BRAND-
The Dualop Rubber Co. of Aus Ltd.
ALL STATES*
RUBBER HEELS
For COMFORT and WEAR on
' Hard pavements THEY HAVE
NO EQUAL. Made only of ih«
BEST RUBBER, in various
shapes and sizes. Obtainable all
Leading Boot Stores. Specify
and accept only '• DUNLOP"
Brand.
* » *.»
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sidney, Adelaide, Penh, Brisoane, Christchurch, N.Z.
ONCE
USED
ALWAYS 1
USED. .
RJLQ’i
m
(ft
s»
Comets
t 'SOMETHING • &VITE -NE.W-.
"LJTYLL f JMKL
tV'T-.
WORLDS
k "- 0-
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 9, 1907.
M* Dear A^‘^ den j s t he centre of a buzz of
Miss Leslie M congratulation. Her
girly being kept a noisy secret. She
nurrings tentatively-with blushes and
takes the purring & bertding . o ff 0 f leading
n 0 denials, jj g ; g a Hungarian of wealthy
questions-. //', n|lv — a Captain. The demoiselle
and exclusive fair h J travelg< He was in
Leslie re-niet and then loved thesehool-
Melhouraejears - be this year, and
o»° SSw-C” so wi* «“ ■*«“• but
116 lA not announced yet.
gaBP -vr fhnntes save a small and distinguished
The Norths evening- It was not music nor
crush on 11 rl « 7 y old tiling except just
cards norda cmg, nor^y h y trying to put too
crush-^t-h 0 p n ouffh on the principle that is
much into n t o < A 9 g 0 crowd whizzed
i ll u, strat t ed D 7 a fd drew up to the Grey House,
and motored ' i { from c ] o . v ks, and dis-
and swordS) and tben
entangled i - P ba]lroom f or a solid half-
stood about th A band intoned, and
hour wait g tint'o sheepy ranks, and left
the S““" Along i'S marched the Vice-regals
a pathway. . reKa l s , and a dozen or so of
the ( T escort-two and two. like unto Noah’s
,l ®k£ These being safely deposited or
iruided or wrecked on the blue-chaired dais
fl m evs rushed with scarlet ropes and barricaded
flunkeys presentation began, so’ernn
S n i iwing and multitudinous. Poor Captain
Share had the worst of it.. He announced all the
names in his best deck voice, and it was hard on
h« voice This exercise finished with a lively,
hungry scramble for the sandwich and the cham-
pagne cup. What a hideous picnic stampede is a
buffet supper?
t> lo . T o i m is growing much top large for his
Court dress— really. It looked almost dangerous
for him to move. Missus 1 orrest wore a brocade
with slanty satin stripes, like the new wall-paper
that hypnotises one on sleepless nights. It s the
.ewest cure for insomnia The Madden maidens
wore their corsets outside their frocks. I hey
were spangly and gleaming corsets. So twere a
nitv to P hide them. Miss Leslie was corseted like
i dazzling pantomime boy. Dazzle was rather a
prominent note. Mrs Edward Frocky Miller
shimmered m cloth of gold (the real
Hiinc in tissue at numerous-and-a-half guineas
a gaudy yard), with little gold knobs
studding the gown to her shoulders. Ihe newly-
returned Byron Moores—mother and daughter—
both shimmered about in blue. Daughter has
improved some, with her jaunt. Lulu Armitage
wore such a pretty blue nightie—at least it looked
like that. Mrs. Ernest Brookes looked rather
tired-out with her rackety week. She swears by
mauve and purple lately. The Anglican Bishop
paraded his shapely calves, and wore a huge silver
cross that reached from his chin to his supper.
“ Tryphena,” from London
Millinery fashions are the secret of it all. Hats are
trimmed with curls and ringlets—padded with them—
lined with them—“ expressionised ”by them. The
charmer hereabouts erects her thatch, adds to it,
expands it, then places on the hair structure her sweep-
ing-rimmed hat, and fills in blank spaces with more curls.
I tried a stvlish and expensive hair-builder as a dis-
traction the other day to amuse a blank hour. A Froggy
person attended me, and pinned me into an overall, and
tucked a bib-like arrangement under my chin witli bird-
like movements and much subservient talk. Would
Mdlle. have <’ondulation naturelle or the close wave?
Mdlle. elected to have the French brand of crimp, and
lovingly brushing my tresses, he started on the thatch
scheme. It occupied Monsieur Frogge an hour—an hour
of tong-heatings, strand-wavings, and fractured English.
Would not Mdlle. permit Frogge to improve such nice
black hair with a charming transformation. The cost !
At the suggestion the smile of an offended artist
crossed his countenance. “ But the cost ! It
is nothing. A mere five guineas.” Mdlle. begged
to be excused, and Monsieur Frogge, with a re-
signed shrug, Went on with the coiling of the top
tresses. He plainly had no respect for my opinion, and
finished the five-shilling job in ominous silence. When
the white overall and tucker were removed, he flicked
my dress with a clothes brush and passed me on to the
cashier with the air of one who discharged me off the
face of the earth.
That tired feeling creeps into the subservient manner
of Madame Chiffon as soon as one starts to question the
price of the lace she suggests in the architecture of a
gown. “The price?” she queries, and turns tiredly
to the he-proprietor, who everywhere runs the
smartest frock-ateliers. He quotes the exorbitant
price with the air of a High Court Judge pressed
to deliver himself on a detail that should be
attended to by the door keeper, and three pinning-up
assistants thereupon look apologetic for one, and the
atmosphere is electrically disturbed. Of course, one
gives in gracefully to these tyrants, and gets run into a
bill for 35 guineas after a grini determination (formed at
the start) to expend only 20. And when one protests at
the quixotic sleeve or the queer skirt-flare, or the unor-
thodox set of the frill, four assistants nearly collapse, and
the Skirt-Designer says, “ But, surely, Mdlle. must like
that,” and the presiding Grace of the establishment,
unable to grasp the idea of such ignorance, remarks
that, “ Surely Mdlle. hasn't really looked at the creation ”
—they talk of a skirt as if it were the beginning of
Genesis. Then she orders a readjustment of mirrors, and
gets a, few menials to turn the lights on. Finally, one
submits to everything, and the scheme of the universe is
set in order again.
The models of these dress studios are among the
naughty wonders of the hub. All da long they trail
their silken frills over th@ polished floor, while the aristo-
? rat 'V'th her lorgnette, and the dazzler of Hyde Park sit
°y and look the trailers qver. Frock after frock is tried
on, and the haughty two-steppers, with swan-neeks
drawn taut, and languid apathy in their eyes, and grace
in their lengthy forms, trail up and down, to right and
left, this way and that, till Miladi has had her say, and
the dazzler has selected her fancy “creation.” In
one prominent house, where pounds are paid
for the honor and glory of having its mere
label on your skirt-band, the animate models are
all charming French Mimis, whose hair-dressing is a
matter of art, and whose complexions amount to a lyric.
Seven of these treats parade in the most wonderful
dreams of chiffons, and my eye (the day of the view)
strayed from the scheme of silk to the more delicious
plan of girl.
You p y4O guineas for the frock without the girl. It
seems all'wmng : but it’s the rule. I asked a Madame
was it a great difficulty to procure pretty models for her
rooms. She said no. The charmers rather like parading
all day long in gorgeous raiment before plain duchesses
and beauty-struggiers, and the air of languor is only
adopted as an accessory to a regal deportment.
The City Newshoys’ Ball, thanks in the first
place to .Janet Mrs., is an annual Immensity, a
Pomposity, in swagger charity dances. The
people always go ; and just as many common or
garden specimens as can beg, borrow, or steal the
necessary half-guinea, and acquire a sufficient
lack of clothes to undrape themselves correctly.
It is a dance that calls for much Fancy Set.
On Tuesday the spectacular effect was gorgeous
enough. The most vice-regal half-dozen were
arrayed in pink-streaked white, and their pink
flower parasols caused their partners to mutter
blue words. Some Little Miss Muffets, includ-
ing a Madden or two, wore Quality-street frocks
and big muffy caps, and inconvenienced them-
selves by carrying bowls and spoons. Dazzlers
in scarlet and white—led by the blue-eyed Louise
Smith —called themselves 1830. They were
rushed by the man-dancer, who appeared to ac-
cept as genuine their powdered corkscrew curls
dangling from poke bonnets.
The carpeted platform of the Honored Guest
held an extensive vice-regal team, a towering
Rumford duet, and a grand array of people who
think they matter.
By the way, the Ball was in the Fran Town
Hall. It has the best floor in Melbourne, and
the Altogether is palatial in comparison with
most other places where the charity hop happens
under distinguished patronage.
The Orpheus and Philharmonic societies set
themselves out to reception the Butt-Rumfords
last week, but, strange y enough, there was no
music and nohifalutin. The societies just plugged
away steadily at the lady’s paw, and shook it
with the perseverance that overcomes all obstacles,
and looked at Clara with the large dinner-plate
eye. The howling wilderness of the Town Hall
was used —extensive, uncarpeted, dreary, and full
of stray winds and riotous echoes. They perched
the Big One on a dais, where she spread trailing
bluey-green raiment like a gorgeous peacock, and
she smiled and smiled and smiled, although
her head—so it was said—was aching as much
as could have been expected, considering what a
monotony of welcoming she has lately endured.
Professional musical people stood in pic-
turesque attitudes about the barn-like reception
hall the others were glued round the platform-
like’ astonished flies that have inadvertently
stepped on to the st ckphast. Perhaps they were
musical, likewise, and the hypnotised gaze was
adoration. It might have gone on until now,
that incidentless adoration, but practical manager
Ihbs—he of the burning hair—bravely broke the
magic circle, and shattered the spell"’ith an
afternoon-tea tray for his warbler. Then the
gazers broke up and chased the currant bun for
themselves. The tea-tray had reminded them of
their inner cavern.
Our own Maggie Stirling rose to her majestic
height and welcomed nearly everybody in Mel-
bourne —especially Toorak and St. Kilda —to tea
and a handshake" with the Rumfords. A whole
tea-room was engaged, upstairs and downstairs,
for the afternoon, and the plain, ordinary tea-
swallower was barred out. Coliins-street was
blocked with carriages and motors. The tea-
servers, in clierry-pink linen and white Dutch
caps and collars, were the prettiest girls in town,
and they helped the effect whilst passing the food
and drink.
Birds who homed in the same ship as Mrs.
Armstrong (otherwise Mrs. Melba) tell almost
unbelievable stories of her lately acquired gra-
ciousness and expansive amiability. Ihe diva
was like a mother to half-a-dozen lonely maidens,
and sweeter than a sister to son George’s missus.
She frolicked with her boy, and was ‘‘just a
darling” to the tamest travellers aboard. JNever
a tornado did she blow—never a note did she
sing Now “Ereildoun” is like a dovecot,
•and’sundry folk, encouraged by these gentle
cooings, meditate immediate gushing invasions
into the sacred scene of family peace, where fame
lingers in its dressing-gown. Incidentally—son
George impresses folk as wearing corsets under
his clothes.
On show day the Glaciarium indulged in another
bal masque which is merely an alluring
pseudonym for a highly proper, and rather sulky
evening on the ice. Victorians can t caper worth
a cent even in the torrid summer atmosphere;
so one shouldn’t cavil at their failure m a freezing
chamber. Thursday resurrected the old disguises
of the habitues, and evoked a few new ones
from some happy strangers who spent most of
their time with their skates on a level with their
barked heads. Mrs. Norman Fenner and her
blushing bridegroom spun round, in dominoes,
and a score of other charmers revolved on thei r
joint and several axis under maternal or brotherly
espionage. The motherly-brotherly element re-
duces the masquer’s temperature to zero or
thereabouts, it would seem. Husbands don’t
matter so much ; but to have one’s whole family
watching the frolic simply murders gaiety. I
saw a vivid matron taking soup with an inoonnue.
And I heard a dull-toned spinster say to a daring
suitor “ I never skite with stryngors, sir ! ” which
points my argument. A mile race was an
exciting infliction—that is to say, it was exciting
for the competing trio—and rather an infliction
for the audience.
Fan D ingo threatens to be a favorite. She
could not complain of her reception on Saturday
night, at Her Majesty's, in “ The Dairy Maids.”
She is dainty and light as a bit of thistle-down.
Don’t think anything has been put on previously
with such a good view of Girl as “The Dairy Maids.”
The gymnasium scenes (at the Emma Temple
school, whither the Dairy Maids are despatched)
are worth the money in themselves. Emma
Temple got a reception that broke her all up.
The play is full of pretty things—the prettiest is
a dance that Leslie indulges in with the ballet.
Rather built on the Crocodile dance, only the
crocodile is a sea serpent, and the itemised and
girly scales are mermaidens in green limelight.
Anon they turn their draperies into leaping, foam-
capped waves that swirl about sailor Leslie.
When the Sydney express pulled up at Spencer-
street on Monday (9th), Chief Railways Commis-
sioner Thomas Tait stepped from the parlor car,
looking brisk and lively. He was clad in a con-
fection of light tweed, with the trousers turned
up at the feet, a misfit soft hat, and tan boots
rather the worse for wear. Heads of branches
and other officers crowded round to get first
“shake.” Then Premier Bent rose up from
underneath the platform or somewhere, and he
and Tate shook each other by the generous hand
for a full minute. Bent looked serious ; Tait was
all smiles. Bent said, “ Where are your cigars ? ”
Tait produced a half-smoked one (still alight)
from behind his back, and handed Bent another
from his breast pocket, remarking, “That’s a
Seymour refreshment room cigar.” Whether this
was a boast or a warning didn’t transpire. Under-
study-Commissioner Fitzpatrick (Ripped in (to
Bent), “If you knew as much about Ins cigars as
I do, you wouldn’t ask him for one.” This was
clearly a warning. But Bent lit the cigar, and
vanished in a cloud of pale blue smoke trimmed
with grey.
Mrs. Nora Dane-Valenti, who is the object of
much local affection, appeared successfully in
Oireland, t'other day. She put up a sparkling
performance before the Belfast Conference on
Technical Education, at a reception given by the
coroneted Shaftsbury couple.
Miss Muriel Cuinming wings her merry way
across to Sydney next week to lend her prettiness
and the presence of her puppy-dawgs to festivities
in that village. Mrs. Macarthur Onslow will
chaperone her.
The Woomballano Club is new and tender and
artistic. This year it has blossomed out into an
exhibition —a good collection of color in Stal-
bridge Chambers, set in the musty-fusty air of
lawyers’ rooms, and amid the flavor of decayed
probates, in Chancery Lane. Tne catalogues
themselves were well worth seeing, if only for the
sake of the original cover—the work of the club
students. A Titian-haired maiden—the work of
the Creator—vended them for 6d. The club has
been putting some good work into designs for
book-covers; half-a-dozen shown by Mrs. Corbett
Jones were particularly fine. The secretary of
the club. Miss E. Eden Eager, is essentially a
colorist: three or four of her small canvases,
landscapes and a street scene, teem with softly
blended tints. These were all sold the first day.
In spite of her dreamy coloring, this artistic
young lady possesses a practical idea about ‘ small
saleable bits.” Miss Holgate shows some good
bush work. Rather an ambitious painting is
“Fairy Tales,” by Helen Peters. It is crude,
but exhibits strength and promise.
In Melbourne nowadays Mrs. Howell is very
much in evidence—with her beauty and her
dimples intact. About two years ago she and a
sister —both remarkably beautiful girls—arrived
from Fogland, and struck Melbourne one race-
time. Carrying the siege to Sydney, the elder
sister captured a man of sheepy wealth, and
married him. She now lives VVagga way—when
she is not jaunting. Mrs. Howell is superbly
built—so tall that she attains the distinction of
almost reaching the direct line of vision of the
imposing Clara at the many Butt-haunted shivoos
of the moment.
“ Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
Elsie Jones, just back from British and o’ her remote
study, exhibited her melody £tfc a recital in the Town Hall
the other evening’, and all the musically-inclined came
out of its cave to listen. Miss Jones proved to be a
prettv girl in a soft white garment of silk net over glace.
She has a very charming manner, and sings as »ne having
authority and not as the Scribes. She was encored very
strenuously, and sang in all 21 numbers, entirely from
memory. The University Vice-Chancellor Barlows were
among the audience, also the Justice Horn burg crowd,
some of the musical Holder clan, Mrs. Robert Kvffin
Thomas and fiddler Nora. Lady Le Hunte had
promised to he there, but was unfortunately on sick
leave Much good green-feed was aimed at the graceful
singer, also a horseshoe of gorgeous pink rosebuds, bear-
in”- felicitations from Mrs. Minna Fischer, who m London
guided the Australian girl up the steep ladder which
leads to the high note. .
Adelaide has just lost another of its brilliant daughters
by the death of Dr. Eulalie Dawson. As Miss Barnard
sh went through her medical course at the Varsity with
flvi n jr colors, g&thcring in all the adjacent scholarships
by the way. Six or eight months ago, at the end of her
first year at the hospital, she comnuued matrimony with
a medico of the same period, Dr. Deane Dawson, and the
two bought a practice at Laura. Death had one of those
mad moments in which it throws its scythe about
Baresark fashion, and it struck her when she was barely
out of her girlhood. .
We are do tired just now and busy sleeping off the
effects of the Women’s Work Exhibition and its attendant
wild time. The only furious hilarities we have had since
then are one Eight Hours Procession, one race-meeting,
two dust-storms, and a “ Blue Moon.” The procession ob-
structed the streets successfully for several hours ; at
Morphettville a number of obliging steeds ran races round
the course for the edification of a few belated stiagglers ,
and there has been a rush to “The Blue Moon.” But the
dust-storms were the best attended. We rush a dust-
storm. It is such a rarity that we feel we must
encourage it. . , , ,
The University of Adelaide has just had a pleasant little
gift of £5OO cast at it for the encouragement of botanical
study. Hitherto the gloomy tap-root and the um-
brageous geranium have received little or no attention at
our seat of learning, and the money was badly needed.
It was the gift of lliss Julia Stuckey, a philanthropist
who shuns advertisement, but whose generosity has
helped any number of our brilliant and impecunious
youngsters to the fulfilment of their dreams. Particu-
larly are many of our young musical stars beholden to her.
Mr. Bryeeson YVavy-locks Trehearne has come back
from Europe, where he spent a rather strenuous
time, getting robbed, engaged and otherwise maltreated.
He looks none the worse for these excitements, and all
the girl.v element of the Oonservatorium is rushing to
welcome him, and walks around him admiring his
heavenly hair.
The complimentary benefit concert to Lizzie Newbold
is to fill the Victoria Hall on September IS. _ Nora
K.vttin Thomas and little Ethel Lever will fiddle in the
good cause.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Mothers need not hesitate to give their children
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
It contains no poison. Pleasant to take. Always cures.
FREE POST
CARDS.
Send your address and
2d. stamp (any State)
to cover cost of posting
for 12 of these beauti-
ful Post Cards.
CHAMBERLAIN MEDICINE
COMPANY,
608 HARRIS STREET
SYDNEY.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
- .
BALANCE SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1907.
LIABILITIES.
Capital ..£4,500,000
Less: Reserve
Liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up .. . .£1,500.000 0 C
Reserve Fund-
Invested in
the names of
Trustees—as
per Contra.. 1,000,000
Not specifically
Invested 170,000
„ , „ 1,170,000 0 0
Balance of Undivid d
Proflts 139,310 8 - 1
539,828 0 0
Circulation
Deposits (including- In-
scribed Stock Deposits) 19,367,502 0 5
Bills Payable and other
Liabilities (including
Reserves held against
Doubtful Debts) .. 1,633,687 11 10
£2,809,310 8 4
-21,541,017 12 3
£24.350,328 0 7
ASSETS.
Specie on hand, and Cash Balances
Bullion and Advances on Bullion
Money at Call and Short Notice ii
London
Investments—
Reserve Fund Con-
sols, £650,000;
Local Loans (Im-
perial Government
Stock), £200,000 ;
National War Loan,
£150,000 .. ..£1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments
Consols and other
Stocks of, or guar-
anteed by, the Im-
perial Government,
£314,826 15s. 6d. ;
India Government
Sterling Stocks,
£246,580; Colonial
Government an d
Municipal Stocks
and Debentures,
£212,270 14s. Bd. .. 773,677 10 2
Balance of Remittances and Drafts in
transitu, and Bills Receivable at Lon-
don Office
Bills Discounted, Loans and other Secur-
ities at the Branches and in London
Bank Premises and Pro-
perty in the Colonies 511,902 11 5
Less : Appropriation
from profits .. .. 10,000 0 0
London Leasehold Pre-
mises
Reserves against same
and accrued Interest
142,304 19 4
20,272 4 0
£3,306,947 15 0
181,557 6 6
1,280,000 0 0
1,773,677 10 2
3,943,481 5 10
10,485,663 17 5
13,240,728 16 5
601,902 11 5
122,032 15 4
STATEMENT OF PROFITS
Balance of Undivided Profits on 31st August, 1906
Bess : Dividend and Bonus, January, 1907 " •
Leaving a Balance of
P D?ubt°ful th Debts t Ha ' f aner r " akin - P rovision ' aspect of Bad and
Less :
Bonus to Stall £l7 017 a 9
Less Provided from Profits to 31st August, 1906 .. 16,000 0 0
’‘rrsasga*-'—**«*-•**== £1,91742
“fSonSto" ““ ■'inohOin. Rent", Taxe",", “ ’
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and Auditors Salaries of 34 ’° 65 9 9
Expenses offlC ?. Staff ’. Bent - TaX6S ’ StationedGe“eral
Income Tax " " ' * • * • • • • • 15,505 4 7
.. 4,915 7 0
£136,406 0 8
105,000 0 0
31,406 0 8
£379,512 4 9
141,807 17 1
Deduct-
Appropriation in aid of Bank’s Guarantee and Provident Funds
::
237,904 . 7 8
269,310 8 4
£lO,OOO 0 0
10,000 0 0
60,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
London, 9th July, 1907.
130,000 0 0
£139,310 8 4
ARTHUR FLOWER, 1
W. R. MEWBURN,
W. B. PERCEVAL, f
H. P. STURGrS, I
A. 0. WILLIS, Manager.
C. M. C. SHANNON, Accountant.
Directors.
T . ... AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT
Auditors have been complied with!'’ 1 IIS ° f Tl ’ 6 oompanles Ac t 1900,” we certify that all our requirement* as
have had access to'the Accouifts'^e'nt^to^Lon’don v&r'a ° f ß Exoh ? nB '?’ and other Assets in London, and
the same, and the Books and Accounts of flip ILI nffln ' arious Branches m the Colonies, and having examined
and fair Balance Sheet, properly drawn ui7 so as to exhibit a Tr,?*® of , opinion that the above Balance Shfet Is a futf
affairs as shown by the Books of the Company 6 a ” d COrrect view of the state of the Company^
. ... , .. „ WHIMMirV CUlimr .......
London, E.C., 9th July, 1907.
WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, 1
Chartered Accountants, j Aud *tors.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
ATo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Constant Header: (1) The information came
from a man in the Northern Territory, so we presume
the work is being- started from the northern end. In
that case it will be going on about 2300 miles from
Albury. You can get within a few hundred miles of the
place by rail on some of the West Queensland lines.
Country in the north fertile, warm and pretty well-
watered ; further south it is desert at least half tlie time,
and everything is precarious. Probably the Public
Works Department, Brisbane, would supply information.
.... E.R. : “Night Owl" is well written', but it isn’t
written about anything in particular E.W. : “The
Bishop ”is an elaborately incomprehensible yarn The
Scallywag: The old subject could hardly have been
written up much better, but then it is such an old
threadbare subject... W.G.W. : Two of the jokes we
Know to be old; consequently we look with dark
suspicion on the third, which we don’t kn0w....M.L.F.J.:
You send along the oldest and most familiar of
dog jokes as something fresh which “ occurred, a dav
a S O ,-’ Wen, you have the cheek of the devil....
: My Neighbors ”is disfigured by some lines that
won t scan. Tried them with a microscope (also with an
“?>•. N° result.. Ande: “Rose” and “The Lines”
both below par Lela M. : Fear you were hardly your
usual bright self when you wrote “ Au Printemps.” It’s
drear y.. ..Remington ; Rejected after deep
MMr ll an< * large consideration Loyer Wells:
Woman s Heart” isn’t built the way you describe—not
by a long way.... Harvey Wentworth: A rather dreary
item... .Machete : “ Nell ” pretty, bub incomprehensible
in places. As a general thing, a sentence needs a verb in
R to prevent it being a mere whoop or exclamation, and
when the verb is left out too often there is too much
whoop... .Show : “Girl” fell through.... Yeoman : Senti-
ment is good, but verse doesn’t coruscate like a
star, though there is a respectable glimmer in it
rick : That cheque idea was the central point of an old
Bulletin story... .R.8.R.: “ The Bride” doesn’t seem to
arrive anywhere in particular... .Rosary: Thev are
poetical, but the subjects aren’t big enough. A woman
picking a flower is a very brief, skimpy theme to hang a
poem upon, Sometimes you can hang a large thing on a
small one—there was a curate once who suspended him-
u- & th ® neck fro,n a naiI > or a tack (don’t remember
which)—but the event is rare.. ..Monaro : “ Ocean Road”
spoiled by the frequent effort to rhyme “dawning” with
morning. Nothing in Heaven or earth or the humpy
of Mephistopheles will make these two words rhyme Yet
many people attempt the impossible.... J.P.: Letter re-
ceived too late... .Swellington : Cumbersome joke
Jaysee : A good idea, but verse too rugged. Considered
it at intervals for three weeks, and couldn’t plane down
the knobs.. ..P.: Begin to think there must be a dupli-
cation of names. There is a “ Nick ” who writes verse
and you seem to be a prose “Nick.”.. ..J. Knibb • An
absurd mistake, but the overworked, ill-paid, nocturnal
proof-reader can’t spot everything.... P. B. P. : Grievance
may be genuine, but the style is very rugged and knobby
.... Jeeach : ‘Reform” too scrappy... .Monaro : There
is a fine idea in “Devolution.” but it should be a song—
not a bump. Desire: “Queen City of the South” is
such an old phrase. And to be dead sure about it you
want first to inspect such rivals as Rio Janeiro and
Buenos Aires... .Periwinkle : The deluge of spring poetry
is upon us ; and we very seldom publish spring verse
Dion : Have an impression that Sappho was an overrated
songstress, else the ancient Greek publisher would have
hung on more earnestly to the copyright of her poems.
•• • -Lunatic: Conclusion rather spoils your Nose poem....
France: Well versified, at any rate, but not much meat
lnit....Tea-Tree: Has a touch of poetic quality. You
1 yd° much better work in time... FS •
Good idea, inadequately treated Amoret: Rather neat
verses on a weary old theme.... Equine : Your style lacks
strength and point... .E.H.G. : Weak and inartistic
Bemta: Too conventional in tone.... Dew: Inclined to
‘ : Neither of them is any good
' Creditable, considering the conditions, but not
up to the mark A.H.G.N.: Sorry it is of no use to us.
v' -\ To ° trifling for print... .R.J.M. : Scribble too
dreadful to waste time over.. ..L.C.: Lamentably dull
and prosy M.V.B. : Graceful, but trite and unoriginal.
Batcher: Not much m either W.M.K. : Whv couch if
in bad verse? Might have passed as prose
Ranges from good to feeble... .Pioneer (Tas.): Plenty of
force, but no skill Arthur P.: A strong situation, not
very artistically treated.... David Goodheart: A faint
sort of sketch... .Xile : Fearsomely longwinded White
Aus.: (1) No; don’t think it is. (2) Other matter is
ten^,: • tha,lks Baba: The label or
ticket in a fiddle is not a safe guide to its authenticity.
Since the demand for old violins set in some half century
since, it has been one of the tricks of the trade to trans-
fer the tickets of the Old Masters of the l(ith-18th cen-
tunes to inferior instruments of various periods to make
em sell. Tickets of famous makers of the classic period are
also counterfeited and glued into artificially aged instru-
inents of yesteryear for the same purpose. The ticket
which you quote, unsupported by certain ear-marks
(known to the experienced in such matters), means
nothing. Excellent instruments modelled after the best
Oremonese examples are made in these degenerate days
As a rule, they are frankly copies, and so acknowledged
(sometimes in small letters) on the tickets. The Bulletin
could not say for certain whether your fiddle is
a genuine “Strad” or not unless you sent it on to
be tned and looked over by our office fiddler..
Rota: You have a musical ear, but the sentiments are
very thin and commonplace... W.T.W.: The aspirations
are up in the clouds, but the verse is right down in the
caller. . . Arthur B. : The rhymes are all right, but the
metre is disastrous... Wanganui: The ingenuity of con-
„1 8 wasted for want of dramatic force
McT.: To ° l° n ft and lean and weak in the joints. A.iso
it shambles and totters, and its gait is that of a camel.
Sinka : Vermin-infested story disrespectfully declined...'
£ n n / oo e ,o^ ldle is inessential and clumsy....
T.BAJ. . B. 8/8/07; page 9. . .D.M.R. : It was the work
of two men. Hence the compound signature, which you
may read with patience and a magnifying glass
Suggestion re P.O. clock appeared under a comparatively
Bulletin P lct " r ?: wildly enthusiastic re
After the Ball. .... Waif : Always pleased to hear from
•'' OU ,---- Black Mac: Letter received with thanks
Jack Garrett: “ When the Devil Drives ” cost Is. 4d.'foi-
deficient postage, on the ground that it was “closed
against inspection.” At this stage the case was ad-
journed.. ..N.E.W.: The thing certainly deserves show-
ing up, but the story form doesn’t suit it.. Gum-Leaf ■
Don t publish in correspondence column.” Alas, not
anywhere!.. W.P.K.: Too violent a forcing of the
metaphor.. Firefly: Wearisome, for want of directness
and simplicity.... W.K. : Most of it is too far-fetched
Koamer: Rather ingenious nonsense... .R. 0.8. ■ Fluent
but futile and ill-digested... .Stony : Insufferably long
and dreary. J *
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.N.: “Man with the Axe” and other drawings too
Stiff. You want more practioe drawing from life
Tomkins: Doesn’t nearly reach the mark. You have
some artistic capacity, but you are much in need of
training.... Anonymous: Received (and rejected) un-
signed pen-and-ink sketch, showing tight gentleman
explaining things to his wife on the seashore Sor-
ghum: Consider yourself in the mud.... Jack 0.7 You
can’t draw a girl’s legs worth a copper... .Elsie 0.: Some
promise about sketch, but you need a lot of training
Tas: The unpleasant story about the fertiliser was first
heard by this writer about 1878 W. 0.8. : Many
thanks for letter T.F. : Kerosene picture doesn’t ap-
peal to us very much.
Vasco Loureiro, the ingenuous, long-haired
Australian .youth who took his profile sketchery
to Europe a while ago, writes from the Hall Caine
district:—
Biz is just ripping here. lam living in a tent on the
Isle of Man, and do two return trips a week to Liverpool,
Dublin, and Belfast, on the Isle of Man Steam Packet
Co.’s boats, averaging 160 miles a day sea travelling. The
Knglish, Irish,-Scotch, and Americans on board keep me
busy all day drawing their portraits at a “ boh a head.
As soon as the season’s over I leawe for the Mediter-
ranean, and work Monte Carlo.
.. F p Th e problem in all departments of the
üblic Service in Australia is more or less the
same. No man gets the power to introduce re-
form till he is too old to care for reform. I speak
with a total of 21 years’ experience in three
different services in Australia. The men at the
top are too old. The public is taught by Ministers
and journalists that the sexagenarian is indis-
pensable borne men are young at 60, and many
are old at 50. In the British Civil Service the
Treasury keeps the patronage of the highest
offices, and the private secretaries of Ministers
T™. 7 g6t i t} ? e or th ey go to pushing
Treasury clerks. The system has its disadvan-
tages but it gets young men into power before
they have acquired the habit of not noticing
a "us es and anomalies. In Melbourne, the head
of the Police Department falls off the tram in a
nt. He is a sexagenarian. His predecessor was a
sexagenarian. His successor will probably be
a sexagenarian. What is the remedy ? It
must be something automatic and arbitrary. I
have no faith in promotion by merit. Merit is
the faculty of pleasing your superior officers,
bupenor officers seldom find that the bright
fellow, bubbling over with new ideas for the im-
provement of the service, is particularly pleasing.
Ministers like smiling, pleasant young men who
can talk platitudes sweetly. Public Service Com-
missioners do their best, but the reserved busy
officer who thinks of his work does not cultivate
a tactful eloquence for inspecting commissioners.
After all, a 10-minutes’ conversation is not enough
to enable even a commissioner to infallibly detect
genius, and he has not time for more. Failing a
b o tor /if fc b^ riter would suggest -no promotions
ajter jfd / 1 his would mean that the younger men
their seniors’ heads as Nelson
did. I hey might not have Nelson's genius, but
they would be in the prime of life, and not brain-
weary old men.
♦
Following from the Times op India (5/7/’O7)
snould appeal to those who have observed the
official Britisher’s unofficial attitude towards the
mere nigger person
Major Pritciiakd, the Commissioner of Ajmer-Merwara
speaking at the chief ceremony of the day, said:* We
are assembled here to-day to celebrate the birthday of
our King and Emperor, Edward VII. On such occa-
k there should be a genuine sentiment in all
our minds that Providence has brought us together,
Indians and British, as brothers in this our beloved Hin-
dustan. Whether we wish it or no. Providence has ruled
rw rl e should inhabit the same land. Research tells us
that the British and Indians originally spring from the
same stock and that the Britons are descended from
?' h,s bein £ s0 > then let us strive to
live together as brothers," etc., etc.
This was in a gathering of Britisliersof the regular
Anglo-Indian type. Any one of them would
rather see his daughter dead than married to an
Indian ‘brother.” Anyoneof them would probablv
throw his son out of doors if he married an Indian
sister. They are the supports of the system
which declares the Eurasian, because he is partly
Indian “ brother,” unfit for any but the humblest
posts in the public service ; which disfranchises
three-fourths of Edward Vll. ’s subjects because
they are colored; and which even lays official dis-
abilities on the white man if he is born and
educated in India because he has been contami-
nated by eariy association with the Indian
brother. Pecksniff was a mere amateur
hypocrite beside such stupendous hypocrisy
as this. It represents the summit and
pinnacle of snuffle and the roof of greasy
pretence. It is practically impossible for the
British person to scuttle out of India, but why
should he snuffle on the brotherhood racket while i
he is in India? His ancestors came there as
brigands, and he can only stay there as a despot.
Then why pretend that he stays there as a sort of
tract distributor, or old woman, or soup kitchen ?
It is suggestive of a pirate disguised partly as an
alderman and partly as a home for lost dogs.
Just when the Australian importers and Foreign-
trade papers were busiest telling Australians that
they were poor worms who couldn’t make so
much as a boot-last for themselves, there blew in
an English paper which in one issue reported
these things :
St. Helena has borrowed a Slaorilander to report upon
tne best means of establishing* the flax industry.
This year’s Bisley national rifle meeting iias from
first to last been an Australian Bisley... . There is no end
to the first prizes won by the Australians, and wherever
there is an Australian at the head of the list there are
almost certain to be some of his comrades not far behind
Dr. Harold \V. Williams, a Maorilander, who repre-
sents the Manchester Guardian in Russia, is collaborat-
mg with a Russian journalist in writing a history of the
Revolutionary movement.
A Melbourne inventor has discovered a new explo-
sive, which is liquid, and develops from two to three
times the force of gun-cotton.
Tartakover (of the East Sydney Swimming Club)
lorwA Wltbm a ” a( ? e , °. f winning (the international
Derbyshire ® abb )’ beln £ on ly beaten by a touch by
Australia won the international tennis competition
the Dwight-Davies cup.
Unrecognisable Australians probably did a few
more things ; but for one issue of one paper that
is a pretty fair list to go on with. And while
The Bulletin was considering it, a mining
engineer bustled into the office from S’Africa
commissioned by a powerful English-Johannes-
burg financial crowd to learn something about
gold-dredging. His crowd had thought about
sending him to England to get a gold-dredge
built, but after looking at results, decided that
people didn’t know how to build up-to-date gold-
dredges anywhere but in Australia and Maori-
land.
An encouraging letter from Charters Towers (Q.):
A word about this yelping in the putrid press, about
peopehng up the Northern Teritory you dont seem to
have noticed how G. M. Merivale (mentioned in
Bulletin Aug. 8) gives himself and his dirty pals away,
stocking it with colord vermine is what they are driving
at all ihe time stock it with colord gents, to keep
colord gents from taking possesion 111 be godamed
whats Merivale and coes brains made off, why the clods
act as an emetic, Disfranchise every chamber of commerce
in Australia, it would only be part justice the hangmans
rope would be full justice, there isint agodam one that
isint working against the intrists of Australia, people
and country, a person who is continualy trying to w reck
this country why should he not be disfranchised and
treated as an aliean, i was in nothern Teritory 20 years
ago, i learnd then that large areas of it was private pro-
perty, sold to syndicates at a farthing an acer, and no
conditions to fulfill, all the ground palmerston the main
town stands on is owned by a Bull syndicate, its for those
sharks the curr press is yelping,
What sort of clowns are labour men turning out to be
lately in the cold country they are advocates of freetrade
that makes paupers of them, they object to military
training, that would put guns and amunition in their
hands, and make them bos of the country, they howl for
disarment, when the enemy is in possession of their
, country they will have to work for him, fiu-ht for
him, or get a built through their dull braine, there
will be no silly sundy scool girly sentiment about
the enemy, in the meantime let Australia get ready and
rely on herself alone, she is leaning on a godam roten
stick when she leans on Bull.
The labour men here are nearly as great clods as the
.bull labourite, there is lots of them freetraders, up here
at the late election they delibrately tried to put the
Dlack labour gang in power it was them that draged
wimen into politics, gave her a vote, they will be the
nrst to howl for her disfranchisement from this out her
vote wnl be cast against labour every time, 99 percent
°-n ll J ,en ln s P' fce °f their talk, are conservatives they
will alway vote for the man that dont soil his hands.
There is no nation in Europe that the jap has a greater
contempt for than Britian, falmiarity breads contempt
there is a true old saying up this way, if you dont keep a
colord man at a distance, he will spit on you and rub it
m " “P 11 18 gating that treatment from the jap at pre-
sent, The jap wants to have a cut at the yank, before
ty e ßuUs hanTf 18 flniB s ed v or Rußsia has recovered, to
f *■ “feW Sits
there is h °m hls P oSlti °n in Europe solong,
tnere is another trouble ahead of the iau with all his
arming ,mand t th ell - Wh - Cl Jn Wa « V ib wiU s °' ,J ‘ ie cho "’ B are
on tl e ™ Hnnt h l jap 18 t he first the - v wiU their guns
against him d "° W whether the chow will be for or


v-; •
wmmm --ri
tgg§
‘
.:.*■•-■» l <i.' -Ji ■
Mr
h r
Im
#:
■
mm
,
*V
Ti
J .■ IS Sl*
&
wmmmam m
Hgg Wmm «
. M
11
\
18*5
; Mi
1
■■■!
llgff Hf
:
..■ : -v:
THE WHISKY ’ FOR
11H
i
WSmKsmmUmi
■■■. ■■■ 1a 1 *
CONVIVIALITY
■ . ». , ' r •- -.* .>»*•.■ t*, ■>■ 4J v , v , , '
feV: ’ . il
i
E
SEND FOR?* _
FREESAMPLEp
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured bi BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS & Co., Brisbane.
8
Different Articles for Shaving, 10/6
Send 10/6 for our Complete Shaving
Outfit. We are selling a great num-
ber of them. The outfit comprises
everything a shaver wants, and gives
it to him at a price fully 33 per cent,
lower than elsewhere.
10/6
POST FREE.
SHAVING OUTFIT, 10/6
SHAVING OUTFIT, 10/6
SHA VING OUTFIT, 10/6
SHAVING OUTFIT, 10/6
1 Good Razor
1 Shaving Brush
1 Stop Blood Stick
POST FREE, 10j6,
1 Razor Strop
1 Shaving Mug
1 Bottle Bay Rum
1 Packet Razor Paste
1 Stick Shaving Soap
Craig AitKen,
MONEY BACK IF YOU’RE NOT PLEASED.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 25 YEARS.
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrn Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. - *®
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, I AILS, -LUlijitJ.
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ ponies visited.
py d/)ct PROIVIPTLY ATTENDED TOm Telephone -.100.
Personal RECEPTION & DRESSINC ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR
m
s-
the latest MEDICAL BATTERY
The Medical Battery is used in every part of the
civilised world—in every hospital and by every
doctor, whose fees you can save by having a
battery in your home.
Our Medical Battery will cure
Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Nervous Troubles,
ETC.
It is the latest battery known—contains no
acids and nothing to spill, for it is worked by
means of dry cells, which can be replaced easdy
and at a very small cost.
Medical electric treatment is both a tonic
and a sedative. If you have a trouble that can
be cured by electricity—there are few ailments it
cannot cure—write for this Battery; —we will
refund money if you are in any way dissatisfied.
Price 35/-
POST
FREE-
Explanatory Book sent
FREE on Request.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., 5^225
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
KO /A°§SW
SYDNEY.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14- DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in f> to 14 days or money refunded. ?s. ?d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
These are the days between the seasons when
the summer sports have not started and people are some
what tired of those appertaining- to winter. The youth
in guernsey and knickerbockers is out of his element
these warm summery days, and the flannelled ass has not
arrived at the wickets. Neither have the yachts and the
open boats commenced to cover the blue water with
white sails, and things are flat, stale, and unprofitable.
oo the sport takes unto himself a bundle of drapery, and
the voice that used to barrack hoarsely is heard on the
seashore making a horrible noise which it believes to be a
love song. If only things were what their makers think
they are, what a heavenly world ’twould be.
* * * *
However, in spite of the unseasonable weather
that reigns over Sydney, the Australian players and the
Soccer men struggle on. The Soccer sudden death com-
petition for the Gardiner Gup reached the semi-final
stage on Saturday, when Pyrmont, Broadmeadow,
and Petersham sent Glebe, Woonona and Corrimal to
join the innumerable caravan of the dead, in that order,
by four to three, five to nil, and one to nil respectively.
The semi-final struggle takes place between Pyrmont,
Balmain, Petersham and Broadmeadow. The two winners
will play off the final on Saturday week, and on form and
general principles the premier club, Pyrmont, is goino- to
annex both Gups and all the honors.
Of course, the game of the day was that be-
tween Pyrmont and Glebe. It consisted of alternate
charges by either side. High wind spoilt the play, and
the resultant goals were largely a matter of'luck.
Pyrmont had a mighty goal-keeper in Spencer, and he
saved his side once and again, and Chance, the Arbiter,
gave the premier team a majority of one solitary goal.
It wasn’t much, but it was enough, and Glebe steps down.
* * * *
The Australian Football League’s struggle, fdr
the Rawson Gup reached the semi-final stage on Saturday
last, when Newtown and Redfern met at the Agricultural
Ground to decide which should step down into the cool
shades of oblivion. Both sides played a fast and (for a
time) scientific game, but Newtown had the better back
division, and also a slight advantage among the forwards.
And against that handicap Redfern’s case was hopeless.
The first quarter found Newtown leading by 20 points to
one. The second quarter was taken up by Redfern trying
to make up the leeway ; but at the bell it had only added
10, and the score stood Newtown 21, Redfern l‘l. The
third quarter saw Redfern make a supreme effort, and
although the leather was kept round Newtown’s goal
most of the time, the lack of combination prevented any
score bbing made, while the defenders added a couple of
points. In the last quarter Redfern went to pieces, and
Newtown, which had apparently been saving itself for
the final rush, came right out of its shell, took its
opponent by the hair, and shook that foe till the score
was Newtown 61, Redfern 11. It was the coup de qrace,
the axe and the kibosh rolled into one.
* '•* * *
Refereeing a Rugby match has been a fairly
safe business in Sydney for quite a long time now, but
Saturday last saw an outbreak of ruffianism at a second-
grade match between Newtown and Alexandria. The
referee having ordered an Alexandria player off the
ground, one of the team rushed up and smote him on the
temple, dropping him like a log. Then there was a roar
and screech, and the crowd flowed over the ground.
Something like a free fight commenced. The police
seized the aggressor and hauled him off the ground, and
in the melee that followed quite a number cf people sus-
tamed disorganisation of the subcutaneous tissue. A
number of strenuous parties desired to remove the
referee s liver, but. as that gentleman expressed a desire
to retain the article, the police escorted him to the
dressing-room. The result was that the match was
broken up, and Alexandria, being in fault, lost the game
Young bloods who start scenes like this should be given a
month of quiet toil and free lodgings.
* * * *
Being a footballer in Melbourne these days is
just about as exciting as being a Jew in Odessa. 'Last
week Essendon (Association) played Footscray The
following Monday the Essendon Police Court had its
hands full. The guard of the train in which the teams
returned from the match gave an interesting little
account of some of the proceedings. This is his story:
“The passengers in two of the compartments were fight-
ins'. and he could not get the train away. They tossed
the cushions about and put the lights out. At Newmarket
there was a regular riot, and they hung the train up three
or four minutes. A man with a bottle was the worst.”
All the witnesses told tales of slaughter and violence
Two of the Footscray players told the story from their
side. They explained thusl.v Soldier' M‘Garth.y
one of the fairest of players, was in the private room of
the hotel after the. match. His brother wanted him to
go to catch the train, and, on going to the door, was not
allowed in, Graham pushing him aside. A scuffle ensued.
In the meantime Soldier went out, and, being mistaken
for his brother, was also assaulted. At the station, a mob
of Essendon supporters, headed by Graham, rushed the
carriage, and endeavored to get to the M‘Oarthvs. M‘Ca.r-
thy called a constable, and Graham got into the next car-
riage. At Ascot Vale and Newmarket other attempts
were made to swarm into the carriage. At Newmarket
a man got down on the line and threw road-metal through
the carriage window. A bottle was put in the hands "of
one of the defendants, who brandished it, and kept out
those who wanted to raise a fight. At North Melbourne
the Footscray men got out on the line to avoid fights ’’’
In Central America they revolushe. In Morocco they
have Jehads. In Australia they have football. ’Now
how many footballs equal one revolution ?
* * * *
The huge crowd (30,000 or so) that happened
into the Metropolitan Cricket Ground (Melbourne) on
Saturday, to see the first of the Victorian League se’mi-
finals, got a very disappointing show for its shilling
South and Collingwood were the contestants, and almost
from the bounce the bigger men from the Bay side of the
Yarra took command. They were cleaner 'in handling
and passing the hall, and their high marking- was
vastly superior. Also, while they had made" their
system almost as perfect as ’Wood’s, they had
evolved a valuable scheme for baulking the 'others’
“short pass”game. In addition, “Skinner’s hirelings”
had all the luck. The Magpies couldn’t find the goal
even from shots close in front—three successive
tries hit the post. Immediately afterwards, in front of
their own goal, a Southerner ran to “mark” the ball •
he missed, but it bounced off his boot clean through
the posts. After that the ball, driven by long-
shots from the big men, twice bounced over the
waiting goal-keeper’s head—and the ’Woodsmen were
heart-broken. They struggled gamely, and did some-
thing m the last few minutes, but the game was hopeless
from three-quarter time. Final scores were South 1”
goals 10 behinds, ’Wood six goals 12 behinds There
were some signs of trouble, but the umpire—the best
man on the ground that afternoon—speedily suppressed
them, and kept the disturbance within bounds Only
for him the game might have gone to pieces after half-
time.
Across the Park, on the East Melbourne ground
the Association clubs of Essendon (A) and West Mel-
bourne provided a good “house” with one of the finest
contests seen this season. Williamstown, Richmond and
be ray were already' certainties for the semi-finals, and as
the winner of this game would make up the quartette,
there were no chances to be thrown away. Essendon had
its best 18 in the field, but West, though the winner last
season, seems to have had some difficulty of late in raising
a team, and Saturday was no exception. West had the
wind the first quarter, and, playing a slow, systematic
game, notched 2.4 to 2.1, but that wasn’t nearly good
enough. At half-time West had added four be-
hinds only, while Essendon’s tally was 5.3. With
a favorable wind in the third quarter West got going,
and piled on four goals and a behind—6.9 ; but Essendon
still kept ahead—7.4. As they changed ends for the last
time the red-and-white barrackers were silent and dole-
iUL. liut that last quarter set both lots of partisans
roaring and gesticulating. West worked steadily round
the wing, and battling hard got two shots—one went
through the posts, the other just outside. That left it
six points to the good. But the red-and-blacks had the
wind, and, trying long shots, scored five behinds run-
ning. West strove strenuously to get the ball away,
but ever an opponent “marked” it, and every time
it soared in the air the defenders’ hearts were in their
mouths. At last it went through, and the ’Dons led by
five points. There were only five minutes left, and it was
goal or nothing for West; while the others prayed for
the bell to ring. The tired Westerners set their teeth,
collared the leather, and swarmed over the defending
backs. There was no time for concerted play or place
kicks ; the ball was just rushed along by an avalanche of
footballer, and out of a scrimmage someone booted it
through at the tail-end of the 59th second. Then the bell
rang and West had got into the semi-finals by one point,
while the once-mvincible Essendon, with its ex-League
stars, its tramway billets, wood-yards, and etceteras, was
out in the cold, a thing of naught, a byword. That this
splashing of capital around should have left the team
right outside the chosen four is a painful reflection.
For the rest, Williamstown, by walloping the
degenerated Ports, earned the “right of challenge”
should it be beaten in the semi-finals or final. Brunswick
finished its season in a blaze of points, if not of glory by
notching 121 to North’s 54—which sounds more like a
cricket score ; and Richmond dragged Prahran’s name in
the ini re with a credit of 118 points to 10. Prahran,
though a sizeable suburb, seems unable to raise a decent
' ” ea,n l ° ufc . of | r he , 18 matches it played it won but
five ; but then North only won two, and the dreadful
1 reston only one. These two clubs are hereby invited to
quit football and take up ping-pong or some triflin'*
recreation. b
* * * *
Judging by the interest taken along the route
and the enormous crowd gathered to see the finish of the
Dunlop Ooulburn-Sydney road race, this branch of cycling
increases in popularity every year. Of 126 acceptors 92
faced the starter, a record for the race. The limit man
Xr% w\ ns,e -'>u tJ ? e J one -armed rider from St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.), and he led the field till half-way between Picton
and Campbelltown, where he resigned the job to Tickner
At Moss Vale (47 miles) Ransley led Turner, Porter, and
Cruise. At Picton (84 miles) he showed the way to
Tickner and Lareombe. At Campbelltown (104 miles)
Tickner streaked in front, with Walcott and Ransley
in close pursuit. Between Campbelltown and Ashfield
Tickner was overtaken and passed by A. Walcott, who
ran home first, with Tickner (three minutes behind)
second, and T. C. Robinson (close behind) third. Some-
tillng* like a drought had made the roads rocky and un-
certain, but, with a mighty breeze behind them, the
wheelers rushed over it at a great pace. G. 11. Horder
the scratch man, who annexed fastest time, beat even
the record of mighty Jack Arnst by two minutes, travel-
ling the distance in 6hr. 36Jmin. Poor Ransley cracked
up somewhat during the last bout, and fell back to
26th man to finish ; but it is good to know that
he received a prize as the fastest rider from the
Western District. Horder’s time is remarkable as
he had four punctures and one fall. When ’ the
limit men found they were travelling at 20 miles
an hour they reckoned that Horder was blowing
behind, but- as Horder himself averaged 24 miles an hour
it, is plain that even a greater blowhard than the onlv
George was on the job. Walcott wins £2O cash and a
gold medal ; Tickner a Royal Speedwell bike : Robinson
£5 ss. cash; Lundie, who was fourth, £3 3s. ca«h
Horder, for fastest time, takes an Austral bike and the
honor of representing N.S.W. in the Warrnambool-
Melbourne race. In the meantime it is said that Mul-
waree Shire Council will prosecute the whole field for
furious riding. The Dunlop co., which promoted the
race, had the satisfaction of seeing the first, second
third, fourth and sixth men arrive on its tyres, while the
men who made the second and third fastest times also
rode Dunlop-shod machines.
* * * *
Ihe first thing a record-breaking road cyclist
requires to do is to acquire a working knowledge of the
country over which he is to travel. Last week J. Salvana
after much preliminary press announcement, left Mel-
bourne for Sydney with the intention of lowering l E. A.
Pearson’s record. Then, when the worst of the journey
was over, he lost bis way, and had to retrace his wheel
and make a fresh start. This sort of thing is ludicrous
* * * *
A squadron of 120 motor cars of all sorts and
sizes went raging over the face of Sydney last Saturday
to Kensington racecourse. The attraction was a
gymkhana,” whatever that may mean. The Viking
and his daughter looked on, and Joseph Carruthers
wondering if the cloud in the sky was the shadow of
death, was also there, and besides them something
like 2000 hunks of ordinary common Australian clay
A feature of the show was the smart handlin'* 0 f
some of the cars by lady drivers. It supplied an inter-
esting answer to the query : “ What shall we do with our
gills. The answer is i 4t Make them motor-drivers **
Among the interesting contests was a speed-judgin'* one
in which a driver had to drive his car at a given velocity
on short notice. This was won by C. O. Sherwood the
manager of the Sydney branch of the big Dunlop Rubber
firm. Called upon to travel a mile at 12 miles per hour
he was only 4-ssec. out in the heat, and in the final he
exceeded the proper time by the same fraction. Which
was a mighty good performance.
Among the frivolities were a potato race musi-
cal chair competition, a tortoise race, and a bandit race.
In the potato contest the driver had to whizz round the
track and, without leaving his seat, drop a spud into a
number of receptacles he passed. Isaac Phizackerlev
?,' onhe , plliced six praties in the baskets while covering
the 120yds. in lniin. 1 2-ssec. In the musical chairs the
competitors had to jump out of the cars and get to the
chairs, and the one for whom there was no seat re-
tired. This fell to J. M. Arnott, in a 40-h p
Minerva. The prize in the tortoise race went
to the man who could drive slowest on his
highest gear, and H. Skinner, on a 12-14 h.p. Singer did
it. The bandit race introduced a touch of romance ’ The
ladies to be rescued were distinguished by different
colored ribbons, competing cars being supplied with
corresponding frippery. Then the cars made a wild rush
each competitor sprang from his car with a whoop’
collared his fainting victim, carried her on board the car
and whizzed back for safety and the starting point. Here
again J. M. Arnott, accustomed to handling sweet things
secured the honors. B ‘ ’
* • * *
The Victorian inter-State baseball team that
metdefeatin Sydney last Saturday was thoroughly over-
matched. Had it had the redoubtable Dr. Twiss to pitch
as aforetime, things might have been different; but as it
was, the batting was bad, the fielding was indifferent
the captain had lumbago, and the whole team suffered
from lack of combination. The N.S.W. crowd on the
other hand, was sharp as a packet of porcupines, the base-
throwing was excellent, and the combination very wood.
With so many excellent qualities to boost it up, the fact
that there were a few flies on the pitching didn’t matter.
Victoria was outclassed in every department, and in nine
innings managed to score only four, while N.S.W. ran up
to 10 in eight innings. y
* * * *
The running of the 17th annual contest for the
Cross Country Championship of N.S.W. was an exhaust-
affair. The course was a circular one, but the circle
had been out the night before, and came home on the rim
of its hat. and grot badly dented in the process. It had
twisted itself to take in all the heart-breakingr features of
Terry’s estate at Eastwood, and they seemed to be fairly
numerous, including scrub, sand, mud and water, and a
fairly steep incline. Five times the unfortunate harriers
had to negotiate that water-course, with a boggy take-off
and a worse landing. It wasn’t the water that
mattered, but the mud. The bog lay at the bottom
of a steep and slippery incline. With an eve
to fun the spectators crowded round that i-.mp. And it
was great fun, especially when one rur.ner, losing his
foothold, splashed into it horizontally, and threw up mud
and water over the roaring audience. Nine clubs sent 98
runners, and of these no less than 71 finished, which was
excellent considering that the run up-hill was in the face
of a stiff westerly breeze, and allowing for the awful mud-
jump. This was Bft. wide at the beginning, but as each
man jumped he broke off a bit of the bank and gradually
widened it out to 12ft. or so. The defenders of the title
were the East Brisbane Harriers, and the individual
champion was J. O’Brien. The team came to grief early
in the run, for O’Brien rapped his knee badly on a fence
and retired. The Sydney Club team won, having* four
men in the first ten. The first man home was A. Wood,
of the East Sydney Harriers, who ran the distance in
i ssec> Tlle former champion finished fifth on the
club list.
* * * *
The first person to get into difficulties in Bondi
surf (Sydney) this season was a lady. Finding the water
pleasant and exhilarating, the desire to go out a bit
further than any of the rest drew her seawards. Sud-
denly a current like a mill-race seized her and swept her
along. There was a sudden shout, people stood up and
yelled fearfully, and the rocks around became crowded
with gaping* folk who felt they were back in
ancient Rome, where sudden death was served up as a
holiday amusement. And but for an energetic young
man named Love, the lady would have made a pleasant
Sunday corpse. Love rose from his sun-bath, threw off
his light coat, and plunged into the breakers, kicking off
his pantaloons as lie swam. The sight of the pantaloons
floating away seaward caused one economically-minded
lady to request the mob to save the “ gentleman’s under-
garment.” When the rescuer returned leading his prey
by the hair, he had only his socks on, but he’s a good-
looking fellow, and, anyhow, he was covered with glory'.
Maoriland Chess Asssociation will throw its
next championship meeting open to Australasian players.
To cope with the rush for the early doors the rate of play
has been fixed at 86 moves in two hours. This giddy
speed will wear some of the champions out.
„ * * *
The money to back N.S.W. sculler Dick
Tressidder against Webb, of Wanganui, keeps material-
ising. The match is to take place on or about Boxing
Da.y, at Wanganui (M.L.), but unless Tressidder improves
a lot he hasn’t much chance of wresting the cash and the
title from the Maoriland iron-worker. The only cloud on
Webb’s horizon at present is Dick Arnst, another Maori-
lander. All the cocktails who at present represent Aus-
tralia on the water seem afraid to take him on, and Dick
is eating his head off and cursing- his inability to get a
match. Recently a rowing enthusiast tried to comfort
him with the remark that something* may turn up any
day, as surprises are so frequent in sculling these times
that anything n.rv happen without causing any surprise
at all. And Dick replied that it was mighty poor com-
fort and not very good grammar.
* * * *
As a rule the rigid vegetarian is a depressed-
looking* individual, whose chief characteristics are meek-
ness and anaemia ; but the caste got a lift in England the
other day when G. A. Olley on a bike ran 1000 miles in
some remarkable time or other. He stoked himself with
rice puddings, egg sandwiches, cheese and tomato paste
sandwiches, custards, j'am sandwiches (ugh!), bananas,
toasted whe t flakes, wheatmeal biscuits, milk chocolate,
milk lemonade, tea and eggs, lemon and eggs, milk and
soda. What a mixture !
■* * * *
The running of Subterranean at Caulfield last
Saturday was not nearly so extraordinary as the explana-
tions offered by the horse-reporters of the dailies.
Squatter Manifold’s gee-gee went out in the first place
for the Heatherlie Handicap, of nine furlongs, and was
backed at even money—as though the result were a fore-
gone conclusion. But Subterranean could only finish
second to Bendigo in the moderate time of 1-58 J. Con-
cerning this defeat, the Agk reporter explained that it was
due to “ the want of a sound pace.” When the defeated
horse came out for the Memsie Stakes and won it easily,
the performance was said to be only what might have
been expected owing to the “ sound pace.” As a matter
of fact, the two performances were identical, if the time
test is to be accepted as evidence of the pace being
‘sound” or otherwise. The races were run over the
same course. In the first instance Subterranean carried
S.IS, and was beaten in 1.58 J. In the second attempt the
horse carried 8-11, and won in 1.585. What seemed really
remarkable in the second race was the slowness of some
of the horses that were backed and beaten.
*** . *
“Gun”: Might not be generally known that
names of punters who fail to square up with Christian
Moses are writ large on a board in Sydney Tattersall’s
Club rooms, so that all who care to may read. Though
C. Moses himself is a much bigger offender, the list con-
taining his name is stowed away on the shelf or in the
desk of the A.J.C. office, and never sees light unless for
purposes of reference.
* * * *
Maoriland Racing’ Conference, the governing
body of the racing* clubs in that Loan land, has decreed
that jockeys’ riding fees must be paid by horse-owners
at the scales before the start of any race. The clubs are
now responsible to the jockeys for payments due to them,
and, m the case of winning horses, the amount due to the
rider will he deducted from the owner's stake and paid
direct to the j’ockey. The “battler ” who used to run his
horse and pay nobody will have a tough hurdle to
negotiate when he tries to dodge this rule.
* * * *
The totalisator was very good to its friends on
Adelaide Derby day. The machine received £8612 on six
races—the best total for several years, though about 1900
it used to average over £12,000. And it paid out in this
style, for a£l ticket: On Palotta for the Derby (six
starters, and the lovely female was fourth favorite)
£6 2s. The other races, having more than 10 starters’
each paid two dividends—£ll4s. and £9 7s. ; £3 7s. and
£2 Is. , £5 19s. and £3 3s. ; £8 and £6 17s. ; £l7 2s. and
£6 14s. S.A. Jockey Club held out against the two-
dividend idea for some years ; but the delight of the per-
son who sees his horse just beaten, and even then collects
a £6 or £9 dividend, is a factor too large to be ignored.
(Patrick Moses with the Bag, it may be remarked, is not
in the habit of paying out to backers of a beaten horse.
Sometimes he only pays the winner with the sight of a
pair of swift legs and the back view of a fleeing shark.
And here it may be mentioned that the totalisator never
in all its life bolted for the train just as the horses were
coming up the straight.)
* * * *
lkey Mo increases and multiplies alarmingly
in Melbourne. V.R.C. has, to date, licensed 71 of him
for the paddock, 91 for “the Hill,” and 80 for the flat,
and, as the bulk of Sydney’s applications to “field”
during Melbourne Cup week are still to be dealt with, the
list will be materially added to later on.
* * * k.
The fact that the tail of A.J.C. Spring meet-
ing will drag over the first day of V.R.C. carnival this
year has made a considerable difference in entries (which
closed last Monday) for the Sydney Club’s g-eneral events.
They include only 12 from south of the Murray. There
might have been 20, but an impression got abroad that
Carruthers’ insurrection is just about to start, and that
there will be a wholesale seizure of horses to mount the
rebels on, and some owners didn’t car to take the risk.
However, the N.S.W. entry was a record one—697 against
667 of 12 months ago. Epsom Handicap forfeits to date total
79 out of an original entry of 128. Last year’s sensation,
Solution—which didn’t win the Melbourne Cup, though
the man who sold it, Wellington (M.L.) Christian Moses
neatly feared it would—still remains, but is
not likely to come to Sydney for that and the Metrop.
alone. The 110 early Metrop. aspirants have dwindled to
42, including Solution and Booran. The latter is another
improbable starter.
* * * *
Sydney horse-race promoters, company, club,
and individual, are waxing fat faster than ever before.
This is due to the Anti-Gambling Act which Wade passed.
Moorefield has had two record meetings within a week of
one another, and Canterbury Park (in which Premier
Oarruthers is a shareholder) never knew a better da}' than
last Saturday as regards the gate. Nowadays one must
go to the course to bet, and the people who own race-
courses are understood to have voted solidly for the Car-
ruthers crowd at the election this week.
* * * *
. There must be some sort of a revival in fighting
in Melbourne. A couple of Sundays ago a good big crowd
assembled out beyond Pentridge on the banks of the
Merri creek to witness a bara-knuckles disagreement be-
tween two “sports” for a whole £1 note aside. They
chose 11 o’clock—church-time—for the rendezvous, and
the spot was as quiet a nook as could possibly
i < | un< l- But somebody had told the police ; and the
lads had just finished one swift round when a sergeant
and two constables hove on the scene and took the wrong
name 3 and addresses of 20 or 30 of the ringsiders. There
is talk of arranging a big bare-knuckle fight between a
couple of well-known pugs at Cup time. ' It is to be an
early morning affair, and the police are to be fixed not to
interfere. That last proviso seems to give the punster
away sure enough. There is only one alleged “sport”
who is credited with being able to fix everybody, from
the Government down to the newest recruit in the ranks
of the “John Hops.”
« * * *
“ Vic.” : Have been making a study of imported
games since coming to Sydney, and have come to the
conclusion that they are much like the rest of the shoddy
products of pauper labor countries. At the expense of
much personal inconvenience and worry, I accompanied
sundry Rugby enthusiasts to different matches, buoyed
up bv their frequent assertions that Rugby was a wild,
whirling spectacle composed of blood and hair and sudden
death in equal quantities—assertions which they sup-
P*ii j . statistics showing- how many players were
killed and injured per week. I found the game to be a
dreary, yawnful affair, which was generally about as
exciting as a committee meeting of the Women’s
Patriotic Olub, and not possessed of half the vigor
of a Pleasant Sunday Afternoon. It seemed to
consist principally of men kicking the ball out of
bounds, and kicking it very badly at that. Certainly I
saw a number of players carried off the ground more or
less injured, but they sustained their damage under cir-
cumstances that gave the spectators no pleasure what-
ever. You don’t enjoy your corpse in the Rugby game.
When a man gets hurt in Australian football, his injury is
always associated with more or less dramatic happenings.
There is a blood-curdling flight in the air, followed by a
crashing fall; or there is a wild battle in which the victim is
thrown violently about. Butin Rugby there are no com-
pensations. There is nothing brilliant in the homicide.
It is just plain, unilluminated crime, like meat hanging
on a nail. All you see is a body of men squirm-
mg slowly on the field. Then they move away,
and it is understood that somebody is dying. Rely-
IPft . statistics of bloodshed to attract crowd's,
Rugby is merely a gigantic confidence hoax, and the
Union officials ought to get six months for false pretences.
It is inferior, and even its inferiority'is not properly ex-
ploited. The men who play Australian football in Vic. and
o.A. and W.A. and Tas. have reduced the game to an
exact science. The men who play Rugby in N.S.W. and
M.L. have not mastered the rudiments of the g-anqe, and
* anious All Blacks,” it is only blind prejudice
which prevents people seeing that they are ; about
up to the form of first-rate juniors. That thejy have
easily beaten all the rest of the Rugby-playing world,
only proves what an incompetent lot of exponents that
game has.
* « » *
Hackenschmidt, still wrestling in London, has
some challenges waiting for him. The Belgian Constant
le Marin was to have come to holts in August, and has
probably' been beaten, since we have heard nothings Ger-
man enthusiasts say that Hack fears to meet] their
champion, Jacob Koch, and the.y also promise him a sure
licking if he will take on the Cossack Paboudny' or the
1 o!e Oyganiewsky. On names Cyganiewsky looks the
likeliest. His designation would probably cause George
H. to sneeze at a critical moment.
POORNESS OF BLOOD.
Poorness of blood is the natural result of indi-
gestion. When the food is not properly digested
and assimilated, the nutritious properties pass out
of the system without benefiting the body or re-
plenishing the veins with new blood. Constipa-
tion and disorders of the various organs tend to
poison the blood, and Nature simply exercises her
prerogative by throwing off the impurities through
eruptions in the skin.
Miss Nellie Elliott, of “Hampton House,”
Ann Street, Brisbane, who suffered from habitual
weakness, feelings of exhaustion, eruptions in the
skin, impaired digestion, and chronic constipation,
MISS NELLIE ELLIOTT.
(From a photo.)
and who is now strong and
well, and regular in every
way, attributes her recovery
to health to the wonderful
curative and corrective
properties of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. She
says “ Having suffered
much distress and irritation
through eruptions in the
skin, caused by poorness of
blood and systemic dis-
orders, which medicines
failed to rectify, I was in-
duced by a friend to give
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a trial. After a few
doses I found much relief,
and by continuing- the use of your remedy I have
entirely overcome my weakness. Ido not suffer
from indigestion or constipation now, and the
eruptions in the skin have entirely disappeared.
I now feel well and strong again, and have no
hesitation in recommending your pills to those
who suffer from any disorders of the blood or
irregularity of the system.”*
“Squidge ” from Melbourne :
When Thomas Bent pushes past Peter into Heaven the
first thing- he will do will be to hunt up a few of his old
land-boom friends and start a syndicate to boom the
price of land round the Great White Throne. He is an
inveterate boomster. Ever since he has been Premier of
Victoria he has, under the cloak of Closer Settlement,
been industriously inflating the land values of the State,
and, what is worse, making the State pay the
inflated values to the big- landlords. Even in London
Tommy land-boomed. He and Taverner—though
Taverner hardly got a word in edgeways—secured a
lease of a block of land in the London County
Council’s new Strand at a ground rent of 11s. 2Jd. per
square foot per annum. Bent is building a six“-storey
building with a big basement. He has already let some
of the offices in this castle in the Strand. And the magic
of Bent’s name, or something, has raised ground rents
alongside his block to 18s. per square foot. Surely there
never in all history was another Thomas just exactly like
this Thomas. He booms something wherever he goes.


KUGELMANN'S
ms
mm
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
TWO penny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
u a
'rf
r
Test
the
Weight
when you are buying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built of
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong!
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Hrt Catalogue. Dept
Eadie Mig. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings
Collins St., MELBOURNE
WOK.KS : REDDITCH, KNU.
... THE ...
MAJESTIC
COLUMBIA
GRAPH
-0-
PHONE
Price
£25.
Uses all
Sizes of
Disc
Records.
A Post Card to us will bring you full details
of this perfect Machine.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen'L,
255 “B” Clarence St., Sydney.
LONDON, NEW YORK, PARIS,
BERLIN, ST. PETERSBURG.
sag
OPHO*
THE VERY BEST D/SC
TALKING MACHINE IN
THE WORLD.
Reproduces with all the sweetness and
beauty of the original performance
and a volume of sound that-is
marvellous.
\
p
..
O'A,
m
OPe^d
A
<*tg
“rrvy
TYJU3
SQUARE
TREADS.
The Continental
Square Tread
Tyre has estab-
lished a world- *
wide reputation
for durability.
And its popu-
larity is wide- >
spread—in Eng- V
land, the United '
States, France,
Germany, here
at home in Aus-
tralia —in fact,
wherever Mo-
toring is in-
dulged in to any
extent, you will
find the Conti-
nental Square
Tread Tyres to
the front.
Sydney Depot:
Clarence Street.
TYEXS
NON-
SKIDS.
There is no bet-
ter Tyre made
tor use on wet
roads than these
Continental
Non-Skids, and
every day wit-
nesses an in-
creased demand
for them by
Australian mo-
torists.
These Tyres
have distin-
guished them-
selves in nearly
all the big mo-
toring events of
the past season.
Ask to see these
CONTINENTAL
NON-SKIDS.
Melbourne Depot:
46 & 48 Market St.
The Righteous Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There shall be no more Barmaid, and there shall
be no more Booze,
There shall be no more Serpents in the corners of
our shoes ;
There shall be no more Racecourse with its sacri-
legious din,
And grim Beelzebub shall bolt with Mo, the Man
of Sin ;
No ribald Song shall leave the throat and smite
the listening ear,
No midnight revelry profane the brooding atmo-
sphere,
No scurril Wit shall flout the Good, no mocking
Satire play—
When the World has got a-going in the Righteous
Way.
There shall no more be jesting re the Sermon and
the Riate,
And none shall do irreverence to the Keeper of
the Gate;
And he who loveth Laughter and the jolly
Roundelay
Shall fall beneath suspicion as a Sinful One and
Gay ;
There shall be no more Gambling left nor any
other Game,
And it shall be deemed a felony to hanker for the
same;
Yea, Belial’s brood shall all depart, without a
word to say,
When the World has got a-going in the Righteous
Way.
It shall be deemed a sign of Grace to never wear
a smile;
It shall be thought a pious thing to heave with
Bitter Bile ;
Taboo shall be Tobacco and a ban shall be on Gin,
And guillotined shall be the man who dons a
Sunday grin.
The giddy, gaudy Theatre shall close its wicked
door,
And lead us down the slimy slope of Evil never
more;
A Sky-line grim shall circle round Existence dull
and gray,
When the World has got a-going in the Righteous
Way.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
The Fall of Thomas.
For several months past there have been refer-
ences in the Melbourne press to the big Western
lands resumption scheme of the Victorian State
Government. It was to be the piice de resistance
of the session, and was to hand down the name of
the Bent Ministry to posterity as the Great
Public Benefactor. Even before Thomas made
his trip to London the rudiments of the scheme
were in motion. It had been decided which big
estates were to be resumed, and preliminary
notices had been sent to all the landowners inter-
ested. So it really appeared as if the Bent
Government was going to be far-seeing, demo-
cratic, and practical—all in one big act. And
now the Age has the following :
As announced yesterday, the scheme for the resump-
tion of 1,000,000 acres of land in the Western District will
probably be abandoned. ... It has already become recog-
nised that the great expenditure which would be
involved could be much more safely and profitably
devoted to the development of Crown lands... in
eastern Gippsland.
And the Age publishes the statement without a
word of comment, adverse or otherwise. So
Thomas misses his big chance of immortality, and
one of the finest and most promising projects ever
launched is hung up indefinitely. The reason
given is appalling in its absurdity. Even if
THOMAS spends £1,000,000 on eastern Gippsland,
he won’t get the trees off 100,000 acres of the
local precipice ; and the £1,000,000 which it was
proposed to use for land resumption in the west
could all be spent on roads, bridges, and cuttings
in the awful tangle of Gippsland mountains
without anything noticeable being accomplished.
Eastern Gippsland. as a money-syvallowing
locality, is unique. What with mountains, rocks,
precipices, torrents, ferns, giant forests, barren-
ness, nad mud, the struggle for existence which
the scarce settler has to put up is a tough one.
But- on the western plains all would be simple
and easy. There are no sky-towering forests. The
place isn’t a meye tangle of huge scenery. There
are no natural difficulties. The rainfall is good
and regular. The farmer who got the land could
go on it next day and plough it from fence to
fence. The returns in the shape of wheat, other
grain, and sheep would be certain and good. But
the big monopolist has triumphed, and Thomas
now takes his place as the man who made the
Great Political Refusal. A third of Victoria goes
to sleep again indefinitely. And once more the
Federal graduated land-tax is the only hope.
Electoral “Reform”—the Frilly Sort.
The Westralian Government has brought in an
Electoral Bill with fancy frills on it. An elector
can vote for as many candidates as he pleases, so
long as he numbers them 1,2, 3,4, and so on.
Then, if no candidate gets an absolute majority of
No. 1 votes, the man who gets least No. 1 votes is
struck off, and all the No. 1 votes he scored go to
the men who were marked No. 2 on the same
papers. Like all these frilled franchises, it is not
worth the trouble; and often it wouldn’t work
out right. For instance, Brown, Jones, Smith,
and Kelly are candidates; and there are seven
papers like this :
Brown 1141433
.Jones 2 2 3 3 3 4 1
Smith 3 3 2 2 2 2 2
Kelly 4 4 14 114
Nobody gets an absolute majority of No. 1 votes.
Smith gets no No. 1 votes, so out he goes. Jones
only gets one No. 1 vote. The man who supplied
it gave Smith his No. 2 ; but Smith is thrown out
already, so Brown gets the contingent vote, though
Brown only got that voter’s No. 3 vote ; therefore
Brown, having previously got three No. 1 votes, is
elected. Thusone voter’s No. 3 vote elects a man ;
yet nobody else’s No. 2 vote even had a say. The
theory is that the votes should have a value.
Well, suppose a No. 1 vote = 4 points. No. 2 =
3, No. 3• = 2, No. 4 = 1. Then, in the above
ballot, Brown gets 18 points, Jones gets 17 points,
Smith gets 19, and Kelly gets 16. Smith scores
on points ; yet it was Smith who was thrown out?
On his ear in the first round. The old plain ballot
system in which the man who gets the most
votes wins does produce anomalies sometimes ;
but the frilly systems produce about as many
anomalies and more informal votes into the
bargain. Westralia needn’t worry about a few
occasional sardines like that, anyhow, till it gets
rid of some permanent whales. Gascoyne As-
sembly electorate has 632 electors; South Fre-
mantle has 4479. That sort of thing has been put
up with for years, is put up with now, and looks
as though it were going to be put up with many
years more. Also 737 Legislative Council electors
in the North district count for as much as 4495 on
the Goldfields; and while it takes 16,674 Gold-
fields’electors to say “Yes” in the Assembly,
4495 of them can say “No” in the Council—the
other 12,179 can’t say anything there. With a
few whales of anomalies like that to boil down, it
is mere foolish waste of time and effort to hang
contingent-vote frills on the Electoral system.
Also there is a lot of cheap hypocrisy about it.
The people of Australia are still waiting for the
resignation of Chief Justice Darley of N.S.W.
The charge against him is that, being left to
officiate as Acting-Governor of N.S.W., and being
a fool, or else a traitor and an insurrectionist and
a law breaker, or else a careless, incompetent
person who didn’t attend to his business, he
authorised the breach of the law whereby Joseph
Carruthers sent the State police to seize a lot of
wire netting then legally in possession of the
Australian Customs authority. But for the for-
bearance of William Lyne the matter might have
ended in bloodshed and a gory scrimmage between
the Federal troops and the N.S.W. police, acting
under the instructions of the mad Carruthers,
though Joseph didn’t risk his own skin on the
scene of action. Carruthers and Hogue, the two
Ministers who were involved in the affair, were
violent and crazy partisans who badly wanted an
advertisement for election purposes. But the
Acting-Governor is not supposed to be a partisan,
and he has no election to consider. It is his
business to be a calm, judicial personage, and not
to be the tool of any deranged or reckless or self-
advertising State pplitician. It is practically
certain that if the British Government received a
clear statement of the facts and the evidence,
FREDERICK Darley would come to a sudden end
as Governor’s deputy in N.S.W. And it would
be better for him to step down than to be pushed
down.
The Child Study Association of Sydney has been
so unwise as to petition the House of Reps, for
“ the removal of all Customs duties from food and
clothing necessary to the health, comfort and
decency of the people of Australia.” The Asso-
ciation does this for the sake of the children —of
all things in this world. Its idea of consulting
the children’s welfare is apparently to deprive the
fathers of employment, and get things down to
the fine old Freetrade basis of Whitechapel in
London, or the Cowgate of Edinburgh, and the St.
Rollox district of Glasgow. Also it wants to leave
the child at the mercy of every foreign adulterator.
When the infant’s needs are supplied from Aus-
tralian factories, Australia can see to the purity
and honesty of every article. But no system
of inspection can safeguard against the foreign
malefactor.
❖ * —
A piece of comic opera fooling is being acted
under cover of O’Sullivan’s Water and Drainage
Act. Out Manly (N.S.W.) way is a small lagoon
named Curl Curl. Occasionally the mouth of
the lagoon gets blocked seawards, and the rain
water banks up and floods the adjacent land.
The remedy is to dig a channel in the sand, which
work could be done in a couple of days. But to
effect this huge purpose a Trust has been formed
under the Act, and all its machinery has been
solemnly built up, -and the facts, certified to
under the hand of the Governor, lately appeared
in the Government Gazette. Five Trustees
have been appointed, and they have full, complete
and bloated authority to borrow £2O, on condition
that a sinking fund is established to extinguish
the debt. The rate of interest payable by the
Trust is 4 per cent., or 16 “bob” per annum.
This is to be raised by a local rate on the surround-
ing land, estimated to yield a maximum return (if
collected) of £2 3s. As no one knows how to
prevent the sand accumulating again, the Trust is
going to have the time of its life. Meanwhile it
is a curious instance of the borrowing disease.
Whether or not astrology claims to be an exaot
science, it has certainly won the attention of many
eminent men. Its value, however, as an aid to knowledge
or achievement can only be proved by personal investiga-
tion. And Mr. Herschell, Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria,
makes investigations easy and attractive by offering to
send a test horoscope to any enquirer for a shilling.*


A. SAUNDERS.
Oct,' Gold Scarf Pin,
seti, Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 15s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDPPS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud P l ure Silver-
plated, Pierced P '.j, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s Cd, , . 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting
Watches, full jewelled,
355, 40s, 50s, 60s. Solid
Keyless
255, 30s,
Gold,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
r\
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Wei) Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4fin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
oct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, i
6 Fine Opals, £2 10*.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
!Bct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
JL SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10b.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 3s 6d, Ids 6d:
Silver Filled,
68 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s 6d
A., SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
~ Charm, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6 d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
0ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
wm
m
r
Mi
Sr.
kt
r
JWt
KMZ
ire 1
m
s><
m
I '
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, Ids 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size 5in x 3|in, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 35s, 40s, 50s.
wC‘‘s
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Luck”'
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s Gd.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, Iss.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s lid, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Ivy Leaf Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15et. Gold, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted,. 10s 6d
smaller 8s 6d. Other Styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s Od.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
ll
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet Ring.
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2;
IBct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6£in
long, Ss 6d. Other Styles, 6s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Stiver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 XOs, £S,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £10.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £10, to £60.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 60s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
Kct. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BucKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. x
Book Marker, Solid Silver-mounted. New Zealand Greenstone Handle, 84m
long, 4s od. Other Styles, 2s fld, 4s #d.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st.,
gEßwaysSTon, SIDNEY, N.S.W.


OUR NEW SUMMER CATALOGUE!
SEND A POST CARD FOR A COPY.
i
■'
"V * \
1 t
‘Li ,AJ\
-
A\.
■ ■" *
/
: l
M
V . '%?!
■> .
■
f **4
*
r-.
e=3
2&
as
r
llpp^
,*•«-'
--
I* is a large book of 144- pages, illustra-
ting and pricing the everyday needs of
men and women in clothing.
If you shop by post, you. should not be
without a copy. They are FREE. The
Illustration above shows the book and
some of the pages.
DAVID JONES Ltd., SYDNEY.
“ Gallery ” : Aias, now that the new Vic-
torian Parliament has met, how we miss that hoary
old obstructionist, Dave Gaunson ! While he was
there we cursed him ; now we weep. Who will
say now the funn3 r things to make the ladies in
the gallery titter ? I could quote so many—if you
would take ’em on. For instance, that famous
remark about barmaids in the Licensing Bill
blockade : “ Don’t talk about wiping out the bar-
maids ; it sounds so insanitary 1 ”
4-,
Songeuse " Asti,
folio size Photo,
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
DUflTflC
rflU I UO
With 700
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country ! Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 5/-,
10/-, 20/-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Postage 2/d.
INTERNATIONAL PATENTS.
Inventors Advised, Specifications and Drawings
prepared for Commonwealth and International
Patents, Trade Marks, etc.
Established 1877. COLLISON & CO.
Melbourne : 483 Collins Street (Tel. 3131).
Adelaide : 122 Kino William Street.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed. ■
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Government Notice.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
For Advances Department (known as Credit Foncier).
Twelfth Issue of Debentures for £lOO,OOO, at 3| per cent.
To mature 31st October, 1918.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parliament of Victoria, Nos. IUBI, 1722, 1778, and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS,
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, until noon on
Tuesday, 24th September, 1907.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or £5OO, as may be desired. ,
Interest at 3i per cent, per annum will be payable half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being due on 30th April, 1908, at the Commissioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any Tender below £9B 10s. per £lOO will not be entertained. ~ .
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of havings
Banks, amounting to 5 per cent, of the face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be accepted in
full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on 31st March, 1908, or may be paid at an earlier date. Interest at per
cent, per annum will be allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 5 per cent, and over from date or receipt to
31st October, 1907, and will be pavable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate or ten
shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for accepted Tenders.
The due payment of these debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held Dj and
the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks. . ,
The Commissioners are prepared to purchase from successful tenderers any parcels of Bank 6$ per cent,
debentures due 30th April, 1908, at par face value for sums equal to the amount of their accepted tenders.
By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
31st August, 1907.
Y our F utur e
Is
Known !
YOUR FORTUNE FREE. Be Guided by the Stars.
TO introduce mv unerring ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM throughout Australia I will, for a limited time,
send vou FREE, an Astrological Horoscope of your life, if you will send your name a,nd
address date of birth, sex, if married or single, and //- for postage, etc. I want to tell every reader
of The Bulletin what the future has in store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and
years to brighten their lives ; what sorrows, disappointments and reverses are hidden in the future, most ol
which can be avoided if you only know how to go about it.
One Shilling, Stamps or Postal Note, and a Horoscope or Reading of your
Life together with my interesting book “ Your Destiny Foretold,” will be sent to you in a plain envelope.
When vou receive this reading you will discover how absolutely correct, as well as wonderfully helpful it is,
and vou will be glad to write me when you wish to know what to do about the future, for success in love,
marriage speculation or business. You will, I am sure, be pleased to go out of your way to advise your
friends to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the Free Horoscope I send you.
DON’T DELAY. Consult Me To-Day.
Thousands Am This Day Blessing The Hour They First Wrote Me.
Prof. Henri De Astro,
360 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
Address :
The Bushman
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA.
Lever
14/6.
w. mmifrrwe.
313 boukke: stßccf
MELBOURNE
Watch
14/6.
HpHIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas. We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
DUNKUNG, The JEWELLER
315, 317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


GRIPPED Bf THE HOSE
Fic.4.
mm.
“AH, THAT’S CATARRH,” SAID THE DOCTOR,
“CHRONIC CATARRH. IT IS QUITE INCURABLE—
THERE IS NO CURE FOR CATARRH KNOWN TO
MEDICAL SCIENCE.”
The only natural, rational, and permanent method of effecting' an absolute Cure of all those who are Gripped by
the Nose is the System of Treatment practised by Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, the Famous Consulting Herbal Practitioner
of Melbourne. His Cures are Permanent, because they not only dissolve and remove the local growth, or local
trouble, but radically remove the constitutional taint—the true seat of the disease—thus ensuring a Permanent
In numberless ways, and only too frequently with painful certainty, millions of earth’s inhabitants are gripped
by the nose. Nearly every person one meets suffers more or less with Catarrh, and in its severer forms it is far from
pleasant to be gripped b.v the nose by snob a disease, as it gradually undermines the general health frequently
inducing Deafness, Head Noises, Enlarged Tonsils, Hawking of Phlegm or constant clearing of the Throat Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and Consumption. Catarrhal subjects, too, are more often than otherwise what is termed mouth-
breathers, which habit is formed by them owing to obstructions to the nasal passages and cavities. It will be seen
by a glance at the above illustrations that to be gripped by the nose in the wav indicated is quite a serious affair In
figure 1 can b - seen the cavities in the nose and head subject to Catarrh'. The lines indicate how the impure
secretions filter downwards to the throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs, as Shown in figure 2. It will be noted too
how deafness is brought about, owing to these secretions collecting about the inner ear, which only too often results
in head noises and total loss of hearing.
Insanity, too, as is now well known, frequent y results from Catarrh extendino-
to the brain; only within the past few months four such cases have come under
notice.
Eye troubles are also caused by the Catarrhal matter collecting above and around the eyes, which can easily be
understood by a reference to the illustration (Figure 1).
In Figure 3is shown a post-nasal growth, or Polypus (see letter B). It looks small enough certainly. But these
growths are quite large enough to hold by the nose any number of sufferers. All these growths have their origin in
those constitutional causes which induce Catarrh.
In Figure 4 are seen the tonsils in an enlarged state (denoted by the letter C). Enlargement of the tonsils can
only exist in sufferers who are gripped by the nose, that is, who suffer more or less from Catarrh.
To attempt a cure of Polypus, or any Post-nasal Growth, by a surgical operation, by cauterisation, or by any
other merely local treatment, is a mistake. J
To operate for Enlarged Tonsils and Growths in the Throat is also a mistake. The reason is that, as all growths
have their origin in constitutional and morbid matters in the system, a merely local treatment, whether surgical or
otherwise, cannot effect a cure. The fact is in daily evidence, and proved by the numerous recurrences of growths
which doctors have cut out.
On this account most especial attention is directed to the fact that there are innumerable cases of deeplv-seated
obscure, intractable, and supposed to he incurable diseases, which baffle the whole medical world, and "vet such
cases are now being readily cured in a perm nent manner by the new and right-ahead-of-date methods of Mr. H. E.
Kugelmann, the famous consulting herbal practitioner and gifte d diagnostician, of 14-16 Qneen-street Melbourne
Sydney, Adelaide, and Brisbane. A confidential consultation with him will convince any sufferer that he completely
Understands the deeply-seated causes of the disease, and, what is still of more importance, he knows how to cure it.
As Mr. Kugelmann will be in Goulburn, Sydney, Brisbane, and other cities, for consultation three weeks as per
schedule hereunder, chronic sufferers ought to avail themselves of the opportunity to obtain his exceptionally
skilful advice and treatment. He possesses the gift of intuitive di gnosis, and can tell patients what is the cause of
their disease without being informed in any way by them, and will give a straight-out opinion as to whether the
case is curable or nor. Tf preferred, a legal agreement is entered into for a complete cure for a lump sum in each
instance. ALL CONSULTATIONS ARE CHARGED A FEE OF 10s„ altogether apart from anv treatment or
mwiicine. And after obtaining his diagnosis pntunfcs can have treatment nr not., as they please. If unable to
consult Him personally, write full descr.ption of your case, and enclose Postal
Mote or Stamps for Its. Fee. And address it to him to his head offices, 14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne
on receipt of which diagnosis will be sent at earliest possible moment. Unless the fee is enclosed no diagnosis will
be sent in reply. 6
It is safe to say that there is not a single city, town, or hamlet in all Australasia in which is not to be found
some erstwhile hopeless sufferer whom he has cured. It is high time that the entire cotmnunitv clearly understood
that the present craze for operations for almost any internal and external ailment is unnecessary, for by Mr.
Kugelmann’s system all internal displacements, whether of the Kidney or of any other organs can be completely
cured without operations, and that all Tumours, Cysts, Polypi, and other growths, internal and external can by
this method be dissolved painlessly, and cured without cutting or operating.
.Itis of little use acting thepart of the stupid ostrich, and refusing to look at facts as they are. The evidence
Which Mr. Kugelmann has produced, and the vast army of chronics which he has cured during'the past 38 years is
simply unparalleled, and the cures accomplished by him unsurpassed in modern history.
All chronic sufferers who have so far neglected to consult him should not fail to avail themselves of this
opportunity to obtain his exceptionally skilful advice and treatment.
Mr. Kugelmann may be Consulted as per
following: Schedule, viz.
GOULBURN) N.S.W.— At “ Mandelson’s ” Hotel, on—
FRIDAY, 13th Sept., 1907. Hours, front 10 a.m. until 5 p.m.
FRIDAY EVENING, 13th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 7 p.m. until 8 p.m.
SATURDAY, 14th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
SATURDAY EVENING, 14th Sept , 1907. Hours, from 7 p.m. until 8 p.m.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.— At his permanent Branch Offices, 199 Clarence Street, between King and Market Streets
first floor, upstairs, on— ’
MONDAY, 16th Sept., 1997. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
TUESDAY, 17th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, 18th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
THURSDAY, 19t,h Sept,., 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
THURSDAY EVENING, 19th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 7.30 p.m. until 9 p.m.
FRIDAY, 20th Sept., 1907. Hours, from 9 a.m. until '5 p.m.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
TOOWOOMBA, Queensland —At “ Imperial ” Hotel (late Long’s), from :
THURSDAY, 3rd October, 1907, daily until MONDAY, Bth October, 1907.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
BRISBANE, Queensland—At his permanent branch offices (top floor King, Cribb and King’s Buildings! 77 7Q si
Queen Street, opposite To n Hall, from : ® " ' ’
MONDAY, 14th October, 1907, daily until Saturday, 19th October, 1907.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
LISMORE, N.S.W. —At his branch offices, New Firm’s Chambers, over Nesbit, McMaster’s Store Molesworth
Street, from : ’
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, 24th October, 1907, daily, until MONDAY AFTERNOON, 28th October 1907.
And about every 16th week thereafter. ’
GRAFTON, N.S.W. — At his branch offices, Post Office Chambers, next Post Office, Victoria Street on :
r WEDNESDAY, 30th October, 1907, and daily until FRIDAY AFTERNOON, Ist November,’l9o7.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
SWORN EVIDENCE.
It has been found that in giving evidence it is necessary for the deponent to swear to the truth of his assertions
such oaths rendering him liable to imprisonment if false. Now this is exactly v hat has been done by those many
thousands of persons cured by Mr. Kugelmann of every supposed-to-be incurable disease on earth ; they have sworn
to the truth of the statements they have made, so that all may know that they are true. The following are extracts
from only a few out of many thousands of testimonials received by Mr. Kugelmann from grateful patients whom he
has cured :
CHRONIC ASTHMA AND CATARRH.
Just the Mere Framework of a Little Boy.—Doctors
Puzzled, and Gave up the Case. — Mr. Kugelmann
Worked Wonders.—Boy note Strong and Healthy.
A reporter from a Brisbane newspaper recently waited
on Mr. James Stuckey, of Stuckey-road, Clayfield, near
Brisbane, to make inquiries concerning tbe complete
recovery of his nephew and adopted son, Albert Isaac
Stuckey.
“ My nephew was always weak and ailing,” said Mr.
Stuckey. “ Even as a little baby it was just a touch and
go with him as to whether he would tret beyond the
teething stage or not. As years went on, he developed a
Chronic Asthma and Catarrh, coupled with Bronchial
trouble of a very severe nature. He was always very
wasted and thin, and of a deadly pale color. He seemed
to have no blood in him. He suffered from continual
headaches. His coughing especially at night, was
terrible. Time after time we took him to different.
doctors, but they were all puzzled, and could do nothing
for him. I always fancied Mr. Kugelmann might do
something for the child, and finally I persuaded his
mother to take him to see Mr. H. E. Kugelmann. At
that time the child was about 10 years of age. He had
fallen to a shadow, was deadly pale, and the Asthma and
Catarrh had complete hold of his system. He was just
the mere framework of a little boy. We took him to
Mr. Kugelmann as a last resource. Mr. Kugelmann
examined him with great care, and finally undertook to
cure him if we would follow his advice. This we readily
agreed to do. The treatment given by Mr. Kugelmann
worked wonders on the child. Very shortly the boy
began to pick up, and the Asthma and Cata'rrh disap-
peared. He put on flesh, and lost his sickly color alto-
gether. He is now completely cured, and able to work
on the farm. Mr. Kugelmann is welcome to use this as
he thinks lit.” (Signed) JAMES STUCKEY.
Sworn and signed at Mundah, this thirteenth day of
February, one thousand nine hundred and seven, before
m p - (Signed) GEO. J. WALKER, J.P.
CHRONIC CATARRH AND
CONSUMPTION.
One of Australia’s Foremost Athletes Cured.
Arnold’s Bridge, Victoria, 30th August, 1900.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN.
Dear Sir,—l had chronic catarrh of the nose for many
years, and about eight years ago I got a chill, which
brought on an incessant cough and bleeding. I used to
have copious night sweats, and to cough quantities of
matter. My stomach became so weak that the least
thing would cause me to vomit my food. I consulted a
legally qualified medical man, and he pronounced me to
be an incurable consumptive, and told me that I could
not live three months. I then went to Melbourne to con-
sult you. After having made an examination, you told
me th tt my left lung was badly affected, and that con-
sumption had progressed rather far, but that yon would
undertake my case, and that you could cure me ; so I
began to take your herbal treatment. After I had been
under your treatment about six weeks all bleeding
ceased, the cough greatly diminished, sleep returned,
expectorations became lighter in color and not so
mattery, and I could eat well. I gained over two stone
in weight, and finally became completely cured. I will
add that, during the past two years, I have done a lot of
foot running, and have been placed third one year and
fourth another year at Stawell against one hundred com-
petitors. This proves the cure of my lung troubles must
be real and thorough.
(Signed) HERBERT ARCHIE M’KEAN.
Sworn before me at Arnold’s Bridge, in the State of
Victoria, this 7t,h day of September, 1906. (Signed)
RICHARD GRAHAM, Commissioner for taking affidavits.
Amongst many recent cases of Catarrh cured by Mr.
Kugelmann may be mentioned the following
Mr. VV. Huston, of Lil.vdale, Vic., who, at one time
“cou’dn’t blow through his nose,” cured of Chronic
Catarrh and Asthma, after the local and leading Mel-
bourne doctors had failed. Sworn 29th August, 1906.
Mrs. M. A. Shipton, of Caversham, near Adelaide,
S. A., swore to the fact of her complete cure, 13 t ears ag'O,
of Nasal Catarrh, Asthma, and Bronchitis, by Mr. Kugel-
mann, on 13/9/’O6.
Mrs. H. Kreech, of Tungamah, Vic., suffered from
Chronic Catarrh, Heart Disease, Displacement, for a
number of years ; doctors failed. Mr. Kugelmann cured.
20 years’ proof of permanent cure. Sworn 7th Novem-
ber, 1900.
DEPLORABLE CASE OP ASTHMA
CURED.
Post-Nasal Growth Dissolved and Catarrh Cured After
Operations Failed.
My son, John Rauber, was ailing from seven years of
age till he was twelve years old. He suffered badly from
Asthma. Catarrh and Post-Nasal Growths. Sometimes
he could hardly breathe, and often we thought he was
going to suffocate. We took him to numerous doctors,
but none of them did him any good. One doctor in Bris-
bane, Dr. H——, operated upon his throat and nose, hut
did not cure him. He said Asthma was incurable. We
began to look upon our.son’s case as hopeless. We read
about Mr. Kugelmann having cured cases of Asthma sup-
posed to be incurable, and thus were led to take our son
to see him. Mr. Kugelmann declared that he would cure
both the growths in the nose and the Catarrh if we would
follow out his treatment, which we did. We noticed,
first, that our son got a good appetite ; then his bren th-
ing got easier ; after that the growths in the nose were
dissolved, and, finally, all symptoms of Asthma dis-
appeared, and he put on flesh and became as strong as he
is to-day. Now he works on the farm, and is in the best
of health. (Signed) (Mrs.) E. RAUBER. Nudgee, Q.
Sworn before me at Nudgee, in the State of Queens-
land, this twenty-fifth dav of June, 1907.
(Signed) D. J. CHILDS, J.P.
SEVEN YEARS’ ASTHMA AND
BRIGHT’S DISEASE CURED AFTER
EIGHT DOC . ORS TAILED.
I SUFFERED FROM ASTHMA AND BRIGHT’S DIS-
EASE of the Kidneys for over seven vears. A doctor I
consulted found that I had Bright’s disease of the Kidneys,
and treated me for a length of time without any benefit,
I tried two other doctors and on their advice went to the
mountains for a change. I became gradually worse, and
came down to the hospital in Sydney, and fohr doctors
examined me and treated me without any good at all
resulting. I had finally given up all hopewhen I heard
of Mr. Kugelmann’s wonderful success. I consulted him
at Goulburn, and began his treatment. Result—perfectly
cured of the asthma, Rright’s Disease, and other ail-
ments. No return after three vears.
(Signed) (Mrs.)M. WINDSOR,
13 Bueknell-street, Newtown, Sydney, July 8,1901.
Sworn at Sydney this July 8, 1901, before me,
(Signed) J. WHEELER, J.P.
16 YEARS’ASTHMA. REMARKABLE
CURE. DOCTORS FAILED.
I suffered from Chronic Asthma 16 years. My lungs
were choked with phlegm and slime. I consulted the
best doctor in Horsham, and tried his treatment for a
longtime. It never did me any good. I then consulted
a well-known doctor in Creswiek. I stuck to his treat-
ment about a year. I gradually got worse the whole
time. He said my right lung was completely gone. I
then consulted Mr. Kugelmann, at the White Hart Hotel,
Horsham, and was surprised to find he knew the instant
he saw me that I had Asthma. So I began his treatment
at once, and by it I have been completely cured. It is
now over four years ago, and I have remained quite well
ever since.
(Signed) JOHN B. WHITE.
Sworn this 4th day of November, 1899, before me,
(Signed) JAMES CARROL, J.P.
Present address, Gunnedah, N.S.W.
CHRONIC ASTHMA.
Mr. Kugelmann the only practitioner who can cure it.
When first I went to Mr. Kugelmann, about sixteen
months ago, I was in a state of break up. I was a sufferer
from Chronic Asthma. 1 used to be awake half the night
struggling to get breath. Large quantities of phlegm
usvd to collect in my throat, and often I was in danger of
choking. I suffered from painful headaches and neu-
ralgia. I grew so weak that I could hardly climb two or
three steps. There was also a polypus in my nose. One
medical man said he thought I had Catarrh. I took all
sorts of medicines that the doctors prescribed for me, but
gained no benefit. When I consulted Mr. Kugelmann I
found there was a wonderful difference between his treat-
ment and that of the doctors. In a few weeks’ time I
could breathe quite well, and instead of crawling could
walk anywhere. And now I can work all dav long.
(Signed) E. H. BUHL.
Sworn before me at Brisb ine, in the State of Queens-
land, this fourth dav of July, 1907.
(Signed) C. C. MORETTI, J.P.
DEAFNESS.
CATARRH OF MIDDLE EAR.
I suffered for a considerable time from deafness, which
was caused by catarrh. My nose was stopped up just
about the bridge, as if a pair of pincers were fixed on the
nose. This prevented me from breathing prop' rly.
Frequently I had extreme pains on the right side of my
head. It is not easy to explain how deaf 1 was. But
when anyone spoke to me at a distance of only a couple
of feet I couldn’t hear them.
The matter was a serious one for me, for not only did I
suffer considerable pain from the catarrh, butmy deaf-
ness seemed to lie increasing every month.
Reading about Mr. Kugelmann in the paper, I paid him
a visit, lie at once told me what was the blatter,
without so much 'is asking* a question. He pfave me cer-
tain directions and some medicine. I followed out his
instructions, and soon began to feel much better. The
feeling of tightness in the nose began to loosen, and by
and bv went away altogether, and now I can hear per-
fectly plain when spoken to at a few yards distance.
(Signed) J. pj ATKINSON,
_ , . One Mile, near Gympie (Q.).
Sworn before me, at Gympie, this 24th day of May, 1907.
THOMAS LAYFIELD, J.P.
TWENTY YEARS’ ASTHMA AND
HEART DISEASE CURED. AGED
74.—DOCTORS EAILED.
I had Chronic Asthma for 20 years. I could scarcely
breathe at times, and was as one dead. My heart was badly
affected, and also my liver and stomach, eventually ending
in dropsy of the feet and leg's. During the many years of
my illness 1 tried a number of the best doctors, both in
Melbourne and Sydney. They did me no good whatever.
1 had at last become so bad that I felt my end had come.
I, however, tried Mr. Kugelmann, and his treatment had
a most marvellous effect on me. lat once began to feel
better. The Asthma disappeared, appetite returned, and
I could once more sleep like a child. Formerly I could not
walk a step without panting. Now I can run up and
down stairs like I could when a young girl. My age is 74.
(Signed) (Mrs.) S. DALTON.
Witness—(Signed) L. Fratere- 1
Sworn at Sans Souci this 4th day of March, 1899, before
me, p. HENMAN, J.P.
Mrs. Dalton’s present address is “ Roseberry,” Rams-
gate-road, Kogarah, N.S.W.
FACIAL PARALYSIS CURED IN
14 DAYS.
21 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt, N.S.W.,
September 15, 1903.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —It is with the most Sincere gratitude I pen
these few lines to let you know my complete recovery
from facial paralysis', after a fortnight’s treatment by
you. All my friends are unanimous in what they call a
miraculous cure. Thanking you.—l am. dear Sir, grate-
fully yours, (Signed) GliO. W. PARDONNE.
CHRONIC RHEUMATISM CURED.
Albury, N.S.W., March 3, 1903.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann.
Dear Sir,—l anj very pleased to be able to state that,
after Sufferingirbm chronic rheumatism for some eight
3’ears, I am now quite well, thanks to vour treatment.
(Signed) W. T. THORNE, Architect, Wilson-st., Albury,
A MODERN MIRACLE !
My daughter, Ollie Broekie, is now aged five years. Till
the age of four years she was quite unable to walk. Her
legs were perfectly useless and quite cold and lifeless.
They dangled from her body loosely. While other parts
of her body g ew naturally her legs hardly grew at all from
birth from the knees down, and there was hardly any flesh
on the bones of the legs. Her feet, too, remained very
small and undeveloped. I took Ollie to two doctors, who
prescribed for her, but they did Ollie no good, her legs
still remained idle and useh ss and undeveloped. She was
four years of age when I took her to see Mr. Kugelmann.
That gentleman said that he could fix her up to walk in
about four months’time. This turned out to be correct,
for, strange to say, after the four months’ treatment was
completed, within two days she walked across the room.
Now she can walk all over the place, and her legs are
three or four times fatter than they were before Mr.
Kugelmann took her in hand—she has also a calf to her
leg where once the leg was quite deficient of this.
Indeed, her legs were once no thicker than your thumb.
Her feet are also now growing, and generally her health
is good. (Signed) J. BROCK lE.
Sworn before me at Ipswich in the State of Queens-
land, this twenty-eighth day of August, one thousand
nine hundred and seven.
(Signed) JOSEPH STAFFORD, J.P.
FELL DOWN IN THE STREET.
CARRIED HOME, LOST ALL U»E
OF HIS LEGS.
Mr. Kugelmann Cures Chronic Locomotor Ataxia.
DOCTORS FAILED.
I had a numbed feeling at base of brain, and pained
and numbed feeling down the spine and in the legs. The
pains were at one time constant for three months. I
tried one doctor after another, and gradually got worse
the whole time. I also tried the Prince Alfred Hospital ;
no good. Finally, I lost all use of my legs, and fell in the
street, and had to be carried home. A medical man whom
we sent for at this time pronounced it useless to treat
me, as I was quite incurable. Hearing, however, of a
case of paralysis which Mr. Kugelmann had cured at
Goulburn, I decided to try his treatment. It took three
men to carry me to the consulting room from the cab. I
stuck to his treatment, and after some months’ steady
treatment, began to improve, and finally got quite cured,
and have been perfectly well ever since, having regained
complete use of my once useless legs and bodv.
(Signed) JOHN THOMAS.
Mulgoa, Penrith, N.S.W., 7th October, 1901.
Signed before me.—THOMAS DAVIS, J.P.
GALL STONES AND ENLARGED
LIVER CURED.
Doctor Wished to Use the Knife.
Some time ago I was seriously ill with Gall Stones and
Enlarged Liver. This caused me excruciating pain in the
small of the back and in the region of the stomach. The
pain used to travel about a good deal, and one night the
pain fixed itself in the small of my back, and then slowly
travelled to my heart. The agony was fearful. Many
nights I was unable to get a moment’s sleep. There was
no position in which I could find rest. My enlarged liver
brought on a terrible indigestion and a distressing heart-
burn. If I did a few minutes’ wmrk I was completely
exhausted. Finally, I could do nothing. For twelve
months I couldn’t do a day’s work. I consulted two
Toowoomba doctors, but they were unable to do me the
least good. One wanted to use the knife on me, but to
this I couldn’t consent. I read about Mr. Kugelmann
and asked his advice. He told me exactly from what I
was suffering. He also told me how long it would take
to cure me, and he completely cured me within a few
days of the time he stated. His medicines seemed to dis-
solve the gall stones, for soon I felt no more pain in the
back or stomach, and the indigestion left me. It is some
time ago now, but I have not had any return of the pain
and I am completely cured.
(Signed) CON KEESE, Middle Ridge Q.
Sworn before me at Middle Ridge, in the State of
Queensland, this fifteenth day of July, 1907.
(Signed) JOHN ATKINSON, J.P,
Internal Displacement and Ulcerations
Cured after Doctors’ Operations Failed.
For a lengthy period extending over many years, I was
afflicted with important internal troubles, including dis-
placement and ulceration ; I also suffered from violent
bad aches. It didn’t matter how many doctors I went
to, none of them did me any good. I was suffering
internal pains of an agonising character. Doctors per-
formed several operations upon me without any benefit
to me. I was so weak I couldn’t lift a plate,’ and the
least movement or shock gave me severe abdominal pains.
Finally I was laid up in bed. At the crisis my husband
decided to try and get Mr. Kuglemnim to see me. Mr.
Kugelmann examined me thoroughly, and told me that
he couid cure my complaints without operating. When
I had been under his treatment only a fortnight, the
internal pains and sensations of weight and hardness dis-
appeared, and my abdomen, for the first time since my
illness, was free from pain. By continuing the treat-
ment I became compldi l> cured, and m\ internal organs
regain d their natural position, and became healthy once
more. I now am strong enough to do any sort of house
work and to go anywhere. After my former helpless arid
suffering state, the change seems remarkable.
(Signed) Mrs. S. HANDLEY.
Signed before me at Drayton, in the State of Queens-
land, this fourteenth daj' of July, 1907.
(Signed) ROBERT HANDLEY, J P
£5OOO REWARD
WILL BE PAID
TO ANYONE
Who can prove that any of the Certificates of
Cases Cured and Published by Mr. KUGEL*
MANN are not Genuine.
(Signed) HERMAN EMIL KUGELMANN,
Registered Office, 199 Clarence-street Sydney.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERT.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takiag them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
.> Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheei-y sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose ot Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be' im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Branch Office:
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which ha* outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In ose since IMS.
m
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYH E
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne-
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHIEA,
DYSENTERY, FEYERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. CO LLIS BROWN €
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTESY.
Australian
Established 1S49.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or ori the Security
° f aha V n States t or e N > lw t Zeitknd SCr,be LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent 5 , of the loan during’ any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dm fctors The Hon A W. Meeks, M.L.O., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker Deputy-Chairman: Benjamin
DlR Short, ; James Burns. Esq. ; TheHon. R. J. Black, M.L.G.; F E. Winchcombe Esq.; Jas. 0. Fairfax, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.a., t.t.A., i.b.b.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Australia’s Exquisite Production
BOOMERANG''
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895-
THE LANCET says:
"It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE."
It is supplied
% under Royal Warrant
Ke to
His Majesty the King
m
ft
H
Yi
A
ĸ
m
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES UVtPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CONSULT
HERR RASSMUSSEN
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
ADVICE FREE.
Send for Free Circular.
25 YEARS’ PRACTICE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Awarded Several Gold Medals and
Thousands of Testimonials.
SPECIAL TREATMENT: Diseases of the Nerves, Skin and Blood,
Piles, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Liver and Kidneys.
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DON’T READ THIS !
Purchasers to the amount of 10/6 receive two
beautiful EMBROIDERED HANDKERCHIEFS as a
present. Engraving and Embroidering FREE
of Charge at our Establishment. Note Address:
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 SYDNEY ARCADE, KING STREET ENTRANCE.
PEERLESS
MAKES THE SHINE
THAT WONT COME OFE
There is no need to soil
the clothing with untidy
polishes. Hauthaway’s Peer-
less Gloss imparts a rich, black,
| lustrous shine that neither injures
the leather nor soils
the garments. It is i
cleanly. It is free from
acids. Millions use it.
You should try it. It
polishes without rubbing.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN 5. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England
iSS
VI
ķ
■ Reader, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, witn-
out leaving your home. I<m rer-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
! the mysteries and secrets
s of the Art. It contains
1 hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time X will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
4*
1
&
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A
a]
CUARAftTt^
BRIARS do hot
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
23ICIarer\ce5t$ydr\ey
BEST
HORN
SHAPE
Qreenei^
cJtjns
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W.W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 3x7, Collins St., Melbourne;or
simply address
"Greener. Birmingham.”
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
DIET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.


0
□
4
<£
ĸ
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am a storekeeper, living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers, has been subject to Bronchitis for a number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been
in these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for & number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and
hearty now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part of it you like, as it may be of great benefit
to other people suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. COGLIN, Storekeeper, Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD, COULD NOT GET ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED. .
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to.no purpose. I saw your medicine advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case the cough may return at any time. lam writing this as lam
sure there are a great many people out this way that, if they knew the wonderful effect of this medicine, would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD, Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING INTENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—ln 1898 (I was for four years previously in Queensland travelling representative
tor a mercantile house), having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself under a medical man, and used all kinds
of chemists’ prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’ Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager
did all possible for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan Currie, at that time acting manager for
the New York Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised me to trv your Bronchitis Cure. I was about
done for, could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely
Guess of my thankfulness when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured
me. I took another bottle away from the city with me, and gave part of it to a young girl at Southport and it
also saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan, Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled ahout 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted a
cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS, Lebasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia and
here, and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I arrived in Cairns in 1900, from Western Australia
I was induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles, and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards
run a mile Or climb up and down a vertical shaft, without any feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for
Bronchitis that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager, Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
Dear Sir, I had a very bad cough, so I bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
■? ne lw * w , h cure( i m .Y cough in two or three da3’s. My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
tor the past twelve months, then used the remaining half of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years. You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please. Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON, Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearn e. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express my gratitude, first to you for your marvellous
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure ; next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemise, North Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in
stock. My wife, being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate
relief, and continuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My wife and I recommended it to all our acquaint-
ances who suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publication if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN, Elsternwiek, Victoria.
, BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE. EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of vour Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last
February in Melbourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your Bronchitis Cure. After three doses I felt
immense relief, and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished. Before leaving Melbourne I obtained
three bottles of it, as I would not like to be without so wonderful a medicine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
SEVERE COUGH—A 5 YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir, I suffered from a severe cold on the chest, with cough, for five .years, and during that time got treat-
ment from different sources, but derived no benefit until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief at once
and completely cured me. lam delighted with it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once, and can’t
he licked.-Yours sincerely, W. TREMELLEN, Modewarre, Victoria.
ASTHMA—A 17 YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville, Queensland, write’s :— t£ After suffering from asthma for seven-
teen years, and having been under a great many different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
Medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the asthma, and since then
which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing two years later he states : —“ lam keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma."
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne.- The silent workers are frequently the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria who
during’ the last few.years, has been repeatedly working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, it is
our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recommended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham
accountant, Collins Street, and the effect that it had was so marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be, yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS / Ike great success of lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced, a number of
unprincipled peisons to make imitations, each calling his medicine C£ Bronchitis Cure/ 5 with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw T your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to b>s
particular to ask for II EARN E’S and see that you get it.
HE ARNE S BROJS 0111 lIS CURE Small Size, 2s. fid.; Large Size, Is. fid. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, "W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Torwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Ilearne s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOI contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
NS - W - Branch Office: Wo. 5, First Floor, Greeks Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
Food
w
The more delicate the state of health, ths greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger ? s Food.
Sienger s Food is sold in Una by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
John Forrest’s reference to Big William’s
bad memory recalls an incident in N.S. W. Assem-
bly, when Reid was Premier and Lyne leader of
Opposition. Lyne arose and, in tones of sorrow,
complained that the Government had made no
motion to present a congratulatory address to her
Majesty on her record reign. The House held
its breath, and William explained that the other
Parliaments had carried such a motion, arid that
it was a scandal and disgrace, etc. Just then,
Brunker uttered the cry of a strong cow-dealer in
his agony : “ The Premier proposed that motion
a few minutes ago, and you have just seconded
it.” So Big William remembered and sat down.
“ Melb.” writes :
Jubilee Paunch omits the funniest thing- in its whole
history. There used to be one O’Hea, M.L.A. for Oolac,
known as the Chief Baron, one of Syme’s pet writers,
and, of course, obnoxious to Carrington and Co. O’Hea
went in the train to Oolac, with two strangers, who were
gibing at Graham Berry. O’Hea chipped in with, “ Gin-
tlemin, I shot a man wanst for saying less than you’re
saying now.” This was made a jocular paragraph in
the Argus, and Carrington’s pictures rubbed it into
poor O’Hea continually., “Shot a man wanst.” Car-
rington put him into the Embassy, with Berrv and Pear-
son, as their flunkey. The London flunkeys gave a grand
banquet to O’Hea, like Sam Weller’s Swarry, consisting
of a boiled leg of mutton. O’Hea got up to make a
speech, and began, “I shot a man wanst.” General
scatter!
Captain J. C. Hill, who got his clearance
at Adelaide recently, was an ex-navy man and a
pioneer Murray River skipper. He came to
S.A. in the early ’6o’s, and in ’66 was mate of
the steamer Adelaide, trading between Hay
and Echuca. A little later he passed the
masters’ exam., and got the sixth skipper’s ticket
issued for the Big Trickle. He carried things up
and down the river for 20 years in the Cum-
beroona, Elizabeth Julia, Invincible, Salerno
and Princess; and then he carried more things
across the river for two years in the Wentworth
Ferry. He held the China W T ar and Indian
Mutiny medals.
“ Wrong Slug ” : Kromer, the Yictorian
Socialistic crank, whose speech at the Conference
held at Stuttgart (Germany), Reuter describes as
‘an extraordinary mixture of blasphemy and in-
consequence,” used to sling his long bony fingers
over the keyboard of the linotype at the Victorian
Government Printing Office, Melbourne. Victor
orated on Yarra’sshore occasionally, andduringthe
summer months he used to whirl his arms in
public places in South Melbourne, and talk after
the fashion of Tom Mann, once of the Beer-and-
Water Hotel. Dark and dismal Victor was
never taken very seriously by his brethren of the
Government Printing Office, and they always
scoffed at the comet-like fashion of his hair.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
Mcdicator. a(zo
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
-the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure I If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis. Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
k
A WHOLESOME BEVERAGE
“0.T.” is recognised everywhere as the
most wholesome and invigorating beverage
of the day.
Made from pure ingredients, carefully
selected, and in surroundings that are
scrupulously clean, this famous beverage
has created a demand unequalled by any
other drink—alcoholic or non-alcoholic —in
the world.
It is no mere picturesque idea to suppose
that a natural drink, derived from ingre-
dients of recognised purity, is the most
wholesome of all.
Just as pure fruit juices and chillies are
known to be beneficial to health, so “ 0.T.,”
possessing the same properties in the same
proportions, invigorates and fortifies.
And the delicious flavor of “ 0.T.,” gentle
at first, increases as it passes over the
tongue, and there is never a gap, never a
hint of foreign substance. The flavor is full
and generous, evaporates slowly, and
caresses the whole palate.
The factory in which “ 0.T.” is made is
the only cordial factory in the world that
works overtime in the summer.
To meet the Australian demand, 22,000
bottles of “O.T.”are now turned out weekly,
and as each bottle contains thirty good
drinks, this means that 660,000 nips of
“0.T.” are consumed every week.
“0.T.” is sold everywhere—by hotels,
grocers, and chemists. If your retailer says
he cannot supply you with the genuine
“ 0.T.,” drop a postcard to us, and we will
see that you are supplied.
Mixed with whisky, wine, soda, lemonade,
or water, “ 0.T.” makes a splendid drink all
the year round.
u
R*
a
O.T.
31
The Great
Australian
Drink.
lOOJutih
U.I
The Premier
Winter
Beverage.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The extraordinary success of “ 0.T.” in every State of the Commonwealth has
brought into the market more than the ordinary number of products of unscrupulous
traders, who seek to take advantage of the wide publicity given to this popular
beverage, and to hoodwink the public in their endeavor to pass off an inferior
beverage as the genuine “ 0.T.” These counterfeit preparations contain none of
those pure, health-giving ingredients that have made “0.T.” so popular, and the
trader who gives you one of these so-called “ just as good ” substitutes does so m
order to swell his profits at your expense. The proprietors of O.i. offer a
REWARD OF £lOO.
for information leading to the conviction of any persons wilfully misrepresenting
or selling an inferior beverage as “0.T.” or refilling “0.T.” bottles with an
imitation beverage.
/ i o'..
u
*
VJSTRAtJT*
o
(<
o
dOi>
r MAHtSA
oetioous
WHISKY
or RUM
PUNCH
Or filth any
kindofSpirit,
Wine etc
USE
wirh
HOT
COL
WATER
j^goufactored by
J Dixon &(q
PRAHRAN
Tel 171 Windsor
A Great Cure:
Toe /A/O/CESTIOtf
LOOK
FOR
THE
RED
CHILLI
TRADE
MARK.
AND
MAKE
QUITE
SURE
YOU
GET
“0.T.”
MANUFACTURED BY
J. DIXON <a CO.,
HigH Street, PRAHRAN, MELBOURNE.
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO
wh.ISSfiSL- QUINLAN, GRAY & CO
RETAILED BY HOTELS, GROCERS and CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
m
■n
FOR YOUR PROTECTION
The extraordinary success of “ 0.T.” in
every State of the Commonwealth has
brought even more of the average number
of cheap imitations into the field—inferior
substitutes, manufactured solely for the
purpose of extra profit.
Inventive genius has discovered a hun-
dred and one questionable expedients for
imitating the “0.T.” bottle, the label, and
such other points as tend to give these coun-
terfeit preparations a likeness to “ 0.T.”
The whole alphabet has been exploited in
the endeavor to find combinations of letters
that will fall off the tongue with a sound
most easily mistaken for “ 0.T.”
Of course, there is a bigger share of profit
to the manufacturer and the retailer on
these so-called just-as-good substitutes than
on the real thing —generally because the
materials or ingredients are inferior, or the
essential part of them lacking altogether.
The Public is, therefore, warned when
ordering “ 0.T.” to scrutinise the label very\
closely, to look for the -Red Chilli Trade
Mark, and to see that the bottle is the same
in every detail as the one illustrated in this
advertisement. >
That distinctive “ 0.T.” label is put on the
bottle for your protection from unreliable
and worthless substitutes. You know what
you want —do not let the dealer choose
for you.
And remember there is no other beverage
“ just as good ” as “ 0.T.”
As a thirst-quenching beverage for all
seasons, it has no equal, and as a cure for
colds, chills, influenza, indigestion, etc., it
has reached a high standard of merit.
0
Cockle’s Hntibihous Pills©—"*
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
•,W. Vt.'t
The Argus wails gave a Melbourne firm—
Foy and Gibson, to wit—the chance of a fine free
advt The Argus was sobbing because the tariff
was going to compel the poor working man to
leave off his “Jaeger” singlets and underpants,
and was going to drive him into flannelette gar-
ments or Yorkshire shoddy; whereupon he would
get rheumatism and pneumonia, and would die
twice {i week at least. At this stage Foy s
manager began talking. He remarked pleasantly
that this country produced the finest wool in the
world ; that his firm had £14,000 already invested
in machinery for making the garments in ques-
tion, and was turning out 12,000 dozens of them
annually; and had, since the tariff, placed
orders for machinery that would double the
output. Moreover, it was laying down a
complete plant for manufacturing the yarn
required. Also he proffered the Argus some
cheerful remarks about Stinking Fish.
The S. M. Herald had these bold headings
the other day :
NEW ZEALAND ARBITRATION AOT.
CONDEMNED BY THE WORKERS.
A DANGEROUS MEASURE.
Then followed a telegram from Wellington re-
porting a protest against a bill to alter the Arbi-
tration Act. Suppose some paper were to print
this: —
THE S. M. HERALD
SUSPENDS PUBLICATION.
A FIERCE STRUGGLE WITH THE BAILIFFS.
Several papers thgt have hitherto been established to
counteract the bad influence of the S.M. Herald have
succumbed, after a fierce struggle with the bailiffs.
Now, honestly, what would the Herald think of
that paper ?


Saponaceous
Emollient
For Preserving:,Purifying
and Beautifying the Skin,
Scalp, Hair, and Hands,
for Sanative, Antiseptic
Cleansing, and for all the
purposes of the Toilet.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 5 Rue de la Paix: Austra-
lia. R Towns & Co. Sydney: India, B. K. Paul. Cal-
cutta: China. Hong Kong Drug Co.: Japan. Maruya.
Ltd.. Tokio; South Atrica, Lennon, Ltd.. Cape Town,
etc.: U. S. A., Potter Drug <fe Chem. Corp.. Sole
Props.. Boston. s@“Post-lree, Cuticura Booklet.
This Lady’s Enamel
No article of attire lends greater finish to a woman’s
dress than dainty Shoe Leather. The shoe shown
here is one of the smartest American Models, made
by Hilliard and Tabor, the leading exclusive Shoe
Manufacturers in America. It has an extra high
Wurtemburg Heel, as Fashion decrees correct. Price,
23/6. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra ;to other States,
Is. 2d. extra.
Kid Dress
Shoe
for
23/6
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
ķ
at; this price it can be had in either Patent
heather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, 14/6. Posted in Victoria, I/, extra ; to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
000*011
The WaybacK iSeries
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and l:i’rj>s laujhhuj. Red Harry Is
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
Bicycle*
JR.JELT
THE.
THE
AT the Fitzroy Bicycle
Club’s Animal 25-mile
Road Race held at Keilor
on Aug 1 . 17, D. Cotter, the
winner, rode a machine
fitted with « FLITE ’ Tyres.
Mr. A. Whitbourne, 336
Flinders-st., Melbourne,
writes“ . . . The
‘ DADDY ’ Tyre is giving
me every satisfaction . . .
good as new . . . so far
have done 2,500 miles on
it . . . equal to any I have
ever used . . . . ”
Ask your Dealer for
“ FLITE ” or “ DADDY.”
DAPA t ET GIAS^Cs
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ; 144 Clarence
Street, Sydney, and 10 McHenry Street,
Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
Sauce
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fnrii
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jhk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder :
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. It doesn’t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“Were you experiencing any physical pain? ”
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me, The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and, as for the feeling in my eyes
—well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and I think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote?”
“ They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, a.nd the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted —as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die —yet,-when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you?” ;,
“ No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clements Tonic it was, and
the best remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of everything
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, I must
state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
happen. Trouble was always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head —not until
I had been taking? Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased broodiijg
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me in other ways. I used to get
pains down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of
my heart, which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to all
sufferers. Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound
and peaceful the same remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it
months, before, for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to. publish in any way my statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900. (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, H. EVANS. J.P
“ U.” : The only comic paper I have
taken in of late is the official record of the N.S.W.
State Parliament. When its other sections are
somewhat lacking in the usual sparkle, I find
worthy employment in puzzling out the jokes
that are evidently indicated by the notes of ex-
clamation appended to interjections. Thus :
Mr. Rrynoldson : It is a fine day !
Mr. Wadf, : To-morrow will be Thursday !
Mr. J. Hoeley: I understand that trams leave the
terminus at, intervals of a few minutes !
| Of course, as a mere stranger, I take rather
longer to appreciate these dazzling witticisms than
; you of Sydney; but I yield to no man in the
rapidity with which I was once tickled by—
The Hon. N. J. Buzacott : The name of Gipps-street,
known to everyone, has been altered to Barlow-street !
The British Freetrade coolie still goes over
in quantities to Belgium to undersell the strikers
of Antwerp. This writer was in England in the
’6o’s and early 70’s, and can remember how the
cheap French, Belgian, and German coolie came
there in strike times to undercut the British
person. But the wheel has revolved. France
abandoned Freetrade after Napoleon 111. was
blown away. Germany gave it up as a
bad job in ’7B or ’79. And now the British
lumper goes to hump bales and bags by the
Scheldt, and the British artisan, discharged from
England’s arsenals, finds a job waiting for him in
the busy Continental forges.
Victorian Premier Bent describes some-
thing he saw on his travels :
There is a lot of lime and cement dug up In Marseilles
(France) ; it is dug up by blaekfellows at 7d. a day, and
exported to Australia. Now, how are we to compete
against that cement dug up at 7d. a day? That’s a nut
I want to give to the Labor party.
It’s a good solid nut, and an appropriate victual
for the party that sinks the fiscal issue. How can
a country that wants to pay its workmen a decent
white man’s wage compete with black labor at 7d.
a day and blink the fiscal issue at the same time ?
Loss of Sis. Forfcunatus, burned at sea a
few weeks ago with about 40 per cent, of N.S. W.’s
primary-industry requirements for the season in
the shape of cornsacks, woolpacks and jute goods
aboard, gives cause for sober thought. The
moment the loss of the vessel was made known
local holders jumped their prices up for these lines,
and as a result the Man-on-the-Land, whocan’t wait
for another shipload, will have to buy at the
advanced figures. He may thank his stars he is
no worse off. Had war been threatening and the
Fortunatus been carrying much-needed military
stores and clothing, things would have looked
different. There are really only two sorts of
countries that can, with equanimity, import all
their necessaries from abroad ; (1) those that have
an invincible fleet and merchantmen that never
suffer mishap, and (2) those nobody wants to take
or have anything to do with at any price. And
Australia doesn’t come in either category.
The following was perpetrated recently by
the Hpbart (Tas.) Mercury :
If a girl has the option between working for almost
nothing a week in a shop, and working for fair wages
and a home as a domestic servant, and she chooses the
former, this is not sweating on the part of the employer.
It is perfectly ridiculous to ask the public to pity these
“poor slaves,” as they are called, when the slavery is of
their own choice.
Conditions in Tas. shops are so ghastly that a
Royal Commission was appointed a while ago to
consider them. The report of that Commission
caused a certain vague shame even in the
most leathern-hided Tory of the Tory little
Flyspeck. Only the appalling Hobart Mer-
cury remained unmoved. And the Mercury—
the journal that advocates a wage calculated to
drive on the streets the many women who could
never in their lives get billets as domestic
servants —is the same paper that is loudest, when
a Labor candidate is in the field, with howls of
terror lest the marriage tie may bust, and the
purity of the home be removed. The frank
Pandarus is an unpleasant sight enough, but the
Pandarus who tries to justify his trade by posing
as a pure and stainless Jud is the last word in
things nauseating. And there is scant difference
between the latter person’s position, and that of
the pro-marriage-tie Mercury which barracks for
a wages system that spells harlotry.
“ Sirius ” about a cadge :
What object had the N.S.W. Government in view when
it abolished the school fees? If it was done to benefit the
poorer class of parents, then the object is not being
attained. There are simply more “extras” to-day, and
the parents are called upon to pay for things which,
under the old system, the State provided. A case in
point: The headmaster of one of our leading public
schools has issued a circular letter to the parents of his
pupils asking them to contribute towards the cost of
fitting up a laboratory. Probably he has no right to do
such a thing, but look at the circumstances. A committee
was appointed recently to decide what should be done
towards fitting up school laboratories and the teaching
of science generally in the Cornstalk public schools. It
voted £900! Nine hundred pounds to be distributed
amongst our metropolitan and district schools—it needs
to be said slowly. The headmaster, being a progressive
person, sees that science must be taught, and the authori-
ties will give no money. What is he to do, save go to
parents? Of course, I don’t maintain that the abolition
of the fees has brought about this result. There were no
science laboratories in the old threepence-a-week days.
But if education is to be free in name, why isn’t it in
substance ?
Last year, thanks to the Kidston Govern-
ment, Queensland acquired' the most workable
Closer Settlement Act in Australia. The Minister
and the Land Appeal Court do the compulsory
resumption business between them—unlike the
hopeless Victorian method under which each
House of Parliament has to talk each separate
bargain to death before anything can be done.
One of the first results of the Queensland Act is
the acquisition from the Q. N. Bank of Jimbour
estate—l2l,o6l acres, which is a fairly large deal.
But even the best and swiftest Land Resumption
Act is unsatisfactory. A good graduated land-tax
would throw a million acres open for settlement
while the very fastest Resumption Act was deal-
ing with 50,000. There are nearly 450,000,000
acres in Queensland, and Jimbour is a drop in the
bucket of closer settlement—not a very big drop
either.
Harold Cox, the foolish English M.P. who
begs the British Government to strike Australia
off the “securities” list because of the tariff, is
one of the wild and rabid Freetraders who are
constantly making their party look the ass that it
really is. Harold’s latest outbreak was a squeal
for the removal of taxes on tea, tobacco and sugar,
and his proposal was to make up the deficit by
“taxing the incomes of the poor.” He is a con-
sistent chap, anyhow, is Harold. It only wants
a few more real Freetraders like him to make his
cause stink aloud for burial. We were never
lucky enough to have one like him in Australia.
George Reid was always a Protectionist as regards
sugar, beer, wine, tobacco and daily papers, just
as Bill Wilks is where iron ships are concerned.


MEMORIES OF PLACES and PEOPLE
if !
(I* 1 SS»
V >
As
Easy
As
Falling
Off a
Log.
KEPT GREEN
At a Minimum of Cost with a
Maximum of Certainty, and &
without previous knowledge of
Photography, by using any &
Camera of Kodak parentage
such as a Brownie or F.P*K*
All sdages w©rk«J
In PaylngM.
“ Brownies ” cost from 6s. 6d. to 52s.
F.P.R/s from 35s. to £10, size
ATT. FILMS DEVELOPED IN DAYLIGHT.
Free Demonstrations and Instruction given daily at
A Folding “Brownie
s
A
Folding
Pocket
Kodak.
“ The Block ” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane ; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide,
mark
vf?
TRADE
NEW GraMophone RECORDS
BY THE GREAT BARITONE,
COMM. MATTIA
C } P K P
i
,
i;
i
■
“ Mis Master’s Voice.”
THE
M
lill
I\JL^
RECORDS OF BATTISTINL
Can be said to be only equalled by those made by Caruso. The marvellous range of voice
and dramatic power displayed by this wonderful singer were the chief features of a recent
Covent Garden Season; the whole beauty of his great notes, melodious expressions, and
emotional vigor can now be heard to perfection on the GraMophone. these records are
masterpieces of recording, and the series of 13 give the public an opportunity of hearing
Battistini in some of his finest moments. The following are the Titles and Numbers of the
GraMophone RECORDS
By BATTISTINI.
12in. RECORDS.
Orchestral Accompaniment by the Celebrated
Orchestra of La Scala Theatre, Milan.
“ERNANI.”
0521 i-l 0 dei verd’ anni Miei Yerdi
DUETS.
Cumra. MATTIA BATTISTINI and
Siga. EMILIA CORSI.
054103 Da quel di che t’ho vedufca ... Verdi
Comm. MATTIA BATTISTINI and
Cav. ARISTODEMO SILLICH.
054105 La Vedremo o veglio audace... Verdi
Comm. MATTIA BATTISTINI, Siga.
EMILIA CORSI, and Chorus of La
Scala Theatre, Milan.
• 054106 Vieni meco sol di rose Verdi
CONCERTATO.
Comm. MATTIA BATTISTINI, Siga.
EMILIA CORSI, Cav. LUIGI
COLAZZA, CAV. ARISTODEMO
SILLICH, and Chorus of La Scala
Theatre, Milan.
054107 O Sommo Carlo Verdi
“UN BALLO IN MASCHERA.”
052146 Eri tu che maccliiava quell’ anima
Verdi
052142 Alla vita che t’arride Verdi
“LA FAVORITA.”
052144 A tanto amor Donizetti
“MARTA.”
052143 II mio Lionel Elotow
“DON GIOVANNI.”
Comm. BATTISTINI and Siga. CORSI.
054104 La ci damm la mano Mozart
“LA DANNAZIONE DI FAUST.”
052147 Su queste rose Berlioz
• “ZAMPA.”
052148 Perche tremar Herrold
“DON SEBASTIANO.”
052145 O Lisbona Donizetti
&
a
MADAME MELBA writes:
"I am delighted with
my latest Records. Your
wonderful GraMophone
improves year by year.”
<£•
MADAME PATTI writes :
“ I am quite satisfied
that future generations
should hear my voice by
means of the GraMo-
phone, and I think the
Records are faithful
reproductions of my
voice.”
THERE ARE MANY KINDS OF TALKING MACHINES.
There is ONLY ONE GraMophone.
The word “ GraMophone” is not a generic term. It describes Instruments made
only by The GraMophone and Type writer, Limited, London and Sydney.
OBTAINABLE AT
ALL GraMophone DEALERS,
or, on receipt of Postcard, we will send Catalogue and Lists, together with
Name and Address of the nearest Dealer in our Goods.
THE GRAMOPHONE and TYPEWRITER LTD., m pm street, Sydney.


The N.S.W. State Premier is weak on his
history. In a recent oration he declared that his
wire-netting steal was the same kind of noble
stand as Premier Parkes “took in 1881 when he
refused to allow a shipload of Chinese to land at
Circular Quay. There was something higher than
the technicalities of the law,” etc. (Applause).
But as a matter of fact it was in 1888 that Parkes
made his sensational attempt to shut out the
Chinese without process of law. And there
wasn’t anything higher than the technicalities of
the law that time, for the Supreme Court fell on
Parkes, and he caved in just as the gaol door
began to yawn for him on a charge of con-
tempt. .Joseph should select his illustrations more
carefully.
Jabez Coon, M.H.R., of Victoria, proposes
that the settlement of the Federal capital should
be postponed for ten years to give the Common-
wealth time to get its second wind, the Parlia-
ment sitting in Sydney in the meantime. Which
is doubtless well-meant on the part of Jabez
Coon, but the prospect of many more years of
argument about the site, with a Waggon Govern- 1
ment trekking from place to place in the mean-
time, is not inviting.
“We want the Cardinal to come out and
stir up another sectarian row” said, in effect,
John Meagher, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), at a Bathurst
gathering the other day. The statement was
probably more inspired by folly than wickedness ;
but nevertheless it is one that no decent Aus-
tralian citizen would make. Sectarian strife is
such a curse that scattering around its microbes
ought to be as punishable as disseminating typhoid
bacilli in milk.
James Venture Mulligan, of Queensland,
explorer and prospector, who recently met Charon,
the Ferryman, and asked him if he knew of any
good reefs thereabouts, was always hungry and
thirsty for new mining fields and unexploited
territory. Right back to the roaring days
which preceded the Palmer rush he was in
the hunt, and there has not been a new
field of any importance opened since then in
North Queensland without James Venture Mul-
ligan bearing a hand. He pioneered also in the
Northern Territory and W.A. The meteoric
which many believe hasn’t all its
future behind it even yet, was discovered by him.
He spent several years at Thornborough, but the
field fizzled, and, shouldering the pick and pocket-
ing the compass, he went forth again. He first
found coal on the Tittle River. And if there are
any mineral indications beside the Styx he has
found them also by this time.
From ‘ ‘ Maori Mac ” :
Most of Maoriland Parliament’s session has been spent
perpetrating what the Reps, consider stupendous jokes.
Some of the alleged humor is even worthy of Londing
Paunch. Major, of Hawera, introduced a Bill compelling
wheelbarrows to carry lamps, and the House bellowed
I with glee. Hone Heke, who doesn’t suffer from over-
developed originality, read a Bill which proposed to make
horsemen light themselves up at night, and the Reps.,
forgetful of Major’s little joke, rolled in their seats in an
ecstasy of joy. It’s a sorry sight to see heavyweight
linendrapers and elderly city fathers acting the
unattached bovine, and Maoriland is tiring of its feeble-
witted buffoons. The common opinion is that the House
lost most of its mental capacity when Seddon died and
Cold-Tea Tommy Taylor lost his seat; and many who
jeered at the advocate of iced ginger pop wish him back
again. Tommy, who is now something of a Fat Man,
cares not a soda-water syphon for politics since his big
opponent passed over. Neither does he worry much
about the prospective beer drought, nor gaze lovingly on
the arid plains of Prohibition.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
(By Arrangement with J. C. WILLIAMSON.)
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING.
AN INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS.
HUMAN HEARTS.
A DRAMATIC TRIUMPH.
Box Plan at Elvy’s (No Booking Fee). Popular Prices.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
Last Two Nights of THE FATAL WEDDING.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn will present for the First Time
in Australia the Delightful Romantic Play,
HER LOVE AGAINST THE WORLD
In which Play, Australia’s Favorite Accor,
HARCOURT BEATTY, and the celebrated and popular
classic English Actress, MADGE McINTOSH, will appear.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Two Nights of THE WAY TO KENMARE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 14,
ANDREW MACK in
ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
6th WEEK 6th WEEK
Of the Enormously Successful Musical Farce,
MISS LANCASHIRE, LTD.
MISS FLORENCE BAINES
as OUR MARY ELLEN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinee Every Wednesday at 2.30.
TIVOLI THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Indescribable Success of PRICE and REVOST, The
Greatest Comedy Acrobats of the Day.
Magnificent Success of the FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
GRAHAM and DENT, Celebrated English Comedians.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL.
HAMILTON HILL, Australian Baritone.
FRED BLUETT. ROCHFORT and HART.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HENRI ALEXANDER, Unique Specialty Act.
MOLASSOS TROUPE, Continental Eccentric Dancers.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
LITTLE LILLIE GRIMSHAWI Juvenile Song and Dance
LES HALLINAN / Artists.
EDWARD CRANSTON and Company in Comedy Sketch
entitled “NAILED TO THE MAST.”' ’
TOM DAWSON, Comedian Living Pictures.
Plan at Allan’s. it®’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
First Appearance of MISS FANNY DANGO
and MISS EMMA TEMPLE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
INAUGURATION OF THE AUSTRALASIAN TOUR of
CLARA BUTT
.... and
KENNERLEY RUMFORD,
SEPTEMBER 12th, 14th, 17th and 19th (Matinee).
Prices—2ls., 10s. 6d., and ss.
■LIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY. SEPT. 12, FRIDAY. SEPT. 13,
Last Two Performances Of RIDING TO WIN.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 14,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic 00. in the
Drury Lane Drama,
THE WORLD.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY’ EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
Great Success of
JULIUS KNIGHT
SUPPORTED BY A NOTABLE CO.
... IN ...
ROBIN HOOD.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
■UEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the direction of Charles Hollowav.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 12, FRIDAY, SEPT. 13
Last Two Performances of TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS’
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 14,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including- the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
In the up-to-date Mining Drama,
THE COAL KING.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
THE GLACIAEIUM,
MELBOURNE.
REAL ICE SKATING,
SEASON CLOSES 30th INST.
ONE SHILLING EVERY EVENING.
Morning and Afternoon—Admission, 2s. ; Skates, 6d.
School Children—Saturday Morning, 6d. ; Skates, 6d.
N°W TOURING SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
THE MUSICAL
“ALL BLACK S,”
ORCHESTRA, SINGERS, and DANCERS, and their
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES (With Realistic Effects).
THESE PICTURES ARE STAMPED WITH
THE SEAL OF EXCELLENCE.
Missing- Friends.
ANY PASSENGERS by the ship GENERAL
WINDHAM, which left Liverpool, June
16th, 1857, and arrived in Hobson’s Bay, Septem-
ber 12th in same year, kindly communicate with
“SHIPMATE,” The Bulletin Office,
‘ ‘ Jubilee ” Year. SYDNEY.
k
THE CHANCE OF A
LIFETIME
FOR
OIL ENGINE
Buyers
m
WE
PREPAY
FREIGHT.
FREE
EXPERT.
30 DAYS*
FREE
TRIAL.
LOW
PRICES.
RIDICULOUSLY
EASY TERMS,
and NO
INTEREST.
GREAT
VARIETY TO
CHOOSE FROM
23,000
•* I.H.C’s.”
SOLD
IN TWO
YEARS.
SPECIAL
OFFER
APPLIES TO
FIRST
HUNDRED
ORDERS
ONLY.
Is contained in the below offer, which Is the most remarkable one ever put
before the Public in connection with ANY machines of this class.
Send us your name and address; state the kind of engine you want, i.e.,
Stationary or Portable, giving the brake Morse Power required.
We will then give you full details of an offer which will embrace the following
most unusual conditions:— u
We will ship an " 1.H.C.” Gasolene Engine of any of the sizes and types
mentioned below, FREIGHT FREE to your nearest Railway Station in Australia
-Northern Territory, North Queensland, and Western Australia excepted
We will send AT OUR EXPENSE an expert to install the engine, and teach
you or your employees how to run it, you however furnishing the small Quantity
of necessary material for the installation, and rendering assistance in
installing.
We will then give you A FREE TRIAL OF THE ENGINE FOR 30 DAYS
FROM DATE OF SHIPMENT, and if it fails under reasonable conditions to
DO REALLY FIRST CLASS WORK, you may at once deliver it to the Railway
in good order, consigned to us at the city from which it was shipped to you-
THE RETURN FREIGHT TO BE PAID BY US.
If the Engine does REALLY FIRST CLASS WORK, we give you at the
expiration of the free trial the following EXTENDED TERMS ON THE
REGULAR SPOT CASH PRICES PUBLISHED BY US IN FEB., 1907
(thousands of copies of which have been circulated throughout Australia
and which are slightly LOWER than the prices of other first class engines)
One-eighth of the price in spot cash, and 7 of your promissory notes each
for a like amount, due respectively 2. 4. 8. 12, 10. 20 and 24 months’ after
shipment, making in all 8 equal payments extending over two years with
NO INTEREST ON THE PROMISSORY NOTES.
We supply Vertical Stationary, Horizontal Stationary, and Horizontal Portable
“ I.H.C. ” Engines in the following sizes :-2, 3. 4,6, 8. 10. 12, IS and 20 Brake
Horse Power; special engines and equipments for pumping and wood-sawing.
We have in the past two years sold all over the world 25,000 of these
engines- 1 —a phenomenal record-never approached by any competitor and
proving beyond dispute the remarkable efficiency of the " 1.H.C.” A f-w sample
engines have been sold in Australia during the past 12 months, every one of
which we are prepared to PROVE has DELIGHTED its owner.
Our purpose in making this offer is to introduce these engines into Australia
getting 100 testimonials from satisfied users to assist us in making future
This offer therefore will positively be withdrawn as soon as we have receive
the first 100 orders. You will thus require to write us NOW if you wlch
avail yourself of this CHANCE OF A LIFETIME. lo
BW IMPORTANT.—Address your letter to Department B
House in the State in which you live.
of our Branch
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
(Incorporated),
Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 345 Bourke
Melbourne ; Bank St.. Adelaide; and 73 York St., Launceston.’
Legal Notice.
IN the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
In Probate. In the matter of CHARLES
FITZROY LANDERS late of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales. Railway Clerk last
heard of at Goulburn in 1887. Pursuant to direc-
tions in this behalf given by the Honorable Mr.
Justice Street Judge in Probate an order was
made on 11th June 1907 for the undersigned to
administer the Estate of the above-named Charles
Fitzroy Landers who has not been heard of by his
relatives for twenty years. Application has
recently been made by George Napoleon Landers
for payment out of his share of the Estate of his
brother the said Charles Eitzrov Landers now in
the hands of the undersigned and unless the said
Charles Fitzroy Landers communicates with the
said undersigned on or before the 24th November
1907 his death will be presumed and his Estate will
be distributed amongst his next of kin.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Queen’s Square,
Sydney, 22nd August, 1907.
WHEREAS by an Order dated the 13th
April 1907 of the Chancery Division of
the High Court of Justice (in England) made In
the Matter of the Trusts of a Legacy of £5OO and
One-third of the residuary estate bequeathed by
the Will of WILLIAM STEVENS deceased to
Emily de Jongh and In the Matter of the Trustee
Act 1893 (1907. S. 030) the following Eilquiry was
directed namely
(1) An Enquiry whether Charles Stevens one of
the residuary legatees of the said Testator
William Stevens is living or dead and if dead
when he died and whether he was ever and
when married and if dead who are his legal
personal representatives' and whether he died
testate or intestate, and if intestate who were
or was his next of kin at the time of his death.
The said Charles Stevens if living or if dead his
legal persona] representatives or next of kin as
aforesaid are p rsonally or by their Solicitors on
or before Thursday the 23rd day of January 1908
to come in and prove their claims at the Chambers
of Mr. Justice Warrington and Mr. Justice
Parker Room 293 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
Order.
( Thursday the 30th day of January 1908 at 12
o’clock noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 26th day of July 1907
(Signed) THOS. A. ROMER
Note.— -Charles Stevens was the Brother of the
said William Sevens formerly of 78 Bishopsgate
Street Within in the City of London Wine
Merchant. It is believed that he the said Charles
Stevens went to New Zealand in or about the year
1877 and was last seen at Auckland New Zealand
about the year 1880.
ROY & CARTWRIGHT,
53 Coleman Street, London,
England.
Solicitors for the Petitioners.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
made in the matter of the Estate of FANNY
STEVERSON Spinster deceased Behrend v.
Owen 1907 S. 362 whereby (inter alia) the
following Enquiry was directed, viz. : An Enquiry
what brothers and sisters of the above-named
lestatrix Fanny Steverson (who died on the
20th November 1906) of the whole blood sur-
vived her and whether such brothers and sisters are
living or dead and if any such brothers or sisters
be dead who are their respective legal personal
representatives And it appearing that the said
Testatrix had a brother Arthur Steverson who
left England for Australia many vears ago and
went on an expedition into the bush'in New South
Wales about the year 1891 and has not since been
heard of.
NOTICE is hereby given that the said
Arthur Steverson or if dead his legal personal
representatives are by their Solicitor on or before
the 26th day of November 1907 to come in and
prove his or their claim at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Swmfen Eady and Mr. Justice Neville at
the Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London,
England, or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
Order.
Wednesday the 4th day of December 1907 at
11.30 of the clock in the forenoon at the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 30th day of July 1807.
J. C. FOX
„ TT _ Master.
R. H. Behrend & Rodger,
Solicitors,
17 Surrey Street, Strand, London, W.C.
[ N^Tm.?rw?£ PREME COURT OP QUEENSLAND
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION IN FORMA
PAUPERIS. No. 116 of 1907.
TO JEAN MILLARD wife of Edward Charles Millard
formerly of Brisbane in the State of Queensland and now
believed to be either in the State of New South Wales or
in the Colony of New Zealand AND TO
ALEXANDER HANLON formerly of Brisbane in the
State of Queensland carter and now believed to be either
in the State of New South Wales or in the Colony of New
Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that on the tenth day of August, 1907,
a petition was filed and a writ of summons was issued in
the action of Edward Charles Millard versus Jean
Millard and Alexander Hanlon AND THAT the
said petition prayed and the said writ of sum-
mons claims a dissolution of the plaintiff’s marriage
with the defendant Jean Millard. AND TAKE NOTICE
that by an Order dated the twelfth day of August 1907
it was ordered that service effected on you the said Jean
Millard by leaving an office copy of the petition herein
and of the said writ of summons with your sister Isabella
Hutchison wife of Joseph Hutchison of Yeerongpilly near
Brisbane in the State of Queensland ganger and by send-
ing notice of the proceedings in the said action by post
registered letter to your sister Mary Forrest wife of
James Forrest of Cowrie Junction in the State of Queens-
land contractor AND THAT service effected upon you
the said Alexander Hanlon by leaving an office copy
of the petition herein and" of the said writ of
summons with your cousin Willian Gonagle of Ann-street
Brisbane aforesaid carter AND THAT service affected
upon you the said Jean Millard and upon you the said
Alexander Hanlon by the publication of this notice twice
in The Bulletin newspaper published at Sydney in the
State of New South Wales and twice in The Auckland
Weekly News newspaper published at Auckland in the
colony of New Zealand should be deemed good service of
the said petition herein and of the writ of summons
upon you the said Jean Millard and upon you
the said Alexander Hanlon AND TAKE NOTICE that
in default of you and each of you causing
an appearance to be entered for you and each of you irj
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Brisbane aforesaid
within two months after the last of such advertisements
the plaintiff may by leave of the Court or a Judge pro-
ceed in the said action and Judgment may be given jfi
your absence AND TAKE NOTICE that you and each
of you are required within twenty-one days after the
time limited for your appearance to file in the said Court
your defence to the plaintiff’s petition in this action which
is so served upon you.
Dated this twenty-third day of August, 1907.
(L.S.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Registrar.
JOSEPH ARTHUR SNOW, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Cen-
tral-chambers, Queen-street, Brisbane.


Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
ĸk
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINCTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Poor
Weak and
Weary Mothers
Raise
Puny, Pindling
Children.
Sulphur Bitters
Will make them
Strong, hearty
And healthy.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
HYPNOTISM
ķ
AHYOHE can learn to exert a magic
“ influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," 64 pages, pro-
freely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS, 291
THE BALLET GIRL
k
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confassions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Bend Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza 3
Box 913 s G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
/tlinen BV Bl Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
Pi I is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
RUPTURE
Weakness Cannot Win
in tbe battle of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical;authority, has discov-
ere d the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if the\
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
T
v\
rk
\\V
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor* and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed Electricitv builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health give^ strong current.
n bi”pecS attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all ; price *1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations. mmmmt
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence.' For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
JOSEPH R. CORCOfIAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name ••••••••
Address
12
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
<r .# #
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion. Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down '* or “out of sorts. ■■ Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mas* welcome relief
in a very short time.
* 4>' <&'' &
ST
&
S 9
fllNTMEHT
immensesuccess
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
, cnnnTninc epnt bv Dost direct to the Proprietor is
The immense number of orders for their marvellous curing power. They cure
convincing proof that the Publl ° app *. D i ea sant to take. Leading Chemists and Storey
quickly, are elegant in appeerence, and P 1/6 Ask for them locally, and so encourage
keepers are now stocking them. Re 1 P J "send direct to the Proprietor,
in vour own district. It not ODwmctuio, . .
busmessj —Y_ - w G> HEARN E, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
racket of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, 10d.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
Tons
WILCANNIA .. 4953
*GEELONG .. .. 7954
COMMONWEALTH.. - 6611
Commander.
Sails
W. G. Ling-ham ..'Sept. 20
J. E. Ilbery .. .. Oct. IS
T. J. Mine • ... .. Nov. 15
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £16 to £57 4s.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE.
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M elbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking', &c.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1S6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 C
Interminable deposit Stock ..3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East!
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas"
Milne; Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial fQutual £ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |jorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of geui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.,
WE
Cjt*
$
Free
i**'
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers,
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usurv.
txt.s/w.
H|ontdepieteO.^|.Co.,|2td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLLR.EAGH S C„ 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
AN Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. P. S. Grimwadb
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq-., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW.MAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ TTACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
8 ' “ Best book of Austr ilian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
r-, <D
* 'd
0>
a *
0/ *
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
MAN,LA 19th NOVEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridsre-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
limited. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. ># u £467 581 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .' 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69*000 0 0
_ £710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
m 3 L BU I CE . R ® W * CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
IV Blanches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
„ Throuahout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN .. I A. Simpson .. I Noon. Sept. 13
*MARATHON . |N. Allan .. .. Noon. Oct. 11
SALAMIS ~ .. jR. McKilliani .. I Noon. Nov. 2
* TvWn Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 45.. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From£3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ķ
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to sail about 2nd OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC and SUEVIO
to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ¥ork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A replication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOUPAy
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
mm
M
CRUISES, t
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining' a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
to Bridge St.,
SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA*
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :—
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 lbs. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £10 10s.
Sale price .. ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete!
Usual urice, £5. Sale price £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
22s. 6d. Sale Price . ..’£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge 5s. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to AVEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
P* Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
EORGE HOTEL,
•St* Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjMNIiST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF 10s. A DAY. Telephone 174.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
RODS
I For Locating MINES,
1 LOST TREASURE &c.
| . The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON.. 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
* Series. IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Snipping. •
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. .
■S.S. Grantala. Saturday,
September 14, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 14,
S.S. Innaminuka, Sept. 21.
Best and Cheapest Ho ate to Uold/lelds.
? p? n (.^( SSa £ e T.\ c^ets a fe interchangeable after the
. or of call with other inter-State Companies on all
ces subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIQQE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messag’eries Mari times
™. C a? ND0N ’ via COLOMBO and PARIS.
3“"'® of 6500 tons, under Postal Com .act with the
T ATni' m™, 1 !!™! calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
M 4, N , T L I 3 ’ COLOMBO, BOMB AY, SUEZ, and
K L “AID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Mel-
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
Com
Sydney,
Steamer
bourne.
mander
Noon.
1 p.m.
Magnen
Martin
Boyer
Oct.
Nov
Dec.
OOEANIEN ..
CALEDONIEN..
DUMBEA
VILLIC DE LA
CIOTAT
Combe
Dec.
Oct. 10! Oct. lH
Nov. 7 Nov. 9
Dec. 5 Dec. 7
1908. I 1908.
Jan. 2 Jan. 4
Ra^w! E3SrG i E T llS booke<1 t0 Bombay, India, China,
inrtSrtb f m apan - MONEY, £25 to £82 10s,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
oi further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F. H.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
(Calling at DURBAN to land passengers).
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“AYRSHIRE **
11,000 Tons. B. Coull, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 2nd October
»» » ,, Melbourne „ 7th ,,
>> >> ,, Adelaide „ 12th ,,
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
sh, P®- Tl, e Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
vu. dlnin 8' saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £2O
CAPETOWN £22 10s.
LONDON &
LIVERPOOL £45
Plus
10%
£10 £11 . £12
£10 10s. £11 11s. £12 12s.
£12 12s. £13 13s. £14 14s.
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 14.
BOMB ALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 21.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 28.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON I
(Taking l passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) j
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR
DAY, October 26.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 14.
KONOOWARRA. 5 p.m., TUES
DAY, September 17.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 21.
c* P ? S o e Ticke ? s interchangeable with other inter-
Particulars on application.
«SKffl“ ! E «^ T AB l E BUILDING, 350
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET(ElectricTram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 170S.
Business Announcements.
. m
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.-
VARLEY BBOS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Brookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have Svstem
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLINQ TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St.* Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Public Notices.
PONT BE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided bv writing 1 AT ONCE to
THE MINING INVESTMENT AND AGENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested bv us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE.
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.


4
y ■ '%
ĸ
f THE ©-OCTAVE
, FIAM© PUBfER
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME.
THE ARTISTS’ MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are ,not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim’s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer’s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Po not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for. our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
M
Hi
ROR
P
c
O
ALLAN
&
s
COLLINS
a
Z 76
SYDNEY
W.H.PAUNG£C?IT?
GEORGE ST
HOW TO ENJOY VIGOROUS HEALTH
WEALTH
O/
' > *“* <<\
. \
What is health ? To this the answer is : A perfect structure of all the organs ot
digestion and elimination, with a perfect performance of all theirfunctions.' t
and happiness are possessions we all desire to obtain and retain. You
healthy with a sluggish liver or inactive kidneys; sometimes these organs„et thrown
out of action on'account of improper food or drink, sometimes
metabolism. Nature then requires assistance, and it is of e uteces of
that the right aid should be employed in dealing with these delicate pieces ot
mechanism. It has been known from time immemorial that
which have acquired world-renowned fame on account of their a
and health-giving properties, form a natural stimulant for the liver and act as a
cleansin'* agent for th/kidneys. The health-giving and remedial properties of these
famous are now incorporated in Kutnow’s Powder, which is universally
acknowledged by the most eminent physicians to be a most perfect remedy foi
liver, kidney, stomach and bowel disorders.
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER
The INFALLIBLE REMEDY.
The principal organs concerned in effecting the separation of deleterious substances from the blood are the
liver kidneys and towels. So long as these organs work efficiently so long may the owner count on health and
st „ I«, But we know that a large percentage of mankind find it very difficult to keep he digestive and excretory
organs hi perfect working order. Stripped of these health-producing faculties they are left miserable, anxious mortals
organs in pe » rr All f Pnr dvsneosia liver disease, kidney trouble, and intestinal blood-
simply worrying through a bald and barren ex . J P ’ recommended—«KUTNOW’S POWDER/
poisoning can• be avoided by simply adopting the remedy which Prof. Lawson lait, so g y
HEfl LTH
>U <4)
I)
KUTNOWS
POWDER
GENERAL DUNSTERVILLE
WRITES :
“The Avenue, Upper Norwood, 29th May, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs,—l began to use Kutnow’s Powder about
a fortnight ago, and, finding it both palatable and effica-
cious, I have procured a bottle of the regulation size, and
mean to have some always by me. I visit Heidelberg
every year and am glad to find that my friend Dr.
Grlassner, Hof-Apotheker there, stocks it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“L. DUN STB E VILLB, Lieut.-General.”
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
Tlie Genuine and Original Kutnow’s Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, ‘ ‘ Hirschensprung, or Peer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV. E, R. GIBBENS
WRITES :
“ Wesleyan Methodist Church, Tonbridge,
“ 13th October, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —For some weeks I have been using
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I have derived great
benefit. Bilious trouble has disappeared and rheumatic
pains have been entirely removed. I can very confidently
recommend this preparation.
“ I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) E. R. GIBBENS.”
Sole Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdcn Read, lontlcn, E.C.


1000
H
0
T
E
L
S
USE
T
H
E
M!
Anyone can easily make from
£1 to £1 I Os.
i .
per day by purchasing one of
EcKersley
CHUCK
HARD
WORK
Aerated
Water
Machines
Machines sold on
easy terms from
£lB
and upwards.
:
uiiuvi'l
These Machines produce the very best of Aerated
Waters for per dozen.
AGENTS—
Queensland: ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: WM. SANDOVER & CO., PERTH.
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
ECKERSEEY & SONS,
MELBOURNE.
3ft
m
IT’S hard to entertain a mixed company of
people —people who do not know one
another very well —a company not large
enough to form a crush, nor small enough
to make a group —-just a roomful, the kind
of neighborhood gatherings we all have often.
It isn t hard with an Edison Phonograph.
Lven that superior chap who has a musical ear, and does not think much of
mechanical music, is irresistibly drawn out of himself by the remarkable distinctness
and clearness of the Edison Phonograph in reproducing vocal and instrumental
sounds.
It is a lively circle of which the Edison Phonograph is the centre.
We will gladly send you the latest printed matter if you ask for it. Please
Write Now.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
satisfaction will be yours if you buy your Watch from
us. Our stock embraces a wide selection of the most valuable makes at
fr °/?, 10/6 to £lo °- ° ur policy of constantly striving to give the
best possible value enables us, after an uninterrupted Watch-selling
career of 35 years, to oiler, not only the best Watches, but the lowest
prices consistent with the best quality. Investigation will convince
you. Write for free Catalogue, or order one of the five dependable
low-priced Men’s Watches described here, and judge us by its p»r-
formance. All orders delivered Free and safe by Post.
Popular . .
Designs -
IN FINE JEWELLERY.
We show here a few designs
which have gained the approval
of Sydney women. Each piece
is as perfect as skilled hands
can make it, and the prices are
in keeping with the designs—
popular.
. Ask for our Catalogue ;
. it Is sent Free.
No. Fl74l.—Beal New Zealand Greenstone and
9-ct. Gold Brooch, £l/1/-.
No. F44o4.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Brooch, Set with
One,Diamond and Two Rubies, £3/10/%
9-ct Gold, Pearl
aud Amethyst
Pendant, 12/6
k
The Popular NELLIE STEWART BANGLES. The perfection
of make, Invisible Joint and Catch, size as illustrated
T 9 ' ct - Gold > £3/3/-. 15-ct. Gold,
. Larger Size „ . £4. „ £7.
Smaller,, „ £2/10/-. „ £3/7/0.
k
No. F 7318.—
9-cfc. Gold and
Pearl Pendant.
£l/5/-.
No. FH53l. 9-ct.. Gold Brooch, Set Rose
Diamond and Rubies, £l/2/6.
No. F1625. —9-cfc. Gold Brooch, Set Bose Diamond
and Rubies, £l/2/6.
ct. Gold Tur-
quoise Set
Heart, 13/6.
fashionable bamboo bangles.
Na EsifiSO. 9-ct. Gold, £l/17/0. 15-ct. Gold, £3/15/.
Size Larger „ £2/5/-. „ £4/10/
„ Smaller . £l/7/6. ” £2/15/.
No. E 9955.—9-
ct. Gold Heart
Pendant, 8/6.
~a —s —u a —s —5-
No. 81. 15-ct Gold Bar Brooch, Engraved
Ends, 16/0.
No. 30.—15-cfc. Bars and Opal and Pearl
Set Fly Brooch, £2/10/-.
ķ


e>
T
as?
%
@8
SKIN-BEAUTY
The softness, texture, and clearness of your skin largely depends
on the nature of the soap you use in its daily cleansing. The skin
being such a tender structure, the least irregularity favors skin
affections in various forms. You have often noticed yourself how
changed the skin becomes —at times looks quite coarse and blotchy; at
other times it feels uncomfortable and parched. Is it to be wondered
at, when you are in the habit of using unsuitable toilet soaps that do
not agree with it? Sodas, acid, fats, and other ingredients to be found
in such soaps are responsible for the change in your skin. Soaps,
unless they they be of a pure nature, disagree with the health of the
skin the same as wrong treatment disagrees with the health of
the system.
{ ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP.
is the soap necessary for the health of the skin. It brings glowing
healthy softness, refinement and texture to the skin as no other soap
can. It acts as a natural protector for the surface skin, and as a tonic
for the skin follicles, thereby strengthening, and allowing the waste
matter from the blood to pass out unhindered. When this is so the
health of the system is also assured. There is no soap for the toilet
upon which so much pains have been bestowed to produce it a skin
necessity and protector, and its regular use will bring skin-health
and skin-beauty.
ZAM-BUK SOAP is sold in dainty tablets and boxes by chemists,
stores, and The Zam-Buk Mfg. Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney .
For purifying the skin and
safeguarding it from pimples,
rash, blotches, blemishes,
coarseness, tan, sallowness,
scalp troubles, chafing, irri-
tation, and any other skin
affection, Zam-Buk Soap is
unsurpassed, and should be
in regular use.
Perfect
SKin
r rfiatGJ
Health
Business, Bobbery, etc.
SENTIMENT.
[Poe The Bulletin.]
There is no sentiment in business. —Modern maxim.
I do not know why Homer’s page
Should linger with us still—
Patroclus’ death, Achilles’ rage
Retain their power to thrill.
He lived in an unlettered time,
That knew not cent, per cent.,
And glorified what some term crime
And others—sentiment.
Untouched by all the joys and woes
That others bless or ban,
Along his chosen path he goes,
The model Business man.
Impassive, cold, no siren’s wiles
May lure him from his bent;
The hero he of Samuel Smiles,
Unspoilt by sentiment.
His eyes are sharp enough to watch
His merchandise or shares ;
His ears are very keen to catch
A movement in his wares.
His voice is seldom heard in glee,
More rarely in lament;
An even, level tone has he,
Devoid of sentiment.
And yet, perchance, it well may be
That the accursed thing
Has even east o’er such as he
The shadow of its wing.
And though he stand aloof, apart,
Self-centred, unafraid—
He yet may worship in his heart
Some demi-god of Trade.
Perhaps in his more private hours,
His wistful thoughts recoil
Prom the bright radiance of the powers
Men know as “ Standard Oil.”
Perhaps a certain sense of awe
With Rothschild’s name is blent,
Some slight exception to the law
That banished sentiment.
Ah, no 1 Hope, love, and joy, and fear,
May suit the vulgar crowd,
They are within the Business sphere, •
Emotions disallowed ;
Where profit forms a trinity
With interest and rent,
No other gods than these may be—
No room for sentiment 1
The dullest clod behind a plough
Sometimes the skies will scan,
And for a moment lift his brow
And know himself for man.
And eyes may dim and hearts may yearn
Beneath an Arab tent—
The business world alone, we learn,
Is free from sentiment.
Far from the dingy streets of town,
Its losses and its gains,
I lie and watch the ships go down
The unmarked Ocean lanes.
A skylark carols to his mate—
We three are well content
To hope and fear, to love and hate,
And live in sentiment.
MAORILAND. TAIWA.
“ Araemo ” sends this :
“ A Melbourne doctor has started a rather novel kind
of private lodge. By paying him 9d. weekly you are
entitled to his services and medicine for yourself, wife,
and all children under the age of 16, and, in a serious
case, to the attendance of a trained nurse. Thus far
there is no novelty. But, if you pay an extra 4d. per
week, Is. Id. per week in all, then in the event of your
death your widow receives 10s. per week for six months,
and you receive a ‘ handsome funeral.’ Surely this must
be the first time that a doctor and an undertaker have
openly done business together. Yet the idea has its
advantages; if the doctor has to pay out £l3 plus
funeral expenses when you pass out, it is safe to assume
that he will do his utmost to keep you here as long as
possible.”
Just what guarantee the doctor gives that the 10s. a
week and the handsome funeral will be there when they
are wanted, isn’t mentioned ; and yet that seems to be
a matter of some importance. Also the age of the
doctor isn’t mentioned. The person who is most likely
to rush the scheme is naturally the middling-young man
with the young family ; and a middling-young man of 35
can for fourpence a week get assurance for about £2l
from a life-assurance office that publishes its balance-
sheet, and thus proves that it is saving up the fourpences.
And supposing it is a case of a man of from 25 to 35 pay-
ing his regular 4d. for life assurance to a doctor of
between 50 and 60, there seems quite a possibility that
the doctor will be in Heaven when the bill falls due.
* * * *
“Quidam ” : Re ultimate fate of old motor-cars
(B. 22/8/’O7). A Victorian cyanider bought an old 10 h.p.
Benz car, by all appearances about the first car ever made
(it had buggy-brakes on it), for about £2O ; now he has
the 10-h.p. engine out and driving a large centrifugal
pump, and doing it well. Some of the oldest types of
motor engines, by reason of their great weight and
solidity, are, however, better fitted for stationary work
than later models, in which weight and metal have been
cut as much as possible. *
* * # *
“ Remo ” : The Chow and his umbrella beat me.
For 15 years I have been in the retail rag trade, and I
have in that time served perhaps 1000 Ghows. And the
one and only article of decent quality which any of the
crowd has purchased is the gamp. That has been the
case right through. Just a few days ago I rigged out a
Chow with the cheapest stuff he could buy : Hat 2s. lid.,
shirt Is. 9d., singlet 9d., trousers 2s lid. The socks were
4Jd. (mind the ha’penny), boots 3s. lid., and the rest of
the outfit to match. Then this he&'hen knocked me
endways by purchasing for 21s. the mo>. heavenly brolly
in the shop. I admit this 21s. line was rat,her an excep-
tion ; yet the average Chow umbrella to fit the above list
would be a gingham at 10s. 6d. or 12s. 6d. Why this
umbrella craving or brolly hunger ?
* * * *
Sands and McDougall, of Melbourne, printers,
publishers, etc., having made a net profit of £15,665 for
the 12 months ending June 30, have declared a dividend
of 10 per cent., added £lO,OOO to the reserve fund, making
it £30,000, and started a debenture redemption fund with
£2OOO. They are the oldest firm in the business in Vic-
toria, and the second oldest in Australia. In the ’twenties
William Moffitt started in King-street, Sydney, as a book-
seller, bookbinder, stationer and engraver. In 1834 he
went into Pitt-street, five doors from King-street. On
his death, the business passed to his manager, Mr.
Yeo, and from him to the present firm, Penfold and
Go. John Sands, in the same line of business, com-
menced in 1837, in a house, still standing, opposite
Lassetter’s. In 1848 the business was removed to where
it now is, next the G.P.O. In the early ’fifties the
firm became Sands and Kenny (John Sands and Thomas
Kenny), Sydney and Melbourne. Mr. Kenny managed
the Melbourne establishment. He was a Oity Councillor,
took snuff profusely, and was held in high esteem
in the old corporation of the ’fifties and early ’sixties.
Last time this writer saw Councillor Thomas Kenny was
as a candidate at a municipal election for Lonsdale Ward
in 1861. The nominations were made in an empty shop
in Oollins-street, Alderman Gallagher, landlord of the
Rose of Australia pub, King-street, being presiding
officer. Mr. Kenny’s opponent was Mr. William Bayles,
who was elected by a large majority. He was the first of
the reformers. The old element—chiefly publicans and
their nominees—disappeared rapidly. This par has got a
long distance away from Sands and McDougall—so far,
indeed, that its boots would probably wear out long
before it got back. Therefore it gives .up all attempt to
return.
* * * *
“Itan”: “Vulcan” (B. l/8/’O7), the holder
of a brief for the bagman, his association, and his privi-
leges, denies too much. “The allegation that bagmen
get special railway reductions is ridiculous,” he says. If
‘ ‘Vulcan ” looks on the back of his green ten-dollar-like cer-
tificate, he will see this among the advantages of member-
ship : “ Australian railways. All commercial travellers’
concessions and privileges granted by the Railway De-
partment of the various States (see local affiliated asso-
ciation secretary); also sleeping berth tickets at Bs.”
But he omitted to mention anything about my point that
a man over 45 years of age is debarred, and that no
female can become a member. That was one of the
reasons why I affirmed that the bagman’s association is
exclusive. It all comes back with a swish against Mr.
Importer and his satellites, as they say things with
leather lungs about other people who are trying to better
themselves, socially and politically, by unionism. It
often happens, too, that the declamations against “ Labor
tyranny and selfishness ” are loudest while the leather-
lunged one, stretched at full-length on a first-class rail-
way seat, enjoys much more room than he is entitled to,
while anxious searchers for 18 inches of sitting accommo-
dation scurry, along the platform of country stations at
night, and generally wind up by cramming into carriages
already well-filled, but not cunningly and selfishly closed
against observation.
* * * «
From Arltunga, in the Far North of S. Australia :
—The White Range Excelsior directors in Adelaide were
advised of a discovery of pyritic ore, assaying 10oz., 120 z.,
and 7oz. (three different tests); but a trial crushing of
4 tons at the State battery at Arltunga only averaged
37dwt. Thereupon the directors decided to appeal to the
Government for plant to treat this ore. Seeing, however,
that the Government paid the co. (or its tributor) at the
rate of 80 per cent, assay value for the tailings, one fails
to see how the directors can do better for themselves.
But now let us get down to the core of the
matter. This co. holds a 40-acre lease on the
White Range, Arltunga, for which it pays £2 a
year. The co. spends no money. It employs no labor,
but lets the claim on tribute, taking 5 per cent, gross
royalty. If the tributor does not make even 30s. per
week, the co. must still have its royalty. Now, the
directors hear of this presumably rich find of pyrites,
and, instead of laying out money to prove the thing, they
propose that the Government shall expend a few
thousands for the treatment of the ore, which may or
may not be the means of raising the values of
the tributors’ crushings. If it does, it means
more cash in royalties for the co. that does
nothing. If, on the other hand, it fails to improve the
values of the crushings, the co. does not lose anything.
In fact, it is a “ Heads I win and tails you lose ” sort of
game, always in favor of the W.R.E. 00. If the
Government should feel inclined to spend this money, it
should first inquire as to how these parasites are bleeding
the miners of the Mac Donnell Ranges, under the guise of
“ opening up the country.” The battery was primarily
erected to help the working miner ; but it has now been
made to help also one of the worst forms of sweating in
South Australia.
* # * *
“Two Seas”: Apropos of “Agricola” (8.,
18/7/’O7) and his remarks upon bush receipts, allow me to
point out “ another way,” as the cookery volume hath
it. I have in my possession a receipt which runs thus :
“This is to sertifie that Mr. don’t owe me nothink for
the strorbry cow branded H on the orf roomp.” Now who
could object to that? It clears me just as well as a
receipt, and implies that Bullock gave me the cow
because he was bursting with admiration of my many
good qualities. And it requires no stamp. I think that
the absence of receipt stamps on bush clearances is due
more to Bullock’s desire to “ beat the flamin’ Guv’ment”
than to any scarcity of stamps. If Bullock is pushed for
it, he will produce a stamp which he has soaked off
another receipt, and carefully treasured for the occa-
sion—a dingy, water-worn stamp that has circulated in
the district for years. The bushie who would spoil a
receipt stamp by writing across it would be held up to
public scorn as an extravagant new chum.
* * * *
“Cross Nibs”: As my small silver donation
dropped musically the boot-path artist turned, and
bestowed upon me the thankful gaze. With a dark
crayon, he had just inserted the last seed in a large slice
of highly-colored water-melon, upon which a cockatoo
with marvellous plumage glared impudently from an
adjoining chalk study. Rising from the pavement, he
gazed critically at his latest pictorial effort, and then re-
clined languidly against the railings. “ No, it’s not th’
best game on th’ mud-ball,” he said, waxing the end of a
cigarette with a lighted match preparatory to smoking it.
“ I just get the crust and blanket out of it. I ’ad a good
lurk wonce travellin’ round the pubs, makin’ sketches
o’ blokes in pencil. Bluey, a mate o’ mine, toddled
with me as buttoner, ’n’ when we struck ’n ole toff a bit
mopped, he’d give ’im a tale about me bein’ an ole
Bulletben man outed by th’ large thirst. Blime, we’ve
scored 'as much as 'alf a jim. Marvellous, ’ow a bloke
kids ’imself when ’e’s shickered. If ’e’s sugar on th’
tom at th’ pump ’e’ll pose f’r y’r as willin’ as a boozer ’ll
shell prawns. Struck some trouble wunce. A big
butcher bloke who was ’angin’ ’is ’at upter th’ beer-maid
asked me t’ pencil ’im pretty. When I finished th’ sketch
’e passed it t’ th’ skirt, who said sumthin’ about sufferin’
a recovery. Then that bulky beef-boner said me fokus
wanted Axin’, ’n’ e’ fitted me in th’ features dead willin’. I
got onter this game after that, ’n’ I think, after all, still
life’s th’ best. It don’t 'it back at’cher. Have one ? My
oath ! Here, Ginger, mind th’ gallery ’n’ see none o’ th’
kids mucks it up. I’ll be back soon.”
* » * •
“Wang”: She strolled into a pastrycook’s
establishment. I also happened to be there.
She was heavily loaded with a brown paper parcel. It
must have weighed fully four ounces.
She dropped listlessly into a chair and sighed. “ Oh,
dear I ” she moaned. “ How shopping does tire one ! ”
An assistant waited patiently for her order.
She bestirred herself, and again moaned, “ Oh, dear ! I
want some cakes, but can’t re-ally think what sort I want
to get. What sort have you got ? ”
The girl enumerated a yard of edibles.
Miss Pussycat leaned back in her chair with her eyes
closed.
“ Would you mind telling me again ; I didn’t catch
what you were saying.”
The girl recited again.
“ Ah ! no, re-ally, I don’t think I’ll have any of those,”
remarked Miss Languid Furboa. “ They’re so stieky to
carry. Do me up sixpence worth of seed-cake, and I’ll
call around at father’s office and get him to bring it home
with him. Ido so hate carrying things.”
Then she rose and glode out into the street, nearly
colliding with a woman who didn’t mind carrying things
—a woman with a baby on one arm and a bundle of wash-
ing nearly as big as herself under the other.
And as I left the shop I met Brown, who, pointing to
the languid one, remarked enthusiastically, “ Fine woman
that.”
And he seemed surprised and hurt when all I said was
“ Damn the cat.”
* * * •
“Yancowinna,” from Broken Hill: The local
manufacturer keeps howling because the native-born
purchases English, Scotch and foreign clothing material ;
but why does he not cease to emulate the canine that
addresses the luminary of the night, and put a little
hustle into his job? Herein Broken Hill, inquiries for
Australian-made tweeds are practically of no avail. And
it’s the same in nearly every Australian town. The
wholesale houses import 99 per cent, of their goods, and
the tailor naturally has to pass the said material on to his
customers. If our woollen mill people got a move on,
and established shops of their own in every decent-sized
town, displayed the “Australian-made” device over the
doors, advertised like all Gehenna, shoved the home-
made article under the proboscis of every adult male, like-
wise female, they would find that trade would leap like the
kangaroo, and profits would climb higher than the koala.
As for the imported stuff, it would vanish under-
ground, like the rabbit. Surely there is one energetic
and enterprising man on the staffs of the Australian
woollen millers, who, seeing the possibilities in this
scheme, will take the matter up, set the trade on a firm
basis, and incidentally make for himself a pile taller than
an ant-heap in the Northern Territory. If the woolmen
cannot find such a man, I hereby suggest that thev
employ Grant Hervey and Randolph Bedford to organise
this great crusade. The tremendous vigor of the verses
emanating from those two writers is sufficient assurance
that they would stornj .the citadel of the importer and rout >
him, as the kookaburra routs the caterpillar—in one
round.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
TShe LEADING
HOUSE
FOR
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
L 2 or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
-ebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
)f 12-gauge, 6f to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6£lb. Post Free, £3 l£s.
CANT
B
BEAT
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ĸ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOYE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instrcctor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Long Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your oath. pr~ Established 25 Y*ars.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* Ai Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alk I'bgrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
"5
TV
is the great English
face cream you ought
to try.
If you would be freckle free
and keep your complexion
through the hot Australian summer,
you must use Oatine. It will take the
grime that sor.p and water cannot reach from
the pores, will keep your skin fair and soft
and prevent it drying and cracking.
Oatine is pure, made from fresh clean
healing oats and free from mineral salts or
animal fats. No matter how hot the weather
it will not go bad. It does not grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Every Australian woman who values a
clear complexion should get Oatine now. It
is the only thing that will enable her to keep
her complexion permanently in the dry
Australian climate. .
In dainty white Jars, 1 9", or larare si?e
(four times the amount). 3/6.
To he obtained at all ehemlsts,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
MILLERS
mti
OSTRICH TIPS
Prom South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Aroade, Pitt St. , SYDNEY I also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
D
YSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
li*fatful and wickedly true.
6d. “ De-
y
PRIZES value £.1500.
IN the
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1007.
First Prize, value £5OO. S3W SK 3S
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Coniurinsr Tricks. Puzzles. Surnrise and Joke Novelties.
The “Son of a Gun ” Sqairt Pistol.
3
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
I n valuable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
vvatchmenj and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
.-urn
‘illlSiili.
IX
: v
shim
The Look and Laugh Glass
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing-
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on j
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
The Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out ol
order. Price //-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 2/«. Do not miss this chance of obtaining one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
H. L. Hutchinson,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
Head Depot-
-71 0 George Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 3, Post Office, Haymarket
No. 1 Branch : 25 & 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
S»e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
M Britisb=Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bkitish-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham $ Co.
MERCHANT TAILORS, MERCERS,
anH SHIRTMAKERS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our New Spring Suitings
are arriving by FORTNIGHTLY
SHIPMENTS during the Season;
While Novelties in TROUSERINGS, VEST-
INGS, NECK WEAR, etc., reach us by
Parcels Post EVERY MAIL.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. lor
AERTEX CELLULAR
Underwear and Shirts.
"BSSSSSS DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Post Free. 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


Allcock^
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Golds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For pains in the region of tne
Kidney*, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
AUcock’s Plaster,
For Rheumatism or Pains in
Shoulders, hlbowsor elsewhere,
or for Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut size and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as 6hown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc.
Established 1752.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI. w ,
PORWARDED POST PREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Id. Packet of TEN. lOd
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
The Philosopher.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE dwelt a great Philosopher,
A year ago, at Paddington ;
His system was to sit and purr,
Like some huge Manx cat, in the sun.
While all around him seethed and swirled
The eddies of the troubled world.
He paid no heed to anything
That did not cut him to the bone,
Nor cared what griefs the years might bring,
If he were left in peace alone ;
And when his friends in trouble were
He did not turn a single hair.
They came to him for sympathy,
Before they got to know him well,
And did to him, in language free,
The story of their trials tell.
He simply said, with humor grim,
That they should laugh at Care —like him.
True Humor is a kindly jade,
And, though she laughs with all her heart
When men by trifles are dismayed,
She helps them play the manly part.
His Humor was of other style—
A Harpy with a heartless smile.
One day, athwart the Press of Life
In his small street, came words of woe—
The great Philosopher’s small wife
Had borne him triplets at a go !
“ Good gods ! What have I done,” yelled he,
“ That this should happen unto me ?
“ What matter if my grief I hide,
Or from the housetops it proclaim,
The cold, hard, cruel world,” he cried,
“ Will keep on rolling all the same,
And won’t be into mourning hurled —
O callous, cruel, curs&d world ! ”
But did his friends desert him ? No!
They came in troops his heart to cheer,
And told him that what he called woe
Was quite the best joke of the year.
His troubles, they explained, were chaff
Of Fate, and meant to make folk laugh.
He cursed those friends, in language neat
And undiluted—cursed them sore;
And ran them out into the street,
And violently he banged the door !
Then rushed—but from the room was shot —
To whack the triplets in their cot.
From Paddington he moved away,
With wife and triplets, in a van;
And went to Five Dock, people say,
And never smiled again, poor man !
He took to drink and solo whist,
And is a sour, sad Pessimist.
CREEVE ROE.
Maria’s Daughters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STRUCK a lonely farm, ten miles from
anywhere, and was impressed by the sight
of six stalky, bony sisters, * who worked
around in an aimless, melancholy fashion. They
were aged anywhere from 30 to 50. I told the
old woman who was getting me some dinner that
it was a shame to bury a lot of bright young girls
like that, where they hadn’t a ghost of a show of
getting married.
Then she forged ahead.
“It ain’t my fault,” she said sharply. “If
rights were rights, and it hadn’t been for their
mother, that’s been dead these three years now,
there wouldn’t be one of them home. She was
awful hard, Maria was, although it’s her own
sister as says it.
“There was Maggie, that was living in Mel-
bourne, but now she’s home (that’s her weedin’
the turnips). She had a splendid show. A
squatter’s son was after her, but Maria, who was
a hard woman, wouldn’t have it, ’cause he wasn’t
a Baptist, same as them, so it had to be stopped.
After that she got bonier and bonier and very
pious. When she was about 40, a young kid of
20 made a bet he’d marry her, and he did ; and
when he got hold of her little bit of money her
dad had left her, he cleared out with another girl,
and now she’s a miserable grass widder.
“Polly, that’s just coming this way with the
cabbage in her hand, was a beautiful girl.” (The
ex-beauty was 6ft. high and not lOin. across any-
where.) “She was in love with a chap as kept
racehorses, and when he came around and told
her ma, of course Polly was packed away until she
got over it, and he got tired of waiting. She’s
never been the same since. Maria was a hard
woman.
“If rights were rights, Agnes would have
married a young chap as was mad after her, and it
caused mighty rows in the place, because the
mother wouldn’t hear of it—didn’t think he’d be
steady enough. Maria made her send back the
little things he gave her, and have nothing more
to do with him. He said he wouldn’t take that
for an answer, and he’d ride along the road at a
certain time, and, if she was waving a handker-
chief out of the window, he’d have her whatever
happened.
“ When the time came, we were all in the room,
Agnes and all. Maria, who was a hard woman,
as I said, sat by the window, and we were all
crying as we watched him ride slowly by. Agnes
howled and shrieked, and begged Maria to open
the window, but she wouldn’t; and he went
straight away, and married somebody else.
“Jane wanted to marry her cousin Tom, and
wasn’t let, because it’s so unhealthy to marry
relatives. She did run off with him, but Maria,
being a hard woman, soon brought her back.
“ Alice, now, she took the man her mother
picked out for her—a good young chap, who was
awful pious. He turned out worse than all the
others put together, and whacked her like any-
thing. She kept the family by washing until, one
blessed day, she was left a widder (her two
children had died young), and then she came
back home.
“ Annie wae never in love, or anything. Maria,
who Was a heavy woman and hard, sort of sat on
her right along, and she never gave any trouble.
That’s her, leaning on the fence.
“Yes, it was the mother that done it. Maria
was a hard woman. God rest her soul. She died
three years ago last Christmas, but the girls don’t
seem to have no heart to do more than keep the
place together.”
R. A. KENT.
The Lunatic.
AS RELATED BY OLD DAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I JUST heard that Tim Kelly was dead.
Thirty year ago, I ’noo ’im ’ere on Boo-
burra. Dog-pois’nin’ ’e wuz, on the Yow
Yow outstation, w’en ’e ’ad ’is great adventoor.
Booburra wuz a place them days; 200,000
sheep we useter run mos’ in gen’ral alwiz, an’
hardly a mile o’ fencin’ on the run. Orl shep-
herdin’, an’ the cattle wuz fed roun’ the sheep
outside. When Tim took on the dawg-pois’nin’
racket, I wuz rashun-carrier. Uster drive four
’orses in a wag’nette, an’ take the tucker roun’ to
the outstations an’ the shepherds’ ’uts.
Yow Yow outstation was in charge of a jackeroo
called Richardson, an’ ’e on’y ’ad Combo, a black-
fellow, with ’im. Yow Yow wuz right in the
middle o’ my roun’, an’ one night when I gets
there Richardson comes over ter me ’urried like.
“Come over to th’ ’ouse,” ’e says, “I’ve got a
man there from one of the fencers’ camps, an’ I
think ’e’s in a bad way. ”
I goes over, an’ I knowed the man soon’s I see
’im. ’Arris ’is name wuz, an’ ’e wuz very bad.
’E wuz wot you call cummytoes, but I ’noo wot
was wrong with ’im. Dyesentayry—too much
bad water an’ salt ’orse, an’ too little vegetable.
“ Look yer, Richardson,” I sez, “ ’e’s bad, an’
if you don’t want ’im ter peg out on yer hands,
you’ll get ’im in to the p’lice at Toolpara, an’ tell
them ter take charge on ’im an’ send ’im in to the
’orsptle. It’s wot ther paid for,” I sez.
“ I’ve only got Combo I could send with ’im,”
’e sez.
‘ ‘ Combo ! Why, if the pore beggar ’appened
ter peg out on ther way in, an’ it’s like enough ’e
will on that rough, tussocky, grass track, Combo
’d clear fer ’is nacheral inter the scrub, an’ leave
the pore beggar’s corpse to the dingoes, an’ you’d
be tried fer murder, an’ ’ung by the neck till you’re
dead, dead, dead.”
“ Couldn’ you take ’im in, Dan,” ’e says.
“Me ? ’Ow could I ? A sick man’s a sick man
rite ’nuff, but livin’ men’s ’ungry men, an’ if I
don’t git roun’ the camps ter-morrer they’ll be
starvin’ men.”
“ Then what’m I ter do ? ”
“Well,” I sez, “there’s Tim Kelly, ’e’s
camped not fur orf.”
Tim wuz a flash sorter joker them days. Made
good money, ’e did, an’ alwiz ’ad one er two
good sorts er ’orses. ’E uster win more money
than anyone racin’, an’ wuz a reg’ler authority on
pedigrees an’ performances. ’E wuz a puggeree-
’atted, meerschaum-pipe-smokin’ gentleman, too,
wuz Tim, an’ alwiz rode a good ’ack.
’E ’greed ter take ’Arris in, so nex’ mornin’ we
gits th’ only trap they ’ad at th’ outstation—an
ole spring-cart wot they useter bring the beef
from the gallus inter the shop in—an’ we fixes two
mattresses in it, an’ pillers, an’ all quite comfort-
able. Th’ only thing onpleasant about it wuz the
smell. We rigs a sorter tilt over it, an’ we puts
’Arris on the mattresses, an’ then we yokes up
Darkey, th’ ole draught ’orse they useter draw
water with, an’ Richardson gives Tim a note to
the sergeant in Toolpara an’ starts ’em orf. Combo
wuz settin’ ’unched up on the rail in front, smokin’
an ole clay pipe. Tim ’e wuz ridin’ a very free
little flash ’ackney, an’ foun’ it ’ard work ter
keep back to the cart. ’E’d ride on a bit, an’
pull up, an’ ride back to the cart an’ arst ’Arris
’ow ’e wuz, an’ then on agin, an’ so on.
Combo wouldn’t let ’im get too fur ahead. ’E’d
sing out, “ Mittah Kelly, Mittah Kelly, this pfeller
go bong, mine think it. Heigh, Mittah Kelly,
this pfeller bl-e-e-enty bad. Close up go bong. My
word. ” An’ then ’e’d welt old Darkey to try an’
catch up to Tim, an’ the cart’d nearly tip over
an’ go bumpin’ over them blinded tussocks.
When they gits to ther crick, three miles from
Toolpara, they pulls up in the shade, an’ boils the
billy, an’ gives ’Arris a pannikin ’f tea. Then
Tim sez, “Now, Combo, you jog along quiet.
I’ll canter on alonga township an’ make every-
thing orl rite. I’ll meet you when you come in,
an’ show you where to take ’im that feller sick
man.” “ Yohi,” sez Combo, and orf Tim
canters.
The p’lice barricks —they wuz on’y log ’umpies
then—wuz on the ridge right overlookin’ the
township —three pubs, a blacksmith’s shop, an’ a
couple er stores. Sergeant O’Rafferty wuz in
charge. ’E’d only just come from Clermont, an’
didn’t know any ’f the distric’ people. ’E ’ad one
constable with ’im, ’OO wuz also noo to the dis-
tric’, an’ two black trackers.
Tim rides straight up to the barricks, ’angs ’is
’orse up, an’ walks on to the verandah ’f the ser-
geant’s ’ouse. ’E knocks, an’ out comes the
Sergeant.
“ Letter for you, Mr. O’Rafferty,” sez Tim.
“ Thank yoa, me mahn,” sez O’Rafferty, taking
it, and this is what he read :
Yow Yow Outstation,
November 10,18 —.
Please take charge of this men. I don’t know what’s
wrong with him.
E. H. Richardson.
“ Come insoide. Come insoide, me mahn,”
said O’Rafferty. “ Come insoide an’ set down.”
He took Tim into th’ orfis, an’ sez, “ ’Scuse
me a minyute. Oi’ve a missage t’ give the
thracker.”
He comes back d’reckly, an’ brings the con-
stable an’ th’ two trackers with him, an’ he sets
down an’ begins yarnin’ to Tim. Tim stan’s it
fr a bit. Then ’e gits upter go, but the sergeant
pats ’im on th’ arm an’ sez, “ Set down. Set
down, me good mahn. Set down. You’ll be ahl
roight dh’reckly,” and ev’iy time Tim goes to git
up th’ same thing happens.
Then Tim tumbles that they think he’s the man
Richardson has written about, though ’e don’t
know what’s in the note ’e guv the Sergeant.
(Continued on next page.)


THAT ONE WEAK SPOT
Right in the Small of the Back,
A bad back is N ature’s signal of distress, a call for help from the
kidneys. The aching tells of dangerous congestion that robs the
kidneys of their blood-filtering power, or painful, wasting inflamma-
tions. There is immediate need for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
to relieve the pain and heal the diseased kidneys, to ward off more
fatal and painful disorders. Learn to keep the kidneys well, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will do it for you. Grateful residents of
this city testify. Their statements prove it to you.
0-
9*
“Every picture
tells a story."
SYDNEY PROOF.
FROM ST. PETERS.
Mr. A. Bennett, 56George Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says:—“My kidneys started to
give me trouble some time ago ; I had severe backaches and urinary disorders. When I sat
down my back would get so bad that I could hardly get up again. I used a number of
medicines without any benefit, when I thought I would give Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
a trial. My father had used them with first-rate results; he is 74, and they keep him right.
Besides that, some fellows working in the sheds with me had remarkable Cures with this
medicine. One friend of mine was so bad with his back that he could not throw up a hay
rope, and the pills fixed up his back. I got a box, and started with them, and it only took
four boxes to banish my aching back and regulate the secretions. lam now quite cured.
They are grand pills for kidney trouble. A man can’t work with an aching back, but he will
work all right after he has used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Mrs. Bennett confirms the above four years later:—“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
worked permanent cures both in my husband and his father’s cases. They are still well. I
need say no more. These lasting cures are strong proof of how good Doan’s Pills are. ”
FROM BALMAIN*
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says“ I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under
three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad
that I would have to be carried home on a cart if an attack came on when working in the
street. Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one of these bad attacks came on. I
suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting, my secretions were very bad ; I could never
bend my back or move at all when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me
medicines and recommended rubbing in liniments, but. it was of no use, they did not benefit
me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy.
I only took one box, and was cured. When I finished them X started work, and have worked
ever since. These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was instantaneous.’
Mrs. Smith says, eight years later; —“ My husband has had wonderful health since he
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced that he owes his life to this remedy.
He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills."
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PHIS.
Price, 2s. 9d. per box.
AH Chemists & Storekeepers.
. . i.
FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Look’ere,” ’e sez, “I’m not the man wot
Richardson wrote about. ’E’s cornin’ erlong in a
cart. I must ’urry orf, I’ve got some business ter
do in the township.”
“ Ahl roite, me mahn, ahl roite. Set yez
down,” said the Sergeant, patting him on the
arm. ‘ ‘ Ahl you want is a nip an’ a poipe, an’ a
quoite resht, an’ you’ll be ahl roite dh’reckly.
Phwatt hov yez got in yere poclcuts ? ”
“ Wot’s that got ter do wi’ you,” said Tim,
gettin’ ropable.
“ Ahl roite, me mahn, all roite,” sez
O’Rafferty, pattin’ him on the arm. “Oi
don’t want annything ye hov, but shure Oi’d
loike t’ hov a look at yere lcnoife. You’ll be ahl
roite dh’reckly ” ; an’ before Tim knoo wher ’e
wuz, they’d gone through ’im an’ took orl ’e ’ad
out’n ’is pockuts.
“ Thim’s noice spurrs ye hov,” said the Ser-
geant, an’ before Tim cud say a word the trackers
’ad ’im by the feet an’ wuz whippin’ ’is ’ooks orf.
Tim knoo, then, they took ’im fur a loonattic,
an’ the thort made ’im fightin’ mad, but Lor’ wot
cud ’e do, settin’ in a chair, with two niggers
’oldin’ ’is feet up in th’ air ? ’E could do nothink
but swear.
Then, they takes ’is boots orf—-’e wore flash
long riding boots—Tim orl th’ toime foamin’ at
the mouth, an’ the Sergeant sayin’, “ Kape quoite,
me mahn. Kape quoite. You’ll be ahl roite
dh’reckly.”
When they’d got ’is knife an’ matches, boots
an’ spurs, they ’ustles Tim on to ’is feet an’
O Rafferty sez, “Come ’long now, me mahn,
ye’ll be ahl th’ betther fr a lie down in a noice
quoite room,” an’ they walks ’im along to the
cell, shoves ’im in, an’ slams an’ locks the door,
Tim foamin’ an’ cursin’ an’ swearin. O’Rafferty
puts ’is ’ead to the peep ’ole an’ sez, “ Kape
quoite, me mahn. Kape quoite. Ye’ll be ahl
roite soon’s ye’ve had a lie down.” An’ them
waz nigh the lurst words ever ’e spoke, fer ' Tim
wuz that mad ’e picked up a hiron ’namelled
mug an’ shot it fair at the Sergeant’s eye. ’E
ducked, an’ it missed ’im.
Then the Sergeant an’ ’is trap goes orf an’
congratoolates therseves on ’aviff s’cured a dan-
gerous loonattic with so little trouble. They
wuz nearer rite than they knoo too, far Tim wuz
a dang’rous loonattic by this time.
“’E must be a dommed smarrut mahn, thot
Richardson,” said O’Rafferty.
Then they sent Tim’s horse out to the p’lice
paddick, an’ went ter sleep ag’in.
*** * *
All this time Combo wuz a pluggin’ inter town
with the dyin’ man, an’ when ’e parst th’ p’lice-
barricks they wuz so busy secoorin’ the loonattic
that they never seen ’im. So ’e drives under the
shade of a big gum on the river bank, lets down
the prop-sticks, an’ swaggers over to Tattersall’s
pub. It wuz about 1 1 o’clock, an’ broilin’ ’ot.
“Hullo, Combo !” sez Mrs. Kavanagh, the
landlady, “wot’s brought you in from Yow
Yow ? ”
“You bin see ’im tha’ pfeller, Tim Kelly,
Missis Kavanagh ? ”
“No, Combo. Don’t think he’s in.”
“ Plu-u-urry fool, tha’ pfeller. Mine talk it
ble-e-enty alonga boss when mine go back alonga
’tashun. Say ’e come along in, make it all rite.
Plu-urry fool, Tim Kelly. You gib it nobbier,
Missis Kavanagh ? ”
’E gets a woodener o’ rum. People weren’t
so pertikler ’bout supplyin’ blacks them days, an’
they alwiz did ther cheques in at the pubs—when
they got ’em. Then Combo went orf to the Rip-
an’-Tear, an’ arst f’r Tim Kelly. ’Corse they
’adn’t seen ’im, an’ Combo gets another nobbier.
Then ’e tries the Commercial, an’ ’as another
nobbier, an’ by this time ’e’s beginnin’- not ter
care if ’e doesn’t never see Tim Kelly no more.
Then ’e meets a head-station black ’oo’s doin’
in ’is cheque, an’ ’oo ’as a bottle, an’ Combo goes
off with ’im to the blacks’ camp to play euchre,
an’ ’f corse, furgits al erbout ole Darkey an’ the
spring cart an’ the dyin’ man under the gum tree
on the bank of the river oppersyte Kavanagh’s
pub.
So th’ afternoon wore on, the p’lice lyin’ down
asleep, Tim Kelly a ravin’ loonattic in the cell,
Combo drunk at th’ blacks’ camp, an’ the dyin’
man in the cart.
After tea, O’Rafferty goes fur ’is evenin’ stroll,
ter show ’isself in ’is uniform, an’ calls in at the
pub. Cornin’ ’ome ’e spots the 'cart oppersite
Kavanagh’s. ’E goes over within 20 yards er so,
an’ walks roun’ it an’ takes a lunar, as the Johns
orlwiz does when they don’t want ter discover
nothink ; an’ then ’e goes back ter the pub an’
says to th’ ole woman :
“ Annywan in town to-day, Mrs. Kavanagh?”
“ Divvle a sowl, Sargint dear, excipt Combo,
the Yow Yow blackfeller. ”
“ Humph,” said the Sergeant, blowing out ’is
cheeks an’ puffin’ into ’is beard as ’e most in
gin’ral orlwiz did when ’e wuz extry full of im-
portance. “ Oi obsarve a cyarrt over beyant.”
“ Ut’s bin theer ahl day, Sargint, dear. Will
yez hov a tashte ? ” O’Rafferty went back to the
barracks thoughtful after ’e’d ’ad ’is taste.
Presently ’e sent ’is trap out an’ tole ’im ter
make enquiries ’bout the cart oppersite Kavanagh’s.
The John goes out and works roun’ the cart about
twenty yards orf, jus’ as the Sargint ’ad done, an’
’as a look at it, an’ then goes over ter Mother
K.’s an’ ’as a taste an’ arsts ’er about it.
When ’e gits back ter barracks ’e sez ter the
Sergeant : “ Fr’m infrmayshun recaved Oi’ve
rayson ter b’layve, Sargint, the cyarrt in ques-
chune b’longs to Yow Yow, an out-station of
Booburra.”
“ Didn’t that loonattic we arrested this marrnin’
say somethin’ ’bout a mahn cornin’ in in a cyarrt ?”
“He did that?”
“Come ’long then. Come long. Plase God,
there’s not another of ’em, f’r t’wad be murther
t’ lock two of ’em up in the wan cell.”
They ’urried down to the cart, an’ foun’ ’Arris
very near at ’is lars’ garsp. ’E wuz cummytoes
•agin. They ’urries ’im over to ther pub an’ put
’im ter bed, an’ gives ’im brandy, an’ they rousts
up a chemist bloke at the Rip-an’-Tear, an’ ’oles
’is ’ead under a tap until ’e’s sober ’nuff ter pre-
scribe, an’ does everythink they can. Then they
leaves ’im in ole Mother Kavanagh’s charge an’
goes back to barricks t' ’old a council er war.
They knoo then they’d made a mistake, but as Tim
wuz quiet, they d’eided not to wake ’im up till
mornin .
The Sergeant intervoo dim through the
peep’ole. Tim ’ad no more mugs f’eave, so it
wuz quite safe. Tim wuz too jumpin’ wild ter
give much inf’rmashun, but the Sergeant med out
’is name wuz Tim Kelly, an’ that ’e’d bin sent in
from Yow Yow in charge of a dyin’ man.
’E torked very free ’bout c mplaymn to Parley-
ment an’ ’avin’ th’ ole p’lice force o’ Queenslan’
dismissed f r treatin’ ’im as ’e’d bin treated.
’Course they let ’im out, an’ sez ’ow sorry they
wuz, an’ they guv ’im the best breakfus’ they c’d
scrape tergether, an’ sent out f r ’is ’orse an’ made
the trackers groom it an’ polish Tun’s boots an’
spurs, an bit an irons. Tim sed e didn t want no
smoogin’, an’ ’e’d make ’em sit up f r wot they’d
done t’ ’im ; but ercorse that wuz orl blow. ’E
could’n do nothink. The traps ’ad the big end
’f the stick.
Anyway,’e went back to ’is camp an’ never
came nigh JToolpara any more, cept at race times.
’E said pois’nin’ dorgs wuz safer than goin’ where
you will knock up agin’ great ign’rant, mutton-
’eaded, flat-footed Johns.
As fr ’Arris, they got ’im down by coach
40 mile to th’orsptle an”e got orl rite. Cornin’
back he got on th drink at loolpara, an nearly
killed the Sergeant by heavin’ a brick an’ other
aspersions at ’im.
NE'ER-DO-WEEL.
Chinatown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were passing through a place known
at one time as “Chinatown.” It lay
„ ~ , . , ,
m a vall ey. Tumble-down huts made
of bags and boxes bordered an evil-smelling
swamp. A peaked white Joss-house, surrounded
by a neat fence, rose strikingly in their filthy
midst. There was no movement in the two
• c . , . r
grass-grown streets. Strange half-caste creatures,
white and black and yellow, peeped furtively
from behind the bags that served as doors. There
was something uncanny about the place, some-
thing that made one want to reach the hills again
‘ . •
and draw m deep breaths of pure air.
“ I mind me,” ruminated the old bushman,
“ when this place swarmed with Chows. Yairs !
Fossickin’ ! No; no good now. Rough days
them. Three of ’em Chows cut out o’ the mob
, *. tut
an’ went out Wonga way. Yairs! They was
findin’ a bit. Camped aside a creek. One day,
one of ’em was away for rations, an’ the oldest
cove—’e’d bin pretty sick for months—got terrible
bad. His mate set out for Chinatown ’ere to get
physic from the Chow doctor-biled cockroaches,
or somethin’. It was a matter o’ twenty-two
miles. ’E muster bin sicker than ’e knoo ’imself,
because, just outside ’ere, ’e fell off ’is ’orse dead.
“ An’ the cove out in the bush-’ut was waitin’
fer ’is medicine. The other chop wot was away
after rations gets hack about dark, an’ the sick ole
cove goes to market somethin’ terrible ’bout bein
left there by ’isself, an’ ’im wantin’ water. E
kept drinkin’ water all the time, an’ the other Chow
cove kept fetchin’ it, an’ the dozenth time the
other cove comes in with water ’e was layin’ back
very still and quiet.
“Then the ration cove gets the fear o’ ’ell in
him, and, yellin’, bolts for Wonga homestead. It
was a terrible black night. I mind the time well,
though I was on’y a young chap then. A mile
an’ a ’arf from the ’omestead the Chow fell inter a
kind er pit— ‘ the deep ’ole,’ they called it. At
daylight ’e scrambled out some’ow, and about
nine o’clock crawled into the ’omestead in a
terrible mangled state. The Chow cook there
gets the strength o’ things, an’ the boss sends out
some chaps to bring in the dead Chow. Yes, he
was dead all right. They put him in the barn, an’
sent for old Jim’Asson, the coroner.
“Jim alwers ’ated Chows, so ’e brings a jar o’
rum with ’im. We wuz all in at the inquest. Jim
passed the jar round pretty free. ’E wus takin’
the stuff in big gulps ’imself, an’ after a bit ’e arsks
someun to get ’im a knife —a big, sharp knife. ’E
knowed a good deal more about the innards o’
sheep and beasts than ’e did about ’uman bein s,
but ’e wus terrible strong on doin’ ’is dooty was
Jim. ’E took another gulp and drew away the
bag from off the old Chow cove. ’ls eyes wus red
an’ wild-looking, but ’e stuck the knife in the
Chow promiscuous. ’E was resolved to do ’is
dooty. Then he put the jar to his mouth. ’E
fair emptied it. Then ’e stuck the knife into the
Chow promiscuous again, bein’ solid on doin’ ’is
dooty. ’Bout this time the rum got hold on ’im
proper. The larst thing I remember was seein’
Jim dancin’ mad-like round the barn, the big
butcherin’ knife raised ’igh over ’is ’ead, an’
yellin’ • like a fiend. ’ls face wus as white
as paper, an’ ’is eyes like balls o’ fire.
The men was slinkin’ out one by
one like putty their faces wus. I made
a bolt for the door, but dropped like a
log afore I reached it, an’ the other coves wus
that frightened Jim ’ud be wantin’ to ’old a post
mortem on me that they dragged me away an’ ’id
me behind a bush.
“No, I don’t think the inquest was ever
finished proper-like. No, I dunno what the old
Chow died of. Drinkin’ too much water, maybe.
The other Chow cove that dropped off ’is horse
dead outside Chinatown was never inquested that
I know of. What ? Oh, the cove that fell into
the pit. I dunno whether ’e ever got properly
better. But there were lots of Chows these days,
an’ one or two didn’t matter.”
We had reached the hills. The bushman
turned and looked back at Chinatown. “ Yairs !
rough days them,” he said, regretfully.
A. E.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
A Grateful Mother Writes:
Jk
i.
o
“My little son. suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
he disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla —not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Jl
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
S’
& w p
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet, *V hen you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you.may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent.’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk! You can return,the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
Co., 8..
You
k
Flask
20/
A«y man who has occasion to travel should be
sure to have with him a pocket spirit flask.
The style illustrated here, to hold half a pint,
leather covered, with a beautiful silver-plated
detachable cup and screw or bayonet top, will be
sent post free to any address for one pound—with
the right to return the article if it is not entirely
satisfaetory.
This would make an excellent present for a
gentleman, and would be engraved with initials
or monogram at slight extra cost.
Dozens of other suitable articles are illustrated
in the big “A. & 0.” catalogue—sent post free
on request.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“ The Store where Quality Counts,”
Gratex Street, Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney,
Opp. the Barometer, Q.Y. Markets.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
FREE TRIAL / /
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC BLT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON,
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted.
11,000.
ķ
Florists’
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SKEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable: Speeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d- per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ears. Ton may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don’t aelaj', send at once before our offer la withdrawn
Oft CO HAMILTON STREET,
UU. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ĸ
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
women, is caused by constipation? It can be prevented if
BEECHAM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Beecham’s Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy—and it is the first resort in ease of sickness appearing,
being the “stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
possibly serious illness. If you have not got a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken when ailments arise
will soon right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price ///J {56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
O* RICORO'5
e.sSE** gE °f jvf
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to' the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 4-7 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
k
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name iof~
tar
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,.
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free oS charge, to any-
one interested*
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
f
1
NO
MONEY
WANTED
Send us your Name and Addreas and we will forward you six of our famous
MOTTO BROOCHES to Sell for us at 1/- each. You will have no trouble in doing this,
for everyone you ask will want one as soon as they see them. When you have sold the
Brooches return us our 6/- and we will send you, for your trouble, any prize you may select
from the list which we forward with the Brooches. By continuing the sale of our Brooches
you can earn a Lady’s or Gent’s Solid Silvor Watch, Photo. Cameras loaded
ready for use, Highly Chased Silver Plated Matchboxes, Best Steel Razors,
Handsome Pearl Necklets, Fashionable Screw Earrings in Coral, Pearls, or
Brilliants, Gold Cased Cable Bangles, and many other choice and exquisite gifts.
We make and import our own jewellery, or we could not make you this unparalleled offer.
Our friends are astounded at the prizes we are able to give for so little work, and we have
thousands of tes imonials from hosts of gratified agents. Remember, we take all
the Risk, and you may return the goods if unable to sell them. Write now, don’t delay.
THE COMMONWEALTH JEWELLERY CO.
„ . . _ 622 PITT STREET,
Kestui X SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Address:
MEN
AND
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally.
DR. MtARTIN’S
NEW BOOK,
.
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Kobertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Prioe 7s. 6d., or if you apply
Dr Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Brown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised I
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published l._
w—n KT KT A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 3d illustrations and colored plate,
mBSM UmHI - A 5 _ 1 u TltV, AI- l-L A uAn t HTnrll nnl D A A - trt 1 ilr AWI 11 V\A onnf T J? F? F"
giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special" Ailments
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Address s~
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
51 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Players of Cricket,
NOTE !
WHITE CANVAS BOOTS, White
Soles, 7/6 pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, White
Soles (a .Special Shoe for Matting
Wicket), 6/- pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, Black
Soles, First Quality, 5/- pair.
WHITE, BROWN, or
CANVAS SHOES,
Brand, 3/3 pair.
BLACK
Champion
-See Display in Window.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Catalogues Posted Free on request.
it
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
S^w^SwrtJTwShtabSKbJ 0 "?!!
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART-Strlotiy ONE MAN took ofil£^ BC EET
SOLE AGENTS:
-W. & J, LEMPRIERE. 606 V™ £?£l" s s T -iJ“ ,ELBOU “«
: 9 Ana at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
NO CERTAINTY
WITHOUT
RlSKS”=Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. 8100 1-BLADE
•• PAMPA."
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Handle - 1:6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
ķ
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PA MPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difflcnltyin expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by dU Chemist,. “
iuiuciy
IGAB- ,
WOLFE’.
The FAMILY
STIMULANT
Should Be In Every Home
SCHNAPPS
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Pomp Guaranteed.
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
_ c i
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE StOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
PARKE & LACY CO*, Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Selling Agents: BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
MARSHALL’S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & @O. >«
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK-
SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Qredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron —Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
ĸk
ķ
ķ
ĸ
ALL SIZES.
Substantially Built of Best
Material and Workmanship.
--
Also WINZE AIR HOISTS.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
