

DEWAR’S ™e -W"K:
b. a. Watkins sc> co,,
107 Kent street, Sy<3.:n.e3?%
■ U;. ■■: —for—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
POOLEY’S PLATFORM WEIGHING MACHINE
HOBART.
*-
Hadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
r%
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
POOLEY’S WEIGHING MACHINES
Are made in types to suit Every Class of Material to be Weighed.
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
I
ft
Take it back,
I must have
Pineapple Brand
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW BOOR LATCH
: : ■■■■=,;■■■ V :.v >■ • ■ - - V ; .."
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
THE ROYAL.
E DISWAN LAMP.
'W-.
EDIS
AH
.
&5«
m
Economy in Corrknt.
Equality of Light.
THE
eh & mi
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdfc:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
'<t tL
u
sd
:•?' r
RI,
Send
En
Your
STEAM,
t and ORDERS
OR
■
»
at—
SSLVERTOWN,
lli .. _
t
•M’S’N ‘AaupAs ‘»aa.<*S <
iHi
■oo 3333niJ NMOJLH3AIIS
111
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
f
sdf
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANT
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITiON.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMIGA
RELIABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
J
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ANNUAL SALE
OF ......
Crockery, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
&.C., is now in Full Swing.
Including: Several Bankrupt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
Harris on his recent World’s Tour for Bargains.
I
i
1
(Wholesale and Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Watch Melbourne Daily Papers for Detailed Prices at this
Sale, which will astound the Public and the Trade.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
mm m NoanaH
HELIDON SPA WATER is a Natural Mineral )
Water, springing from unknown depths . J
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1450.]
[Thursday, November 28, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS.
George
& Go. Prop,
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Henry Irving, by Bramstoker, new ed., 7s, post Bd.
Sarah Bernhardt, My Double Life, illus., 18s, post 9d.
Dueffer, An English Girl, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hewlett, The Stooping Lady, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Crawford, Arethusa, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Sir Rowland Hill, A Biography, 6s, post 6d.
Woodward, Peter Pan Picture Book, col. illus., 6fl, p. Bd.
Poppletvell, Strength of Material, 6s, post 6d.
Henderson, Sir Janies Grey, 15s, postage 9d.
Stewart White, Arizona Nights, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Sheehan, Rev. P. A., Lisheen, 2s 6d <& 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hope, God in the Car, “ Nelson’s Library,” 9d, post 3d.
Garviee, Gold in the Gutter, 3s 6d, postage (id.
Robson, Cancer of the Stomac-h, ss, post fld.
£eda, Telephones and Lightning Conductors, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Treffry, The Stokes Enclyclop*|ia, 4s, postage Bd.
Kipling, Brushwood Boy, cloth gilt, 6s, post 6d.
Robinson, The Garden Beautiful, illus., 9s, post 9d.
Hepworth, Maritime Meteorology, 3s, post 4d.
Walter Crane, Artists’ Ren. niscences, illus., 16s, poet Is.
“ rjr* HE NATIVE COMPANION.”
1 An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E.S J. Brady.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. 0. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
\y<^
ft.WUDSO/V.
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic .
Suitable for old and young*
The Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affectioiiS'pf the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharjng’fKjs
and similar ailments.” t<
Post Free on receipt of stamps from tiie
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Quet
• Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Kegent Street, London.
land.
[3.
The RED PAGE
THE SHAW PRIMER
are two Bernard Shaws—and
only one of them spells his name
Pshaw. It is Shaw, whose whole
literary life has been a continuous ex-
plaining of himself, that Holbrook Jack-
son has now set himself to explain. And
though, for those who read Shaw, and not
merely the press paragraphs about him, it is
preferable to allow G.B.S. to explain him-
self, for the readers of paragraphs about
Pshaw, Holbrook Jackson’s book, Bernard
Shaw (Grant Richards), serves a useful pur-
pose. At the outset, Jackson puts the main
question explicitly :
Among the many problems raised by Bernard
Shaw there is one that has gradually been forced
upon us by the perpetual falling to pieces of
critics of all orders at the instigation of each new
preface from his pen. Is the press and public
hopelessly stupid, or is Shaw explaining himself
into obscurity ?
This exposition of an interesting problem
is expressly designed for the type of mind that
still persists in believing Shaw a mere
humorist, a trivial and entertaining dialecti-
tion, a rabid Socialist, or even a naif; it is
for those who are not dull, who really belong
to the modern movement, but are “ kept on
the wrong side of the Bernard Shaw depart-
ment because of ‘ G.B.S.’ ” Making the
high claim —not without justification—that
Shaw’s work “stands in the same relation to
our day as the work of Swift did to his day,
or Carlyle’s to his,” Holbrook Jackson asks :
Is Shaw serious, is he sincere ? Such questions
are naturally raised by the spectacle of a mind
that can play with ideas. The English mind
finds thinking so very laborious that it naturally
associates easy thinking with superficial thinking.
To be able to think, and at the same time to be
witty—that is almost a contradiction in terms for
many men.
And certainly, in his treatment of Shaw as
man, Fabian, playwright, and philosopher,
Holbrook Jackson proves his contention
that Shaw is essentially serious and sincere.
The trouble is that to his sincerity has been
added a freakishly witty brain. He is a
laughing philosopher, but his philosophy is
behind every laugh.
The biographer has rendered valuable
Service in the details he gives us of Shaw’s
early life. Bernard Shaw was bom in Dublin
in 1856, of a middle-class family. From his
mother, a remarkable woman, independent,
devoted to music, self-centred, humane, in-
different to public opinion, Shaw took his
most definite characteristics. After her hus-
band’s death she came to London and earned
her own and her son’s living as a teacher of
singing. And Shaw, in the preface to The
Irrational Knot, does not seruple to acknow-
ledge his debt to her. “I did not throw
myself into the struggle for life ; I threw my
mother into it. I was not a staff to my
father’s old age ; I hung on to his coat-tails.”
Shaw will not allow any romanticist to pass
him off as a peasant boy qualifying for a
chapter in Smiles’ Self-Help, or a good son
supporting his helpless mother, instead of,
as he terms himself, “ a stupendously selfish
artist leaning with the full weight of his
hungry body on an energetic and capable
woman.”
It is interesting to note that Shaw was
sent as a boy to a Wesleyan school. How-
ever, he admits that he learnt nothing there,
or in any other school. Also he was, on
leaving school, employed in an Irish land
agency, and remained there for five years,
being swiftly promoted to a position of trust
and responsibility. Then he “ simply
jumped overboard ” by resigning his position
and coming to London to be supported by
his mother. There for nine years he
attempted to earn a livelihood with his pen,
Not an editor or a publisher would touch his
work, though he admits that during those lean
years he had ‘‘ three successes. ” He got five
pounds for writing a patent-medicine adver-
tising article, fifteen shillings for another
article, and five shillings for some verses.
But in that unpromising “ nonage ” he wrote
five novels, only one of which at that time
found a publisher. Cashel Byron’s Pro-
fession was well reviewed, but did not sell.
Then he got appointed to the reviewing
staff of a London weekly, and thereafter
was able to support himself by journalism.
Shaw had never any inclination to write, and
as a speaker he was, at first, a wretched
failure. Followed his connection with the
Fabian Society, and his recognition as an
able pamphleteer, an incisive and original
musical and dramatic critic. And at last,
tiring of telling dramatists how to write
plays, he set to work to do the thing himself.
That is Shaw’s story of his early years ; and,
in judging the man, we must take into
account those nine long years of failure, and
also remember that during that period he,
with the selfishness of the artist, was cheer-
fully content to allow his energetic mother
to support him.
In his treatment of Shaw as a playwright
his biographer does not humbly worship.
He rightly points out that Shaw is an artist
without being artistic—that he would drop
art without the least compunction if it did
not aid him in his preaching. Summing
Holbrook Jackson’s views, we arrive at this
interpretation :
In Shaw’s plays we have personal volition made
the hero of a drama that is conscious of the
critical values of its Own action. His characters
live in an atmosphere which is constantly, though
not always directly, expository. Shaw’s drama is
the only consistently religious drama of the day—
it is as relentless in its pursuit of an exalted idea
as were the ancient Moralities and Mysteries.
Shaw has the gift of expression by art : but he has
not the gift of concealing himself in his art,
although he manages to conceal his seriousness
from the superficial observer. Shaw’s mind is as
relentless as Euclid. His inner vision, however,
is quick to see the humor of this process, and as
the logical mind ploughs through conventions and
traditions, it is quick to seize and assert itself. So
are born the anti-climax and paradox which set
the world laughing and the wise thinking as well.
The relationship of Shaw’s plays to society is
that of diagnosis. They are a critical and
dramatic statement of social disease, and his
diagnosis has been gradually freeing itself from
the somewhat crude expression of the views of a
social physician in the early plays, whose em-
phatic sociology was almost too much for the
dramatic idea. But in his latest phase, bare
sociology is relegated to the preface or appendix,
where it takes the form of commentation upon the
philosophic contest which now holds the stage.
At the same time, his plays have always Jpeen of
the one category. They have always enunciated
one set purpose, and what change can be noted is
one of point of view rather than of idea ; it. is the
rapid evolution of a mind from an economic to a
philosophic interpretation of life. He has added
nothing to stage-craft, nor to the art of play-
writing, save a definite and original point of view,
and the faculty of instilling a new zeal into actors.
In structure, the plays differ very little from the
ordinary play. His long experience as a dramatic
critic has given him a knowledge of all the
tricks of the trade, and these he uses
with the greatest freedom. What he has
severely avoided is the sentimental glamor into
which the popular dramatist plunges every action,
and what he has aimed at doing for the English
stage is what Ibsen, Strindberg, Brieux and
others have done for the European stage—that is,
to inaugurate a problem drama of modern ideas ;
to exhibit dramatically the vital part of human
beings struggling against things and conditions,
and conceived without any superstitious deference
to tradition. But the most aggressive difference
between the Shaw play and that of_ other play-
wrights is what appears to be fiis inhuman in-
difference to all these sentiments about sex and
dignity, which society has grown to look upon as
sacred.
His plays stand to drama in much the same way
as Whitman’s Leaves of Grass stand to poetry.
Shaw and Whitman possess both drama and
poetry equal in the recognised way to the best
work of the accepted masters. But Shaw’s plays
and Whitman’s ppenis are alike tentative; they
are suggestions and indications of the work of
poet and playwright to come. Shaw has demon-
strated that interesting stage plays can be made
in which the love interest is a phase among other
important and interesting phases of the drama of
life. And in one play particularly, and in others
incidentally, he has shown that there can be
dramatic force, interest, and truth in a situation
in which the unromantic conception of masculine
subjection to feminine passion and privilege is
made a central theme.
Women appear in his plays in an entirely new
light. They no longer submit prettily to man’s
fabled dominance, but man finally succumbs to
theirs. Lovableness and womanliness are no
longer romantic charms to be eagerly sought and
cherished by infatuated males; they charm oer-
tainly, but by the same means that predatory
animals attract their quarry. They are the pro-
tective colorings of nature’s creative needs, civi-
lised and moralised, so that he who comes within
their power can no longer call himself his own.
Man and Superman is a modern version of the fall
of man. He eats again of the tree of knowledge
of good and evil, but this time he is aware of his
act and hi 3 weakness. Therefore he struggles
desperately for freedom, honor, self—all to no
avail. He is captured by the Life-Force in the
guise of a woman.
And, like all other unpleasant literary
woman, this particular bit of Life-Force is
named Ann.
Even the celebrated Shavian philosophy
has no terrors for this intrepid elucidator.
But, on the whole, Holbrook Jackson’s in-
terpretation of the Shavian gospel is the
next best thing to Shaw’s own interpreta-
tion. Shaw conceives the pageant of life as
an evolution whose final consummation is
not man, but whose progress is toward a
fuller and deeper realisation of its own pur-
pose and aim. In agreement with Maeter-
linck, Shaw sees the universe as nothing less
than a series of magnificent experiments
made by the Life-Force, with the object of
creating for itself an all-powerful, all-intelli-
gent medium for its own expression. And
man is no more final in this series of experi-
ments than the starfish or the ape was final.
But if man remains contented with the
present stage of his development, and the
results of that contentment—poverty,
disease,' and ugliness—that indifference
will “ reduce him to an ineffectual
organism which ultimately must be
scrapped by Nature, or the Life-Force,
as the outworn medium of a worthless ex-
periment.” Shaw, like many a modern
scientist, does not believe that the purpose
of the world is to serve and perfect man.
Man is but a high instrument for the realis-
ing of the trend of the Life-Force.
Man is not an end in himself. The Life-Force
is not spending itself in perfecting so limited an
instrument for its purpose. Man, in the natural
course of events, must be surpassed. He is as
much a creature of transition as any species in the
order of the universe.
So make Way for the Superman ! Shaw’s
Superman is merely his conception of the
procession of the species at the next rung up
the ladder—when the Life-Force shall have
found an efficient instrument for carrying
out its purpose, a being who instead of being
blindly and imperfectly subject to the Life-
Force will be able consciously to co-operate
with it.
For an introduction to the study of a re-
markable modern force, an artist who, like
H. G. Wells, is singularly free from the
cramping heritage of tradition, who sees life
with his brain, and who has a deep purpose
behind his apparent irresponsibility, this
primer is timely and useful.
VERSES BY R. IF. SERVICE.
THE LAW OF THE YUKON.
...But the others —the misfits, the failures —I
trample under my feet.
Dissolute, damned and despairful, crippled and
palsied and slain,
Ye would send me the spawn of your gutters—
Go ! take back your spawn again.
Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is
my sway;
From my ruthless throne I have ruled alone for a
million years and a day ;
Hugging my mighty treasure, waiting for man to
come:
Till he swept like a turbid torrent, and after him
swept—the scum.
The pallid pimp of the dead-line, the enervate of
the pen,
One by one I weeded them out, for all that I
sought was—Men.
One by” one I dismayed them, frighting them
sore with my glooms ;
One by one I betrayed them unto my manifold
dooms ;
Drowned them like rats in my rivers, starved
them like curs on my plains,
Rotted the flesh that was left them, poisoned the
blood in their veins ;
Burst with my water upon them, searing forever
their sight,
Lashed them with fungus-white faces’, whimper-
ing wild in the night,
Staggering blind through the storm-whirl, stum-
bling mad through the snow,
Frozen stiff in the ice pack, brittle and bent like a
bow;
Featureless, formless, forsaken, scented by wolves
in their flight,
Left for the wind to make music through ribs that
> are glittering white.
Gnawing the black crust of failure, searching the
pit of despair,
Crooking the toe in the trigger, trying to patter a
prayer;
Going outside with an, escort, raving with lips
all afoam;
Writing a, cheque for a million,'drivelling feebly
of home;
Lost like a louse in the burning ... or else in the
tented town.
Seeking a drunkard’s solace, sinking and sinking
down;
Steeped in the slime at the bottom, dead to a
decent world,
Lost ’mid the human notsam, far on the frontier
hurled ;
In the camp at the bend of the river, with its
dozen saloons aglare.
Its gambling dens a-riot, its gramophones all
ablare;
Crimped with the crimes of a city, sin-ridden and
bridled with lies,
In the hush of my mountained vastness, in the
flush of my midnight skies.
Plague-spots, yet tools of my purpose, so nathe-
less I suffer them thrive.
Crushing my Weak in their clutches, that only
my Strong may survive.
MY MADONNA.
I haled me a woman from the street,
Shameless, but, oh, so fair 1
I bade her sit in the model’s seat,
And I painted her sitting there.
I hid all trace of her heart unclean ;
I painted,,a babe at her breast;
I painted her as she might have been,
If the Worst had been the best.
She laughed at my picture, and went away.
Then came, with a knowing nod,
A connoisseur, and I heard him say :
“ ’Tis Mary, the Mother of God.”
So I painted a halo round her hair,
And I sold her, and took my fee.
And she hangs in the church of Saint Hillaire,
Where you and all may see.
A CANADIAN BARD
Shackled by the allegation that he is “A
Canadian Kipling,” Robert W. Service manages
to escape his gyves. The author of Songs of a
Sourdough (W. Briggs, Toronto, per Dymock’s)
has enough merit to require no superfluous label;
he is a poet of a sturdy and national type—a Cana-
dian brother of Henry Lawson. He writes, in
vigorous and vivid English, of life in the Yukon,
of the “ The Lone Trail,” of the tragi-comedy of
the miners’ camp. He has the gift of picturesque
phrase, and a grim, curt humor, but his Pathosis
frequently obvious and crude.
the ancient theme of the failures, “The Men that
Don’t Fit In,” as in these opening stanzas upon
“ The Low-Down White ” :
This is the pay-day up at the mines, when the
bearded brutes come down ; ...
There’s money to bum in the streets to-night, so
I’ve sent my klooeh to town, . j
With a haggard face and a ribband of red entwined
in her hair of brown.
And I know at the dawn she’ll come reeling
home with the bottles, one, two, three ;
One for herself to drown her shame, and two Dig
bottles for me, T
To make her forget the thing I am and the man I
used to be.- .
But the chief value of Robert W. Service is his
Canadianism. Each of the great sections ot
the Empire is building up a national literature,
and no production of the one Dominion could be
mistaken for that of the other Dominion or of tne
Commonwealth. In a hundred years from now
this national differentiation will have probably
gone so far that there will be five great inter-
dependent divisions of English literature, yet each
possessing independent national idiosyncrasies ana
predilections. Robert W. Service fills his niche
in Canadian literature. His type could never be
found in England.
It’s all decreed : the mighty earthquake crash ;
The countless constellations’ wheel and flash ;
The rise of empires, war’s red tide,
The composition of your dinner hash.
There’s no haphazard in this world of ours.
Cause and effect are grim, relentless powers.
They rule the world. (Aking was shot last night.
Last night I held the joker and both bowers.)
READABLE
Poorly printed on shiny paper and vilely
illustrated, Catherine Horton, by W. Sabelberg
(A. O. Peterson, Melb.) manages to survive as a
readable Australian yarn. Sabelberg has no
conception of style, his method is a business-like
narration of facts, his plot is forcibly pulled
together by the long, hairy arm of coincidence,
and he is superfluously tragic; yet the story is
interesting, an unpretentious and faithful tran-
script of Australian life. Kate and Nell may be
mentioned as samples of Sabelberg’s frank con-
ception of girlhood. Kate decides that Kell
should get married, and suggests as husband the
new bank clerk; but, of course, as she admits,
“ That depends upon whether he has the cash.
“ What if he should want Mary Warren ? ”
“ She isn’t as pretty as you.”
“Perhaps she’s a better girl, though.’
“ All the better chance for you.” .. .
“ But you’re kindly passing all the, risk on to
me.'’
“ I didn’t see it that way ; but if he’s rich, and
hammers you, you can leave him, and compel him
to support you. Then you’d be free, and what a
grand time we’d have, Nell! ’’
However, in explanation of Kate’s cynicism,
we may mention that the sisters’ upbringing had
been curious. “Left to the society of grooms,
and their own imaginations,. Kate was found, at
the age of seventeen, rapturously kissing the
stable-boy. He was instantly dismissed.’’ Kate
also enlightens her brother as to the real
use of dances. “ Girls love dances ; they pay as
matrimonial speculations.” The hero, Jim, is as
blatantly stupid as most heroes, and Sabelberg
provides a splendid crop of tragic events.
“Harry dead, Kate with a dishonored name, Nell
without a friend, his wife in a lunatic asylum—
his wealth was dross.” Really, the most miser-
able reader could not want more. Yet Sabelberg’s
descriptions of Australian life are accurate, and
but for its needless woe and its annoying coinci-
dences, it might have been a work of merit. As
it is—F3.
“ :
A woman writer in a Chicago magazine alleges
that Whitman was influenced by Persian litera-
ture —though not by Omar. “ Whitman was a
devotee, a democratic dervish.” Outside the
works of Whitman, she says, the contemplative
identification of self with the All that surrounds
apd penetrates the self is almost unknown in the
Occident. She calls attention to Whitman’s
rhapsody, his passiveness of soul, his great
calm, his frankness in his reference to
sex, his frequent naming of himself in
his poems, his long lists of things, his irre-
velent introduction of stories (“Would you
hear of an old-time sea-fight?”) as striking evi-
dences of his kinship with Hafiz, Nizami, and
Jami. And Whitman is known"to have been a
deep student of the Bhagavad-G\ta. In that
poem, for instance, Krishna says : “In whatever
way men approach pie, in that way do I assist
them ; and whatever the path taken by mankind,
that path is mine.”
The cheering information comes from Professor
Herzberg, of Berlin, that in two centuries every
book now in existence will be obliterated. He
was a benefactor to mankind who made universal
the use of paper manufactured from wood-pulp.
Newspaper files will, of course, be useless long
before the two centuries are up. Wood-pulp is
the prime benefactor of literature.
The latest R.P.A. sixpenny issues are Asiatic
Studies, Religious and Social, by Alfred C. Lyall.
The Bible in School, by J. A. Picton, and Volume
11. of Haeckel’s Evolution of Man, a book of over
three hundred pages, with no less than two hun-
dred illustrations. This last is surely a miracle of
cheapness.
Dr. Mark Twain is going to act as pilot for a
person named Roosevelt upon a trip up the
Mississippi. Mark must have forgotten a lot
about the Mississippi since he learnt his trade.
But Roosevelt is always taking risks.


JL
THE ...
LATEST
“T P % H p
%
i
No. 103
m
m
*
No. 454.
No. 103.—Japanese Silk Blouse, with de-
tachable collar or without Collar, Ivorv,
Black, Navy; sizes, S.W., W., & 0.5., 15/6.
No. 454.—1v0ry Japanese Silk Blouse, with
Double Silk Yoke, long sleeves, open in
front; sizes, S.YV., W., & 0.5., 16/6.
Perfectly-Fitting Walking Skirts*
No. 744. —New Pleated Walking Skirt,
Black and Navy Plain Sicilian, 27/6.
Black and Navy Panama, 25/6. Length,
38in. to 44in. Waist, 23in. to 27in.
No. 1000/2. —13-Gore Walking: Skirt,
trimmed Self Straps and Buttons, Black and
Navy Plain Sicilian, 23/6. Black and
Navy Panama, 22/6. Length, 38in. to 44in.
Waist, 23in. to 27in.
No. 1005.—Black and Navy Fine Summer
Cloth Walking Skirt, 13-Gore, Lapped
Seams, and Box Pleat at Back, 2 3/6.
Length, 38in to 44in. Waist, 23in. to 27in.
No. 602. —Walking Skirt, with Pleated
Panels, Black and Navy Stripe Sicilian,
29/6. Black and Navy Plain Sicilian,
25/6. Black and Navy Panama Cloth,
24/6.
No. 1000/1. —Smart Walking Skirt, with
Self Bands of Material and Buttons, Black
Striped Sicilian, 35/-. Black and Navy
Plain Sicilian, 22/6. Length, 38in. to 44in.
Waist, 23in. to 27in.
No. 651.—New Box-pleated Walking
Skirt, Black Stripe Sicilian. 39/6. Navy
and Black Plain Sicilian 34/6. Length,
38in. to 44in. Waist, 23in. to 27in.
No. 605. —9-Gore Walking Skirt, Black
Coating Serge, 17/6. Black and Navy
Sicilian. 18/9. Length, 38in. to 45in.
Waist, 23iu. to 32in.
Mac/e ta Order, 2/~ and 2/6 extra.
Illustrations of SMART BLOUSES shown in the Green
Room at THE NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, the Home of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Our business as Only Universal Providers to the people
of Australia enables us to offer a greater assortment
than any other house, and our system of spot cash
trading ensures TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE.
No. 466.—Cream Silk Mercerised Blouse,
trimmed Ecru Lace and Insertion, 23/9.
No. 467. —(Jream Louisienne Silk Blouse,
trimmed Paris Lace, Piped, Sky
Silk, 32/6.
mm
I'm
Hi
■
-SB
No. 480.—Black Chiffon Taffeta Silk Kimono Waist,
trimmed Black Ribbon Velvet, to be worn with
any Blouse, 19/6.
If you are interested in the problem of securing; the most for your money and getting; smart and
fashionable dresswear at a minimum cost, it will pay you to send for our Illustrated Summer
Fashion Portfolio ; we post it free on application.
[ J(eady Jfade
• 'Jf'alkinc
. <Skirl S
.
Anthony
Horderns'
■
/005
744
c 'Perfect
mq
602
651
c famous
JLo w
<!Pr ices
605
1
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS,
Only* Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


sd
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
S YDNE TST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, raid MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPEftTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.Wi for tlxe McNally Steel Patent “G-RIP DROPPER.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
fsd
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine. edition,
is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventkii.oguism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court ok London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, is. 3d. Tiie
Wife, The Husband, and The Lovf.r,
is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron ok
Boccaccio. 2/6. Hkrtamkron, 2/6. Bride ok the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits ok Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; ported Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. (id. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
this Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts. 2s each. Zinoara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl jSvtth Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote's Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Gd posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. : post is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
is.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring' Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne" Barmaid, Is.
Gay Like in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is, Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above nicture. and return to us with your name and address, we will
irive a ifeiiuirie FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous oder is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distrioute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and lin addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, «c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you tne
m
Fountain l’en and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? Ihis
preat offer is only open for a limited time, . . _. „ ,
g Write at once. V THE QHTTA PERCHA TRADING CO., 120 Ash St., Sydney.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
SALT
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact. Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
Capsule marked ENO’B * FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hmvo 9
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparad only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT' WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. iic.. everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne Bed oriv of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
/
We receive hundreds
of testimonials
daily.
We send your pre-
sentby return post
We have no furth-
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
1,:.. ity to sell
your present
if you wish.
f
SSTREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2S.
r IV© MOJVEY REQUIRED WHATEVER —Simply
send us apost card with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the ]
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for i
same, and we will at once send Free of all further 1
charges either of above valuable presents.
for selling 12 articles of
jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our “ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
Rwan for selling
1 * only 6 ar-
ticles. We will
send solid gold Pin
or Ring, or lady’s
Solid Gold Pend-
ant and necklet or
Bangle
sdf
m
Send us your
Maine & Address
Free
for selling '
only 3 articles
we will send you your
choice of any articles pick-
ed from our Catalogue of novel-
ties which we send with the jewellery.
Free £2
The party selling the 12 ar-
ticles in the shortest time is en-
titled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
Address : British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
C-B
CORSETS.
CB
C.B. Tailor=Made Corsets are
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
of the past.
In 50
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Taiicr-Made
Corsets.
Aii c.B. Corsets have rust-proof supports jLJi From 8/11 to 4 Guineas per pair
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here 'S * *YP® **
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are
the old woven corsets. —— r , r . A0 ,,, c oTOR pq
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style , write for book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Go., Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis=
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL: A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
’WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
all dealers sell them
ARTER*
(cSOT[IGTS
no WILE
In web
[FOUL'
sdf
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman
Injure tin complexion, induce I impi ss rLL LIVE E
as? ss ss a sg &&&&*•*£
ays. rS “ wOOd " M
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ara cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter's Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature oi
sdf


m
m
"t
j/
m
1
w
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a wo-
man. If your
hair falls out, is
too thin, or is los-
ing its color, use
ifyere
flair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff,
and will give you thick, long,
glossy, and beautiful hair.
Accept no substitute. Co
sure you get Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and preserve the rich-
ness and luxuriance of your
hair to an advanced period
of life.
Prepared by Dr. i. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
ds
OSTRICH
PLUMES
From Africa.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped
with WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
7/6
Post
Free.
The Best Feathers for the price in Aus-
tralia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
INFLUENZA
SCOTT’S EMULSION
The Evidence
from Amphitheatre, Victoria,
July27th, 1906. “Ihadavery
distressing attack of influenza
and decided to give Scott’s
Emulsion atrial. After taking
one bottle I noticed a great
improvement, so I got
another bottle, and when I
had finished that I was com-
pletely cured. I found Scott’s
Emulsion very soothing and
easy to take.”
(Mrs.) Josephine Dromey.
°<s^
The Reason Why
This Lady was Cured
Scott’s Emulsion helps grown
men and women just as sure-
ly,justas rapidly and signally
as it helps children, because
Scott’s is nourishment in its
most forceful, digestible,
wholesome form. You see
the point: Scott’s is gentle
enough for the most delicate,
yet it is vigorous enough for
the strongest—the dose is
different, that is all. The
reason is, of course, that
Scott’s is made
of the purest,
fines t, most
virile Lofoten
oil, by the
renowned Scott
processof manu-
facture.
Remember
“ Best is
Cheapest.”
“ The Ashman
with the Ash ”
on every pack-
age assures the
true SCOTT'S.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers
in Medicines.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
Beautiful Home Decorations
fsd
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOIAN” FDOOIt STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOIAJV” ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes. Roilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnisha'ble silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE COLII PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all vp-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTEMSORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
0
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA i
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fs
O. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pci rated
Pens.
Souen
Prize Medals.
a
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention ts also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works :
E'.iu-B'sramrigS'fehKai.fl'sn, K.tngg’lai&'icf*
I It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its /
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how j
splendidly, how easily, and how |
thoroughly it cleans. t
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. \
i Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge
V £ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
W The name
Plasmon^
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient In
proteid, which is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with i
PLASMON
are therefore more '
nourishing than (
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black Sheep.
What has become of the strayed black sheep, the
comrades of our youth ?
They’ve scattered wide ; in truth
They’ve scattered wide and far,
Each to his errant star.
They’ve dropped their friends, and their loves,
and homes—left not a wrack behind ;
They’ve shifted camp, and lifted swag, and drifted
down the wind,
Till God knows where they are.
The old homes know them never again—they’ve
passed out with the years ;
They move in other spheres.
In failure, fame, or fret
Do they at last forget ?
Perchance deep down in their heart of hearts an
old regret survives—
Of homely loves, and the household gods that once
made up their lives,
Some memory lingers yet.
The old loves see them never again—they’ve put
youth’s dreams aside;
They’ve dried their tears ; or died.
Old flames remembered not,
Their very names forgot.
And most of them have their boys and girls, and
some are stout and staid.
And he is but a ghost of the past—a ghost that
has long been laid
In some funereal plot.
The old friends see them never again, yet shall
they not forget;
They’ve a kindly memory yet;
Though dead, or sundered far
Each to his errant star,
There’s a sacred coign in a comrade’s heart for the
reckless scamps and kind
Who have shifted camp, and lifted swag, and
drifted down the wind
Till God knows where they are !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
En Passant.
Oh, he came East, and she came West,
On careless, happy ways,
The night to them brought sleep and rest,
And gladness filled their days ;
They cared not what the future held
Within its purple haze.
Oh, many times arose the sun
And many times it set.
And many times the meadow grass
With midnight dew was wet.
But he came East, and she came West,
And so at last they met.
They met, and sweeter sang the birds,
And bluer grew the skies.
They clasped their hands and gazed awhile
Within each other’s eyes,
And thought: “If this can folly be,
What mortal would be wise ? ”
Oh, who can tell whence came the spell
That o’er their lives was cast ?
And what a world this world would be
If such a spell could last!
But Time moved on remorselessly—
Their golden hour was past.
Oh, sorrowful and lonely is
The heart within each bqgast;
The days have lost their sunshine, and
The nights have lost their rest,
For he is facing Eastward, and
Her weary feet go West.
N.S.W.
E. F. CHRISTIE.
Ballade of Birth.
Out of Eternity’s mothering arms,
Safe to the hearts of the Seraphim prest,
By a God’s favor, and fair with his charms,
Through the lit darkness he cometh, the Guest.
Voyageur, here is the end of thy quest;
Let my lips silence those querulous cries.
Come to my joy as a dove to the nest—
Love-bringer out of the wonderful skies.
Swift at the thrill of those tremulous palms,
Fluttering blindly to peace on my breast,
All the grey vision of sorrow disarms :
Sweet one, I have thee, and so am I blest,
For the long waiting and watching distressed,
Fainting at fear in the light of mine eyes,
Lo, they have borne you at Heaven’s behest—
Love-bringer out of the wonderful skies.
Nestle, heartsease, to love’s infinite calms,
In mine arms folded, and subtly caressed :
So I shall hide thee, and kiss the alarms,
When at the window night peeps purple-
tressed.
Dreams cannot harm thee, or shadows molest,
Thus while your cheek on my happy heart lies.
Stay with me, pray with me, taking thy rest—
Love-bringer out of the wonderful skies.
i/envoi.
Life, when the Trumpeter calls in the west,
And the grey Victor stoops down for his prize,
Guard him for ever the latest, the best
Love-bringer out of the wonderful skies.
m.l,
C. ALLAN MARRIS.


• durable®
Fire-proof * Inexpensive
r
./V
A
■X /\; r
V>, v s^
fX>
,/s
’ “» ‘ . [ '. -a Vi Wv, <■ - " ■W5’
SH
J=2
V
WUNDERLICH
ait metal
Ceilings friezes,
CORNICES. |
Wall Linings &
*
df
I
Uvi
Or
&
o
c
v
a
V
fore
CADBURY’S COCOA
is the idea.l beverage because it is rich
in strength - imparting
promotes physical
essentials and there-
endurance and ha.rdihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
r
Tobacco
Man u facto red in
Richmond Virginia.
by Larus&BrotherC' 0
Packed by RTowrss* Co.Agents.Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of floz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
sdf
English
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889.'
London 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892-
fl Certificate c/vea
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
ROTHE ?HAMS
LON DON
!==!s
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky
«
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
x
y
z
z
/
TEN YEARS PUBLIC USE HAS PROVED THAT
0 AIN’S
hfao office-Mutual Lift Building,martin Place. Sydney.
EXTERMIH*?. o *,
SH EVER FAILS.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereag-h Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-a® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 21.38.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
>
Li!
«
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay•
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
I
*
j
rs mmmz
m
’ ' 5 " .;• »
mMBWMMmmi
.
' {
i
.. . •• ....
- ’ —
¥
B
1
' ’
;• .... . ■• :v- .- «,
Lev and Brisbane
-
B RICH m CO Lrd
«3 . ■ ■ ■


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1450.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1907.
Price 6d
THE COAL STRIKE SETTLED
Design for great allegorical picture (never to be completed) showing the Dove of Peace bringing again a fail coal-scuttle to happy Australia.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 Georye-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l Q (j
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly" ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct, to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tine Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hob to A it dress Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some, care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should, in no case he addressed, to the Editor,
but to the Manauer. To send them to the Editor is to
'invite inattention.
It. is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing' to persons instead of
officials. The person may not. be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the. pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The. Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not, exceeding
tin columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it. will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilacle and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any'Picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 11;~> High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Honglvong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x lfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole A dvertising A gent in New Zealand :
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1907.
THE CROWN USURPATION IN
QUEENSLAND.
During the current political crisis in Queensland
parties have played the game “ all in,” to borrow
a phrase from the card table, and there has been
no pretence of knightly courtesy on one side or
the other. Each party is openly eager for
office, Mr. Kidston to hold it, Mr. Philp
to grasp it—so eager as to forbid any of
that polite fudge usual to crises: one side declar-
ing its reluctance to take up heavy responsi-
bilities ; the other side posing as Cincinnatus
speeding to yoke up the plough oxen after
thankfully laying down the burden of office.
In truth, that sort of fudge is some-
what nauseous, and there is nothing blarn-
able in a party leader stating what he really feels,
and making no hypocritical pretence of reluctance
for place. Mr. Kidston’s eagerness to hold on
to what is a good thing in his opinion, is, on the
whole, more admirable than the pose of the late
Mr. Parkes, “I don’t want office.” If a man
stands for Parliament it should be with the object
of getting in: and having got in, if he
becomes the leader of a party, it should be
with the definite object of getting office.
Otherwise, what logical reason has he for
being a leader ? The intense seriousness which
makes Mr. Kidston and Mr. Philp so eager is in
itself rather a good thing than otherwise. Aus-
tralia generally needs to take its politics more
seriously.
* * * *
But all considerations of political etiquette are
thrust into the background by the great consti-
tutional issue which has risen in the State. The
position a month ago was that Mr. Kidston, sup-
ported-by a good working majority in the repre-
sentative chamber, found his measures blocked
by the nominee Legislative Council. He seems
to have at first thought of an appeal to the
electors, presumably for a warrant to mend or end
the Upper House ; but his Labor supporters in
the Assembly did not favor that course,
and he decided to grapple with the position in a
more direct fashion. He advised the Governor
to appoint certain extra nominees to the Upper
House, with the idea palpably of forcing his
measures through the Upper Chamber, and per-
haps also of carrying through a measure of
reform of that body. The Governor refused
to accept that advice. It is difficult to
find a justification for the refusal. The particular
point has been raised liefore (in regard to the
Maoriland Government), and the determination
arrived at by the Colonial Office was that under
such circumstances a Governor should accept the
advice of his responsible Ministers. However,
Lord Chelmsford refused, and Mr. Kidston took
the only possible course then open to him. He re-
signed, and whether on his advice or on his own
volition, the Governor sent for Mr. Philp. So
far the Governor had not gone irremediably
wrong. He might plead special circumstances
in refusing Mr. Kidston’s advice in regard to the
Upper House, his knowledge that the direct
Government following in the House was only a
minority, and that the new nominees, therefore,
might not represent a majority of the popular
House. The plea would not be adequate, since
it was clear that on the particular point
at issue Mr. Kidston had with him a
majority of the House, and it was the Governor’s
duty to give effect to the wishes of that majority
without entering into any abstruse speculations
as to the bearings of the three-party position in
Parliament on the situation. But the Governor
seems to have acted throughout with a prejudice
against Mr. Kidston (who is not personally an
amiable man) and a leaning towards Mr. Philp
(who is said to try to atone for his political
ineptitude by being a “very good sort”).
That prejudice was subsequently to deepen
until the Governor lapsed into the position
of a flagrant political partisan, usurping powers
he had no claim to, and neglecting duties which
were obvious.
* * * *
Mr. Philp met Parliament, and asked for an
adjournment to enable him to form a Ministry.
The House recognised that it was hopeless
for him to continue in office, and refused
him the adjournment. Mr. Kidston took
charge again at once, and adjourned the
House for a day. Mr. Philp had thus got his
dismissal. But he refused to resign. He had
been kicked ignominiously. But he professed to
think that it was only a way the House had of
dissembling its love. Once let him get a
Ministry formed, and he would be sure of a
successful term of office. Now it was here
Lord Chelmsford’s plain duty to act on the
vote of the House and to dismiss Mr. Philp, since
Mr. Philp had not the grace to resign. If then,
in sending for Mr. Kidston, he had enforced a
dissolution he would possibly have been within his
rights. But the Governor took the extraordinary
course of asking Mr. Kidston to secure an ad-
journment for Mr. Philp, and to this step
Mr. Kidston, curiously enough, agreed. So
Mr. Philp got a chance to see what back-
stairs manoeuvring could do to give him
a chance of office, though he was under
dismissal by the House ! Not for very many
years, under any British constitutional system,
has a monarch dared to keep responsible Minis-
ters in office after a vote of Parliament has de-
clared no-confidence in them. If a monarch or
his representative has that right, and the courage
to exercise it, it is farewell to Parliamentary
government; and then begins again an era of
King-rule.
* * * *
But that was not the last stage of the assump-
tion by the Queensland Governor of despotic
power. Mr. Philp, having been secured by the
friendly offices of Lord Chelmsford a week or so
of power, in spite of the express vote-of Parlia-
ment, formed a Cabinet, and again met the
representatives of the people. Again he was
met by a prompt vote of dismissal. The
House was determined to have nothing to
do with him. Again Mr. Philp refused to
resign, and again the Governor, who was now
quite used to ruling without a Parliament, refused
to dismiss him, and the next step in this ex-
traordinary affair was that a dissolution of Parlia-
ment was decreed on the advice of Mr. Philp !
The Assembly was prompt to protest by a
memorial to the Governor ; but a taste of arbitrary
power seemed to have whetted that gentleman’s
appetite for despotism, and he ignored the real
substance of the protest—that he was keeping in
government a Ministry which had not the confi-
dence of the people’s representatives—and, pre-
sumably in words supplied to him by Mr. Philp,
made shuffling evasions about the question of
Upper House appointments, which had long
ceased to be the issue. The position now stands
that Lord Chelmsford keeps a Government in
power which has been defeated half-a-dozen times
in Parliament; that lie enforces a dissolution on
the Assembly because it will not accept his
favorite; and that, refused Supply by Parliament,
he is carrying on the Government in defiance of
all constituted authority.
Parliament should stop at no step to vindicate
its rights. A far more important matter is at
stake than any question of party politics. The
very foundation of our system of free government
is attacked. Lord Chelmsford has treated the
Queensland Parliament as the Czar of Russia
would not dare to treat his Douma. If it is allow-
able that, taking advantage of a political crisis, a
Governor may send for somebody who happens
to represent his views, give him office in
spite of Parliament, keep him in office in spite of
Parliament, and then inflict on Parliament a
penal dissolution as a punishment for not accept-
ing his favorite, then we are, at a bound, back into
days of the Tudor tyranny inEngland. Throughout
the crisis Mr. Kidston—except at the one stage
when he yielded to the request of the Governor,
and secured for Mr. Philp the adjournment
which Mr. Philp could not get for himself —has
acted with firmness. He should summon up all
his courage and resolution now to face this posi-
tion, and teach the usurping Governor his true
constitutional position, which is to open bazaars
and agricultural shows amiably, and in all
matters of politics to do as he is told by
the Ministers having the confidence of Parlia-
ment. Not only should the Queensland Assembly
refuse Supply to Lord Chelmsford. It should
also keep in session—in spite of any
essentially illegal dissolution proclamation—
until it has adopted a memorial to the
British Government demanding the dismissal
of Lord Chelmsford. That gentleman, whatever
his virtues, has clearly no knowledge of his duties
as Governor ; and should be given a sharp lesson,
not only for his own sake, but for the guidance of
other Governors. There need be no doubt as to
the prompt endorsement by the people of any
action Mr. Kidston may take to vindicate the right
of self-government. Very long ago Queensland,
in the matter of the proposed appointment of
an undesirable Governor, indicated clearly that it
shared the resolution of the rest of Australia not
to allow the shadow of interference with its self-
governing powers. There is no reason to think
that that resolution has since waned. The Tory
party in Queensland clearly hopes for a good
result out of a general election conducted under
the present faulty Electoral Act, with all its
possibilities of manipulation. But the Tory party
will find that on an issue which asks the Queens-
land people whether they are willing to allow the
Governor to usurp administrative power and
become a real governing factor, no possible degree
of manipulation can secure it a victory.
COAL, AND FOREIGN-TRADE, AND
FOOLISHNESS.
The wheels turn round at Newcastle again, and
once more the place produces coal instead of news-
paper paragraphs, which were all right for firing
the public’s imagination, but were very little good
for raising steam. The strike lasted 10 days, and
the tail-end of the fortnight was filled up with
preparations to re-open the mines. After those 10
days, miners and owners agreed to do what could
have been done, not merely as well, but better,
before ever a pick was thrown down. The
newspapers and some of the politicians had,
however, chloroformed the public, and in
the process had stolen their own brains away;
and it took a violent blow in the region of
the pocket to restore them all to consciousness.
As it happened, the blow came from a district
which can hit the third party—the non-combatant
public—harder than any other in the Common-
wealth. Every miner at Kalgoorlie or Broken
Hill or Charters Towers might strike, and the
public would say it was a deplorable thing, and
pass on about its own business. But when the
principal source of Australia’s coal supply was
stopped up, the public suddenly was roused to the
fact that it shortly wouldn’t have any business to
attend to ; wherefore the Arbitration that it had
been muttering against in its sleep became of a
sudden a most excellent thing, and the S. M.
Herald talked to the hesitating owners in this
tremendous fashion
The public will not bear to be thrust into the agony ot
a great strike on punctilios. Unless the proposals are
accepted Parliament in its present temper will take
strong and instant action.
Having written which, no doubt the Herald sat
back amazed at its own temerity. Still it was a
fact that the audacious Herald wrote. When
the parties to a dispute were actually trampling
on the public’s toes, and promised pretty soon to
be trampling on its neck as well, there was no
doubt about the power of the State to settle the
trouble. It was a very different yarn that they
all told when they previously discussed Arbi-
tration in a theoretical way, and contemp-
tuously brushed it aside as of no use
because awards could not be enforced. When it
comes to the pinch, they find that awards simply
have got to be enforced. It is something for the
public and the papers to have learned that.
* * * *
Premier Wade, of N. S. Wales, mediated in the
trouble, and now stands in the limelight. The
Telegraph, in fact, has lifted him up among the
saints. It is far too much honor. That he did
good work is true enough. But at the most he
only patched a rent which he had himself made.
For nearly three years and a half he has been the
chief representative of legal horsehair in the N. S.
Wales Government; and he is therefore mainly
responsible for permitting the Arbitration Act
to fall into something very like contempt.
He himself did something to destroy its
power and influence; arid he never lifted a
finger to save it. Six years ago Parliament pro-
vided a weapon which had proved effective in
warding off the strike Frankenstein from Maori-
land. Wade spat upon the weapon, and hung it
up to rust, and the monster slunk back
into the State. Yet in the end Wade had to take
down the very weapon he had despised ; and so
far it has been as thoroughly effective as the
framers of the measure undertook that it would
be, with proper administration.
* * *
Yet it is not exactly the same weapon that
St. Wade has now lifted down from the
wall. There is to be a “special tribunal.”
Nominally this is to permit of the ap-
pointment of special representatives of the
parties as members of the Court. Apart from the
fact that the floor of the court, and not the Bench,
is the proper place for advocates, the Arbitration
Act provides for the appointment of assessors to
assist the Court in such very cases as this.
Attorney-General Wade, stipendiary maintainer
of the law of the land, preferred, however, to go
outside the law. And he does it at the peril of
the industrial peace of the country. Exactly the
same sort of “special tribunal” was years ago
constituted to deal writh disputes that might
arise at the Broken Hill mines. That tribunal,
like this one, had a Judge for president.
Like this one, it was, however, a tribunal un-
known to the law. The natural thing happened :
it was maintained just as long as it paid both sides
to maintain it. When one of the parties—the
owners—thought they could get better terms the
other way, they promptly tore up the agreement,
and the special tribunal vanished. The miners
said : “Let us settle our troubles by this tri-
bunal.” The owners replied, “ There is no
tribunal.” So a bitter strike started, and lasted
for nearly five months. That is the gaping hole
in “special tribunals.” They are not there when
they are wanted.
Let there be no mistake about it, that sort of
Court will not do for Newcastle. There is a
widespread feeling of dissatisfaction there. In a
vague way, great numbers of the miners feel that
they ought to be doing better for themselves.
The public pooh-poohs, and says that Peter Bow-
ling does not represent the opinions of the bulk.
Possibly not; yet Peter Bowling gets their
votes, which is the best sign that if they do not
actively approve, they at any rate sympathise,
and are inclined to go Peter Bowling’s way.
On the other side, it is just as certain that some
of the owners doubt whether the real objective of
the miners has been expressed. They in-
sist that, under the surface, the trouble is the
gradual displacement of the slow pick by
the speedy coal-cutting machine. Therefore,
though it may settle some things, at the back of
the minds of both parties there will bubble an
idea that the real things will not reach the Court
at all. These are the volcanic conditions that
make an outbreak at any time highly probable ;
and no special tribunal that can be lightly brushed
aside will prevent trouble. Not only must there
be a Court, but it must be part of the machinery
of a law which declares strikes and lockouts
illegal—which says that such a disaster as that
which threatened Australia last week cannot be
permitted under any circumstances whatever.
And, so that the policemen may not have all the
work to do, that law must be clothed with public
respect, so that it will be obeyed instinctively.
Meantime the miners will no doubt go on dis-
cussing nationalisation. But it seems that they
are in some danger of discussing it from a wrong
point of view. They observe the profits dis-
tributed by coal companies, and they say that the
laborer should have all he produces. Under
a system of collective ownership, thowever, the
profits would merely be diverted from the private
owner to the State. The entire profits would no
more pass to the workman than the profits which
were last year made by the N. S. Wales railways
went to the workmen. The latter gained slightly,
but the public—the users of the railways gamed
more; and so it would be with the collieries.
These things, however, are in the distance.
Much nearer at hand is the development of Aus-
tralia’s industries, so that the Commonwealth
shall be its own coal-consumer. The curse of
Newcastle is its erratic output. If the foreign
trade is brisk, the Newcastle miner gats 11 days
work a fortnight. If it is dull, he probably gets
only four. The home trade is reasonably steady ;
but the foreign ship is an uncertain fish. In the
past four years the inter-State trade of Newcastle
has not varied more than about 6 per cent. ; but
the export to the United States has jumped
about between 303,790 and 83,511 tons, to Peru
between 49,492 and 109,278 tons—and that
list might run on to the end of the
page. So long as the erratic foreign trade forms
so large a proportion of the total Newcastle out-
put, so long must work at Newcastle be erratic.
It is a wasteful business. For when a man has to
wait two days to get one day’s work, nothing is
surer than that he must get three days’ “ living
wage ” for the one day’s work —until the owner can
evolve a breed of man who won’t need food on off-
days. At present, however, that sort isn’t in sight.
And the chances are that it won’t come in sight
either till the owner first breeds out his own bad
habit of eating even during a half-year when for
some reason or other a dividend has to be dropped.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two “Permanent and Reproductive” Works.
The fiction that N. S. Wales has put all Cohen's
money into permanent and reproductive under-
takings blew up with a loud report, the other day,
and killed two men. Two permanent and repro-
ductive works, in the shape of steam-tram motors,
were standing alongside one another at Concord,
on a suburban line, when the boiler of one ex-
ploded. Both drivers were killed and a couple of
conductors were injured—it was remarkable that
it wasn’t a carriage full of holiday-makers. There
was no collision, no impact, no anything—the
old, panting has-been, which had been jerking
heavy loads through the streets for 22
years, simply blew up through being worn
out and cracked and leaky. That the Com-
missioners send out 22-year-old motors, which are
pretty gimcrack things at the beginning, proves
that they have some sort of idea that these things
ought to-be as permanent as the I O U that bought
them; but this explosion mildly suggests that
faith in the eternity of iron can be stretched a bit
too far. Yet no doubt up to the moment the
worn-out old machine blew up it was supposed to
be worth as much as it was when it was built: and
not a penny had been put aside, out of the money
it had earned in its 22 years of tugging, towards
buying a new engine. If that sensible policy
had been followed, the Department would pro-
bably have sent the cracked, leaky boiler to the
scrap-heap months ago. As it was, the motor was
kept in use. because if it were “scrapped” the
value would have to be written off out of the De-
partment’s profits, and that would interfere with
the Treasurer’s surplus. And surpluses have to
be shown even if engine-drivers die.
♦
The Pressman and His Pay.
The time is ripe—as he writes himself in his
callow paragraphing days—for the pressman to
reap a little of the benefits of the better times
which are coming to Australia, and to have
mitigated for him some of the narrowing econo-
mies necessitated by dearer commodities.
Journalism is probably the only profession in
Australia in which wages have steadily
fallen for the past 10 years. At one time
£5OO a year was a fair average wage
for the man who had to unite to the tirelessness
of a Chinese gardener the diplomacy of an
attache, the general knowledge of a schoolmaster,
and the enterprise and sagacity of a Stock
Exchange manipulator. Now, £3OO a year is
rather above the average, and £2OO a year as the
wage of a senior reporter comes rapidly within
sight. All the while proprietors’ profits have
enormously increased, and the capital em-
ployed in newspaper production has to be con-
stantly watered so as to cover up the' huge
profits. Not only are wages low, but the condi-
tions of employment are strictly commercial and
non-professional. Young men are taken on at
“sweating” wages, fooled with the promise of
quick advancement, induced to waste their ener-
getic years in the most strenuous toil on earth,
and find, in middle age, that they are getting from
£4los. to £6 a week, and the shadow of the “ sack ”
quickens the mournful greying of their hair.
Any man with daily paper experience can tell the
same tales, of bright youngsters fooled into dulling
the keen edges of their minds on the heart-breaking
pursuit of the phantom of advancement, of prema-
turely old men calmly cast off when their powers
began to wane. The Bulletin knows of one
young man, a fine writer—as the acceptance of
his “copy” in some of the W'orld’s best papers
proved—and agood stenographer, who wasgi venj£l
a week by one “great” Sydney daily, then£l 10s.
a week by another. And his case is typical. For
“ casual” work, the rate quoted by one “great”
daily in Australia is 10s. Cd. a day ;
and the day in a newspaper office
may be 16 hours long. This is sweat-
ing, such as one might expect clerks, with
no special abilities, to endure quietly ; but not
journalists who, in almost any other walk of life,
would score better returns for their abilities.
Fortunately, there does seem a slight tendency
nowadays for the journalist to stand up for him-
self. The Bulletin has heard with pleasure of
compulsory “rises” in staff salaries in one or two
offices, and with just as much pleasure of “great
dailies” confessing to a “difficulty in getting
good men.” There should be a difficulty, indeed
an absolute impossibility in Australia, in getting
good men, well educated, keen, energetic, to give
up their lives for a salary of 30s. to start, and
£4 10s. to end with.
♦
Sowing the Wind.
The N. S. Wales Parliament is considering still
another Closer Settlement Bill. It has three
principal features —one, the appointment of three
Boards to spy out the land with a view to closer
settlement; the second, an amendment of the
law which now says that the State shall take all
of an estate or none; the third, an attempt to
hold for the public the increased value given to
private land by the expenditure of public money.
The Boards are to report to Parliament; and
there is to be an appeal from them to an Appeal
Court. They are not to “gather information
about one estate in one part of the coun-
try, and one in another part,” but are
to put “a full and comprehensive scheme”
before Parliament, and the Government is to


enter into preliminary contracts pending the
reference of proposed bargains to Parliament. In
other words, the State is going into the business
of land-buying on a big scale ; and the people who
purchase from the State will have to pay the extra
price that this extra demand for land will create.
Already that price has gone far beyond bounds.
For many years the financial concerns which
advance most money on “broad acres” refused to
consider a valuation beyond £5 per acre for wheat-
growing land, in N. S. Wales at any rate; yet
there have been sales during the last three years
up to £B. Nobody, perhaps, has a better knowledge
of what the farmer can really afford to pay, year in
and year out, than the community’sfinancial father-
confessor, the banker; and, with that special know-
ledge. the president of the Bankers’ Institute of
Australasia, making his annual address lately,
cried a shrill warning that there is danger ahead.
During a period of great prosperity, he said,
Australia had kept its head splendidly ; the one
exception was with regard to country lands. For
years the farmer was kept poor, through having
to struggle under the weight of a fat landlord. If
now we call the rent interest, we do nothing for
the farmer. We simply cheat him by offering
him a bogus salvation. True, he may shake off
some of the burden later on. But it will be at
the expense of the community. Already the
cry has come in from the settlers on the
one or two estates which the Government has
bought and cut up, “Give us concessions.”
If concessions are called for after such seasons as
these, with such markets for wool and wheat,
what sort of demands are likely to be made in
the days of drought and low prices? The State,
by adopting this repurchase system, is loading
itself with liabilities which it thinks it is getting
rid of on long terms ; but it will be almost impos-
sible for the term-buyers to complete the bargains.
The State is attempting to provide people with
farms on the same plan as, from 15 to 20 years
ago, Melbourne building societies attempted to
provide people with suburban homes ; and the
noise of that smash has hardly died away yet.
The system is wrong from the very foundations,
and no elaborate detail in the superstructure will
make it right.
♦
About Strikes.
“ San ” says a good word for strikes :
In the olden times in England, men fitly called going
on strike going “to play.” Truly the underlying cause
of many strikes is just tiredness—fag. The human beasts
of burden who swing their picks at the coal face, or their
brothers who run the plank with that coal in baskets for
30 hours at a stretch, never think of having a regular
holiday as the wielders of the pen in banks and offices do.
The man who did would be laughed at. His mates would
regard him as a shrieking jest if he took a month off and
carted the missus and the kids down to Manly by the sea.
And most likely the lady and her children would be so
certain that he was mad that they wouldn’t think it safe
to go with him.
And so, when little troubles become numerous enough
to get on his nerves, the toiler votes “strike” at the
mass meeting over some question that to the outsider
appears .quite trivial, and cheerfully carries out his tools.
Really, in his heart, he knows that it is “play ” that he
wants, and wants badly. And who that has watched men
toil at the arduous callings—seen the lumper shouldering-
the heavy basket and following his leader up the spring-
ing plank incessantly for many hours at a stretch,
or has groped his way, with fear and trembling,
in a coal mine and beheld the miner there clad in
short trunks and boots, lying on his side digging - away
thebottom coal gettingready for a “fall” —will ever again
grudge the toilers a months’ “ play ” every few years,
especially as they have to go on short commons to get it.
The commonly accepted belief that manual laborers are
a healthy lot because hard work makes them so is a
fallacy. Incessant toil shortens men’s lives considerably,
and the leisurely-going city man has a far better chance
of long life than a coal lumper. A house surgeon in a
large hospital stated lately that his drugs had hardly any
effect on the hard-workers who come under his charge ;
what did benefit them in his view was the rest in the
hospital beds. He considered that a broken leg to a
man working in any of the more laborious callings was a
real benefit, and would most probably add years to his
life.
Once witnessed, in the North of England, the effect of
a long strike upon the “ Geordies.” In the County of
Durham the miners went out against a reduction of
wages, and demanded arbitration. In the end they won.
A few weeks from the beginning of the strike one could
see, away over the hills, villages and towns which, in
ordinary times, were quite invisible through the smoke-
laden air. Scenery that before was dull and uninteresting
sparkled in the sunshine. Eighteen or twenty miles
away, through a gap in the hills, the sea shone blue to
our delighted eyes.
And so with the men. As the coal-dust got out of their
systems, and the smoke out of their lungs, and the weary
muscles relaxed, men of 40 and 50 regained their youth,
and played games like children. And instead of sitting
on their heels smoking at the street corners, they would
form enormous processions, with gay banners flying, and
march for miles to a common rendezvous, and when they
got there they skipped like the wild ram on the mountains.
Truly tucker was short, and “beor” scarce ; but it was
a gay time for all that, and beyond doubt it did the
miners a lot of good. Also, it did everybody a lot of
good. About a century of smoke and grit was cleared
out of the air. Creation in those parts had a chance to
wash up. There was a blessed relief from a thick grey
atmosphere, so that folk afterwards always spoke of the
“ big strike ”as a good time. Truly it is good to go and
play sometimes—good for man and for his surroundings.
An Unhappy Comparison.
The London Daily News, which gets most of its
views concerning Australia from the Common-
wealth’s anti-Australian press, discourses (25/9/’O7)
on “ Australia and the Emigrant.” After remark-
ing that whereas “Canada pulses with life and
energy, and is filled with youthful enthusiasm
about its future and possibilities,” Australia gives
“the impression of a country whieh has grown
effete without ever having had a vigorous prime.”
The immigration policy of the Commonwealth
is “cold and exclusive.” Australian legislators
“would prefer, in their fatuity, to have the Com-
monwealth thinly peopled to seeing it thrown
open to the crowding millions from overseas.”
The fancy picture the News draws —that of “a
people grown too suddenly comfortable, immersed
too much in material satisfaction, wholly indif-
ferent to that richer life which is the basic note
of great and enduring States ” —revolts the vague,
grandiose mind of the freetrade editor. Where-
fore he damns Australia as “a country without a
past and without a future” —on the expressed
grounds that, while a huge quantity of cheap
labor yearly seeks the North American
Continent, nothing like the same quantity comes
to Australia. The inference that Australia bars
out healthy and uncriminal British or foreign
(white) immigrants is, of course, a disreputable
he, which is discredited nowadays even in the
offices of the local newspapers which were
responsible for it originally. The other sugges-
tion— namely, that Australia doesn’t want un-
healthy criminal or colored immigrants, no matter
how cheap, and even if the reward for their
absorption be a thickly-peopled and piebald and
insanitary interior, and the approval of the Daily
News —is correct. But what of Canada ? Does
it want this class of citizen either? Just about
the time the British newspaper was patting
Canada on the back for her “ sane ” and “ broad ”
attitude regarding the immigration question, the
Daily Province (Vancouver, 8.C.) representative
was reporting what he described as "the largest
immigration restriction meeting ever held on the
Pacific Coast.” And there Dr. Fraser, best-
known and best-respected of Vancouver parsons,
said:—
There is not a newspaper in Canada but will say that
our unlimited immigration is an evil. Then why any at
all? Well, you hear the cry that we need cheap labor.
I tell you, gentlemen, there is no part of Canada that
needs or ought to have cheap labor. Gentlemen, cheap
labor is an unmitigated curse, anywhere and everywhere.
(Renewed cheers.) For cheap labor means cheap men,
cheap citizenship and cheap nationhood.
After which various other speakers rose and
pointed out such encouraging facts as—(l) that of
immigrants in recent years “ fully two-thirds
were of the undesirable class, a class that could
never assimilate with the people of British
Columbia ” ; (2) that if the existing immigration
laws remained in force for another decade the
Asiatic population alone would outnumber the
white by three to one; (3) that aboard the
incoming steamer Tartar there were 500 penniless
Hindus anxious to join the hordes of their in-
digent, and otherwise peculiarly undesirable
brethren up-country. The crowd there wasn’t
the eager cheap-labor-loving crowd the News has
in its mind’s eye, pulsating to clasp the crowding
millions from overseas to its bosom. Far from it.
It was a crowd holding much the same views as
the average Australian crowd holds on the indis-
criminate immigration question. And the-Cana-
dian crowd didn’t hanker after those millions
which the English and anti-Australian papers
chide this country for rebuffing, any more than
Sydney hankers for a crate of plague rats.
—— ♦
Assembling Parts or Manufacturing.
Some time ago an enthusiastic foreign-trade
correspondent wrote to this paper that the Aus-
tralian cycle building trade was not worth en-
couraging because it consisted merely of the
assembling of parts made abroad. (But the
majority of the bicycle builders of England are
mere assemblers of parts. In some cases they
assemble B.S.A. or Eadie parts, but if it is a
cheap line of bike, they assemble Belgian parts.)
Another ill-informed correspondent threw the
same brick at the Australian piano industry ; but
in that case fell in badly, as Beale’s is probably
one of the most self-contained factories in
the world, making its own sounding-boards,
pins, screws, candle-sticks, and a score of
other parts that are not made by most
piano factories. Even the thorough-going
German makers of pianos are assemblers of
parts made by other factories, and very often by
foreign factories. Looking through a German
paper published by the German piano-making
trade, a Bulletin man found that piano felts and
sounding boards, “complete with ribs and all
attached,” are imported into Germany from Cali-
fornia (IJ.S.A.). It is part of the evolution of a
national industry that the assembling of parts
should precede the making of them, and then
when the assembling has grown into an industry,
the making of the various parts comes about
in a gradual manner as enterprise progresses.
Australia very narrowly escaped having a
solid sewing machine industry lately. Arrange-
ments had been made by an American firm to
transfer to an Australian maker the use of its
patents on a royalty basis, if a Protective duty
were imposed. But the Labor members swal-
lowed the guff of the Foreign-traders that
sewing machines could not be made in
Australia, and that therefore the increased
price would be passed on to the Australian
buyer. At present, the Australian buyer is pay-
ing from £l2 to £l4 10s. for sewing machines that
are valued at the Customs House at 50s. There
is nothing difficult or intricate about the manufac-
turing of the mechanism of a sewing machine, and
had the tariff been designed to encourage the
assembling of the parts in Australia, it would
inevitably have made for cheaper machines for
the future. The man who votes against protect-
ing an industry because at first it mostly consists
of joining up foreign-made sections, is an ass.
Assembling of parts must always precede the
manufacturing of parts.
Standard Oil in Australia.
A regent arrival in Australia is the stormy petrel
of the Standard Oil combine, who is sent all over
the world wherever and whenever trouble
threatens. He comes backed up with the biggest
capital on earth, and the most unscrupulous em-
ployers among human kind. He is alert, brainy,
and versatile. Also, his time is valuable, too
valuable to be spent travelling round the world
for pleasure. So the question arises, why is he
here ? The solution is that there is being waged
just now in the Australian Parliament a great
though silent fight. The Standard Oil Trust
wants to get Australia back into its grip.
Patriotic Australians are just as determined it
shall not. We have our own oil supplies, and 20
years ago had our own kerosene. The Standard
Oil Trust knocked it out. Now we have the Com-
monwealth Oil Corporation, a mostly British con-
cern, that has 1300 men on its works in N.S. W., and
other concerns run by Australians and Australian
money. So there’s reasonable hope of Australian
oil; but if we must have oil from overseas, at
least not Standard. The British Imperial Oil
Co. is at present the biggest rival of the Standard
Oil Trust, and it brings its oil here in bulk, and
its packing and tank installations have cost about
£lOO,OOO. Much of its oil comes from the British
East Indian wells, and any tax that will help it
in its fight against the greedy Yankee octopus
is giving a preference to Britain. It tins and
packs all its oil here, and makes a market for
Queensland timber, Tasmanian tin, and Broken
Hill lead, and the labor of some hundreds of Aus-
tralians. At present the Australian Government
proposes to give it 3d. per gallon protection
against packages of less than 10 gallons, which
will hit the Yankee Trust hard for a while,
as the Trust has not at present the means
of importing in bulk and packing and tinning
in Australia. But with the unlimited mil-
lions at its command it soon will have, and
then the 3d. duty will be worthless. So, instead
of fighting for this half-hearted and wholly in-
adequate duty, it would be better to go for a high
duty on the foreign oil, with a rebate preference
to British oil. (The British Imperial Co. deserves
well of Australia, for when the Standard Octopus
had crushed the life out of the local industry and
secured a monopoly, it came here, spent £lOO,OOO
in plant, and fought the Rockefeller combine,
forcing it to reduce the price of oil to the public.)
The ultimate ideal is to use Australian oil only ;
but even if all the oil used in Australia were
packed and tinned here, it would cause £85,000 to
be spent in wages ; and that is worth having.
The Wilks Mystery.
Bt his own showing, Wilks, of Dailey, would
appear a very unstable and unscrupulous politi-
cian. He holds his seat as Freetrader, State-
Frighter a,nd Anti-Rome expert. From a score
of balconies he has lauded Cobdenism and
pointed out that nothing is going to benefit
N.S.W. (Wilks never talks of Australia) so much
as the absence of a tariff, According to the
Wilks line of platform argument, the moral and
religious welfare of the community is bound up
With the frustrating of duty schedules, bonuses,
and all other like schemes for aiding Australian in-
dustries. Rome is associated at each successive
election with this curse of Australia, the Wilks
view being that the Scarlet Woman rends her
naming clothes in annoyance at the thought of
the Commonwealth enjoying the blessings of Free-
’ hops in joy about the Seven Hills
of her city of origin when she learns that Aus-
tralians are voting Protection. Yet, of late, one
has been continually reading things like the
following :
Mr. Wilks (N.S.W.) said that while all this loot was
flying' about he intended to try and get some of it for
New South Wales. He intended to vote for the bonus. —
(D.T., 21/11/’07.)
As an ethical proposition this is awful enough on
its face; but underlying it there are other con-
siderations. Wilks was one of the first to pro-
claim the discovery that Protectionists were
necessarily Vatican minions, bent (in their
efforts, presumably, to shut out the cheap-
labor products of R.C. countries) on aggran-
dising the R.C. faith. Protection, as he has
told many a Dailey audience in his time, raises
prices, lowers wages, fills asylums, produces earth-
quakes, and plays the devil all round. And now
Wilks votes Protection himself. Is Wilks, then,
a renegade from Protestantism, and an upholder
of Rome, and an enemy to the Ma State herself?
Or is it possible that Wilks’ platform talk re
Rome and the horrors of Protection was just talk
artd nothing more, and that when it comes to
voting he gives an indication of honest, sensible
views ?
♦
The Danysz Rabbit Virus.
Report by Dr. Tidswell (who watched the
Danysz rabbit-infecting experiments for the Aus-
tralian Government) is now fully public. In effect,
it states that the virus didn’t prove its efficacy.
And at once there is a cry from the press
supporters of the Danysz people here that this
is conclusive reason why the embargo on
its dissemination in Australia should be
removed. Why this fevered anxiety to
spread a rabbit cure which won’t cure ? Is the
idea, as The Bulletin has long suspected, to
kill the rabbit-trapping industry by putting the
stigma “diseased” on all Australian rabbits, and
thus, by knocking out the rabbit-trapper, to
secure cheaper labor in the bush ? The position
before these experiments was that it was certain
that the dissemination of the Danysz virus would
kill the already important rabbit-export industry,
and it was uncertain that it would stop the rabbit
plague. The position now is that the first
certainty remains, and there is added to it
another, that the virus will not stop the rabbit
plague. It is surely mischievous and surely use-
less. Yet the fact that it is surely useless is
advanced as the best of reasons why there should
be no objection to trying it on the mainland.
Now what is the game ?
From Frank Anstey, M.L.A. :
Samuel Mauger, at an up-country town, asserted that
nineteen-twentieths of the poverty in Australia was
traceable to drink—that drink was the social problem,
and that “Temperance was the sole remedy for unem-
ployment.” Against those statements I wrote an article.
I appended my name. It was no assassin’s blow. In your
issue of the 14th November you insert a par in which you
say that you don’t know what M auger said, but that I
was w'rong, unfair, and a tout for Bung. In the name of
fairness, how can you say that my criticism was either
one or the other if you do not know what I was criticising ?
I now enclose the article that I wrote, and ask you
to tell me what is unfair about it, what is not
fact and argument, what in it gives justification
for your assertion that I am advocating the interests of
the Liquor traffic, and finally what there is of fact or
argument in my article that has not at some time found
its endorsement in the leading columns of The Bulletin?
I cut out of my scrap-book portions of two articles from
The Bulletin —one a leading article on “The Drink
Problem,” the other from the “Plain English” column
on “ Drink and Poverty.” I send them to you. Will you
republish, and let your readers know what you have said
of Local Option, Prohibition, and the drink question
generally? Because you held these views, were you the
advocate of the interests of Bung ? If so, lam sorry that
so many present-day Laborites had such a tutor. No
wonder we have gone astray.
All of which is miles wide of the mark. The
Bulletin said that “if Mauger exaggerated the
drink evil, there is no reason why any Labor
member should get his hair off because drink has
been attacked.” Let Mauger in that case be
dealt with by the Liquor party, and not by a
Labor member, who ought to feel some gratitude
to Mauger for his struggle “to secure employ-
ment and fair wages for Victorian workers.”
♦
There are still people, it seems, who, having no
Propputy, believe they have nothing to defend
against an invader ; wherefore, so far as they are
concerned, let the enemy come ? Many of these
people have wives and daughters ; but defenceless
women —who would interfere with them ? Those
who heard Villiers, the war correspondent,
lecture in Australia on the China-Jap war, will
never lull their fears to sleep with any such fond
imaginings. The victors in that war swarmed
through the non-combatants’ quarters, killing and
outraging, the officers offering no opposition to
their excesses. This on Villiers’ statement as
an eye witness. Many times he saw wells partly
filled up with Chinese women, who preferred
that end to the tender mercies of the soldiery.
The same men—or their sons—may sweep through
an Australian city some day ; and, in that case,
there is practically no doubt that the same
ghastly things would happen. Curiously enough,
the men who are most inclined to say that they
will have nothing to do with war—which in the
Australian case means defence—are the very men
who a few years ago were loudest in denouncing
infamies practised in S’Africa. They said then —
some at least of them —that these infamies were
inseparable from war; wherefore they were
against war. The fact that they are against war
won’t stop back the invader; and, if he comes,
they confess that infamies must come with him.
And yet, in spite of this, they say that, having no
property, they have nothing to lose. Surely
there are things precious to a man besides cattle
and sheep, and shops and merchandise !
♦
When the Newcastle coal-miners went on strike
the other day the report was printed that their
union funds only amounted to £6OOO. But
then another report was printed—the strike
would last longer than the £6OOO because (the
abomination of it !) many of these fellows had
actually got something saved up in their own
private stocking. For a lot of people that was
enough : these men had actually been able to put
by something, and yet they wanted more pay ! It
was obviously scandalous. The public, in the bulk,
has had “living wage” so much dinned into its ear
that it has come to regard a bare “ living wage ”
as the proper wage for a working man to get. He
isn’t expected to save anything. The merchant
is; so is the professional man. If the latter
“ lives up to his income,” and makes no provision
for his family in case he should die before the
youngsters are self-supporting, he is regarded as
rather an object for scorn. But the working-man,
whose Chilton get j ust as hungry as the professional
man’s—he really isn’t expected to do anything of
that sort. In fact, there is a vague idea that
something is wrong if he can do it. Yet why
shouldn’t he ? It isas proper, surely, that he should
make as much provision, in proportion, as the
professional man, and he ought to be diligently
encouraged to do it. The world has got into a
rut in this matter, and probably it won't get out
without some bumps and a struggle; but it’s a
bad old rut nevertheless.
“ Typhoo ” writes
Concerning the Yellow Peril, so far as it may affect the
Commonwealth, here’s a personal experience that may
he of interest. I have lived for years in China, and not
civilised Treaty-Port China either, but many hundreds
of miles back from the coast. In a big city of interior
China I met, the other day, an educated, English-speaking
Chinese whose knowledge of Australia, its laws and cus-
toms, was amazing. He proved to be an immigra-
tion agent. His method of working is as follows : A
proposal is conveyed to any likely shipmaster bound for
Australia that there is a good and safe opening for
making a considerable increase in wages by landing
Chinese passengers in Australia. Payment to be at the
rate of 100 Chinese dollars (£10) per man. The vessel is
cleared for her port of destination in the usual way, the
passengers are shipped from a junk outside the har-
bor, and landed in a certain place in the North of Aus-
tralia, the name of which place is given upon shipping the
men. The Chinese landed, the vessel continues her course,
the log showing 12 hours delay by stress of weather. Cash
is, of course, paid upon embarkation of the passengers.
The scheme may appear somewhat fantastic on the sur-
face ; in reality, it’s simple, and affords the unscrupulous
shipmaster an opportunity of making good money in a
none-too-well-paid calling. I have no hesitation in saying
that to-day hundreds of Chinese are being landed thus by
the back door of Australia, their arrival being unnoticed.
To combat this sort of thing the Commonwealth needs an
entirely separate department, and legislation imposing
heavy penalties on those caught red-handed. It is of far
more urgency that Australia should fight the smuggling
of Chinese than that of opium or silk.
■+■
Judge Heydon, of theN.S.W. Arbitration Court,
is to be president of Wade’s “special tribunal”
to deal with the Newcastle coal troubles. The
parties made some big alterations in the condi-
tions on which Wade proposed that they should
meet. The owners insisted on two things :
one, that their right to fix the selling
price from time to time should not be
questioned ; the other, that the miners should not
question the owners’ right to use coal-cutting
machines wherever they pleased—except Heb-
burn; that case is being dealt with separately.
The whole trouble was supposed to be about the
selling rate; yet the right of the owners to fix
the selling rate from time to time isn’t to be
questioned, which looks a good deal like giving
most of the case away. But the miners have got
something that may be of more practical value—
they have the right to raise any other question, so
that they can ask for fivepence per ton instead of
fourpence as their share of the extra selling rate.
Some of the owners, who had quite persuaded
themselves that the real trouble was the use of
coal-cutting machines, received a shock when
the miners’ spokesmen didn’t object to the
owners’ right to use them ; and when they had
got that concession, the owners were so pleased
with themselves that they felt like conceding
nearly everything else. Peter Bowling and
Livingstone Learmonth are likely to be the
other members of the special Court.
The Victorian House of Fat Landlords made
short work of Bent’s Western Lands Resumption
Scheme. The area to be resumed was only a
trifle of what was originally proposed, but, though
the bill was sugared with a railway-construction
proposal. Minister Davies was so apologetic in
introducing it that the other Fats snatched at
what looked like a hint, and tossed it out. There
were a few vague splutterings about “confisca-
tion,” “doing an injury to one portion of the
community in the hope of benefiting others,” and
“ a scheme for turning out men who had honestly
bought their land,” and so forth; but the only
real argument was advanced by old Donald
Melville, who said there was no hope of getting
English farmers to take up this land while they
could get land in Norfolk at £2 17s. fid. an
acre. Melville quite overloooked the thousands
of Australian farmers who want land; yet his
remark was very interesting as showing that land
in Australia, especially in Victoria, is far dearer
than it ought to be, and that a Federal Land Tax
would either reduce the price suddenly or force it
into close cultivation.
♦
S. M. Herald’s Bradford (Eng.) correspondent
(15/11/’O7): —
Germany was a good deal discussed on Bradford Ex-
change lately, due no doubt to the activity of its wool-
buyers in London and Australia. Her manufacturers are
exceedingly busy, and it is commonly reported that some
have more business than they can finance. There was a
rumor current that several influential German manu-
facturers, through their bankers, are appealing for
Government aid to enable them to lift very big purchases,
which they feel they must make in Australia during the
next six months. From what lam told, the Government
seems to render help to important interests when help is
required. I give this for what it is worth, and no doubt
there is more than a grain of truth in the statement. In
some things the Germans are very enterprising. They
afford a worthy example to other countries of how to do
it, and it is well-known that trade is excellent, and large
supplies of wool will be required.
Of course, the Germans with their high tariff,
Government bounties, etc., and consequently
busy manufacturers and excellent trade, are “a
worthy example to other countries of how to do
it.” The worst of it is that while the Herald
pays an expert “ on the spot ” to keep it advised
as to “how to do it,” the stubborn old paper still
goes on advising Australians to proceed in the
way that isn’t “ how to do it.”
J. B. Robinson, one of the rich men of South
Africa, has lately been making some painfully-
frank statements in London Times :
The strikers resent the treatment they have received
at the hands of the mining groups. They say they now
realise that for years past they have been used as pawns
on the political chess-board to further the ends of the
magnates. Now that the elections are over and then-
services are no longer required, a deliberate attempt is
being made by a cosmopolitan junta to hound British
workmen out of the Transvaal. These miners are English-
men, and many of them fought for their country during
the late war. They want to know, and very rightly,
why England went to war and drenched the soil of this
country with the blood of her sons, as well as that of the
Boers, besides incurring an expenditure of two hundred
and fifty millions of money. Was it done, they ask, to
enable a cosmopolitan cabal to ui ive English workmen
out of the country? These cosmopolitans, they add,
have been flag-waving and beating the big drum of
Imperialism for the purpose of furthering their own
interests.
One of the worst features in connection with the strike
is the attitude taken up by the unscrupulous Press
belonging to the cabal. The policy they have inaugurated
is to write down the English miner and to enlist the
approval of the country districts. They have been
advocating the working of the mines solely by Boers
and Afrikanders.
Apparently, almost the only friends that the
British miner and settler in the Transvaal have
left in these dreadful times are the Boers in
Parliament and the mostly-Boer Government of
President Botha.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Land of Gold.”
Theatre Royal “Brewster’s Millions.”
Her Majesty’s “ Lady Madcap.”
Oxford “ Robbery Under Arms” —Bio.
Palace Carter, Magician.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Andrew Mack’s Co. (last nights.)
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenasum Hall Living Scotland Bio.
To the thousands who heard Melba on
the concert platform five years agone, she re-
appears this time as the same incomparable artist
with a new charm of personality. The difference
is very marked. A certain coldness—hardness—
of manner is replaced by a genial, hearty style,
harmonising in a measure with the caressing
melody of her notes, though it were impossible,
of course, for any woman to appear quite as sweet
as Melba’s song. The old mood has melted
like the snows of yesteryear. When Melba
made her first appearance from Europe at her
native town hall, she almost justified what
had been said of her by many an Aus-
tralian abroad. Her deportment was rigidly
imperious. She came forward like a Lady Mae-
bethian prima donna walking in her sleep. Even
in her unbendings she wore always an air of
patronage, if she didn’t give one the impression
that she was suffering from concealed choler.,
But how a change indeed ! On Saturday last the
gracious and pretty-looking Melba .divided
admiration with the famous artist. She personified
the popular conception of Kindness Itself, assum-
ing that Kindness, was originally cast in female
form divine.
* • * *
And this without relinquishing a jot of her
natural authority. With a gesture which signified
“ Enough of it! ” or “ Shut up ! ” she silenced the
first demonstration of welcome. But it was the
gesture of a good-humored Melba protesting that
the applause made her hot, and she wished to cool
down before singing the “Mad Scene” aria from
“ Hamlet.” Probably she erred in choosing this in-
tensely dramatic number at the outset. The mad-
nessof Ophelia in AmbroiseThomas’soperarequires
a larger fund of nervous force in musical expres-
sion than the trillsome lunacy of Lucia, according
to Donizetti. Some of Melba’s nerve force must
have been exhausted in the effort to put herself at
ease, for though she sang most beautifully, she
fell short, of her former unforgetable effect ,in
one eerie cry of craziness that occurs about
midway in the performance. In her subsequent
numbers—amounting to ten, with encores and
double encores—the singer showed a surprising
development of the “ temperament ” she was said
to lack, and which certainly was not in strong evi-
dence in 1902. She was unaffectedly winsome in
“Cornin’Thro’ the Rye,” and devotional in an
Ave Maria (the one she gramophoned) to which
Hattenbach supplied the lion’s share of a mixed
accompaniment. The least fetching thing she
sang was a gloomy chanson —“ Soir Paien ”
with flute obligato, and the best thing, in
pathos and passion of intepretation, was “ The
White Sea Mist.” The encore after her last
number was not enough, so, by way of good-
nighting the audience, Melba sat down at the
piano and rattled off Tosti’s Serenata, which she
warbled to a harp accompaniment of yore. Then
the crowd went away, having decided that she
was adorable, as well as great. The lauded prima
donna of Europe had established herself as an
angel in her own country.
* * * *
For the rest, the concert went high above
the average. Andrew Black, visiting “ star” of a
while ago, gave the “ Pagliacci ” prologue and a
varied assortment of songs like the first-class bari-
tone and master of diction that he is. Miss Una
Bourne played the piano on her gifted “own,”
and in duet with Hattenbach, who put in some
delightful ’cello work. Moreover, Lemmone
fluted “Wind among the Trees,” but not well
enough to break his record.
* * * *
The second Melba concert in Melbourne
is fixed for this Saturday (30th), and another
furore of appreciation has been practically booked
in advance,
* * *
The latest thing at Melbourne theatres is
oft-repeated Andrew Mack, whose brogue is
his fortune. Mack blarneyed yet again as
Tom Moore on Saturday, with a weakened
east to support him, supports, for some
reason or other, being absolutely essential
to star actors. If they are not “ properly sup-
ported ” they don’t shine as they should. A final
week of Mack closes on Friday with “ Arrah-na-
Pogue,” and a temporary closing of the Princess’s
will likewise ensue. “After Mack—the Dark-
ness,” as the wayback French King did not
exclaim.
** * *
Both the Royal and Her Majesty’s are
still going strong on their same old bills. At Her
Majesty’s the public are warned that “Girls of
Gottenberg” have nearly reached their last week
but one; but the Rovai advt. merely announces
that the Twelve O’Clock Nuptials are in their
fourth week, which throws no light on the future
subject of “ Camille.”
*' * * *
The Molassos are back at the Opera House
for this week, but the other changes are merely
old friends in “entirely new specialties” that
look very like the old specialties with a fresh
patch on them. Miss Kay, the light soprano,
is still offering compensation for many
previous English ballad singers, .and another
notable bright item is Marjorie Bray. Marjorie
is only a kiddie, and her song about girl is too old
for her tender years ; but in intelligence she can
give points to the ordinary tough soubrette, and
in all respects the damsel is a daisy. By the way,
the Ideal Coon continues his idealism with a
blackened face and an emphatic voice. A judg-
ment on the Coon, held over for a fortnight, may
now be delivered. It is unfavorable, with Costs.
The bio. at the Athenseum Hall is drop-
ping “Robbery Under Arms” ‘in favor of the
latest films of “Living Scotland.” Wirths’
Olympia is to-let for two or three weeks, and the
mirrors at the Bijou are reflecting a silence that
can be felt. Princes’ Court and sundry other
places are depending on the weather, and the
fickle atmosphere seems inclined to treat them
fairly.
sfc # * *
The stormy season of grand opera finished
up this week in Melbourne. Its Melbourne play-
ing has always been comparatively calm, and
Melbourne audiences have been kinder than any
other in Australasia. Nevertheless, the last night
—Friday—with The Valkyrie billed, brought out
a final but suppressed shout and wail of mysteri-
ous unnamed wrongs on both weary sides of
mummers and managers. There was a furious
boiling behind the scenes—so intense as to com-
municate the feeling to the packed house on the
other side of the curtain. Unfortunately, these
entr'actes were not shown for the entertainment
of the house, but were heard with “closed
doors ” ; with the result that the long-
suffering house got long and drearily-played
acts, with intervals of any length—even up
to 40 long minutes (this happened between the
second and third cycles). When the Grand
Finale was reached, where should have been wild
enthusiasm and waving of flowers, a few staunch
adherents were sleeping at their posts in the circle
and stalls, but the majority had drifted off orrushed
home hurriedly to be in time to put out the jug
for the milkman—and manager Musgrove’s final
speech was rather curtailed owing to the prox-
imity of breakfast time.
Little Miss Kuhnke rose from her
level of minor parts to sing the Sieglinde part
vacated by Sara Anderson. She did good work
for so young and inexperienced a girl, and sang
well—excepting in highly dramatic parts, when
the banked and double-banked and much cor-
neted orchestra drowned her sweet voice almost
completely. (The orchestra was in excellent
form, and saved the waning life of the opera.)
Charlotta Bouche made rather a shrill and
shrewish Fricka ; one expects an angry goddess
to do some thunderous and flashing comment.
Riinger and Rupp put fine voice into
their, Wotan and Hunding. Heinze makes
a fine Brunhilde—she looks well and sings
well. Her, eerie shout from the heights was as
effective as ever. It was hard lines on the poor
lady—after her long sleep in fire rings—to wake
up to find half the house (her farewell house)
'deserted.
*
Musgrove the Undaunted declares his
staunch intention of conveying more grand opera
company hither in two years.
* * * *-
“ S.” : The circus progresses. It gets
into palatial buildings, and you are given elegant
padded chairs and the comforts of the home
circle while the elephant stands on his head and
the daring bareback rider turns forward somer-
saults on a lorry horse with a back as broad as a
billiard table ; but there is one thing the intrepid
and enterprising innovators overlook—or over-
smell—one reform that screams for reformation,
and is utterly neglected, and that is the Circus
Smell. It seems “ You may house, you may
polish the circus as you will, but the smell of the
lion will cling to it still.” If it were only the smell
of the lion one might bear up, but add the aroma
of the hysena, the whoof of the tiger, the hum of the
monkeys, and the dark-brown pong of the bear,
not to mention flavors of camel, goat, wolf, and
wombat —the last the strongest factor in a
menagerie—and you get an atmosphere that is too
much for any human stomach that has not been
indurated by politics or long familiarity with the
Footscray summer. Circus people get so accus-
tomed to the circus smell that they are never
happy out of it, and are amazed when you ask for
anything better. “Very interesting,” I said to
one popular circus proprietor ; “ a fine collection ;
but, oh, my sainted aunt, the smell !” “Yes,”
he said, “ it’s that pineapple ! ” They were
selling a pineapple drink at the refreshment stall.
** * *
“The Land of Gold,” which was played
for the first time at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night last, is a more or less topical melodrama of
local manufacture. It strides through much
gambling gore and resultant unpleasantness to
the salvaging of Varischetti from the Bonnie
Vale mine by Diver Hughes. The show’s main
handicap is its awful ponderousness of phrase-
ology. The pruning-knife would be inadequate to
cope with most of the lines; they call for a circu-
lar saw, or dynamite. Conceive a drama done
deliberately into the sort of English Bruc-e Smith
speaks, and you get a fair idea of “The Land of
Gold’s ” literary quality.
James Tyrrel, a Yankee confidence-man,
cherishes a grievance against Mark Wilmot,
who is in reality Varischetti ; or, rather,
Varischetti is Wilmot. Maud Wilmot, up-
right to a fault —but careless—has got mixed
in the matter of her marriage lines ; and
by Scene 3, Act 1., is in a state of uncertainty
as to whether she is Mrs. Varischetti-Wilmot or
Mrs. J. Tyrrel. Finally the decision is in favor
of Tyrrel, and she accompanies him solely because
it is Her Duty so to do. She will be to this man,
she explains, “ a wife in name alone,” an attitude
which appeals to all present as eminently correct
and common-sensible. There is a stirring scene
at the top of the mine when diver Hughes
materialises with Wilmot in tow. Tyrrel arrives,
and, in a sesquipedalian phillipic, denounces
the rescued one for shooting him (Tyrrel)
in the leg. And then comes Act IV., wherein
Tyrrel over-reaches himself badly. He is en-
gaged, in the presence of the usual surging crowd,
which is wont to attend at the family disputes of
melodrama people, accusing Wilmot of the
attempted murder of Maud when (1) Maud appears
and denies it, (2) a man named Larry peers round
a boulder, and in a rich Co. Down accent avers
that he saw Tyrrel trying to murder the lady
himself, (3) the real Mrs. Tyrrel (providentially
arrived from Cal., U.S.A.) presses forward and
substantiates her claim to James with a revolver
and a marriage-certificate of the size and general
appearance of a Parliamentary requisition, and (4)
Tyrrel is dragged off to gaol. Which puts an end
to him, and the play.
TYREE AUTOMATIC RABBIT DESTROYER.
Tests have now been made at Binda, Crookwell, Coota-
mundra, Randwick, and other places. In every case the
rabbits were killed automatically in their burrows with-
out labor. Price, from £4 each.
TYREE AUTOMATIC SPRAYERS.
Thousands of these machines are now in use for killing
Grasshoppers, Prickly-pear, Lantana, Briars, Blackberries,
Poison-plant. For spraying sheep for Blowfly. For
Whitewashing, Painting, Disinfecting, Fire-extiniruishing,
and numerous other purposes. Price, from £4 each. For
further particulars, write Tyrees Ltd., 314 George-street
Sydney.*
Laurence Dunbar is Tyrrel, and is no less
devilishly malignant than of yore. George Cross
(Wilmot) handles his massy, polysyllabic speeches
with the effortless ease of some skilled weight-
lifter juggling a 2001 b. slingshot. Miss Duggan,
as the persecuted wife, looks charming, and does
well; and Bert Bailey (Stanley Vane) is successful,
even if he fails to look altogether charming. The
minor parts are well sustained, and the mounting
is good.
*. * * *
La Sylphe has arrived, with her pink legs,
from foreign parts, via Melbourne, and her high
kicking has anchored her in the affections of the
perspiring gallery. The Whitelevs are still in the
bill, and daintier acrobats haven’t been seen at
the Tivoli for many a night.
** * *
“Lady Madcap” eclipses “The Blue
Moon” at Her Majesty’s,” Sydney, on Saturday
night, and the new-comer, whose dressing is
understood to be something very extra, will get a
rousing welcome. Stout and melodrama are all
right for winter ; but in these dog-days something
light and fizzy is the proper medicine.
*# * *
Star mummer Frank Thornton, and units
of star-dust to the number of twelve, have ar-
rived at Fremantle, and will get to Sydney next
Tuesday. Their haven for the Sydney season will
be the Criterion. Norman Brooks, the star tennis
champion, and Harry Rickards are also on the
same liner.
** * *
Our prolonged drought is punctuated about
every few weeks by heavy rain of some
10 minutes’) duration. But this ten-penn’orth of
rain contrives to fall at a psychological moment—
just as the Wonderland City management is
putting up a new idea in the way of Venuses, or
hunt? for Buried Treasure, or air-ship ascensions.
Consequently, the new idea has to be put back into
its coop, because the intending audience is rushing
for shelter. Last Saturday the hunt for buried
vouchers had to be abandoned because the hail-
stones riddled the hunters. Groping will be
resumed, weather permitting, on Saturday.
Guessing competition on the weight of Alice, the
elephant, will be decided on Dec. 11.
A LIVE COAL; OR, HOW TOMMY BENT
BURNED HIS FINGERS.
What becomes of the typewriter that gets
broken in “Brewster’s Millions,” and which the
desperate legatee sends to Germany to be
mended ? That idea of sending the cracked
machine abroad for repairs is one of the quaint
little touches of humor in the piece, and you want
to get the thing finished up—you want to see the
boy wander on in the last act, carrying a mended
machine and a bill for £5O. Possibly, office boys
having a way of their own, this one 'is still on the
errand, in which case, in his own expressive
language, he must “shake the pace”; for
“ Brewster” comes off at the end of next week at
the Royal (Sydney), and “John Glayde’s Honor ”
makes a first appearance.
*# * *
Magician Carter still baffles to good houses
at the Palace Theatre, Sydney, and will continue
so to do for another week. Carter resembles
Mister Barnes, who bowled out N.S.W.’s gallant
defenders last Saturday, inasmuch as he achieves
no startlingly new feat, but does the old with
uncanny ease and swiftness.
*# * *
Every country has its own kind of drama-
tic foolishness, no doubt—Australia included.
And there may be worse kinds than the Ameri-
can ; but that is the worst kind of foolishness that
reaches these shores ; for of the Peruvian and the
Roumanian kinds we know nothing. “Human
Hearts,” at Adelaide Royal, seems to reach the
limit of the foolishness that Australia will
have to put up with—domestic sentiment plus
the nigger and the baby’s prayer and the
platitude kind of drama. It is acted by a
company about seven sizes too good for it.
Clara Butt has drawn the last dollar out
of Adelaide’s pocket before departing ; the
Hippodrome and the Tivoli are competing merrily
with variety programmes ; and the independent
little show that runs all day with biograph land-
scapes, seen from a bogus railway carriage, has
introduced realistic little inconveniences of travel
to make its patrons spend their 20 minutes in an
atmosphere far removed from home.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift
for a friend abroad— a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
current with Australian life.
There is a Queen of Song, who reigns
In stately phrase and simple truth,
Whose voice, of golden tone, retains,
Together with its Art-earned gains,
The sweet limpidity of youth ;
A Monarch born to wear the crown
Of laurel now, as ever, green.
The world gave Melba her renown ;
And we, her ain harnefolk, bow down
Crying—" Long live the Queen ! ”
VIC.
E.F.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Amy Sherwin gives a concert at Sydney Town Hall on
the 18th instant. She will conduct a girl-choir of 150
picked local voices, and afterwards Miss Ruby Adams, a
young Australian with a soprano voice for which big
things are prophesied, will d6but in grand opera selec-
tions.
Melb. Leader points out that Hall Caine is the only
English novelist who has attained success as an adapter
of his own stories. “ Chas. Dickens was not a good
dramatist, and failed where Hall vlaine has succeeded.
Comparisons are odious indeed. Think of Chas. Dickens
as the successful author of such plays as “ The Christian,
“The Bondman,” or “The Prodigal Son.” Even non-
admirers of Dickens will admit that it is to his etenial
credit that he never had such successes as these. rial*
Caine could not possibly fail as Dickens did ; he hasn’t the
ability.
“ S.G.M.”: Blew into a mission hall, off Little
Bourke-street, last Saturday night, and was surprised to
hear that sweet-throated songbird, Ida Osborne, warbling
to a very mixed crowd of derelicts and social outcasts.
The affair happens weekly, and is arranged for the people
of the slum quarter by Pearce Carey, the fierce little
yellow gentleman who has made himself unpopular with
some of his Collins-street flock by his talk about
Socialistic ideals. After a good programme we had
coffee, etc., and no ranting. The rev. gent goes up one.
“ Stageland ” : May I ask “Bobstay”(B. 2J/11/’O7), on
the subject of the night signal of distress hoisted by
“ Captain ” Stirling Whyte, skipper of the yacht Flitter
in “ Brewster’s Millions,” whether he doesn't consider a
vessel which has lost its rudder as “ not under com-
mand ” ? The Flitter is likewise described as an “auxiliary
yacht” in the programmes and advertisements, but even
a powerful steam vessel without a rudder cannot be very
well said to be “ under command.”
Sydney is bursting into bloom in an operatic and
artistic sense. Amy Sherwin is teaching concert and
classical vocalism ; Charles Kennirigham, comic opera ;
and now Mr. and Mrs. Greder, of the Stormy Wagner
Company, have started a grand opera conservatorium.
The Age enthuses over a “unique curio” on view at
a Melbourne Carnation Show. The curio, it seems, is the
fire-dried hand of a lubra, an aboriginal fetich. An
exquisite addition to a flower show !
“ Hiphen ” : Grand opera is too strenuous for me. Had
some recently. A stout, oystery little man, in high heels
and tights which would disqualify him from a surf bathe,
rushed on the stage, threw down his cloak, jumped on it,
seized a poor girl by the wrist, dragged her to the foot-
lights, felt for his dagger, and began to roar at her for
about five minutes, using such words as “ Dorblastyer-
getung ” and “ Dernmeizetoughelyou.” I felt quite sorry
for that girl till 1 found that, boiled down, it only
meant: “ Good evening, my dear, is your old man any-
where around?” I tell you I got out quick. I was
taking no chances as to what’d happen if he got real
annoyed and wanted to hit something. My heart’s none
too strong.
“Larrikin ” : Struck a quaint theatrical troupe, t’other
day, up on the Paroo. It consisted of an Indian juggler,
a iady snake-charmer, a sword-swallowing Italian, two
aborigines (who did the clowning), and a “ Poison King."
The ‘.‘King” was also billed as the “ Human Pin-
cushion,” and drove pins and needles into his
arms and legs with gusto. In the capacity of
poison royalty he took the centre of the stage
beside a medicine chest full of bottles. He then
proceeded solemnly to swallow doses of what he alleged
were prussic acid, strychnine, etc., like so many draughts
of beer. He invited any scoffers in the audience to come
up and try a dose or two themselves—but none came. By
10 p.m. he was still alive, so the Waybackers filed dis-
appointedly homewards.
“Melb.”: Percy Jones, musical genius, has just been
favored with a Town Hall benefit to enable him to pursue
(and catch) his studies in Europe. A case as deserving as
that of Amy Oastles. Percy was an orphan, his father a
Welshman, his mother an Italian. At eight years old, or
so, he had to go into the St. Augustine’s Catholic
Orphanage, Geelong. A brass band being- provided there,
it soon became palpable that Percy was a born cornet
player. Quickly he developed into a solo player, and
swept the board of prizes. Then his innate ability
sprouted in another direction, as conductor, and under
him the band won the best prizes in competitions at
Ballarat and Hobart.
“ J.P.” : Saw one of “ America’s Leading Comedians ”
recently at a shearing shed out West. He was supported
by a “Talented Company from the principal London,
New York, and Continental music halls,” brought out
here at great expense (so the posters said), and specially
selected for the purpose of presenting high-class vaude-
ville to the Australian public. There was a Miss Veronica
—well, never mind her name, but she was there, anyway,
and was billed as the Queen of Comic-song and Dance
Artistes ; also the marvellous Joneses and Smiths in their
world-famous and original acrobatic feats, etc. The co.
opened beneath a weather-beaten old tent that had seen
better days. Harder grafters I never saw. The Smith-
Jemeses flooded the stage with handsprings, when they
weren’t selling tickets at the door. Veronica recited,
danced, sang, and did ’most everything else except die ;
and the Head Comic ! —well, there ! Learned next day
that the combination cleaned up, all told, the sum of
fifty bob ! Ye gods ! To come all the way from America
and penetrate to Australia’s wild and woolly West for so
paltry a figure.
Apparently you can do as you darn well please in
making a melodrama nowadays ; witness “ The Tyrant,”
played recently by the Chas. Holloway co., at Melbourne
Bijou. The remorseless villain of this play is Angelo,
Governor of Padua. The story must date back almost a
century. Most of the costumes are of our time,
but a couple of male characters have dresses quaint and
curious enough to be archaeological, if not correct. A
comic Irishman from Sligo is introduced in the conven-
tional Boueicaultian stage get-up. At one point, five
supposed monks assist in kidnapping the wife of Angelo
the Tyrant, and when Angelo orders his guard to fire,
“Then fire on the blue-jackets of Old England 1” squeals
the hero. The monks throw off their outer garments, and
appear as British tars, and say “ Hurrah ! ” 27 times, while
Mrs. Angelo is levanting in their gunboat, seen dancing
in an eccentric manner across the back scene. This at
Padua, an iidand town, long before gunboats were dreamed
of! Of course, the idea that any kind of foreign tyrant,
tyrannising within his own domain, is sickened and foiled
at the mere sight of a British sailor is morally right and
proper and dramatically correct; and, to be sure, a British
naval commander would not hesitate to take his boat 20
miles inland to go to the assistance of a lady in distress.
But it is surely beyond the power of even a British
sailor to produce a gunboat in the heart of Italy 50 years
or more before the gunboat was invented,
“S.”: The conductor, a mighty man is he, with large
and sinewy hands. He is the autocrat of the orchestra,
and sad is the lot of the poor instrumentalist who merits
his displeasure. I was handy in the stalls, the other
night, when a poor player, as hard-working and indus-
trious a little fiddler as I have ever seen in action, came
in for a painful rebuke. The orchestra had a violent
Wagnerian convulsion under, and was holding down the
struggling mass with the full strength of the band, when
suddenly the domineering conductor rounded on the pale
fiddler. “Ten thousand devils ! are you going to sleep
there?” snorted the Herr, with a snort that shook the
sliding roof, and he smote the helpless musician a vigor-
ous crack on the sconce with his baton—smote the man
with the child in his arms ! The pallid fiddler, instead of
rising in his just wrath, and smashing his tools of trade
on the nose of the tyrant, turned paler still, and fiddled
like a fiend, and a callous audience laughed merrily.
“Melb.”: Posters are about Melbourne notifying a
benefit for the widow and family of the late George Ridg-
way. Wren has generously given the huge Cyclorama
without charge, and all the Variety talent is in the field.
George Ridgwa.v was one of the world’s greatest acrobats
in his time. Over 40 years ago T. Lenton brought a
gymnastic troupe, consisting of George Ridgway,
Leon Samwells, W. Ridgway, and Horatio Nelson to
Coppin’S Havmarket Theatre, Melb. George Ridgway
followed his art, as the flying trapezian, until Time gave
its warning. Then he became a pantomimist. He has
appeared as clown, and later as pantaloon, in Christmas
pantomimes at the Melb. Princess’s. Latterly, the bill-
posting business engaged him as a principal.
Those who support Conciliation as a sub-
stitute for Strikes should remember that one
draught of the right brand makes the whole world
akin. Even the most hardened monopolist may
be genialised into a sympathetic human by a
judicious allowance of D.C.L. Whisky, Those
who seek the spirit of Wisdom and Conciliation
may find it in D.C.L. every time.* <


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907-
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach this office without delay.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
HAVE A CARE FOR YOUR EYES.
The great Poet Milton asks :
Why was this sight
To such a tender hall of the eye confined i
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
National Remedy,
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/2 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by return post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
H. A. ROSE &, CO.,
Chemist and Druggist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ S.S.” : A very pleasing- feature of many of the popular
plays of recent date is the charming way in which the
moral responsibility is tempered to the sympathetic
characters. The blonde hero, for instance, is not subject
to the same laws of rectitude and right-thinking as the
black-browed villain. What is a gaudy and hideous sin in
the accepted rascal is quite a pleasant trait of character
in the nice young fellow who is leading juvenile or best
man of the play. For instance, there is a drama now
progressing favorably in Melbourne, the villain of which
has seduced the little sister of somebody or another.
The contumely, the scorn, the loathing that heap upon
the villain in consequence of that rash act pass human
belief, and it is cordially admitted that it is “ up to him ”
when he is stuck through with a sword, and stabbed to
death by the brother of his victim. The hero is a seducer
too. His victim is a beautiful young actress—generous,
loving, devoted. The hero abandons her for another,
who happens to be the wife of the villain ; but, strange to
say, nobody has an unkind word for the hero—nobody
admits for a single moment that he is anything but a
splendid fellow and a dear, delightful companion to take
home Sunday evenings, and he is not stuck full of cutlery
for his sins in the last act; on the contrary, he gets the
dead villain’s wife and slathers of gold and glory, along
with the freedom of the city and the blessing of the
church.
“ 10-2-4 ” : “ The Land of Gold ” should serve as a lesson
to Diver Hughes to drop rescuing for life. It is possible
to pay over-dearly for one’s hobbies. Met Hughes at
lunch about six weeks after his rescue act, and a quiet,
decent man he proved to be. Short, stout, and undis-
tinguished-looking, he spoke in gentle deprecating tones,
and flinched visibly at any mention of his feat. “It wor
nawthing nawthing whateffer,” he muttered, em-
barrassedly, at each fresh effort to “draw’’him. The
unhappy worker is now being represented nightly, at
Sydney Criterion, as the dramatic mind conceives him ;
he is neatly described by one character as “ the noberlest
creecher on Gawd’s gereen earth.” Hughes, in the play,
is tall and godlike (somewhat), and he possesses a
J. Knight voice. When he learns that Varischetti is
entombed, he takes the centre of the stage, hoists
an impressive forefinger, and declaims deafeningly ;
“ Enough 1 I mean to save the Eyetalyun’s life—or give
MY OWN!” It was fine. At short intervals the Criterion
Hughes howls resonantly such sentiments as, “ While
there’s one shred of hope for the Eyetalyan, I’ll not
giv’in ! I’ll not giv’in.” Also, “He lives ! he l-l-livks !
Thank He’vin, my prayers are answered, and HE
L LIVES !! " And so on. Some day the genuine Hughes
will wander into the Criterion and see what’s going on ;
and then, he will surely go and drop himself down the
nearest mine-shaft, and anyone trying to rescue him will
be treated despitefully.
“D.8.J.”: Am amazed at the ease with which Miss
Duggan nightly interprets her English cable in “ The
Land of Gold.” “ Your uncle,” she reads, with extreme
slickness, “has died, leaving you sole heiress to £20,000.
Kindly come back. Shark & Skinner, Family Solicitors.”
Have only received one cable in my life. The
wife was in England, and a day came when I was
handed the following: “ Flora—Explosion—Chook-Cbook
—Paralysis—Tree-frog—Death—Hbrswlsk.” And so, I
reflected sadly, it is ell over. She is no more. An ex-
plosion has occurred—a motoring accident, doubtless-
in which one or more fowls have been con-
cerned. Paralysis has supervened, and a tree-
frog has become involved somehow in the debris—and
afterwards, Death. I dropped into a chair, and- lam
not ashamed to own it—l broke down. Presently a friend
entered. “ Come to the cable-office,” he said, “ and un-
code the damn thing. ” We went. Translated, the message
indicated that my wife Flora had contracted chicken-pox
(alternative rendering “ spavined hocks”—if a horse) and
needed £5O immediately. “ Hbrswlsk ” was the tele-
graphic name and address of a firm of solicitors. But not
to avert Armageddon could I have solved that problem
without a code-book.
Seymour Hicks, the dashing young actor-manager who
married Ellaline Terriss, has been turning himself loose on
the common London practice of “ booing,” or howling
down a new play on its first night. Accused of having
paid applauders in the gallery, he denies that, but admits
stationing “10 or 12 burly men ” there with orders to
watch “half-a-dozen young enthusiasts who invariably
come and misbehave themselves,” and to turn them out
neck and crop if they really interrupt the performance.
All the trouble, says Hicks contemptuously, is caused
by “half-a-dozen youths—they are not more; I know
them by sight; and, having seen them, all resentment
has vanished.” The right to hoot at the end of the play
he grants freely—“ and I will come out and listen to your
censure, and I will go away and try to do better next
time. But give me a sporting chance. Let us offer the
best we have without interruption, however poor it may
be. If these young people are not sportsmen enough to
do this, out they go.”
A Maorilander from London : Barrie’s “ Peter Pan ” is
the most delightful play the author of “ The Admirable
Orichton,” “Little Mary,” and “Quality Street” has
turned out. It has done a thing few plays manage —
created a furore in America and England, really and
actually, not merely per advertisement. Americans
don’t “ cotton ” on to London theatrical fare as a rule ;
but “ Peter Pan ” flourishes alike here and there. The
Peter Pans have been many, but the performance of
American Maude Adams stands in the lead. Cecilia
Loftus played it here ; also pretty Pauline Chase, whose
sharp-cut little features and charm made her a taking
Peter in appearance, even if her acting did not come near
the Adams standard. Zena Dare, on tour in the part,
played it as one would expect a girl with a poster-smile
to do. She wore a gold cable bangle with Peter’s rags.
J. C, Williamson, when he produces the fairy play in
Australia, need not seek his Peter Pan abroad ; for the
Maori land child-actress, Addie Lorking, Hawtrey’s
Fauntleroy, would make an ideal Peter, if she is the
Addie that she was.
Nelson’s Encyclopaedia, now being put on
the Australian market, strikes the happy mean
between the literary and the journalistic. It
gives, in 50,000 articles, so well-condensed as to
be got into the compass of ten volumes, a summary
of human knowledge sufficiently ample for most
purposes, and thoroughly up-to-date. (It is indeed
a little ahead of the date sometimes, as in giving
Dalgety as the capital of Australia—which, of
course, it is going to be.) But the very long
article has been eschewed, and its place, for the
inquiring scholar, taken by a very ample system of
reference to standard works : this gives room for
a great mass of up-to-date facts. So far as a
month’s office test can tell, The Bulletin can say
a very good word for the Nelson Encyclopaedia. It
has so far supplied every demand made on it, from
furnishing a photograph of Keir Hardie to guide
a cartoonist, to giving an able summary of the
philosophy of Nietszche for a student. Dated
1907, the Nelson has real 1907 information. A
strong feature is made of the illustrations in color
and black-and-white. There are thousands of
them, and they help much to give clearness to the
articles.
“T.G.F.”: In a skirmish with some
natives in the North of Queensland once, I saw a
blackfellow shot in the right side, below the ribs,
the bullet making its exit near the navel, and
ripping just deep enough to allow part of the
bowels to protrude. The black immediately
squeezed the intestines back into his body with
both hands, and then, holding one hand over the
wound, plunged into the- river, and swam, with
one arm, to the opposite bank. He was then
carried by his mates to the camp, where he was
encased in cold clay from neck to hips. About
eight weeks later I saw the man with the wound
healed up arid in excellent health generally.
Latest issue of The Call, organ of the
N.S.W. National Defence League, is notable for
an article by Lord Milner and a cartoon by
Norman Lindsay. The Call is doing excellent
work in stimulating Australians to a sense
of their defence responsibilities, and deserves
cordial support.
H. L. STEVENS and H. B. JAMES on the
Dunlop-shod Darracq, which covered 777 miles
in 24 hours (on the road); world's record;
previous best, 606. Actual dr winy time , 21
hours 33 minutes, averaging 36 miles an hour.
Address of a letter received by an Adelaide
firm, from London, t’other day :
Messrs. D. and J. Fowler., Ltd.,
Port Adelaide,
Freemantle,
Broken Hill,
, Adelaide,
Australia.
And withal it got there safely.
From the Duoro (Spain), Victorian viticul-
tural expert Frangois de Castella has sent his
Government some details of port wine-making
which should add flavor to the fine old crusted
beverage among Australians who like the “real
thing,” and “can’tstand ‘Colonial’ wines.” He
observes that an essential feature of the ferment-
ation of port is the amount of “ work ” put into
the crushed grapes:—
This consisted of the energetic churning of the con-
tents of the “ lazars,” or large, shallow vats, by bare-
footed men. In the lazar, holding 15 or 20 pipes of wine,
20 men would be employed for at lea-t 24 hours to dance
on the grapes, which filled the vessel to the depth of an
inch, or so, over the men’s knees. The dancing or
trampling was not carried on continually, but in spells of
six hours at a time, separated by equal intervals of rest.
A glass of port, sir ? Excellent thing to settle the
stomach after a heavy dinner, sir.
Neat and compact scoring books are being
issued in connection with the English Xl.’s visit, by the
London and Lancashire Fire Insurance Co.
At the law courts, London, last month, a
bust of Lord St. Helier, late President of the
.Divorce Court, was unveiled. The inscription on
the made-in-Belgiurn plinth was as follows :
Bight Honorable Francis Henry, Baron St. Helier,
C.Cx.B., Justice of the Probate and Admirality Division,
1891-1892 ; President, 1892-1905.
Whereupon a British paper says in disgust
Ifc will be observed that instead of Grand Cross of
the Bath, the late Judge is credited with an honor
which does not exist, while the word “admiralty”
is misspelt, and all reference to Divorce is omitted in the
Division, etc., etc.
What the paper refrains from mentioning is that
the trouble arose, after all, solely from the exist-
mg British fiscal system, whereby the production
of most things, from plinths to the nation’s food
supplies, has been handed over to the foreigner.
“Agricola”: Round about Tumut(N.S.W.)
they grow some of the finest corn produced in
Australia. But the cookies are cursed with their
hawk-beaked namesakes, which arrive in clouds,
and in a very short time can lower the average
about three bushels to the acre. They usually try
to scare them off on horseback, but it is a heart-
breaking job. If the paddock should run any-
thing over 10 acres, it takes one man all his time
shifting them. As he scatters them at the bottom
of the paddock, they fly back over him to the top,
and between whiles both he and the horse collect
much perspiration. The common artificial scare-
crow, of cast-off garments, simply serves as a
look-out station for the use of the bird on watch.
But some time back a Tumut man had a highly
successful “ scare cockatoo.” Having captured a
large eagle-hawk in a trap, he built a 10-foot
platform in the middle of the paddock, and
tethered the prisoner thereon, giving him a
place where he could withdraw into the shade
occasionally. Cockatoos intent on sampling that
paddock develop much pace at the sight of the
hawk s benevolent countenance, and the fiendish
yells he sent after them didn’t cause them to
slack off any either. No one had to bother
about the crop that year. The only trouble was
the necessity of paying a daily visit to the hawk
with a couple of rabbits and some water. He
died before the next season, much regretted. Fail-
ing to catch another, the local cocky is now trying
to buy a cheap left-off lion from a menagerie to
roam through the crop and eat cockatoos.
A Victorian “ disap-
pearance ” mystery was
punctured last week by
a young woman of 27,
with a gift of vigorous
and direct Australian.
She left Elwood, in
Bent’s electorate, to buy
a dress; then, something
else getting into her
head, she sent a note to
her step-mamma saying
that she had gone to a
friend’s. Apparently,
step-mamma smelt a rat,
or a man, or something
objectionable; anyway,
she sent to the friend’s,
and the darling wasn’t
there. So she told the
police, and the police
told the reporters, and
the reporters told the
public under big black
headings; and 17 elo-
quent preachers began
to write sermonsabou t the
pitfalls and dangers of a
wicked world, with an
exhortation to the young
to remember that to-day
they are here and to-
morrow they may be no one knows where. But
they never finished those sermons; for Bent’s
constituent sent the fluttering step-mamma a brief
but copious message— “Why are you such a stupid -
head as to make a show of me ? Anyone would
think I was a kid. I will be home when you see
me.” It was all really just about as much of a
mystery as ever ; but the 17 eloquent preachers
tore up their notes—she was much too determined
and emphatic a young woman to draw morals
from for the benefit of a mixed congregation.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : I notice that nearly
every driver of a rabbit vehicle Back-o’-Yass has
some idea of artistic effect. It is quite common
to See all the curiously marked rabbits arranged,
in a group of divers colors, in a conspicuous part
of the conveyance. Yesterday, f’rinstens, at Gin-
ninderra and also at Gungahleen, I saw two rows of
black, white, grey, brown, red, kicked-dorg (that’s
yellow, of course), ginger, spotted and splashed
rabbits. The effect was striking. It made me
change my neck-tie.
“A. 0.8.” : In the barren north-west of
N.8.W., beyond sunset, where the gibbers grow,
and where the vacant township blocks are famous
for collections of glass bottles and empty tins,
the chief commodity is Goat —Goat in its various
forms of butter, cheese, milk, meat, and, last but
not least, scent; the last-named product has been
known to carry 100yds. without losing any of its
strength. It is estimated there are quite 500
goats about Milparinka. I have never sought for
proof ; they produce their own evidence. Some-
times they settle down round my camp, and I
believe there might be 5000. Anyhow I generally
get up and close the windows to give the oxygen
inside the room a chance. Sometimes I feel
ashamed to look a goat in the face for fear it
might recognise a long-lost brother, just like the
cannibal of old when he met the new missionary
for the first time.
Kitty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KITTY possessed a pair of pert blue eyes
and an impudent mouth, which gained
her the reputation of being flippant.
Her keen wit and ready tongue were
feared by careful mothers, who cautioned their
demure (but deaf) daughters against the girl.
Kitty was very fascinating and brilliant, they
said, but her tongue ran away with her. Gladys
and Violet must be on their guard, and nip any
little levity in the bud, else all intercourse with
Kitty must cease.
Violet and Gladys listened and agreed, then
rushed round to Kitty’s to inform her of their
parents’ injunctions, and to beg her to “takeoff”
the said parents, which the revengeful Kitty did
with gusto. For she was a born mimic, and
Gladys and Violet were a flatteringly appreciative
audience. The performance over, Kitty listened
indifferently to the risque stories which Violet and
Gladys delighted to relate in whispers. For
though Kitty never stuck at anything when she
wished to be amusing, she was seldom risque,
simply because risqueness did not appeal to her.
It had become so fashionable, she said, that it
was positively common.
Though Kitty received many confidences, she
never made any. Hence, her acquaintances con-
cluded, she had nothing to tell. The idea of
Kitty being in love was ludicrous. She was too
critical, they chorused, to have any sentiment.
Kitty’s lover would need to have the face of
Adonis, the strength of Hercules, and the brain
of Shakspeare.
He would have to be rich, well-born, and
witty, and love Kitty to distraction, else she
would not waste a thought on him. Kitty would
want a lot of wooing, but she would be faithful
when won. She would insist on being first, and
stand no philandering. In fact, her demands
were impossible, and no one ever expected that
she would be anything but an old maid.
Yet one fine day Kitty fell in love with a man,
plain, stunted, and unintellectual, poverty-
stricken, and icily reserved. He considered Kitty
a quaint little being, but never dreamt of falling
in love with her. Kitty drooped and sickened
with unrequited affection in vain, then rallied, and
made bold attempts to attract him. She had a
pretty wit, and he had a sense of humor, so her
efforts were not fruitless. Harding thawed at the
contact with her lively disposition, and found life
dull in her absence. After considerable hesita-
tion he made her an offer of marriage, which
Kitty, with a radiant face and throbbing heart,
joyfully accepted.
They did not announce their engagement im-
mediately, however, for Harding was too poor,
and it would be some time ere he could afford a
wife.
So Kitty hugged her new-found happiness in
secret, and grew in beauty as her love increased.
For, since Harding had looked kindly on her, she
had taken new interest in her wardrobe and
looking-glass. Kitty had someone to live for, to
prink for now.
Why did Kitty love Harding ?
Partly, perhaps, because she felt he was her
master ; the only person w'ho had ever dared con-
tradict or thwart her. Partly because he under-
stood her (Duke had singularly keen perception) ;
most of all because he was sick, and weak, and
needed mothering, for there was a strong element
of the maternal in Kitty’s love.
And Harding ?
Harding loved Kitty, because she had every-
thing he had not. Youth, beauty, brains, strength
—above all he loved her for her love, her childish
trust, confidence, and dependence on himself.
If all the world turned against him, Kitty would
remain true. If he were to become an outcast,
she would ask nothing better than to become an
outcast also. She would dare anything, and
count the sacrifice nothing for his sake.
Harding and Kitty had been engaged two years
when the accident occurred which robbed Kitty
of all that made life worth living. Pausing to look
after her lover in the crowded street she was run
down by a motor, to be picked up scarred, lamed,
and disfigured for life, a moaning heap from
which Harding shrank aghast, his pity swamped
in revulsion.
That —that thing was his promised wife—that
wrecked, devastated creature, which had once
been his brilliant, lively Kitty. Harding felt he
almost hated the inanimate bundle which lay in
mute appeal at his feet.
Six weeks elapsed before he saw Kitty again,
pallid and feeble in her bed in the private hos-
pital.
They had cut off her fine blonde hair, and a
bandage covered one eye and part of her cheek.
Her curving mouth was drawn with pain, and the
small hands, lying on the coverlet, were wan,
and shrunk, and transparent.
Harding seated himself beside her in silence,
laying a bunch of her favorite Black Prince roses
on her pillow as he did so. Kitty smiled, and
colored faintly.
“ Duke ! —and roses. Did they thank you for
the others, dear ? Every morning Duke’s message
and roses ! I think I lived on those messages,
those roses.”
“ Kitty ! ” groaned out Harding.
Her lips quivered.
“ It’s hard luck, isn’t it, Duke ? I’ve lost the
sight of one eye, and my cheek will always be
scarred. And—and—l’ll be lame for life, they
say. Don’t be angry ! I wrung it from them.
Of course you’re free, Duke. ”
“Do you take me for a cad ? ” muttered Hard-
ing, flatly.
Kitty lay silent, her breast heaving fast under
the fine white frills of her night dress. Harding
buried his face in his hand to hide from view that
bandaged cheek resting caressingly on his gift of
dark red roses.
“I couldn’t be married from pity,” she whis-
pered at last. “Hush, Duke. You must hear
me. I love you too dearly to let you sacrifice
yourself. It’s not as if I could bear my infirmity
nobly I’ m not the noble sort. I’d fret, and
grow bitter, and fractious. You’d shrink when
you looked at me, and come to hate me for a clog
and a burden. life under such circumstances
would be a Hell to us both. No, no, we must say
goodbye, and if the world knew ” —with a ghost
of her old reckless laugh—“ it would say you
were w'ell rid of a bad bargain.”
But the world never knew. Kitty took good
care of that. The world was foolish, and might
misjudge Duke.
So Harding passed out of her life, and Kitty
grew wilder and more flippant as the years went
by. Suffering had soured, rather than mellowed
her, the careful mammas declared, striving harder
than ever to keep their little innocents beyond the
reach of her influence.
But the girls were faithful to Kitty, who, they
declared, was a thousand times sweeter and more
sympathetic since her accident.
Kitty smiled and shrugged in public, and wept
bitter tears in secret.
And Harding ?
To Harding, Kitty soon became a memory,
lor, as soon as Kitty left the hospital, he packed
his trunks and w'ent abroad, where newer faces
and newer love claimed him.
But to the end of his days he abominated motor-
cars, and worse than snakes and scorpions did he
hate the sight of a Black Prince rose !
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


OUR XMAS CATALOGUE
POST FREE,
is now ready, it shows Fancy Goods and other gewgaws dear to the heart of woman,
and is sure to be appreciated as a Christmas Gift." A section devoted to Toyland
will interest Young Australia, as for the “Mere Man” there are all those
articles that convention approves, as Christmas gifts for menkind.
‘DIABOLO,’ the New Game
is illustrated and priced, and if it only proves as interesting as the title would lead
one to suppose it should be popular in Australia. At Home, “ Cook’s sons, Duke’s
sons, Sons of a Millionaire,” are all playing it with equal fervor. The game is also
as popular amongst women.
Prices for this game range from 1/-, and the selection may be seen in our new and
enlarged Toy Department down stairs. If you cannot call, write, and we will post
it to you carriage paid. Instructions how to play Diabolo are given with every set.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
us
CL
XMAS GIFTS
A SEASONABLE GIFT is a
Camera Outfit.
The “METEOR’* Outfit. Price 27/6.
Comprising' a “ Meteor ” Camera (J-plate), takes photos 4Jin. x ,3Jin.
Fitted with Rapid Achromatic Lens, T. and I. Shutter, Rotating
Stops, Two View Finders, Two Magnifiers for Portraits, &c., Canvas
Case with Shoulder Straps, and a Complete Developing and Printing
Outfit “B.” Price of “Meteor” Camera without Outfit, 16/6.
The No. O or No. 1 “VICTOR. ** OUTFIT. Price 45/-
For photos 4]in. x 3Jin. (i-plate). These Magnificent Cameras are now so well known that description is
unnecessary. A Case and Complete I). and P. Outfit accompanies each Outfit for above price.
The price of No. 0 or No. 1 Cameras, without Outfit, is 32/6.
We are offering similar outfits in all grades of Cameras : — The “ Crackshot ” Outfit complete, price 16/-;
Crackshot Camera only, price 8/6. The No. 1 “ Folding Victor ” Outfit, price 45/- complete ; Camera
only, 35/-. The i-plate “ Favorite ” Camera Set, with Outfit, complete, £7 ss. Price of “Favorite”
Camera set only, £5 ss. And so on through various other grades.
EVERY POSSIBLE REQUISITE USED IN PHOTOGRAPHY STOCKED LARGELY.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.,
Headquarters: 386 George Street (Near
Society
FENFOLD'S
WINES
Advocated in U.S.A. by no less a person
than the Federal Attorney-General that the
habitual criminal should be executed :
I would not have a man hanged for a trifling theft, but I
would have modern society cease to nourish and shelter
its proved and inveterate enemies. When a man has
been three times convicted of major crimes he should be
liable to the death penalty.
The idea reflects that contemptforthe sacrednessof
human life which is growing so rapidly in America
—nourished by constant nigger-burning episodes.
A more humane and reasonable way to deal with
the “habitual” is to imprison him until he has
learned to work, and to make him work for his
keep while he is incarcerated. Hardly any human
creature is absolutely hopeless of reform—until he
has been hanged by the neck. He is then beyond
redemption in this world.
NOT IN STOCK.
“ Won’t you give me a little kiss?"
“ Why not? ”
“ Cant possibly .”
“ Don’t keep small sizes.”
. N.S.W. s immigration propagandists get
S r e i, b ; U o bt i le ; Vork , T W ar J d again - Following
is the literal translation of the conclusion of a
notice which appeared in the Domenica del
Corriere, Italy (20/10/’O7): —
In fact, the N.S.W. Government offers a second-class
ticket from London to Sydney for the sum of £3 (viz., 75
francs !), to travel on the be? fc steamship company of the
Empire. The servants willing to go shall be received
2 and p treated , llke princesses. They shall
have a good salary, few hours work, the use of the piano,
and numerous outings. . . . Altogether, here is a new
country of Ouccagua (milk and honey). The candidates
must be of good moral character, not irritable, and know
the English. That’s all that is needed.
There was, a while ago, a baby-show in
Maoriland, with a local pompous Dogberry acting
as secretary. Providence had specially designed
him for the purpose. He was fearfully and
wonderfully smug and self-satisfied ; blatantly
domineering ; a born bullier of women. Mothers
hastened thither with their offspring, casting
timid glances at the tremendous official, who,
feeling himself an object of awe, swelled visibly.
A ruddy young mother came rushing in late to
enter something extra-special in infants. “How
old ?” demanded the secretary. “Seven months
and two weeks,” replied the mother. “ Then you
can’t enter it—two weeks too old.” “Oh,”
pleaded the young woman, “you might—he’s
such a lovely”• “I tell you,” persisted the
secretary, “you can’t enter it.” Then in a voice
of aggravated authority: “Madam, I have
already told you your infant is illegitimate !”
She recoiled, as though he had hit her. Pande-
monium broke loose. Matrons grabbed their kids
and stampeded the entrance ; shrieks, alarums
and excursions, a violent husband with a dog whip
and a threat for libel, ensued in rapid and be-
wildering succession. Now a very limp secretary
is trying to explain that he meant “ineligible.”
* * * *
The Acting- Judge business is getting over-
done in N.S.W. It is becoming remarkably like
that Doctors’ Commons procedure which Dickens
pilloried in “David Copperfield ’’—where the
Judge and advocate of to-day in one Court
changed places and became the advocate and
Judge of to-morrow in another Court. The
Acting-Judges in Quarter Sessions are
now, it seems, chosen exclusively from
the regular Crown Prosecutors, who, as a
rule, are not regarded as quite in the first
flight. To-day A may be prosecuting on the floor
of the Court; to-morrow, judging on the dais;
the next day back on the floor of the Court, and
so on —he bobs up and down. If Judges are
wanted, the Government should appoint them ;
and if the Crown Prosecutor is the fittest man,
send him on the Bench permanently. If there
are fitter men at the Bar, appoint one of them.
* * * *
Smug paragraph, published with no hint
of execration, by Sydney D.T.
The Archbishop of Sydney preached at the Church
of England week-day service at. Darlinghurst Gao],
on Wednesday morning. The service was attended
by Miljs Saumarez Smith, Captain and Mrs.
Neitenstein, Rev. H. and Mrs. Saumarez Smith,
Miss Cox (Prisoners’ Aid Association), and Mr.
and Mrs. J. Inglis. Rev. C. E. Amos, visiting
Anglican chaplain, also officiated. The service was held
in the circular chapel in the centre of the gaol, the
prisoners entering the building from the various wings
along- the elevated galleries. . . . The Archbishop’s dis-
course was simple, full of encouragement and exhorta-
tion. The singing was hearty, practically everyone join-
ing ; the rendering of the hymns was specially lusty. A
prisoner officiated at the organ, while another prisoner
sang the solo, “An Anchor of the Soul, Both Sure and
Steadfast,” in excellent voice. The female inmates were
out of sight of the men, in their own gallery overhead.
The visitors were provided with service cards printed
in the gaol press.
What hideous taste this making a social show of
a gaol service, with an Archbishop to preach at
the caged wretches and his female relatives and
friends to flaunt their freedom !
How’s this for bush pluck ? A miner of
Barrington (N.S.W.) was windlassing his mate up
• . £)nf , ,\. , , , u . 1
a •“Oft. sbafc when he felt something moving
between his feet. His backbone zeroed as he saw
a . ti f er sna c J i . e of some length coiling round one of
fiis legs. Since two charged holes were spitting
in the shaft-bottom he couldn’t lower his mate.
and the windlass not being provided with a sprag
for the handle, it was impossible to hang him up
in Sn lioinoi Go toaft f
wi 6 i i?° he 1 U 1 be ? n ? teet “ An( * Pudfd.
y hen the shartsman was landed his mate killed
the reptile, and, unbitten, strolled across to the
pub for a pint.
A HOPELESS ENTERPRISE.
COMPANY PROMOTER'S WIFE : “Now, George , I want you to float me, clear.”
GEORGE (absent-mindedly): “Heavens! Who would take up the shares?”
“We must have free access to Shylock’s
daughter as well as his ducats if Shylock is to be
transformed into a genuine Englishman.”-AGE,
■vr ... , T , , ~ j.j ~ ~ .
Nov. 16. (It probably didn t quite mean that.)
* * * *
John Wren, late of the Totes, is now
being advertised in Melbourne as a coming
theatrical manager of tremendous enterprise and
high and noble intentions. Freak photos of John
in his new capacity, with his hair brushed up
severely and a dramatic expression in his off eye,
are being published, and it is said he has a
dramatic company ordered from ’Otoe. When we
last heard from J.W. he Was bringing a vast
npwsnaner nbint from 4morion
newspapei plant trotn America. *
.
“ 4.2.10 writes :
Bulletin castigates from time to time the travelling
Britisher who blithers of his exalted birth, but how of
the local product who works the same game? At my
hash-house there abides one Fraser and his wife. Fraser
is tall, lissom, romantic-looking and damfoolish ; he sur-
rounds a precarious 50s. per week, by clerking in a coke
factory. Fraser claims to be “a Lovat.” He’s been
doing it so long that I fancy he half believes his yarns
himself by now. With depressing iteration he and his
wife (nee Murray, and hence “ one of the Dunmores ”)
discuss their Tided Relatives. There is no greater trial
than to have to sit through an indifferent meal and hear
people talk of relatives they haven’t got. It is social
coniidende-business, for which no legal redress has been
provided. Several times at the end of one of Fraser’s
fanciful and intelligence-insulting descriptions of the left
wing of the Lovat humpy I have felt inclined to do the
man a mischief. We all know that Fraser is no Lovat
(his parents educated him on the proceeds of an Annan-
dale lolly emporium); also, no one of us believes that his
wife—who comes of a Balmain wharf-lumping family—has
any connection with the Dunmore crowd ; and, finally,
there isn’t a soul in the entire hash-foundry who’d be
interested worth a slice of toast if they were both of
them genuine pure-bred Norfolk-Howards. But they
can’t see it; and there are others like them. I’d move to
the establishment at the bottom of the street, but they’ve
got a Cecil there who proves nightly, by a weird and im-
probable series of arguments, that he’s the rightful
Marquis of Salisbury.
* * * *
“D.H.R.” : Who buys the many and
various false grinders with which the Sydney
pawn shops are loaded ? And are they mostly
reft from the quick or the dead? Like the theodo-
lites, guitars, concertinas, liorologues, mastodons,
and earthquakes eternally on exhibit in such
emporiums, they seem to be there for decorative
purposes mainly. It is avowed by people of evil
mind that the second-hand ivories are worked up
by dentists into new sets. If this be so, it must
cheer the well-shekelled person who pays for a
set to replace those that all his wealth failed to
keep, when he reflects, during dinner, that the very
identical bones he is using may have once watered
at the odor of a hot saveloy in a mean street
of a Saturday night—aye, or clicked against the
chopsticks of a Chow.
*** . *
The Rev. Mr. Fergus, a prominent parson
at the Presbyterian Workers’ Conference in Mel
bourne, speaking of Sabbath-breaking, said he
was shocked when he heard of a Presbyterian
“ leaving the communion table onarecent Sunday
morning to go home and play tennis with his
children.” Think, too, of the anger of a just God
at this most mortal sin !
It has been variously estimated that the
short-lived strike in Newcastle cost the different
interests involved from a quarter to half a million
sterling. JBut everyone didn t lose. A big ship-
ping fi ® m had a ste amer loaded at the Dyke with
over 6000 tons of coal at 10s. a ton when the
trouble started. It was destined for a foreign
P orfc > but a Sydney shipping co. with its mail con-
tracts to kee P bou^ t the wh ° le at £3 a ton '
mi . , , , ~ , . .
tliis note lets some more light m upon
unfair statement about miners’ earnings,
issued by the mine-owners during the coal strike :
The mine-owners say that as much as 17s. 6d. a day was
earned.at Brown’s Duckenfield colliery. But that was
only obtained by men working pillars. These pillars are
the supports to the roof during the development of the
mine. They are taken out when all the other mineral
has been won. The people who express astonishment at
th /r magnitude of the miner’s earnings wouldn’t work a
JV ar for £l7, let alone lis., a day. Its more exciting
/, han hunting big game in India. The roof, crushing
down on the pillar after the timber supports have been
dra 'Y n fr ° ln the corked-out sections intermittently
cr apks and groans, and now and then falls with a noise to
which the Israelites shout at the walls of Jericho is only
a . circumstance. Here the miner must work (for addi-
tlonal safety) with a Davy lamp, whose illuminating
P° wers , wou < 136 sc ° rne <l by a self-respectmg firefly,
These places are not relished by the average miner ;
'Y ere 16 not * or vas tly better pay he would not work
tn em. * # * ■
_ ~
R- Mac. : As IHE BULLETIN pointed
out with regard to the Jumbunna (Vic.) coal
mines, whose owners complain that they can’t
. , vA-. .
• J nmer -, curses have a habit of
coming home to roost. It is that way up at
Minmi, Newcastle district. In the early ’nineties
the 21 years’ lease of the quarter-acre blocks on
which the workmen had built their houses ran out.
I nste ad of renewing the leases, as the men had
•°. , • ,
pxpccted, the rmne-owners took possession, and
imposed a weekly rental. Ihe miners had spent
their money in fencing their blocks and building
their homes, and now they lost everything.
During the comparatively slack period of the coal
trade, notwithstanding that the work of winning
coal is harder at Minmi than elsewhere, there was
no shortage of men. But as soon as other collieries
wanted men, and the Maitland mines began to
open up, they drifted out of Minmi; and, ever
since, Minmi has called in vain. There is still a
bit of a village left there, but it goes on shrinking
worse than imported shoddy,
* * * *
The Presbyterian General Assembly has
just finished an eight days’ “session” in Welling-
ton (M.L.). There was a great gathering one day
for the annual meeting of the Women’s Mission
Union. Besides the women and men, there were
nearly 250 parsons present. Intense concern was
expressed for the unhappy unsaved in Poona, and
Kamschatka, and Canton, and Thibet, and drastic
resolutions were passed anent(theScotsman always
says “ anent ”) the steep and slippery track down
which the colored world is whirling. Everybody
was called upon to subscribe to stop the whirl,
The hat was there and then sent round, and
returned with—£B! It worked out at about
twopence ha’penny each. Which shows that the
Presbyterian purse is more sensible than the
Presbyterian tongue. It would be a sin to waste
more than 2M. to “convert ” the colored heathen.
HER ROSE AND MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love the whole world
And its garden-ways less
Than the rose, the red rose,
That she wears in her dress.
I sought till I found,
Where the bees dream and dote,
A sister red rose
Just to pin in my coat.
I was made to be friends
AVith the flowers in their need,
And when a rose laughs
I am happy indeed.
I said to the rose,
“ O Rose, can you guess
How sweet are the leaves
Of the rose in her dress?
“ Do you hunger, O Rose,
For a delicate bliss?
When you mingled as one
AA r ould you swoon in a kiss ?
“ Would it be all a shame,
O Red Flower of the South,
When your leaves touched its leaves,
If my mouth met her mouth ? ”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
CURES
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and ‘‘Electrical ” ring-s, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write —
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
THE. “ADAPTE ” HAT !
Price,
12/6.
Postage
9d. Extra.
WE call this the “ Adapte ” hat because you
adapt it to any shape. You can crease
the crown down the centre—you can
dent it in the front—turn it up or down at back
or front—wear it turned down at either side or
all round. It’s a hat of lightning changes—a
magnificent shade hat—smart, yet negligee, and
you can give them the same use and abuses as
a Panama. We have sold a great number of
them, and are still selling them for Summer
days. We have it in three shades—in
delightfully soft and genuine fur.
Lig'Ht Grey,
Dust Fawn,
Stone Brown,
With contrasting band.
BRIM 3 INCHES,
PEAPES & CO* LTD*,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,’
300-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Members of Sydney City Council are
beginning to smart under a long-continued cam-
paign of criticism levelled at them by the Sydney
papers. The aldermen have the same grievance
■"s members of Parliament; they can make intelli-
gent and well-weighed speeches on important
issues, and not the slightest notice will be taken
in the papers. But the ill-timed jest, the rude
interjection, or boorish rowdiness of any insig-
nificant gets enthusiastic press report. It is a
solemn fact that the buffoonery of Tommy Bent
takes up more room in the Sydney papers than
the doings of any politician in any of the other
States. There are some clever men on the Sydney
City Council, yet the cleverest speech on an im-
portant municipal question goes unnoticed. But
if one alderman should invite another to come
“outside,” or make a vulgar scene, he can safely
count on a couple of scare headings, and perhaps
a leaderette.
THE LAST STRAW .
MRS. BROWN : “So that wretch has jilted your
Bella, after callin' to see her all these years? ”
MRS. SOBLEY : “Yes; the poor girl’s fairly heart-
broke. But (sniff) I wouldn’t mind that so
much if the canoodlin’ villain hadn’t been
an’ wore out me fine Genoa-velvet s-s-sofa!”
Among the members of the Presbyterian
Church Workers’ Conference, held in Melbourne,
there were some humble followers of “the meek
and lowly.” For example, one man, who says
he is an Indian Mutiny veteran, deplored “the
desecration of the Sunday,” and said he would be
prepared to “fire” again in defence of Sunday.
He added that he believed he would “have to
take up the sword again to save the young genera-
tion.” And “all they that take the sword shall
perish by the sword.”
Justice Pring has declared the law on one
of the most difficult sections of the N.S.W. Liquor
Act—that no publican is to sell liquor to an
habitual drunkard. Briefly, the Act gives power
to the police, or others, to take out a prohibition
order against any person. This prohibition order
is issued to all publicans, and the Act provides a
fine for any licensee who sells drink to the pro-
hibited person. The difficulty comes in that Bung
may know the Act and he may know the prohibition
order, but the person named therein maybe to
him a total stranger. The Judge has decided that
this ignorance is no excuse for the publican. The
onus of serving a prohibited person was on the
publican. Mikado-like, he said that there was
nothing in the Act about not knowing, or not being
aware, or not understanding.
* * * *
The bell at present in use at St. Matthias
Church of England (Bombala) was the first
church bell ever rung in Sydney. It was br ought
out originally by Governor Phillip, and has rung
each Sunday in Bombala for the past 40 years.
♦ * * *
“Snell”: Have been to the Women’s
Work Exhibition, and I came away with a confused
idea of a vast jumble fair. The exhibits cover an
immense amount of space, but you feel that they
are spread thin with the intention of making you
tired viewing the magnitude of the works of
woman. There is good stuff, of course, but a vast
quantity of utter rubbish, and, as a nasty man, I
can’t see that the sex scores one-tenth of the glory
a cowardly press has poured out at its compressed
feet. The most satisfactory exhibits are the
pretty girls who tend stalls and make lollies. On
the whole, and in the art departments particu-
larly, the great fair is less an exhibition than an
exposure.
* * ■* *
Sydney’s Water and Sewerage Board and
the Works Department, which are always snarl-
ing at each other, have one sorrow in common.
They can’t get rock-choppers. The Board has
some big projects in hand, including the reticula-
tion of new suburbs, most of them sprawling over
pure Hawkesbury sandstone, through which the
tunnels for the mains and drains have to be cut.
Driving by hand through this sandstone is said to
be one of the deadliest occupations known. The
grit and stone dust cannot be kept out of the lungs,
and to continue at the game is certain death
in about five years. The Wafer Board, to attract
labor, now pays 9s. for a six-hour day, and can’t
get men to apply for a job. It is reckoned futile
to further raise the rate of pay. Even 15s. or 18s.
is a poor daily wage to tempt a man in a gamble
with death, so it is proposed to import Italians for
the work. Italian miners were largely employed
in the Cataract contracts, and worked well.
Hence the idea of importing more. The
inference seems to be that all the high-class Italian
workmen who worked at Cataract have died in
consequence, or they would be available now. It
would seem to be a fair thing to explain the facts
to any Italian miner who is asked to come out.
Can’t some machinery be designed to do the work ?
Coal-cutting machines were devised in the interests
of dividends. Sandstone cutters, with a spraying
attachment, for the purpose of saving human life
are surely not impossible.
* * * •
The collective Chutney Singh of Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) imported a special brand of coffee-
colored spiritual adviser from India, on a six-
months exemption permit. Recently the
permit was suddenly withdrawn, and
the Rev. Indian was ordered to make
himself suddenly scarce. He
didn’t. Continuing to spiritu-
ally advise with much
profit, Shah was wind-
ing up the Moham-
medan thirty - day
fast at the Chutney
New Year celebra-
tions recently,
when the Law
suddenly disor-
ganised the cere-
monies by firmly
taking him by his
ear, and rushing
him aboard the
train for the
coast, and put-
ting him in
safety for
speedy
' deporta-
tion. The
wail of
the out-
raged
“faithful”
nearly split the
Heavenly thatch,
and a perspiring
brown deputation rushed
Perthward to get the Go-
vernment to start an instant
revolution or something against
the Commonwealth for the outrage. But
preparations for the prayer man’s forcible de-
parture go forward.
* * * *
The Law will listen to almost any argu-
ment with a straight face, so long as there is a
gent, one there to earn a fee by advancing it at
great length. T’other day three learned Judges
in Victoria sat and listened solemnly while an
expensive barrister argued that a trustee of a
friendly society couldn’t be convicted of larceny
of the funds because he was a trustee, and, there-
fore, he was merely monkeying with his own
money. Also, they sat and pondered deeply while
another expensive barrister put the contrary view.
Then they cogitated for about a month before
firing the ass of a proposition out on its long ear.
S.A. Supreme Court is busy reversing
police-court decisions which have dismissed
betting-charges. The P.M. is, as a judge, one of
the old-fashioned type, who want everything
proved. Thus, when a man in a quiet street is
shown to have said, “I’ll pay nowon the Cup”
(and paid), it is held to be not proved that he
mightn’t be an amiable lunatic, or an actor giving
a dramatic recital. And a man on the Flat at
Morphettville, calling out, “ Full tote odds,” and
paying on production of his printed tickets, is
benevolently allowed the chance that he might
have been collecting contributions from perfect
strangers to take them over and put them in the
machine. Then the police appeal, and Chief
Justice Way—who himself never races or bets—
takes a man-of-the-world view, says that amiable
lunatics are scarce, and that a Judge maybe pre-
sumed to know what “ 5 to 2 the favorite ” means;
and Ikey has to pay his little fine with a double
share of Costs.
Bowel complaint is sure to be prevalent
during the fruit season. Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy gives prompt
relief.*
Acting-Judge Browning has laid down a
sensible principle in dealing with two thieves at
Mudgee (N.S.W.). One had embezzled from a
private employer, the other from the Common-
wealth Government. Stealing from the Govern-
ment, said the Judge, was a crime of much
greater magnitude than stealing from an ordinary
citizen, and he gave the one thief double the
penalty that he handed out to the other.
It is a sound principle of law that in
criminal cases punishment should be made extra-
heavy when other deterrents are weak. For
instance, it is a greater crime to steal a horse
worth £lO than a suite of furniture worth £2O,
because the horse is so much easier to steal, and
the greater temptation and the smaller risk of
discovery must be in a way compensated for by
the promise of an extra-heavy punishment.
Now there is in most minds less conscientious"
scruple about robbing the Government than about
robbing a private individual ; for there is no
dread of ruining the Government. And the law
courts should make up for that by imposing an
added penalty on the man who victimises the
Government.
* * * *
The late Dr. W. C. Speece, the “Cuss”
or “Medicuss” of many valuable newspaper
paragraphs, did his best to get first-class
medical men to make nervous diseases a
specialty. First-class men are specialising in
every other form of complaint, but, as Speece
was fond of showing, there is little disposition
to go deeply into nervous affections. No matter
what the origin of the trouble may be the
diagnosis of “incipient general paralysis” covers
the lot, and the treatment is nearly always the
same. “ Medicuss ” insisted that hosts of persons
who find their way to lunatic asylums might have
been set right if nervous disorders had been
specialised in Australia to the same extent as
other diseases.
A pastor, of Wellington (M.L.), has issued
a circular to his flock pointing out why it
shouldn’t emulate the frisky lambkin and shake a
foot in the sinful dance. The pastor, who seems to
have a pretty poor opinion of the soil over which he
has scattered the good seed, as well as an intimate
acquaintance with the ways of places that aren’t
exactly pulpit, gives 30 “selected ” reasons ; and
these few form the waist and middle of the
warning :
(18) The decollete dress of the dance is an immoral
invention of harlots.
(19) The “german’’and other round dances are favorites
in brothels.
(20) The liberties indulged in dancing are nowhere else
allowed in decent society, and under other circumstances
they furnish ground for divorce.
(21) It brings virtue into close connection with vice at
late hours and undue excitement, in which virtue is well-
nigh powerless.
Certainly if our reverend brother feels that he is
well-nigh “powerless,” he ought to keep away.
But why should he insult decent, normal people
by assuming that they are freaks who ought to
also put themselves under lock and key ?
* * * *
The submarine begins to prove itself by
its accidents. Two of these French sword-fish met
in collision under water last week, the Bonite and
the Souffleur. Both were injured, but both got
safely back to port. Submarine navigation comes
close to the usual when vessels can survive under-
sea collision.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
RECIPROCITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While Doctor D., with mystic term,
Was labelling a curious germ,
The microbes in the veins of D.
Were dancing-, dancing merrilee —
With loud “ Ha, Ha ! ” and wild “ Ho, Ho ! ”
“ He’s studying Nature —let him go ! ”
Said D.—“O, quaint primordial spore,
I’ve got your measurements aft and fore ;
Your epithelium, soft and fine,
I’ve got it mapped out, line by line :
Your plasmic core, bacterial elam,
Weighs just one-twenty-millionth gram ;
Your ravenous ways are known to me,
Your breed and seed and familee ;
To-day, O pampered parasite,
You bit my fav’rite zoophyte ;
And yesterday, I find, you rode
To death a ramping rhizopode.
Now tell me this—O Microbe Gay—
Why passions bad your bosom sway ?
And while the Germ he questioned so,
Its Brethren sang, “ Ha, Ha ! Ho, Ho ! ”
The while within the veins of D.
They went on dancing merrilee,
And sang a metamorphic song :
“ We’ll get him down—it won’t be long ;
We’ll show him what the birth-rates be
Among us Animalculse ;
We’ll range him till we get our rights
Upon his rav’ning phagocytes ;
And when we rule his whole inside
We’ll let men find out why he died,
And tell the world—“ This Noble Man,
He knew the whole bacillian clan ! ”
But, vein by vein, and limb by limb,
Will our bacteria go through him,
Until each gentle diatome
With him will feel itself at home.
In studying Us he got Renown ;
In studying Him we’ll Get Him Dowm ! ”
While Doctor D. with mystic term
Was labelling a curious germ,
The Microbes in the veins of D.
Were dancing, dancing merrilee
With loud “ Ha, ha ! ” and wild “ Ho, ho !
He’s studying Nature —Let him go ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
G.P.O
[For Tiib Bulletin.]
Z* HERE’S a dainty corps that marches
Through the shady way,
Neath the lofty Pagan arches,
All the live-long day;
No stern convention’s fetters
To the ankles show
Of the girl ivho gets her letters
At the G.P.O.
In anticipation thrilling
Of the future joy,
That her soul will soon be filling
When she meets her boy,
N.s.w.
As she ponders o'er the kisses
That shell shortly know.
And she reads of coming blisses
At the G.P.O.
If his ardor is abating
Never falls her face ;
There’s another boy awaiting
Who will take his place ;
For Love has plenty debtors —•
As the clerks ivell know
For the girl who gets her letters
At the G.P.O.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English
Engines,
Engines,
Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers
. Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Caj Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English Saturday Review turns some of
its heavy guns on to “ Colonial Life Insurance Offices,”
Their expenses of management, it says, are much larger
than those of British offices : “ In many cases the colonial
offices spend more than 25 per cent, of the premium in-
come for commission and expenses, while several of our
home offices manage their business for 10 per cent, or
less.” Such a summary doesn’t do the Saturday Review
credit. There are but three British offices tiiat
work at under 10 per cent., and the Scottish Widows,
the greatest of them, shows 9.8 per cent. Many
others go beyond 20 per cent. British Equit-
able, 26'7 per cent. ; Manufacturers’ Life, 29 per
cent.; and Rock, 21‘3 per cent., for instance. But
such figures are of very little value, anyhow.
Everything, almost, depends upon the proportion of
new business the office is getting : a stagnant co. which
shows 10 per cent., may be infinitely more extravagantly
managed than a progressive co. which shows 20 per cent.
And while the Saturday Review was saying that many
“colonial” offices show a 25 per cent, expense rate.it
might fairly have said also that some show less than 15
per cent.
On the other hand, the Review admits that the
“ colonial ” offices are able to earn more interest. But
then it makes the astounding statement that “ the real
test in this matter is not the actual rate of interest
earned, but the difference between the rate of interest
assumed in valuing the liabilities and the rate realised.”
The contention is plain rubbish. The rate assumed does
not affect the income one ha’penny. It, certainly may
affect the bonuses ; but only in this way. An
office assuming a high rate of interest will be
able to fix its premiums on a low scale ; while
an office assuming a low rate of interest will have to fix
its premium rates higher. If they then both actually
earn the same interest, the latter office will be able to pay
the bigger bonuses. But it will only pay bigger bonuses
because it first collects bigger premiums. So far as
actual profit is concerned, assumed rate counts for
nothing, and actual rate counts for everything ; and the
average Australian rate is at least 12s. fid. per cent,
better than the British. Finally, the Review says :
“There is one objection to be faced in assuring in a
colonial office. If a co. chooses to withdraw from the
U.K. it can take all its assets with it; and if
it fails to pay an English policy-holder or annuitant,
either through inability or on account of a dispute,
legal proceedings to enforce the claim become an awkw aid
business.” With that The Bulletin cordially agrees. The
Review probably doesn’t observe, however, that it cuts
both ways. If it isn’t good enough for an Englishman to
do business with an Australian co., for exactly the same
reason it isn’t good enough for an Australian to do busi-
ness with a co. that hasn’t its home in Australia.
The new Sydney station and yards added
£693,864 to the capital cost of theN.S.YV. railways last
year. All that was provided out of revenue to write off
the cost of the old, demolished station, lines, yards, etc.,
was £35,245. Heaven and tne Railway Accountant only
know the amount at which those demolished works still
stand in the books, nominally representing “permanent
and reproductive ” assets ; no Railway balance-sheet is
published which allows the public to see what the figure
is. If the thing that doesn’t exist remains in the books
for so much as tuppence, some of the recent freight and
fare reductions were a scandal, and little less than a
fraud on the Cohen who has lent N. S. Wales the money
for railway works.
. * * * • *
N. S. Wales street tramways gave the follow-
ing results for three years past:—
Working Return on
June, Earnings. Expenses. Investment.
1905 .. £818,569 £685,682 £3 40 4 p.c.
1906 .. 851,483 665,083 5 1 7
1907 .. 908,701 727,947 4 18 S „
For the past year the balance, after paying working
expenses and writing off certain amounts, totalled
£180,754; and after paying interest, £48,961 remained.
The amounts written-off were as follow :—Reducing
capital cost of old cable plants, etc., North Shore £20,000,
and Ocean-street, £25,000; writing down old disused
steam and cable rolling stock, £25,000. But though it is
stated that these amounts have been charged up to work-
ing expenses, the items cannot be followed in the pub-
lished “Abstract of Working Expenses.” Apparently they
are included in “ Repairs and Renewals.” Apparently also
the City lines are charged with the bulk or all of the
items. The North Shore lines are certainly not charged
with the £20,000 by which the capital cost of the old
cable installation on that side of the Harbor has been
written down. In spite of that, the North Shore system
remains the most unprofitable in the State ; the working
expenses last year amounted to £54,806, or only £1256
less than the gross revenue, which meant that the State
had to subsidise this system (and incidentally the Sydney
Ferries, Ltd.) to the extent of £9816, the balance of the
interest bill. And on top of that the City lines had to
pay a large sum towards reducing the capital cost of
the discarded cable lines on the North Shore.
Tasmania has £300,000 of trouble coming home
to roost in a few months; and the A.M.P. has under-
taken to take it up in one block at 3J per cent. The
same society lias taken up a little £17,0U0 Adelaide city
loan at a price that yields £3 16s. per cent.
* * * *
Apropos the pretty widely-held belief that the
unclaimed balances held by banks run to very large
sums, the Canadian return is interesting; it shows that,
on an average, less than 2s. per £lOO of deposits is un-
claimed. To be “ unclaimed,” money has to belong to an
account which has been left untouched for five years or
upwards.
* * * *
The Western Australian Bank
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1901.. £17,476 17J p.c. =£8,750 £8,726 £233,131
Mar., 1902.. 17,416 17| ~ „ 8,750 8,666 241,797
Sept., 1902.. 15,489 ,, „ 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 175- ~ ~ 8,i50 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 17| ~ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17Jp.c. = 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17£ „ „ 10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17| „ „ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ „ 12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 ~ ~ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 „ „ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ ~15,000 12,993 411,318
The bank has almost got into the habit of making a fresh
issue of shares after every two years, and another 2500
will now go out, though at what premium has not yet
been settled. They are £lO shares : the last lot, issued at
a premium of 100 per cent., have latterly been
carrying a 20 per cent, div., so the return on the
investment is 10 per cent. Practically that issue
meant a bonus of, say, £37,500 to shareholders. The
issue four years ago (at £l2 10s. premium) was at the rate
of one new' for four old shares ; the issue two years ago
(£lO premium) was one to five ; the coming issue will be
one to six. This will bring the issued shares to 17,500 ;
and there are 25,000 authorised. On account of these
issues of shares at a premium, the dividend is, of course,
really less than 20 per cent. For instance, supposing a
man in 1903 held 100 shares at par (£10). Assuming the
newest issue will be at £lO premium, he will then have
175 shares, and the return on that lot will he really 13§
percent., supposing the dividend is kept nominally at 20
per cent. To that extent, the bank’s nominal 20 per cent,
is deceptive.
The business is exceedingly profitable. On the
basis of capital and reserves combined, profits show this
return :
Mar., 1904 £ll 0 5 p.c. Mar., 1906 £8 14 5 p.c.
Sept., 1904 11 6 9 „ Sept., 1906 9 1 9 „
Mar., 1905 9 7 9 „ Mar., 1907 9 310 ~
Sept., 1905 9 4 9 „ Sept., 1907 10 4 2 „
Nor is it certain that this gives the full fatness of the
results. The bank has a head-office and 50 branches;
and, though it probably isn’t always housed in a palace—
Meekatharra, and Murrin Murrin, and Leonora don’t look
like places where you would be liable to find palaces—
still £65,000 sounds a ridiculously small sum for pro-
mises. Great improvements have been made lately at
head office ; but only £2500 has been added to the Pre-
mises item during the year. It looks, therefore, as though
the bank is stuffing away profits where depreciation is
likely. And. depreciation somewhere or other is the
likeliest of all things in Westralia, which must not only
leave off borrowing some day, but must also (probably at
the same time) face a severe shrinkage in gold output.
This bank’s directors appear to fully recognise that, and
are pursuing business with energy in the new farming
districts. But things are a long way from ordinary yet,
as this shows :
Sept., 1906. Sept., 1907.
Notes in circulation.. £124,078 £119,770 Dec. £4lOB
Bills, etc 111,740 338,999 Inc. 227,259
Deposits at interest.. 867,494 910,083 Inc. 42,589
Free deposits.. .. 1,161,234 1,152,162 Dec. 9,0*72
Liquid assets .. .. 1,102,871 1,235,446 Inc. 132,575
Advances .. .. 1,652,741 1,796,886 Inc. 144,145
Premises .. .. 62,500 65,000 Inc. 2,500
Not many banks have that percentage of free deposits
(current accounts). Westralia, however, hasn’t yet quite
settled down to the humdrum life of small profits, when
2£ or 3 per cent, seems worth having, in return for the
tying-up of money for 12 months. Meantime, however,
the bank is making good use of this free money. Its
advances total nearly double the fixed deposits. Undter
such circumstances big profits are easily possible. Still
total liabilities to the public are not heavy in proportion
to the shareholders’ own funds—they amount to less than
£5 to every £l. Nevertheless, the risks of the severe depre-
ciation of securities in Westralia are so large that the
directors act well in increasing the capital. Probably
they don’t do it with a single eye to the better protection
of the public ; but they can’t at least prevent it having
that effect.
* * % *
The National Tire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Dunedin, Maoriland): —
Written To Be- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897.. £16,216 15p.c. =£14,706 £986 £524 £111,317
1898.. 8,846 12J „ „ 12,255 107,908
1899.. 20,028 12y „ „ 12,255 7,773 115,681
1900.. 26,388 12i „ „ 12,255 1000 13,133 128,814
1901.. 24,600 12* „ „ 12,255 -= 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
1903.. 27,622 15 ~ ~ 15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 38,414 15 „ ~ 15,000 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 „ „ 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 ~ ~ 15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 ~ ~ 15,000 11,096 249,339
Like most others, this energetic co. has had a rather bad
year, no doubt in the marine insurance department in
particular ; and it does a big business in that branch of
underwriting. The results compare with those of some
preceding terms in this way :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32'0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 53'8 „ 29’4 „
1905.. 107,64 S 58,996 36,402 54’8 „ '33'S ,
1906.. 106,036 40,892 36,324 38'6 „ 34’2
1907.. 110,035 62,727 36,925 57’0 „ 33'5 ’,
The expense rate is still moderate, though it moved up a
couple of years ago, partly no doubt on account of the
arrival of the State fire-insurance department in Maoriland,
and the consequent reduction of rates, which meant that
a greater outlay was called for in order to bring in tiie
same amount of premiums. Compared with the Sydney
Mercantile Mutual the loss rate is, of course, very high ;
but that is partly counterbalanced by the lower expense
rate. The difference between the figures of the two
offices is mainly the result of the National’s marine-insur-
ance connection ; that sort of insurance costs less to
manage, because the premiums come in a lump, and so
subsequently do the losses. It has one advantage,
though—no conflagration is at all likely to sweep away
10,000 “ risks ”in one night; and that is a hazard which a
fire-insurance co. has to accept, and must provide for in
the shape of the reserves which it builds up out of undi-
vided profits.
Yet though a co. doing a big marine insurance
business need not build up such reserves as one doing-
fire business only, this eo.’s reserves are very substantial.
It was pointed out here the other day, in connection
with another office, that of the 31 big British “ tariff ”
offices the average proportion of reserves to premiums
was 121‘3 per cent., and of capital to premiums 30 9
per cent. Thus the British offices held a total of £152 4s.
of funds for every £lOO of annual premiums. Now the
National of Maoriland has £9olBs. of capital and £226 6s.
of reserves for every £lOO of premiums, or a total of £317
4s. The funds held in proportion to premiums shows
what provision is made approximately for the protection
of insurers ; and, reckoning upon that basis, it will be
seen that the National’s provision is more than double
that of the average British “tariff” office. And behind
that protection is a liability of £9 10s. for every 10s.
already subscribed by shareholders. The weakest point
in an otherwise very strong position is the excessive
amount invested in mortgages—a total of no less than
£214,936. Besides the possibility that these might be
difficult to realise at a moment when they might be
needed, they involve considerable risks in the way
of depreciation. Certainly while things go well thgy
show a fine return. It is impossible to divide up a fire
insurance co.’s assets into investments and working funds
with mathematical accuracy ; but, on the average, the
investments appear to bring in £4 13s. 6d. per cent.,
which results in just more than enough to pay the divi-
dend, leaving the whole of the profit from underwriting
to go to reserves.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and
Building Co. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1898 .. £4916 p.c. =£2785 £2131 £16,723
Forfeited capital 512 17,235
1899 .. 4235 7 „ „ 2325 1910 19,145
Forfeited capital 16 19,161
1900 .. 4392 7 „ „ 2339 2053 21,214
1901 .. 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 .. 5261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 .. 5900 7| „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 .. 6591 9 „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905 .. 7639 10 „ „ 3792 3847 36,622
1906 .. 8952 321-,, ~ 4742 4210 40,832
1907 .. 9249 10 ~ ~ 4126 5123 45,955
Twelve months ago there were 39,043 shares paid to 155.,
and 18,000 shares paid to ss. There are now 49,738 shares
paid to 155., and 18,000 shares paid to ss. There is thus
an increase of 10,695 shares, which have been issued at
par. Seeing that these shares carry 10 percent., that
transaction amounted to a tidy bonus to shareholders.
The position compares in some respects with that at the
end of former years :
1900. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Debts (deposits, etc.) £17,417 £26,219 £28,750 £23,920
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 29,759 28,377
Advances’ .. .. 43,611 75,149 80,230 86,603
Other Assets .. 154 1,551 1,171 1,462
The co. buys land far cash, and sells it on terms, financing
buyers who want to build. During the past two years it
has added considerably to its advances, but hasn’t piled
up its freeholds ; evidently it has wisely reckoned that
this boom-time was the time to sell and not to buy, if
buying meant holding. Of course, with the increase of
advances has come an increase of risks. Apart from the
reserves shown to cover these risks there is a
suspense account, but what it consists of isn’t dis-
closed. Under the circumstances the reserves must
therefore be regarded with some suspicion ; con-
sequently also the disclosed profits nave always
in these cases to be regarded with some doubt, seeing
that part of them may later on be required to fill up a
hole caused by an unexpected shrinkage in values. Still,
making allowances for all this, the business shows very
profitable results, and there is a very fine lay-by even after
paying the 10 per cent., and economy in management is
written on the face of the accounts, '
* * * *
The Federal Building Society is having its
Second time on earth. It grew to a large, unhealthy size
in the boom, and in 1802 shut Up, owing £389,939,
mostly deposits. After lying in the tomb for nearly 13
years, during which th.- old debts were paid off without
interest, there remained on the books £122,839 worth of
property standing against the old capital. Then the
Federal took down the shutters, and began its second
life with a capital of £96,351, and nominal reserves of
£28,488. Since then this is the history
Profit Nomi-
BUsiness on Total Dividend nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales* Profit. (4 p.c.). serves,
1904 .. £26,488
1905 .. £4323 £1495 £5BlB £3854 28,452
(4£ p.c.)
1906 .. 4924 684 560 S 4336 29,724
(5 p.c.)
1907 .. 5605 425 6030 4817 30,937
The society is hustling
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Overdraft, etc. .. .. £1,682 £11,960 £18,691
Advances.. .. ..£63,160 92,870 109,415 124,510
Properties in possession 54,071 37,469 32,924 26,252
Cash balances .. .. 4,779
For the first time, the resurrected society shows some
deposits (£1070) ; previously it had to rely upon an over-
draft to finance its clients, and it still has to for the most
part. The liabilities have been running up ; but they
still don’t amount to much compared with capital and
reserves ; and as the sales are showing a profit over afid
above book-value, it looks as though the reserves are
real. The proper policy of the society appears
to be now to establish confidence, so that it may
be able to borrow on almost as good terms as
the people from whom it now has itself to do the
borrowing ; at present it is supplying profits to a middle-
man who ought to be unnecessary. But the society,
instead of building up the big- reserve which ought to give
confidence, shows itself extraordinarily keen after divi-
dends. It even proposes now to alter its rules so that it
can pay them half-yearly. No doubt there are a lot of
fools in the world, who think that the concern to trust
with their deposits is the one that pays the biggest
dividends. It is an absurd idea : the best concern to
trust, other things being equal, is the one that leaves the
biggest proportion of profits behind for the protection of
depositors and other creditors. Tae fact that big divi-
dends mean big deposits nevertheless influences many
directors to pay bigger dividends than they would other-
wise do ; and that adds to the mischief, and makes it all
tne more necessary to pillory the absurd idea on every
reasonable opportunity.
* * * *
The Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901 .. £651 Nil £651 £16,987
1902 3239 10 per cent. = £2500 739 17,726
1903 .. 3300 10 „ ~ 2500 800 18,526
1904 .. 5929 10 ~ ~ 2500 3429 21,955
1905 .. 4552 10 „ ~ 2500 2052 24,007
1906 .. 3180 10 ~ ~ 2500 680 24,687
1907 .. 6599 10 „ ~ 2500 4099 28,786
Of the reserves, £lO,OOO has now been transferred to a
special reserve for depreciation and repairs; and it is
doubtful therefore whether this amount is a true reserve
at all. For some years past an annual amount of from
£l5OO to £l9OO has been paid out of revenue for repairs
and renewals ; for the past year, in view of this special
transfer, nothing at all has been charged to profit
and loss on this account. Tnat, of course, im-
proves the look of the year’s profit; but if the
£lO,OOO has to be written off, the improvement isn’t really
what it seems. Moreover, if £lO,OOO has to be put aside
now for repairs and to cover actual depreciation, then the
stated profits for some time past have been in excess of
the actual profits ; that is to say, not enough has been
set aside to provide for current wear and tear. The
co., formed 16 years ago, has a paid capital of £25,000 ;
it carries mortgages amounting to £l2s,OoO—nothing has
been paid off in the last 10 years, though fixed deposits of
£13,000 certainly have been accumulated. The mortgagee
hasn’t got to worry about depreciation ; the shareholder
in this case has to risk the depreciation of assets repre-
senting six times the amount of his own capital—which is
the cockroach in an otherwise good-looking plate of soup.
The whole situation hangs upon this depreciation; it
looks, anyway, as though some of what have been rec-
koned hitherto as profits are going into that capacious
sink.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.,
druggists, etc. (Sydney):—
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1904 .. 10 p.c. =£6ooo £1912
Feb., 1905 .. £6143 10 ~ „ .6000 £143 2055
Aug., 1905 .. 5959 10 „ „ 6000 2014
Feb., 1906 .. 7124 10 „ „ 6000 1124 3138
Aug., 1906 .. 6338 10 ~ „ 6000 338 3476
Feb., 1907 .. 6390 10 „ „ 6000 390 3866
Aug., 1907.. 6730 10 „ „ 6000 730 4596
The largest item among the assets is a bundle consisting
of “ stocks, plant, patent rights, etc.” The patent rights
are a goodwill item, represented by paper —no doubt for
the present profitable paper, but paper nevertheless. The
directors are therefore writing it down ; but how much
of the lump is represented by the goodwill item, and how
much of the amount is being written off out of profits, it
is impossible to tell. The lump has, however, moved like
this :
Aug., 1904 ..' £98,178 Aug., 1906 .. £80,227
Feb., 1905 .. 93,757 Feb., 1907 .. 73,882
Aug., 1905 .. 89,540 Aug., 1907 .. 77,541
. Feb., 1906 .. 85,841
There had thus been a large and steady reduction until the
past half-year ; but whether it was due to the realisation
of stock, or whether it was due to the writing down of
patent rights and other goodwill out of profits, there is no
way of telling. At August, 1904, the excess of liabilities
over liquid assets was £5265 ; now, three years later, the
surplus of liquid assets oyer liabilities is £10,554 ; and
meantime £7500 has been added to the premises account.
What may be called the cash position has, therefore, im-
proved to the extent of £23,319 in three years, and the
surplus of disclosed profits over dividends has only
accounted for £2684 of it. The balance is made up either
of money received for stock reduced and not replenished,
or out of profits made but not disclosed, such profits having
been used to write down the goodwill items. If the
latter, then the progress has been excellent. But it is a
case in which one has to take a great deal on trust —or
find out things that are not in the published accounts.
* * ■* *
Broken Hill Block 14 Co.
Written Re-
Loss. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1903.. £2,247 Nil £5,522
Mar., 1904.. 2,618 Nil 2,904
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves, £29 .. 2,933
Sept., 1904 .. 2,578 Nil 355
Deficit.
Mar., 1905.. 533 Nil 178
Profit. Reserves.
Sept., 1905.. 22,476 Nil £620 21,677
Premium on Preference shares, £476 22,153
Mar., 1906.. 17,595 £6,335 33,413
Sept., 1906 .. 30,198 11,500 7235 44,876
Mar., 1907 . 54,746 21,500 4333 73,789
Sept., 1907.. 78,170 36,500 4178 111,281
The change in the metal markets is not responsible for all
this transformation. The co. grasped the high prices to
fossick diligently for carbonates that had been left behind
in the’old days, and it has had a lot of luck in finding
them. In the past half-year 10,622 tons of this ore have
been sold. As has been complained before, the proceeds
of this ore and of the sulphide concentrates are not
separated in the published accounts. But approximate
figures can he got by taking Block 10 results for the same
period as a basis. That co. worked sulphides only ; the
grade was higher, but the recoveries rather lower, and
costs were almost exactly the same. The comparison ,
on the whole, a trifle in favor of Block 10. Now from
concentrates last half-year Block 10 made £s3,t>-£>
gross proflt from 73,816 tons ore : that is I4s. 6d. P er
At the same rate, Block 14 made £33,568 from sulphide.
The total profit would then be made up this way :
Sulphide concentrates .. .. £33,568
Tailings, interest, etc. .. .. 9,910
Carbonates(lo,622 tons).. .. 34,692
Total.. .. £78,170
Now, as to carbonates, manager Hocking says : “It may
be regarded as beyond doubt that there are now avail-
able, and developed ready for removal, 10,000 tons of tins
0re.... I regard it as highly probable that an additional
20,000 tons will ultimately be mined and realised, nut
which at this stage cannot be properly described as re-
serves.” The sulphide reserves are estimated at a poor
202,489 tons—very little more than two years’ supply.
The co., especially when the carbonates are finished, will
without a doubt find more sulphides; but it is very
poorly situated to face a low metal market. Its ore
bodies are poor and scattered, and the shares are almost
bound to have violent fluctuations. About the best
aspect is the big liquid surplus—over £85,000; and, m
View of the awful straits the co. has more than once been
in and the g reat sacrifices that shareholders have had to
make, the directors should see that a surplus of nothing
less than £50,000 or £60,000 is strictly preserved, while
the carbonates last.
Block 14 is making a fair show with its diamond-
drilling at the 300 ft. and 400 ft. levels. There is a
peculiarity about that 40ft. ore body which was proved to
exist east of the old south shaft on the 400 ft. level.
Previously a small body of ore was stoped out
going south from the main shaft on the 400 ft., but before
coming on a level with the south shaft the ore cut out.
Subsequently a crosscut was put out east on the south
side of the south shaft, and although this was extended
for some distance, no ore was met with. Then the
diamond drill was used from the east side of the old
south shaft, between the crosscut and the point where
the ore had pinched out, and, after boring about 6ft.,
struck payable ore, in which the drill continued for 40ft.
The inference is that an intrusion of mullock has come
in from the westward, dividing the ore shoot and pushing
the southern end of it further to the eastward. Some of
the core showed remarkably good ore; but, as a rule,
diamond drill evidence as to the width of ore bodies is
unreliable. The mere existence of ore at that particular
locality was, however, good news for Block 14. But the
mine’s real future lies hidden below the 600ffc, level, a
region yet to be explored.
* * * *
From a letter, too long for these short columns,
re the Australian Alliance Assurance Co., by A. B. Dow-
ling, the man who initiated the big lawsuit over the life
funds : “‘ A Man Who Ought to Know ’ alleges (8.,
October 24) that after Chief Justice Madden’s judgment
had been delivered, the co, was able to produce further
documentary evidence, and the claimants admitted that,
in view of this evidence, they had no option but to bring
the claim down to the £42,000 agreed upon. It is true
that the committee, which co-operated with me in the
conduct of the suit mentioned, had no option but to
accept the offered compromise of £42,000 ; but the deter-
mining factors were as communicated in the final circu-
lar, dated 11th December, 1905, to the life policyholders :
‘ Your committee was faced with the certainty of further
protracted and expensive litigation. ... The life policy-
holders were requested to subscribe the necessary moneys.
.. . Only one-fourth of the number of the participating life
policyholders responded.... A second appeal was made,
but the resources of the committee continued to be quite
unequal to the prospective obligations. At that juncture
friendly advances for a compromise ensued, and your
committee felt that it was justified, in view of the
financial circumstances, in entertaining a reasonable
settlement of the suit.’ A condition precedent to the
compromise, which was laid down by the company, was
that all allegations of ‘ fraud ’ should be withdrawn by the
plaintiff. This was conceded by the committee—the
plaintiff being merely a nominal one—and the two counsel
for the plaintiff were permitted to give that concession
felicitous expression. This submits the case in a
somewhat different aspect to that represented by your
anonymous correspondent, who alleged that, in view of
the evidence mentioned by him, ‘ they (the claimants) had
no option but to bring the claim down to the
£42,000 agreed upon.’ The gentlemen referred to were
told of the discovery of the ‘ evidence,’ and were
informed that ‘ even Dowling would be convinced by
it of the company’s case.’ They were not shown
the evidence, however; and the declarations as
to its existence, and as to its tardy discovery, did not ex-
cite in their minds or in mine anything more than a
degree of polite interest. The ‘ Man who Ought to Know,’
would have been wise if he had kept silent, and re-
mained contented with the liberal terms conceded by the
committee, and with the plaintiff’s gracious concession
that there had been no fraud—particularly as he had to
admit, notwithstanding the belated ‘ further documentary
evidence’ and the plaintiff’s lack of option, that the de-
fendant still had to pay £42,000, as w'ell as £B,OOO for
Costs, which your correspondent omitted to mention.
Chief Justice Madden, in his judgment, said: —‘There
was much and vigorous denunciation of Mr. Dowling for
the part he played in regard to this question, but in my
opinion, he discharged the duty of a high-minded, dutiful
man.’ Notwithstanding that opinion, and the fact that I
gained a net judgment of £80,448 ss. Bd. for the life policy-
holders (which was reduced to the compromise of £42,000,
liberally conceded by the committee), I continue to be
anonymously attacked and calumniated ; and now one,
bolder than his fellows, has ventured upon the casuistry
I have dealt with in this, letter. These individuals seek
to pillory me ; but it does not seem to occur to them
that, when they take sides against an honest man, they
rob themselves of any honest credit they pretend to
claim for their actions. Possibly when I have taken a
step, which I have in contemplation, for my complete
vindication, these nameless canaille will cease their
yapping.”
* * * *
The Union Steamship Co., with a paid capital
now of £600,000, proposes to capitalise £200,000 of re-
served profits. The accounts for this year are not yet
available ; the last sheet showed £497,593 of reserves,
and there were probably reserves that were not shown at
all. Of the disclosed reserves (including insurance
fund) £267,000 had been added in six years. People who
mopped up the shares six years ago have had a windfall.
The £lO shares at that time stood at £ll 7s. 6d. ; and,
while 8 or 10 per cent. divs. have been paid ever since, the
price has moved up to £lB 15s. at the beginning of
this month. A mere division of reserves ought not, of
course, to make a tremendous difference to the value of
the stock ; theoretically, the market is supposed to have
taken the reserves into account already. The question,
however, is, will the co. pay divs. at the same rate on the
£BOO,OOO as it has done on the £600,000? If it does, then
shares at £2O (cum rights) mean a return of 6g per. cent. ;
and £22 ss. would give 6 per cent. But that is based on a
10 per cent. div. on the enlarged capital ; and last year
was the first time in 30 years that a dividend of that size
had been paid out of ordinary profits. On the basis of
an 8 per cent, dividend £2O for these shares (cam rights)
means a return of 5J per cent. This year’s dividend is to
be S per cent., with a 2 per cent, bonus.
* * * *
A fall of £2 a ton in lead has brought about the
inevitable with regard to the small “outside” shows
which have been hanging'on to the skirts of the Broken
Hill mining boom. Of the whole litter only the New
White Leads is left; and that is doing just about enough
work underground to keep the winding-engine from
getting rusty. The Rupee was the last to go, just as it
was the last to start. If a decent quantity of either lead
or zinc had been found at the 200 ft. level, the smoke
from the boiler-stack would still be forming a long
black smudge against the Stephens Creek hills ;
but prospecting at that point was a failure. Those
who were scratched by this particular cat may find
some ointment for their wounds in the reflection that the
prospects at the 200 ft. level, when the lode was first cut,
deceived even such an astute mining man as Alex.
Campbell. * #
For some time past ore-buyers have been in-
clined to shy at Broken Hill lead concentrates,
and an all-round increase in returning charges is
threatened. In fact, some of the mini* are already-
paying an increased rate. Ore-buyers’ contracts with
the mines are based to a certain extent on forward metal
prices, and a slump in lead would probably involve them
in heavy loss. Some ore-buyers say they have been losing
money on the concentrates in the past; hence they must
increase the returning charges. The present uncertainty
of the metal market has probably more to do with it.
* * * *
It is just over 10 years now since the Junction,
Broken Hill, paid a dividend, and it is going to pass
through this lead boom (which already isn t quite the


LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to, Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne ;
Kobe's Brewery, Bendigo, Perth lee and Refrigerating Co., etc. j
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Mater.als of all kinds. [4.
boom that it was) without giving shareholders a taste.
Still, last half-year, to September 30, it did manage to
escaue a loss, and that’s the first time for a good many
years. The profit was £3524, but £1066 was written off
to cover depreciation, leaving £2458 net; and that re-
duces the accumulated deficit to £52,042. In four years
the net loss, including depreciation, has been £28,.538.
Past half-year’s figures are, however, liable to modifica-
tion : it all depends on how the final settlements on
account of the sales of concentrates pan out.
The concentrates totalled 3666 tons, assaying
60-2 per cent, for lead, equal to 2207 tons of the
meta’jf so that the net profit was barely more than £1
per ton of lead. At that rate, seeing that lead has fallen
nearly £3"oeiow the past half-year’s average, the co. must
now already be close up to a loss again. Certainli', it set
aside last half-year £2OOO to provide for the backward-
ation in lead ; but, even adding that on to the half-year’s
profits, the result was ghastly, taking the markets into
account.
• * * *
Broken Hill Junction has now something to
work upon at the 900 ft. level, near the Junction North
boundary. The ore body has been opened up for a
length of 150 ft., by 50ft. wide, so that .there is a good
extent of “backs” to work upon. The south end of the
level, which was holding out signs of distress, proved to
be only troubled by a mullock intrusion. The ore is
widening again, but is poorer than the ore towards the
Junction North boundary. After many fruitless attempts
to get Browne shaffsunk below the 900 ft. level, the work
has at last got a start —a sign that already the strain on
the mining labor market is easing off.
Broken Hill had so solid a duststorm one day
last week that the South had to hang up its great con-
centrating mill for 10 hours.
There is an old proposal in western N. S. Wales
to lay down a connecting' railway-link between the
Barrier mining field and the Jjarling at Menindie —(1) to
provide a means of trucking' water in case of the local
supply failing ; (2) to get to a firewood supply ; and (3)
to develop an irrigation settlement handy to, a ready-
monev market. Otiief Commissioner Johnson went out
to the inulga and looked into the matter lately, and
decided against building thisfragment of a line ; but still
another report is to be made on the question of com-
pleting the N.S.W. railway connection with Broken Hill.
There are two possible routes, one via Wilcannia; the
o her via the Lachlan Valley, which would probably
strike Menindie. Years ago the Works Committee re-
commended the connection via Wilcannia, Hr. Garran
dissenting in favor of the other route ; but out West there
appears to have been a swing-round in favor of the
Lachlan proposal.
People who were inveigled into Great Cobars
at, the top, and have since been watching the painful
decline in copper contents, perked up, the other day, on
reading that the four-weekly output' to November 20
stioweda shade over 3 per cent., as'against 216 per cent,
for the preceding four weeks. Alas, it 'didn’t: 15,380
tons of ore gave 365 tons copper, and you can’t stretch
tnat. past 2'38 pet- cent., no matter hovv hard you pull.
That is an improvement, certainly, but it is still close
upon per cent, below the prospectus estimate. And
on a monthly output of 16,000 tons or there-
abouts makes a nasty hole in expected profits.
* * It *
“Carcoar” Garland’s first gold-dredging area,
the Macquarie Enterprise, near Stuart Town (N.S. W.),
has just put up an Australian dredging record, giving
1720 z. for 124 hours work.. Garland, the pioneer of the
business in the State, did not have much luck with the
claim, which runs for, several miles along the river, and
early this year the dredge sank. Then a syndicate was
formed, a Balmain firm remodelled the dredge, and in
eight weeks 7410 z. has been got, with excellent prospects
ahead. About the most cheerful feature of the case is
that Garland, unlike most pioneers, has managed to
hang on to a solid interest in the show.
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) crushed 203 tons for
3390 z. smelted gold. It was a good return, hut share-
holders were disappointed, because they based their
expectations on a small trial lot of 12 tons that crushed
48oz. Several things help to keep the market firm : the
good development at No. 17 level, which must now be
within a few feet of the boundary ; the look of things in
the winze below the level ; and the likelihood of No. 18
also turning out good. The directors are holding on to a
tidy bit of cash, so shareholders scent a dividend in the
distance. Further, there is always at the back of the
punter’s mind the hope of a sensationally rich patch.
But it is not all glitter ; the mine is expensive to work,
and precautions have to be taken with explosive or burst-
ing rock. And even precautions didn’t prevent trouble
and great expense at the New Hillgrove Prop., next door.
At one time it was thought that the richest shoot in
Baker’s Creek mine was pitching into the Proprietary ;
there seems to be reason to modify that opinion, and it
is likely that both mines will get a share of the gold,
notwithstanding the elaborate diagrams shown in one of
the Proprietary reports.
* * * *
“Kitten”: lie Allandale, Barrier district
(N.S.W.). The recent resurrection was its third. Byrne,
the prospector, got the Adelaide directors to provide a
concentrator to deal with a ton an hour just to go on
with. The jig was the sole concentrator. The whole
thing only cost £750. Troubles started through nobody
on the spot knowing anything about the gas engine.
Also nobody there had seen a jig work. Thij-dly and
lastly, the value of dirt dropped to 13 per cent, (instead
of the 25 per cent, promised by the prospectus); and it
was full of iron pyrites andzine—a nice look-out fora one-
ton-an-hour plant, with a jig as concentrator ! The mine
is, for all that, well worth the spending of more money
but on al4 per cent, basis ; not 25 per cent. Outcrops
are fully 40ft. in places, and good lead is showing at haif-
a-dozen points in a direct half-mile. Allandale will pay
divs. yet, in spite of the bad fall on its third flutter I
would like to have £lOOO and the dam full of water •
I guess Allandale would yield a golden egg with metals at
present price.
* * * *•
At the Chillagoe (N.Q.) desulphurising works,
the mechanical arrangements for crushing and sampling
ore are very complete. The chief features of the plant
are the Edwards roasting furnaces to get rid of the
sulphur, and the Huntingdon-Heberlein converting pots,
in which ore, lime and fuel are subjected to a powerful
air blast. The chemical reactions make the ore more
easily treated by the blast furnace ; the result expected
is greater furnace efficiency and fuel economy, with
less waste of metal in the slag. Most of the
ore will come from Mungana, but the Ghillao-oe-
Ruddigore and Torpy’s Crooked Creek should also
increase their output. Ore will also come from the
Ethericjge district when the railway is completed ; the
distance from Georgetown (138 miles) to the junction of
the Chillagoe line at Almaden is a bagatelle compared
with the haulage of ore from Cobar to Cockle Creek
The Etheridge has only been a moderate success as a
goldfield, but there should now be a considerable develop-
ment of lead and copper shows. Lead ore has been lately
sent by horse teams to Croydon railway, and trucked to
Norman ton, and it has then had to face the heavy shipping
charges from that port.
* • ♦ *
“ P.N.C.” writes from the North with an axe :
As far as the Chillagoe Co. is concerned, the fowls have
come home to roost with a vengeance. When the metal
market was at its best, the co. missed the ’bus. To make
up deficiencies, it relied upon the tributors’ output.
When that goose was cooked, and theco. had driven the
tributors off the leases, it had to fall back on the pur-
chased ores. Then there was such grumbling about the
returns that that source of supply failed, so much so that
the purchased ores last month totalled only 220 tons.
To cap all, the new and costly plant for the treatment of
silver-lead sulphides has not come up to expectations ;
this has caused the closing down of the Chillagoe-Ruddi-
gore and Crooked Creek mines (the largest silver-lead pro-
ducers in the district). At the new works there are about
3000 tons of ore stacked, and its immediate treatment is
doubtful. A good deal of it has not yet been paid for. If
things don’t alter radically, Chillagoe shareholders may
just about consider their cake dough.
* * * *
Dalziel’s tin (N.Q.) has slumped horribly. As
The Bulletin kept on saying, a big co. operating
fragmentary patches of ore was necessarily a risky gamble;
but the pendulum has probably now swung back too far.
The open cut may yield more tin, and the property
possibly carries other shoots of ore. Out of £Bl5l realised
last half-year £3498 was profit, and, having had very
economical management, the co. is now in a position to
do a bit of prospecting.
* * * •
It was reported, the other day, that the 0.K.,
back of Cairns (N.Q.), might close down till the copper
market turns. But as the general manager reports that
he has now got in enough coke, firewood, flux and stores
to last through the wet season, it looks as though General
Report is a no more reliable veteran than usual.
* * * *
There is a slump in the sapphire gem-market,
and the Queensland field west of Rockhampton is
depressed. As usual, it is the poor gem that is the drug;
the extra-good stones always command a price. One
large yellow stone is under offer in London at about 10
times the price paid on the field for it. The hulk of the
stones, however, are worth only 3s. per oz., which is
about half the price ruling a while ago. A yield of 10
ounces of “ machine ” stones to the load of washdirt isn’t
too good when the dirt has to be screened, carted,
puddled, and washed. Sapphires are slightly heavier
than ordinary gravel, and by dexterously working the
sieve in a tub of water the gems are brought to a central
position at the bottom. Then the sieve is upended, and
the precious stones are picked out from the bottom of
the moulded heap of coarse sand and gravel.
Rain, which has fallen in north-western Queens-
land, will delay the Cloncurry railway construction
slightly. But the season has been dry, so the rain comes
as a joyous thing even to those who are praying for the
rapid completion of the line.
Mines in Central Queensland have been pinched
lately for want of water. By the middle of November
Mt. Morgan had run into the lower dam the last of its
main supply, and unless rain falls before Christmas the
big co. will be in trouble. Last time the co. had to em-
ploy water-trains there was no coke, ironstone, or lime-
stone traffic on the line, and there were no big copper
furnaces to be supplied. How it will fare after Christmas
if rain does not fall in dead earnest one does not like to
suggest. Further, how Great Fitzroy will get on for water
nobody knows. If it postpones its'smelting until after
the wet season it will be wise.
Peak Downs (Q.) has been in the sampler’s
hands on behalf of Mt. Morgan. Meanwhile there has
been trouble at the mine. The co. did not pay certain
wages, so the irritated workmen sued and got a verdict,
carrying some Costs. Directors then agreed to pay wages
without Costs ; but the men refused the offer. The co.
has now appealed against the verdict; so the men ar6
kept waiting until the appeal is settled. And until then
they r are stuck up at Peak Downs. It is a bad business
altogether.
* * * *
The 3. M. Herald has been saying some more
stupid things about Queensland copper mines, once more
bolstering up Giassford Creek and Mt. Hector, the
deservedly busted Central Queensland shows. After
dragging in a mention of Mt. Morgan, Mt. Perry, Many
Peaks, etc., it tacks on to those properties, as'kind of
twin brothers, the Giassford, Hector, and Cannindah
bubbles, not one of which up to the present has proved
itself a mine. Says the paper:—“ A Glassford-Hector
combine is daily expected to be arranged in London with a
working cash capital of £150,000.” It is doubtful whether
there are sufficient asses in London to put up 150,000
pence for such a combination under existing circum-
stances, and anybody in touch with London affairs
knows it. But the most amazing yarn is that, the Glass-
ford ores being “used in conjunction with the silicious
ores of Mt. Hector, the proposition will be metallurgieally
akin to the Mt. Lyell and North Mt. Lyell amalgamation';”
Not so long since, by the way, Mt. Hect >r would, not
hear of a combination with Giassford. Hector wanted
Mr. Doolette to take an option over it on its little own.
Doolette agreed. Now that Doolette is not at all likely
to exercise the option, Hector is glad to crawl back into
a combination with its old companion. It’s odds on the
old i unpanion surviving Hector, for Giassford is more
dc-.. .y set in the pockets of its sponsors, and they must
do something. The only thing that can induce any hope
in these concerns is the Boyne River railway, and with
Kidston and Queensland politics in st tangle, even that
hope is likely to be much deferred.
* * * *
Hainault Co. (W.A.) started the last financial
year with a credit balance of £14,501 ; it earned £79,510,
and spent £71,048 in working costs pit distributed £20,901
in dividends, and chalked up £8431 in sundry places;
and, after being credited with bullion in transit, cash in
hand, etc., finished up the year £3277 to the bad. At
the end of the previous year, the ore reserves were given
as 241,000 tons, of a recoverable value of 31s. per ton.
Since then, 54,381 tons have been developed, 55,581 tons
crushed, and the quantity in sight is now estimated at
approximately 240,000 tons, worth 275. per ton. This
means that, in the interim, the mill has gained
on the mine to the extent of about 1000 tons,
and that the value of the ore now on hand is
3s. per ton less than it was twelve months ago. There is,
however, another side to the picture. The management
estimates that the cost of production will in future not
exceed 17s. per ton, so that, on the basis of 240,000 tons
of 275. ore, the profit in sight now runs out at about 16s.
per share, or nearly 100 per cent, of the present market
value of the mine. Moreover, since the close of the
financial year the intrinsic value of the mine has in-
creased, and now that the work of plant construction is
completed, shareholders may look forward consider-
able additions being made to ore reserves during- the
curreqt year. They may, however, have to wait some
time for more dividends.
Westralia Mt. Morgans (W.A.) made a profit
of £2OOO per month for the past six months, and looks
like doing better. Operations are at present confined to
developing a new make of ore at the 1,2, and 3 levels,
and it is from this body that the bulk of the gold is
coming. Some months ago there was talk of 8., M. and
Go. taking charge, but the negotiations fell through, and
A. E. Morgans still remains in control. ,
A few copies of New Bayley’s prospectus have
drifted out to W.A. from London. There are 200,000 ss.
shares in the co., but as the vendors collar 70,000, and as
a like number are held in reserve, only 60,000 rank as
contributing. Provided all the latter have been applied
for (and a recent cable said they were), the co. has £6OOO
to start with, and a calling power of another £9OOO. It is
stated somewhere that the whole of the subscribed
capital is to be set aside for development; but as the
vendors hold a majority of the shares issued, they can do
just as they like in this as well as other things. Bold
type is used in the prospectus to dilate on the pristine
glory of Bayley’s, and reference, in the same sort of type,
is made to the rich returns obtained by the Norvai
tributing party, who knew of the existence of a small,
rich surface vein, and who have since made a small
fortune. This patch, it is believed, is now about worked
out, and no one seems to know of any other. Something
is also said in the prospectus about “ low grade ore bodies
which were deemed unpayable by previous managements,
but which under altered conditions should returp hand-
some profits to the co.” Mention is also made of the
reef being Bft. wide and worth from Sdwt. to lOdwt. per
ton in the bottom workings at 1000 ft. It isn’t, however,
safe to go “ nap ” on either statement.
Chaffers Co. (W.A.) is about to station its
manager in the eastern States, with instructions to keep
both eyes open for a suitable investment in mining. The
co. has somewhere about £30,000 in hand, but it is not
likely to break into this sum unless something really o-ood
is placed on offer. The fact that the manager has already
raked the eastern States fore and aft and failed to get
suited shows that the co. must be very hard to please.
Its Kalgoorlie lease is well positioned, and might.some
day, at a greater depth, pick up one or other of the
Golden Horseshoe shoots. Meantime, its top levels are
to be handed over to tributors.
Inquiries made in the right quarter show that
Ravensthorpe (W.A.) benefits by the gold carried with the
copper, but not to the extent alleged by “ M.R.”
(B. 31/10/’O7). Ores sent to the smelter this year from the
Flag mine carried 25dwt. gold per ton, from the Christ-
mas Gift 15dwt,, Mt. Benson Sdwt., and Mt. Catlin 7dwt.
The aggregate tonnage treated, however, was compara-
tively small, and in the case of the Christmas Gift and
the Flag Was probably picked. Neither “M.R.” nor
anyone else will contend that these two mines are
likely even on small tonnages to maintain the past year’s
average for any length of time.
You can tell where the pinch of poor profits
(or none at all) is being felt by the speed with which the
coal strike was grasped and put forward as an excuse for
closing down. The miners had hardly washed the coal-
dust off their faces when the Broken Hill Prop, knocked
off work at the zinc plant; and the Wallaroo and Moonta
directors posted a notice that if the trouble wasn’t
settled in a week both mining and smelting would stop.
As it was, tributes were hung up, and a few more meri
added to the long local unemployed list.
, Pfi' a<: !? c ’ Th® Marakimbo copper mine,
about 40 miles out from Quorn (S.A.), was taken over by
aco about nine » month, ago. The co. had £llOO to start
with. About £650 of this was spent on the “ mine ”; the
balance went somehow. One of the items was the cost of
stanlino- horses at Quorn to allow the directors and others
to fret out to the mine. Work was stopped about three
weeks ag-o; but 11 wasn’t stopped before the banker had gone
on strike The Government was then asked to subsidise
the co. to the tune of £3OO. Granted, on condition
iat co* raises £3OO. The secretary says he
has paid £lOO out of his own pocket for the co. Now,
how is lie to be paid? Presumably all the subsidy, as
well as the co.’s own little bit, will be spent on the
mine, not in paying old debts. The mining regulations
specify that there must be a shaft already sunk 100 feet,
or work equivalent to it, on any property before any
subsidy can be granted. The only shaft on the Mara-
knnbo is 70 feet deep. Somebody seems to have done
some very successful ear-biting-.
* * * *
S. Australia’s most persevering gold-producer,
Tarcoola Blocks, in the Far North, makes no better pro-
gress ;iri the past half-year it went £4682 to the.bad.
r ormed in 1900, it was reconstructed in 1905, and since
then has worked up a deficit of £7170. From first to last,
about 35,0000 z. have been taken out, but shar holders have
g-ot none of it. Fortunately, there is a pretty strong
crowd behind it, and the chief supporters still have hopes
that the next level will give profits. The Government
has helped the co. to the extent of nearly £2OOO.
i * * * *
borne more of J. Bull’s Victorian deep-lead
shows are in. dire distress. First, Prentice and Southern,
Rutherglen, is about at the end of its cash resources, and
wants £20,000 for a new shaft and a new plant to help to
get the water out. Next, at Ararat, the Cathcart’s reef
drive has crushed as flat as the deep-lead boom in London.
Truly Bewick, Moreing and Co. took up a nest of mining
hornets when they got into Victoria. The only Bull-
owned show to plug away without either ostentatious
puff or demonstrable failure is Drysdale Brown’s Char-
lotte Plains venture, near Moolort. High reef wash is being
g-ot there, running a shade over I2dwt. per fathom. This
should pay for mining, |but is not good enough to meet
the. posts of. development as well. Ahead to the north-
west big rounded wash is showing, apparently proving
that the hiain>channel is still out that way and waiting to
be Hipped'.' But it doesn’t follow that when you get into
the deepest gt'Giund you get the best gold. That some-
times happens, rie doubt, and no one will begrudge such
a sticker as Brown, : and the men of Kent who are behind
him, not only good,gold;at the bottom of the gutter, but
also a store of it in the bank. If he doesn’t get it, there
isn’t much show for other claims lower down stream.
Annan River (Q.) and Coppabella (N.S.W.)
were two shows that saw the light about the same tinie,
in Melbourne, under the same patronage. Those of the’
public that bought, did so mostly because of the’
backing, and if they still hold- shares they cannot
command enough sympathy to fill a pint pot.
Coppabella is now a small tribute, and Annan’s River is
to have a last go as a lode tin show, the intention being'
to spend £lOOO on the Oollingwood formation. Jack
Wren’s luck will be wanted to get anything there. It
wouldn’t be a bad idea if the experts who first got on to >
the claim and then got it off were to do a little sweating,
and show the way to the metal which they were so sure
the claim contained..
Black Horse and Egerton mines, at Egerton
(Vic.), have not long survived their old supporter,
Vickery, for news is out that the mines are shut down.
Whether they will ever be un watered is doubtful; so the
shades of Martin Loughlin, Bailey, and Learmonth will
be left in peaceful possession of thh old claims. Everyone
should know of the old fight: Learmonth, believing he
had been diddled out of the Egerton by the concealment
of the strike of gold, fought for the possession of the
claim, and lost. Both mines were good div.-payers—
the Egerton notably so. Black Horse turned out
£540,000 of gold and paid £183,000 in divs.,
and the Egerton’s record went to nearly half-a-
million of profits. Out of the two claims pretty
well £2,000,000 of gold came. It is astonishing how
the precious metal cut out. But there is a
big dyke in the claim, and the influence of this does not
appear to have been fully determined. Not long since
copper was found in the dyke, and an attempt was made
to get some Britishers to work it, but for once they didn’t
bite.
* * » *
A. E. Clarke’s voluminous figure is cloaked
with an extra inch of importance since H. E. C. Brooks,
the manager, considers the continuation of the Broken
Hill lode is in the New White Leads mine, away on the
flat beyond the South Blocks. Brooks tells of carbonates,
sulphides and zinc—as nice a procession as there is in
the big mine—and he also mentions a mineralised forma-
tion 55ft. wide. This is all very nice ; nevertheless
shares don’t bustle along, because the ordinary mining
man at Broken Hill is not going to take words of that
sort without the backing of the diamond drill or shaft
sinking. Investors reflect that greater men than this
manager have been studying Broken Hill for 20 years
past, and have allowed the White Leads to lie abandoned
most of the time. So the market sniffs and passes on.
* * * *
Reported that Ringarooma dredge (Tas.) has at
last got across the river of that name, so great things are
predicted. Bus this also was told in the dim past when
Gladstones were up at £4O, and Ringaroomas at £8; so
no one knows quite whether to believe that the dredge
has got over the bar, or the bar over the dredge. If the
dredge is over, how has it managed to dodge the logs
that barred it for 18 months? Furthermore, what has it
gone across for ? So far, Tasmanian folk don’t think
much of dredging, and the way that the market has shut
down after the late little puff of the Dorset and
the Gladstone rather indicates that supporters of this
industry are not keen about backing their fancy. Grayson
the other day denied something he was thought to have
said about the reliability of boring. He needn’t have
troubled, for the general public has turned its back on
tin-boring results ever since the Briseis Extended found
tin where there was none, according to the bores.
* * * *
Maoriland’s one big mine, the Waihi, has just
installed a producer-gas plant—five 200 h.p. and three
35 h.p. engines—which will drive, among other things,
the new tube mills. Of the latter, four have been work-
ing for some weeks, two more are ready, and four others
are on the way: the 10 will be equal to 150 stamps. Pro-
ducer gas is made this way : Air from a blower is mixed
with the exhaust of a steam engine. The air and steam,
heated by any convenient means, are driven into a gene-
rator—a wrought-iron cylinder lined with firebrick and
sand. Fuel is fed into this furnace without permitting
any of the heated air and steam (mixed) to escape. In
the generator the mixture combines with the incandes-
cent carbon, and is converted into gas. The latter passes
out through a saturator, and is cooled. It is then passed
through clarifying beds of coke and other cheap pro-
cesses of extracting the tar, and finally through sawdust-
beds to further clean it. The engines have had over a
month’s run, and so far the power generated has cost
only about one-quarter of what it would have cost had it
been generated by steam. The question of wear and tear
has, of course, not yet been answered. Cheap lignite is
used for feeding the generator.
* * * *
The Maori!arid Government is offering a bonus
of fourpence per lb. for the first 100,0001 b. of pure quick-
silver retorted from any mine in the Dominion. It is
also offering a bit of help to the pioneer copper-
producers ; and one or two have already set out to get it.
a * •
Enfield : Should have been got out of a few
months ago ; but better hang on now.
* * * *
The A.M.P.’s year ends on December 31, and
policies issued before that date will share in the division
of this year’s profits.
* * * *
From a returned Sydney man : “If rtiy short
experience of mining in the N.T. is any good, use 1 it.
Arrived at Port Darwin, 9th September ; proceeded to
West Arm, about 20 miles west per launch. Grafted from
early morn to dark, Sundays included, for six
weeks, and put on 111 b. in weight. Yet October
is considered by many to be one of the most
trying months. So far as my experience ex-
tended, much of the illness (so-called malaria) is due
to want of care in regard to water and food. Of course, it
is difficult to obtain vegetables and fruit; yet these couid
be grown with little trouble. The miners for the most
part are absolutely indifferent as to their water and food
su PPly. and, were it not for the sunlight and fresh air,
would suffer much more than they do. Wages vary from
7s. per day for Chinese to as much as 13s. 4d. for a white
man, who, on the average, is equal to one and a half or
two Chinese. There is at present—at West Arm, anyway
—no warrant for an inrush of workers. Five claims have
recently had ‘ .John’s ’ crushers erected, and have obtained
good returns ; but, owing to the recent slump in metals,
hands are being reduced all round. Hang Gong is
reported to have taken £20,000 worth of tin from his
alluvial claim ; but this is worked out. W. B. Hill
of Sydnej’, has secured a property of 20 acres. An open
cut has been put in some sixty yards, and discloses a
lode varying from 10ft. to 31ft. in width; so far it is
proved to only 15ft. in depth. The sandstone walls are
well defined, and assays average about 4 per cent.
Apparently the same lode is being worked by Davis and
Roberts (both Sydney men) half a mile south, at a depth of
40ft., with good results. Hill’s intention is to putdown a
shaft 100 ft. on his southern boundary, 20 chains from
present open cut, and if the lode is proved to go down,
Sydney will have a chance to bite at it.”
The Bluff colliery, near the Queensland Central
railway, supplies Mt. Morgan with 1000 J tons of coal a
month. The coal is rich in carbon, but the naval autho-
rities objected to the clinkers in the furnaces. The latter
is, however, not such a trouble in smelting. A good coke
is made by mixing tar with coal dust before burning.
The invention of this new coking process is due to
Ileskett and Thompson, of Rockhampton.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for candling'
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.* ■ i
* * * *
Two sets of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the Victorian
Deep Leads G.M. Company (Messrs Bewick, Moreing and
Co.). Each set will consist of two lifts 250 ft., the total
lift being 500 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in diameter, and
each set of two delivers into one rising main, the dis-
charge per day being 5,000,000 gallons. The valve boxes
are made in separate pieces, and the valves are of the
double flap type. The total weight is 150 tons. There is
no balance weight in the bob, but the one set of pumps
balances the other. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany have this work in hand. This Company has con-
structed and erected most of the big volume, deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * * *
The Searchlight (London) referring to the
report for the year 1905 of The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited, writes in its September, 1906,
issue as follows :—“ The report itself, however, is one of
the pleasantest and most thoroughly satisfactory that the
Society has ever issued, sound and solid progress being
everywhere evident.”
*■*■**
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company', and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• * * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
# * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
♦ » * •
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said : —“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the*-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * ■*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• • « •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric; B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


df
ERE, THE SANDS
OF 1907 RUN OUT
decide to improve your mental and finan-
cial position by entering upon a course of
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
under our skilled instructors. Our methods
ensure the speedy acquirement of money-
earning knowledge, and are not to be com-
pared with foreign stereotyped methods
which are unsuited to local conditions.
BUSI NESS
EDUCATION
TECHNICAL
EDUCATION
Shorthand. Typewriting oook-
kcepinl, Commercial Arithmetic.
Correapondencc. Penmanship, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering. Architectural and
Mechanical Drawing, etc.
‘HOME STUDY,'
STOTT &HOAR
BUSINESS COLLEGE
k MOOR.E St SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Limited, Agents.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Agricola” : Statement of some naturalists
that our native birds are not adaptable to new
conditions is a gross libel on the firm. They have
adapted the rabbit in many ways since his arrival.
The orchardist considers that the parrots and
leatherheads have thoroughly adapted themselves
to the new conditions regarding fruit. In regard
to nests, the adaptability is even more striking.
Some birds now build their nests out of the roots
of grass which are found so commonly in ploughed
ground. These birds formerly had to shred bark
painfully and with infinite difficulty, and did not
make so good a nest even then. The leather!)cad’s
nest is usually a clumsy affair of stringy-bark.
But a few weeks back one was found in this
district composed wholly of wool, picked, no
doubt, from the briar bushes which infested the
paddock. In the same district, the swinging nest
of a white-faced honey-eater was also found, made
of the same material. This bird usually makes
its nest of straw qr grass roots, and laboriously
covers it with moss to make it weather-proof.
A NATURAL MISTAKE.
FAN MO (to amateur photographer): “Ho hi!
You sell ’era plop, too? ”
“Copra” (from German Papua): “Red
Page,” 25/4/’O7, gives the Moriorisof the Chatham
Islands as being the only savage race to use the
paddle as an oar. It may interest you to know
that the Admiralty Islanders do so in all their
large canoes. The loom is mostly of mangrove,
and the blade of cedar. The blade is seized to
the loom with cane or native fibre rope—made of
bread-fruit bark or hibiscus bark. The oar is used
in a cane grummet passed through the gunwale of
the canoe and round the oar, without a thole pin.
Native name is Pah-pau or Paw-wor.
* * * *
“ Polstan ” : A shrewd little cuss is the
wild goldfinch. It seems to know that its talented
offspring are sought after by aviary-owners, and
plans defeat by making a highly desirable nest
replete with every modern improvement just
where the same cannot help being seen. The
aviary fiend watches for the brood ; but mean-
while Mrs. Goldfinch is snugly hatching that
brood in a carefully hidden nest in another tree,
and by the time the fancier begins to suspect the
dummy, the young birds have flown. The gold-
finch, like the small highly-colored kingfisher, in-
variably destroys her eggs if she finds that they
have been discovered.
“Batcher”: As regards the placing of
twigs cross-wise on billy set on the fire to boil
(“X.Y.,” B. 31/10/’O7). It sort o’ steadies the
water, and prevents it, to some extent, from boil-
ing over. I’ve seen people who had to carry boil-
ing water in buckets from a tank, place a cross,
made of two thin strips of board, on top. ’Twas
a good insurance against scalded legs.
* * * *
“ Douglas T.” : I am a collector of curious
fantods. A few years ago I knew a man who
was in the habit of going into the township on a
jag the moment his cheque amounted to a tenner.
After three days of incessant sinking of “long uns”
(one every twenty minutes, or thereabouts) he
invariably found he was followed by a yellow dog,
at which he kicked frequently and viciously. By
the end of the week the dog appeared in front, and
the kicking became so vigorous that the bobby
took a hand. After a night in the lock-up the
beer devourer would start for his camp with the
dog again in front, but at the town boundary the
animai always vanished. The trouble did not
end there, for on the two following nights the
victim of deep sinkers was kept busy with spiders.
His hat was never out of his hand and he smote
incessantly at insects on the walls and roof of his
6xB. On the third night, although not quite
recovered, he had arrived at the conclusion that
the whole thing was “just foolishness.”
“ The Prooshan ” : What a complete trans-
formation the bushman proper has undergone
within the last quarter-century ! Take, f’rinstance,
the matter of hair. Who ever sees an out-
rageously hirsute bushie nowadays ? And yet in
olden times the true bushman wore his hair pre-
posterously long (if he could), and used an
immense hat to cover his cherished fur. All too
often, heavy, humorless barley-sugar ringlets fell
over the shoulders. Knew one old whaler who
had most glorious curls. One night, at the old
Courabyra Inn, he got toniced, and someone cut
his chief curl off for a lark. The mental condition
of the late S. Agonistes after Delilah had finished
barbering him wasn’t a circumstance to the frenzy
of rage and grief that beset my seafaring friend
when he realised his loss. One of the most
offensive things, by the way, in connection with
the long-hair habit was the oil, or “ hile,” used.
To meet with a bushman properly “ hiled ” up for
a ball in those days was worse than trying the
“whale cure” for consumption.
« * * *
“K.” : Last issue of the Emu, the Aus-
tralian ornithological magazine, had an article by
bird-lover Mattingley, of Melbourne, concerning
the scandalous destruction of nesting egrets that
takes place every spring on the Lachlan, near
where it joins the Murray. The egret is a species
of heron, or crane, and it has a beautiful plume
growing down its back. In the breeding season
this plume is at its best, and that is why the
plume-hunting ghoul chooses that season for his
murderous work. The parent birds are shot, and
the young are left to perish slowly and horribly of
hunger. Mattingley saw these young birds dead
and dying in their nests, and he gives pictures of
the awful crime in the Emu. The plumes are used
in ladies’ hats, chiefly at Cup time. Won’t
Premier Wade give a hand to protect these birds,
which are one of the finest ornaments of our back-
waters ? I hope Bulletin readers, anyway, will
put their feet on the accursed custom of wear-
ing plumes.
“ Agricola ” : Be “ Yarrum ” (B. 31/10/’O7)
and the goburra. His statement that the male
and female roost five or six feet apart does not
hold in this district (Tumut, N.S.W.), anyway.
I have had a pair under daily observation for
the past 18 months, and see them in the even-
ing after they have gone to bed. They
snuggle up together as closely as the
most cuddlesome of love-birds. It is
also held by many that there is an
annual divorce between the par-
ties, and fresh partners are selected
for the next year’s events. But
my 18 months of observation proves
there is at least some marital constancy ;
also, that the birds stick to the one roost-
ing place most religiously. This pair
abide in a large white gum. When I first
saw them it was green, and their bed-
room was just under a large bunch of
mistletoe. The tree has since been ring-
barked, and the mistletoe has fallen off.
But they still camp there, though it is
draughty with so many windows open.
“Vulcan ” : The drought’s having a terri-
bly depressing effect on Jack Kookaburra, and
you might just publish this to cheer him up a bit
(from Webster’s Dictionary ’94): —
Laughing Jackass ( zool .), the great brown kingfisher
(dacelo gigas), of Australia. Galled also giant kingfisher,
and gogobera.
“Gilrooney” gives “ J. Pannikin” a re-
ference as bush expert :
Re “ Won Hi’s ” suggestion (B. 14/11/’O7) that “ ‘ ,T. Pan-
nikin ’ and ‘ Edyson ’ be turned out to learn something
about the bush.” I hereby venture the opinion (and I
know) that, whatever may be said of “ Edyson,” the man
“ Pannikin ” needs no more training to render him bush-
wise than a native bear. He has travelled more and
learned more of the vast, lonely places than any other
Aboliar, and what he doesn’t know in the line he has
made his own isn’t worth any Chow—however facially
disfigured—worrying about.
* * * *
“ Brad During last Christmas holidays,
four of us were camping out near Lyndhurst
(Vic.). In the night, a regiment of ants open'd
an attack upon us, we having unwittingly
pitched our tent alongside their barracks. Arm-
ing ourselves with wet bags, we belted Hades into
them, and moved a quarter of a mile or so further
down the hill. A couple of hours later our slum-
bers were cut short by another invasion of the
slim-waisted warriors. Full of strange oaths and
crimson maledictions, we investigated, and beheld
a w'hole battalion of the insects, four deep, sweep-
ing like a Roman legion upon our dossing-place
from their quarters higher up. Was not aware
before that ants ran their enemies to earth in this
dogged fashion.
* * * *
“ Pick ” : Concerning shearing tallies and
Fry’s record at Tawalla (Vic.). At Bibhenluke
(Monaro) in 1903, the tallies of J. Day, a Bungen-
dore man, on the last three days of the shearing
were 219, 226, and 195, the cut-out occurring at 4
o’clock on the last day.
* * * m
“ Setab ” : John Fry’s tally of 828 sheep
in a week (Bulletin 7/11/’O7) was easily beaten in
the Ma State by Yal Day, who shore 1140 sheep
in a week at Brookong Station in October, 1907.
Shearing at Kangaroobie, near Orange, Larry
Dryden, after dancing all night, shore 52 sheep
before breakfast on 16th November, 1907.
Many lives are saved every year by
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
THE SELFISHNESS OF WOMAN.
GINGER: “ Hallo, George, what yer whippin' the
cat over? Ain't yer backin’ anything?”
GEORGE (gloomily): “What yer think? Why,
the missus has gorn an narked me for
races. Chucked er job up at the shirt factory,
an I ain’t got no ‘gonce ’ now."
“Red Stripe”: Have been twice bitten
by tarantulas, but suffered from nothing more than
a genuine fright. As for the bite it was a sharp
nip, not poisonous.
* * * *
“ The Batcher ” : Would warn all amateur
bushmen to beware of dead stringy. Found no
less than five venomous —or mostly venomous—
creatures, viz., snake, centipede, scorpion, red-
backed spider and tarantula, inhabiting one
dead log.
* * * *
“ J.G.” ; Re tarantulas (“ Erolb,”
B. 14/11/’O7). I was bitten by one, but the report
of my death lacks corroboration. I was over
hauling the family woodheap when I was a
nipper, and pulling off a piece of bark, broke up
a big tarantula’s happy home. He was angry,
grabbed one of my lingers, and punctured it.
My howl brought the neighbors, including the
grocer, who was a man of action. He rushed back
to his shop, and brought his bacon-slicing knife.
He said tarantulas were more deadly than tiger
snakes ; so, taking hold of my finger, he sliced the
top (if it off. Then, while my mother fainted, he
applied a firestick, and said I would be all right
soon. The only trouble was that the grocer had
sliced the wrong finger ; and although I felt sure
I would die, I said nothing—death was better
than the grocer. Since then I have been bitten
by bull dogs, and soldier ants, and one scorpion,
and I would sooner be bitten by 55 tarantulas
than one soldier or bulldog, and would rather
stand the bites of 555 tarantulas than of one
scorpion.
“Larrikin,” on spiders : My answer to
“ Erolb” (B. 14/11/'O7) consists of the first half of
G. Reid’s motto, pronounced in a decisive tone of
voice. I have been bitten by a triantelope
—a big black fellow whom I brought out on the
end of my finger from a peg hole in agate. I
scarified the top of the finger, then took itbeween
my teeth and sucked the venom out. Never felt
any ill-effects, and was as right as rain after-
wards. [This is no evidence of the Australian
tarantula’s poisonous bite—quite otherwise.—Ed.]
It is the red-back spider that wants watching.
Was bitten by one out on the Paroo. I felt very
sick and drowsy, and vomiting set in. Fomented
my hand well, but next day developed a hard
swelling the size of an egg under my arm. Kept
going at the fomentations, and in three days felt
well again. Knew a lad who was bitten by a cen-
tipede on the foot. Not only his foot, but also
his head swelled tremendously. He recovered in
two days. A little child, a boy of two, died in a
most mysterious manner out on the Barcoo from
what was supposed to be a spider bite. The
child had been bathed and dressed, and the
nurse sent him to play about in the garden
amongst the flowers. The child came in quite
drowsy, and died a couple of hours later. Had a
cook, and one flood time his hut swarmed with
spiders. He was bitten one night on the nose,
and awoke in the most fearful agony. He lost
part of his nose; it had to be cut away in the
hospital. He never completely recovered from
the effects of the bite whilst I knew him, and was
eccentric and mad-looking at times.
* * * *
“ E. J.P.” (W.A.) : “ Yarrum ” is ’way out
when he says J. Jackass and wife don’t roost on
the same limb. Have seen no less than 17 of
these birds on the same limb at night—and in a
part of the bush where the settler’s axe hadn’t
been often enough to cause scarcity of wing room.
Rav, X” ; fie'" Jaybell” and the bush
parson (B. l/ll/’07) they’re not all of
the sort he knows. Arrived at May-
town(N.Q.) last week, and watched
what looked like a travel-stained
surveyor carefully manoeuvre
three well-conditioned pack-
horses into the hotel yard
and slide off his own decent-
looking hack on to the
ground. I said, “ Have
a drink?” In reply, he
unslung his prismatic
compass case and pro-
duced something
which he put to his
ear. It was an ear
trumpet. Then I
noticed that his
grizzled chin whisker
reposed on the regu-
lation clerical railing.
He regarded me at-
tentively and re-
marked, “ I didn’t
quite catch”
Said I, “ Suppose
your horses can do
with a drink?” and
let it go at that.
He was making the
round of his parish-
in area a decent-
sized State and
alone, not even with
the usual nigger.
“ How do you man-
age,” I asked, “about
your horses in a dry
camp when they
stampede after
water?” He said,
“Well, of course, I
can’t hear the bells
much —except a little
with my trumpet ; but,
bless you ” —and his eyes
twinkled through his thick
spectacles—-“once let me get
on their tracks, and I’m
right.” I’ve been trying to
picture that parson, with huge
trumpet to ear, peering through
heavy glasses at faint horse-
tracks, or stalking rapidly after
newly-sighted steeds like Ajax de-
fying the Bailiff. Here’s one. all of
whose life is spent ministering to the
alleged spiritual needs of his widely-
scattered flock. Christening their babies, if
they have any, or marrying them if they
haven’t; asking little—giving all he has; work-
ing hard according to his lights. And through
it all he manages to keep his four horses m
as decent fettle as the next man. Last I saw
of him was from the window of the railway-car.
He was wheeling after a refractory pack-horse in
approved style, while two others trotted cheerfully
on ahead. His trumpet case was slung at his
back, and he was carrying the clarion notes of the
Gospel back to Cooktown.
“ Aimee ” : We own a pet crow. He had
just taken in a mighty feed of boiled mutton, and
was sleepfully digesting it, when a dead mouse
was thrown to him. He wanted that mouse. But
there wasn’t room. He didn’t tickle his throat
with his claw, he didn’t take a draught of mustard
and warm water, but with a great show of good
manners, turned his face away and disgorged just
sufficient of the half-digested jumbuck to admit of—
the deceased rodent. And it
was duly admitted. Is it
because of this great in-
ternal control which he
has over himself that
the crow seldom
loses his life by
poisoning ?
NO MISTAKE.
NEW MANAGER: “Dash it all, man! You’ve
shot the wrong beast.”
CHARLIE (an old hand): “No mistake, boss.
Only strange one in the yard.”
“ Moulamein ” : Re “ Batcher’s ” par
(17/10/’O7), the typical bush girl neither “swears”
nor “shouts.” (Fact is no one in the bush—man
or woman —is much given to loud-voiced talk ; the
bushie has a noticeably gentle voice.) But the
modern bush girl certainly does ride astride. And,
in consequence, the way-back horse does not now
suffer from a sore back as often as his progenitors
did.
Every bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is warranted to
do all that is claimed for it.*
“WRITIN’ ’OME.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat, his head upon his hand ; and, sitting, cursed
awhile,
His brow by slow, bush-scented breezes chilled ;
And, as he cursed, he scrawled and planned upon a
frowsy pile
Of tea-wraps, mystic phrases, fancy-filled.
“ The weather's blanky hot—the hear is dear and blanky
bad.
(No that won’t do fer temp’rance sister Jane !)
The blanky weather's hot up here. (No ; steady ! Strike
me glad,
The ‘ blanky’s ’ sure to give old Sue a pain !)”
He pawed his buzzing head, to stir the bunch of brains
inside.
“ I won four quid at two-up yesterday.
(Now, 'ow can I explain two-up to her? No, let that
slide
This letter-writin’ home’s a cunnin’ lay.)
“ The weather's hot! (Yes, that’s orright ; but blowed
if 1 c’n shift
More news than weather off me pore oT brain !) ” . . .
And then he prayed a deadly blight to seize the flies
adrift
Upon the ink, and wiped his pen again.
Up creek and down he gazed, and stared across the
sweltering bush
And to the quivering ranges bine be3 f ond ;
With roving - eyes that gloomed and glared, all wild—nor
ceased to push
A nervous hand among his tresses blonde.
And, as he stared, he sprawled—and, when the “ table ”
ink and all,
Fell over, in a thorough sort o’ way,
“Jeroosh!” he grinned, and chucked the tea-wraps,
large and small—
“ I’m blanky well not meant to write t’-day !”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


A .STIMULANT T .
Cso (?£>
.It imparts lasting exhilaration
kWOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Newness
and
Quality
are our two main studies
—business life studies .
mm
m
:.V
12 Diamonds, 1 Ruby, 1 Sapphire, 1 Pearl—£27/10/-.
We secure newness from England and the Continent. Our London people send us the latest each mail.
Quality we secure by making the goods on the premises. Each piece of gold is assayed before being used,
and when made it is not only stamped, but every ticket is marked in plain figures with the assay quality,
and so buyers can read all about our goods. No house in Australia makes better quality goods than we do.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY
HOUSE IN SYDNEY, . .
PLAIN FICURES CASH.
23 HUNTER. STREET,
“ Typhon ” : Yes, snakes feed on eggs all
right. On the Glenelg River (Vic.) once watched
a black snake break and eat three large hen eggs.
There were four eggs in the nest. My attention
was caught by a strange rattling sound in a
tussock. I looked, and saw the egg thief hustling
the eggs about. In a few minutes he thrust his
nose into a crack which had appeared in one, and
enjoyed himself. Then he began to bustle the
remaining around. Another cracked, and he
cleaned it out. When he had finished the third,
I remembered the many breakfasts I had made of
eggs and bacon, and became resentful. Result :
One whole egg and a dead black snake.
* * * *
“ Flinderino Main N. Queensland curse
—not excepting goats, mosquitoes and Seceshers —
is the Jap washerman, who has a monopoly in his
line of business. He calls round on Monday
morning and takes your dirty collars and shirts,
and any time within the next fortnight brings
back two of your collars, four of somebody else’s,
and one shirt instead of two. Three days later,
Yappo puts in an appearance with three more
collars, but no shirt. In lieu of the missing shirt
he offers you two pairs of somebody else’s socks. If
you put a pair of socks amongst the bundle of
dirty clothes, you must sew the two socks together;
otherwise you’ll have returned to you one of your
own socks and one of somebody else’s. A new-
chum friend of mine, from Sydney, once sent a
pair of underpants to the wash in Cairns. Anyone
else would have known better. Yappo and his
countrymen had never seen any underpants before,
and this pair was a novelty to them. It was three
weeks before the Sydney youth regained possession
of his legwarmers. During that time Yappo and
his employees and relations had each worn them
for a day to see what they felt like.
* * * *
“Janor ”: Almost every Gippsland gully
that has been worked for gold seems to have its
legend of hidden treasure, handed down from the
early days. Treacle tins of sovereigns, teapots
full of nuggets, fine gold in bottles—details vary ex-
cept in one particular, and that is that the planter
was a very old digger who went away without
intending to do so, and died, and forgot to come
back. In the palmy days of Merrijig Creek (V.)
one of the local stores was owned by a Chow, and
managed by a young Chinky of the flash order.
After he had been for:some time on the creek he
was taken ill, and tbohgh the resident M.R.C.S.
treated him with crows’galls, ground tigers’bones,
the eyes of cats, and other Celestial remedies, he
steadily became worse. When he could see the Man
with the Scythe looking over the fence, he sent
for his boss and confessed that during his service
he had stolen a quantity of gold and planted it,
and as his boss had given him the tip that restitu-
tion meant recovery he was anxious to disgorge.
A stretcher was improvised and four bearers bore
the sick-man over some rough country at his
direction, until a hollow-log was reached and
there, snugly stowed away, was a pickle bottle
full of gold. When the bearers returned to the
store it was a dead Chow they put down, and he
clutched the bottle of lucre with a grip that could
not be broken. The head serang emptied the
bottle, and again it was planted with the
cadaver—and this is the only authentic case of the
recovery of plants of the roaring days I’ve met so
far.
BREAKING HIS JOURNEY.
MRS. JONES (anxiously): “Tom, Tom, fer the
love of Heaven stop where ye are till I take
little Billy from under yez. ”
“ Nulla ” : “ Bill Maloney’s ” remark (B.
14/11/’O7) that on the tracks up his way they now
call Matilda a “ knot ” recalls some of the dozens of
the lady’s aliases. But of them all I think I like
“Curse o’ Cain” best.
* * * *
“ San Remo ” : “ X.Y.” (B. 31/11/’O7) re-
marks on the selector’s wife who cuts a cross [ x ] on
her sponge when bread-baking, and suggests it is
done to keep evil spirits from spoiling the bake.
The x cut in the dough is really for a purely
utilitarian purpose. The cuts allow the air to
escape from the cake during the baking process,
and prevent the cake from splitting in other
places. The x is mostly used because when
cooked the cake is readily broken into four pieces
thereby.
STATELY.
“Now, thish is rather a delicate bishness. I don’t wish Jones to sec me in thish state
while he'sh in that state.’
“ A. Borig ” : Sustained the horror of my
life recentlv by inadvertentlystanding on a livepor-
cupine which had partially submerged itself in the
earth. For one horror-stricken, paralysing, hour-
long second the whole round world seemed to be a
huge bubble, swelling and about to burst. Then
I ran five yards in mid-air, and the welkin rang
like a cracked dinner-bell with my howls. ’Twas
worse—far worse—than the time I trod on a
brown snake in a bed of nettles, and on unhob-
bling niyself found 84 distinct punctures, each one
of which looked and felt like a brown-snakebite.
“ Agricola ” : Lying under the shade of. a
messmate the other day, keeping my eyes open
for a mob of horses, I saw a gohanna sauntering
up the trunk of a big white gum. Coming level
with a spout, he thrust his head into it, in an
inquisitive fashion. An irritable “Gar-r-r”
sounded, and the head of the gohanna with-
drew with a snap. After the performance
had been repeated several times, a scared
’possum scrambled out of the spout, said
“ Gar-r-r ” again, and made an attempt on all
existing records in his hurry to reach the
top of the tree. The go. followed, and
pursued him out to the very extremity of
the limb. The ’possum jumped, to save
himself from falling, and caught the
lowest limb. The gohanna skithered
down the trunk in time to cut off his
retreat, and then did the act all over
again. This time the ’possum hung on
till the twigs broke under him, and he
departed earthwards in a huddled heap,
the gohanna also following, with out-
stretched legs and inflated body. They
made an almost simultaneous “ wop,” but
the ’possum was able to clamber up the
next tree with the lizard at his heels. Right
out to the end they went again, but this
time nothing intervened to break the
’possum’s fall, and, on arriving, he never
even bounced. The gohanna watched him
land with a cold and calculating eye, and
made a dignified descent down the trunk.
He examined the prostrate ’possum, crawled
over him, chewed him a bit, and vanished
as I approached. In my opinion the reptile
committed a cold-blooded murder, just out of
infernal mischief, for there was a dead cow
handy, if he wanted lunch.
» * ■* *
“P. Winkle ” : Professional cod fishermen
are discarding live in favor of spoon bait in the
billabongs of the Murray on the N.S.W. side of
the river. Proper way to manipulate the spoon-
bait is to draw it round in a semi-circle from side
to side, keeping the spoon low in the water during
the day time, and nearer the surface as dusk
approaches. On the Wakool Creek and the
Edwards River (N.S.W.) great execution is
taking place with the shiny lure, especially in the
autumn. Once hooked on the jagged trinity of
the spoon old man cod doesn’t light long. A
thundering, quiversome tug, that lasts about a
minute, and he gives the matter up as hopeless.
* * * *
“Batcher ” : lie “ Yarrum ” and eggs (B.
7/11/’O7). I’ve known dogs, iguanas, etc., hanker
after eggs, but I never thought that horses were
partial to them. A friend of mine has a stallion
pony who’ll crack ’em and eat ’em as fast as you
can feed him. What’s the reason of this ? Is it
to be found in the fact that something is wanting
in his bill of fare, and he’s trying to supply it,
just as cockatoos pick out their feathers to get at
fatty matter? And as some plants assimilate
insects to supply special food required ?
“ Paul Cupid ” tells a lie of some magni-
tude :
Seeing in a paper recently where a person was cured of
lockjaw by a sudden blow, reminds me of Regan’s ease.
Regan was a sullen man, and when anything was wrong
with him refused to speak. He just put up with his
trouble, and kept his mind to himself like a pig going to
root up a crop. One morning he rose and refused to
come to breakfast. His wife approached, and inquired
the cause, but he waved her off. She became alarmed,
and sent for Delaney and McNab and Foster. They all
came with their men. “ I don’t know what’s wrong with
him,” said Mrs. Regan. “ Whenever we ask him, he only
points to his mouth and shakes his head and looks
savage.” Regan was seated out on the woodheap, but
wouldn’t come near them. They discussed his case hard
by in whispers. “ He’s mad, Mrs. Regan,” said old Foster ;
“ mad as the div ” Regan rose up and glared at them.
“ Look out I ” continued Foster, getting through the fence,
“ he’ll be afterus d’rectly with th’ haxe.” “ Yera cur, Fos-
ter,” said McNab, disdain fully. “ Yon man is no madder
nor yersel’. What’s wrang wi’ him is lockjaw.” “ Well,”
said Delaney’s man, “ I seen in the paper that a sure cure
is t’ give ’im an ’it as ’ard as ever you can in th’ hangle o’
th’jaw at th’ butt o’ th’ hear.” “ Verra weel,” agreed
McNab. “You gang oop till th’ woodheap an’ gie him a
clout.” The man refused, on account of Regan being a
stranger to him. After a time Delaney agreed to perform
the operation. Mrs. Regan and McNab tried to engage
Regan in conversation in front, while Delaney crept up
behind and cured the lockjaw. Delaney put his fist close
to Regan’s ear, and then threw it back to deliver the
cure. Regan, staring at the ground, noticed the shadow
of a fist at his ear, and turned round just at the critical
moment. He received it in the side of the neck, and it
sent him sprawling on his hands and knees. Mrs. Regan
took Delaney’s hand in both hers, and tearfully
thanked him. “ Don’t mintion it —I’d do anything
in th’ worl—Oh ! be the tares of war, lie’s after
me.” Regan was after him, and swearing to tear
him limb from limb. The others were going in all direc-
tions. Old Foster, who used to go about on a stick and
rub gohanna oil into his knees for rheumatism, struck a
bee-line for home across the cultivation. “Go’’oil must
be marvellous stuff, or Foster must have been a wonder-
ful sprinter in his youth. He was going well for a man
of 70, when he heard a clatter behind him. He looked
over his shoulder, and found it was Delaney. “ Why
don’t y’ take a track o’ yer own, y’ cowardly divil?” he
said. Delaney did, hoping Regan would pursue Foster,
but he didn’t. Delaney managed to get into the growing
maize about ten yards in front of Regan, and escaped
being cut off right in the midst of his sins. When
Foster found he was not pursued, he sat down and fer-
vently thanked God. It was the first time in his life the
old reprobate had the grace to thank God for anything.
“ What did ye mean, woman,” roared Regan, when he got
back, “by thanking that bandy-legged assassin fer
nearly killin’ me?” “’Twas to cure your lockjaw,
John.” “ Lockjaw bed ■. ’Twas on’y a toothache I
had, an’ ivery time I’d open me mouth th’ wind made it
worse.”
* * * *
“Janor”: Don’t for a moment question
the truth of “ Australian’s ” yarn of the timber-
getter who uses a tame "go” for tree measuring
(B. 7/11/’O7). Stranger things than that have
happened on the “Abo.” page of The Bulle-
tin. But I do object to the bloke with the
saurian tape-measure being labelled “axe-expert.”
Expert timber men can measure the height, girth,
and contents of any growing tree at one glance,
and can also determine (before falling) if the
same is sound in the heart or carries a pipe, how
it will split, if it is “ ringy,” or carries gum-vei ns,
and even forecast with fair accuracy the number
of palings, slabs and other wooden goods they will
ultimately get out of it. That’s the trained eye—
one advantage of which is that its expert possessor
has no need to drag a menagerie after him
through the bush when he’s out on business.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J. Grieg : It’s about time to lay the ghost of
that yarn. The Bulletin wasn’t “ nearly ruined ”by the
stand it took in opposition to the war for Chinese labor
in S’Africa. There was a slight loss of circulation for a
few months, hut a rapid recovery followed. We had our
circulation accounts audited, the other day, and this is
what an independent accountant swore to : “I have
audited the accounts of The Bulletin newspaper, and
find that the only decrease in the circulation since the
year 1899 was during the years 1900 and 1901, namely,
4 percent, and 2 per cent, respectively, being equal to 40
copies per 1000 in 1900, and 20 copies per 1000 in 1901.
The actual sales of The Bulletin have steadily increased
since the year 1901, and for the year ended 30th Sept.,
1907, were 39'3 per cent, greater than in the year 1899, or
considerably more than one-third larger than at that
date ; all returns, free copies and exchanges having been
duly allowed for.” We don’t mind confessing to that 2
per cent, and 4 per cent, decrease. It was a small price
to pay for the luxury of being honest, especially as it
was quickl.y followed by a 40 per cent, increase
A.M.B. : Not the slightest fear that worm “hopper” or
other moribund baits of the sort will ever be forbidden on
the Monaro. As to “ set-lining ” it is (like dynamiting)
an undesirable practice rather—leadftig to much waste of
good fish. In this connection The Bulletin has sad
memories of trout skeletons dangling in Snowy River
waters at the end of forgotten set-lines.... Bega :It is not
a fact that The Bulletin abuses all politicians. If you
read the paper carefully you would see that any public
man who is doing good work for Australia has had our
support, and The Bulletin is the only paper in Australia
that has consistently barracked for fair pay for politicians.
Puzzled: It is not Keir Hardie’s policy but his
blatherskite that The Bulletin objects to. We are quite
tired of the ignorant London Johnny, and the ignorant
London Bill, who come out here and attempt to lecture
men who know far more than they do. It is not a
question of “ taking good advice even if it is imported.”
It is a question of not being able to put up with the ex-
ceedingly bad advice these imported labor lights give us.
W. Rock (Northcote): Verse pretty, but too hack-
neyed in its appeal. So many have been disillusioned in
this sad old world, and said “Ah God! ” and other
things, when their idol removed its footwear
J. Smart Payne : Hardly an improvement on Solomon.
Besides, Solomon didn’t write that poem. “ The Song of
Songs ” is a tract against Solomon’s irresponsible habit of
snapping up nice country girls for his harem. The thing
was a scandal ; but as Solomon bossed the police, the
police didn’t interfere. However, the anonymous
dramatist—we fancy his name was W. Stead —has pilloried
the king for all time Chink : For our sake, and that of
your copy, write only on one side..Slowheart: Sketch
and verses show merit and imagination—but they’re
much lacking in polish Vei Sari: Awful story
of drunk who used someone’s waistcoat as a
handkerchief has been sent to the wash
Batcher: “ Belle Amie” ends in an absurd anti-climax.
....51 A. : Have some merit, but don’t quite suit....
G. : “By-Flection Humors” not up Tas. :
“ Seducer’s Gold ” is obscure and baffling to a degree ; if
it means what it is just possible you mean it to mean, it’s
unfit for publication.... W.L.D. : “One Summer Day,”
which suggested by its title a dainty idyll, proved to be a
sordid narration of what happened to a female who
sold all her fowls to buy beer. Rejected firmly....
A.H.G.N. : Too stiff and long-winded.... Jackson :
Funny, but not new 0.W.T.: It is florid, but it
doesn’t cut up well John B. : True to life, but not
intrinsically interesting H.W.T. : Almost felt inclined
to print it as a shocking example Joram : Tired of
indifferent flower-poems. Try cabbages for a change....
Casa: It has neither rhyme, rhythm, nor reason....
H. : The Bulletin has already objected to a “sub-
scription to supply Australia with rifles,” because that
would mean taxing the patriotic man for the benefit of
the other chap Halbert: An insult to the human
understanding... .Baby Bunting: “Mors” took some
thinking over, but the patches on the rhythm turned the
scale against it Artarmon : Spend a penny and post it
to her....J.C. (Geelong): Story unsuitable; but you
have a gift for narration, and should persevere....
Peri. : Much good phrasing in your verses, but the metre
is invariably horrible. You need to take far more pains
with your work... .Max : Your father had a cow which
didn’t die ; but Murphy’s cow did. And to state those
facts you employ 1000 words. Condensation is desirable
in all cow-products—from milk unto anecdotes.. ..Arran
More : Don’t like Biblical jokes... :Mack : If all Sydney’s
over-dressed women were as infamous as their clothes
make them appear, this peactfu! harbor city would be a
raging inferno G.: Your “Prayer” too vague, also
too blasphemous—twin defects that are calculated to
damn utterly the most earnest effort in that line.
“Cooney’s Ruse” was pole-axed, and hurled in an un-
conscious state into the VV.P.B Anchor: Poem be-
ginning, “ The Sun sinks, Fair Lunar smiles calmly,”
rejected ; verses re aged tramp who died during the
night in callous station-owner’s garden, likewise
F.R.B. : “Baby’s Godmother” unsuitable Sigis-
mund: “ Biters Bit ” and other poems to hand.
What your Muse most needs is a dose of strychnine.
J.G.: You are the second to write apropos
“Rosack’s” (7/11/’O7) par., booming pine-apple juice
as a cure for diphtheria. But we’re chary about
handling serious things like diphtheria cures....
Te Aroha : Pretty, but too slight J.A.R.: Even wattle
and waratah weary... .Bertie : “Piecrust” is stimu-
lating, but not in such large mouthfuls Horace R.
Connelly : Poem to your “ beloved and dutiful wife,” and
reminiscent of an old soldier, declined. . We are alwai s
prejudiced against people named Horace C.G.A.C.:
One hovers, others flopped Prospect Good : Not quite
good enough... .Junius : Mere technically clever jingle.
Xerxes : You’re about the 144th voluntary witness in
the “ Won Hi ” v. “ Pannikin ” matter ; and all of you
appear to have travelled with “J.P.”in the uttermost
parts of Beyond, and personally scrutinised him in the
act of absorbing bush lore. Verdict for “ Pannikin ”
accordingly, with Costs against “ Won Hi,” who, we
suspect, is a Chow Waitahu (Maoriland) : Can’t sympa-
thise much with your bushman friend, who was killed by
a falling tree. Consider the man’s hopeless inertness :
As the tree came down, and to him drew near,
When he saw ’twas too late to run ;
He did not tremble or quake with fear,
But murmured, God’s Will Be Done.
Slickness rather than sanctity should be the motto of a
tree-feller in a crisis like the above Unsuitable: F.
Doyle, Warragul, L. McCook, David, McK. W., Fran
Agher.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.G. : Sorry, but not even to “sell more papers than
we have ever done before ” in your little hamlet can we
print drawings that look like the maunderings of a weak-
minded fly after an ink-bath... .Geo. M. : Shows pro-
mise.. . .Unsuitable : D.D. (Vic.), David L.


Hje (onfet'errce of Presl , /^‘ / '^
WorKos gT**^
of ouniKy
refection
flo)>le &t" 'ttffc
ioolCinO «ff' cc s
2^3 > t
to
i>ooK blfr'-es
k Con CQ-
Oar Ide*, 0| \unfl\y
H 0 m j
st ~— s><?(b * swe&.r,
on me ©be* ®f S*l (only C«"7
sos +«r- I>e /« W A
- v*r eonsb.A
"A was caVS
it, Colling $? t>y young
Udy wit© Q-Jiefly
a( o w j vj <ss 1t
for <V V^oer,
or
MorrjCns ExbibiK
lon Oone ty
tjer f
15 Oar-
fv-yJ)
6o<l-
T+ IS 'Weless f° r IK, Sf f e 4£^ S '" <
is esbec-r To
own coaj mine
1 t Ar H -"We II youre 4 Tiofeless ca.tb^e-g^e-;
©9 A wW !" j~ —_
Victors
'^'a^errt’
Very ore in fa re st~
A,H&o\ies to 'tfk
of Vic+onaCs letters,
1 LvT "
: 'o x /
sdf
/
1&y «,<■+.
mme lb*b\
VfHoojJ/^
tra
■lk Melbourne C°
Il\% reduced hQ ur s °|'
-fro~i t>o +©
(!) W «« K •
AH constable, Im goirjg 'fe
get" off *7«v* ! "
* '\! \
'nooooooH! W9r
\\% gain' do nex-H:'
BENT, KING EDWARD, AND OTHER CELEBRITIES.


Amateur {who has kindly consented to give a gaot lecture on “ A
Trip to the South See Islands) : •• And who would not, on
contemplating a picture like this, shake off the fetters that
confine him within the narrow walls of civilised conven-
tionalism, and revel for a time at least amid these Arcadian
delights? Don’t fail to make this voyage,” etc.
Society man, who has
volunteered to sing at a
fashionable gaol function,
appropriately warbles :
••When the enterprisin’ burglar’s not
a-burgling,
AOd the cut-throat isn’t occupied in
crimes,” etc.
lf « s °>.. 15;
„ Now before l proceed further
,he io “ ot * °** t "
tu.tfeh
6tit Cf/rf
f> h
4
\
XN/X V?
/——
\ %ss
/ N *°o s %
' % ■*
The Archbishop of Sydney preached at
the Church of England week-day service
at Darlinghurst Gaol on Wednesday
morning. The service was attended by
a long list of the ** nicest ” people.
There was also a fair sprinkling of
convicts.
Where will this end ? Balls, garden
parties, croquet, tennis, harbor excur-
sions. Ha t the brain reels 1
GAOL GAIETIES.—THE LATEST SOCIETY FAD.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Infantile colic is promptly cured by
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The will of Mr. J. J. Lee, formerly a clerk
in the office of the Crown Solicitor, and for many
years a pensioner, who died at the Australian
Club, Macquarie-street, Sydney, on Sept. 16, has
been proved at £23,957 19s. 2d.
For close on 50 years the Ritchies have
been building rolling-stock for the N. S. Wales
railway. The founder of the business, R. A.
Ritchie, ex-M.L.A., died some years ago ; Son
John, a good Australian, who succeeded him as
senior partner, followed last week, aged 48.
It would no doubt come as a tremendous
shock to the Anti-Sosh screechers in the House of
Reps, to find that even William Sandford, the
man who has been battling with the industry lor
over 30 years, believes that pig-iron production
should be a State business.
In the matter of W. P. Crick, the High
Court has called upon him to show cause why he
should not be struck off its roll (following in this
the action of the N.S.W. State Supreme Court).
Mr. Crick has taken steps to appeal to the Privy
Council against the decision of the N-S.W. Court
disenrolling him.
Late Edward Terry, who died at his beau-,
tiful Eastwood estate last week, was as game a
huntsman as ever crossed a horse, and he was
always breaking limbs in the hunting field. Mr.
Terry used to be The Bulletin’s landlord, and
often appeared at the otfice in a sadly bandaged
state ; but it was noticed that he had always one
hand left to take the rent with.
Minor Judge Fitzhardinge, a Sydney
native, and an old oarsman of much fame, entered
his 63rd year on the 6th. He was called to the
Bar in 1868. One of his earliest criminal briefs
was in defence of George Robert Nichols, for the
Parramatta River murders, when he had for
junior Edmund Barton, now on the High Court
Bench.
A little over £lOOO would seem to be the
limit of the amount to be obtained for the Seddon
National Memorial, notwithstanding a lengthened
and strenuous canvass. That only repeats history,
as made by similar attempts to commemorate
o;her Australian public men. George Grey,
Robertson, Parkes, Dibbs left aching voids at
death, and ic looked as if monuments to touch
the sky would spring up to commemorate their
services. But almost before a committee could be
f irmed to receive the cash the public agony had
abated.
FORETHOUGHT.
BOLLIVER (actor - author - manager on tour):
“ That's a beautiful bucket of paste, ’ Envy,
be-au-ti-ful. Perhaps, after all, ’ Enry, old
friend, ’twould be wise to leave the bill-stick-
ing till we have — eh—made sure of breakfast .”
N.S.W. Assembly used to have gorgeous
times when the just-deceased Edward Terry was
member for Ryde. Terry was rich and ambitious,
and some of the parasitical order of politicians
convinced him that he should be the leader of a
great party, and that the path to that end was
hospitality. Terry was willing and able ; and
many a rich feast did the members of Mr. Terry’s
“ Independent Party ” enjoy. It was a very
strong party on banquet nights, but, alas, mus-
tered poorly on divisions.
William Huon, who died recently at
Wodonga (Vie.), aged 85, was one of the last of
the Southern Riverina pioneers. He was a grand-
son of a French Royalist emigre, Stein Gabriel
Louis Marie Huon de Huillean (Louis Huon, for
short), who came to N.S.W. with Captain John
Maearthur in the very early days, and settled
at Campbelltown. William’s father took up
Wodonga station, which was the first squattage
south of the Murray. Later, William took
charge, and “De Kevillean,” where he lived till
his death, was part of the original station. His
second wife was a neice of explorer Hamilton
Hume.
Miner Joseph King—the first to die at
Mount Balfour (Tas.) tin-mining field—had a
funeral that doesn’t finish off every Australian.
The nearest settlement (Mairawah) is 46 miles
away, and the intervening country is very rough.
At 7 a.m. on the Bth Nov., 30 of King’s mates
started out with his body, carrying it in relays of
four, and reached Marrawah about noon next day.
It was a fearsome journey ; all the bearers were
dead tired at the end of it; most of them had
blistered feet—some were so bad that they had
to go barefoot, and two of them were knocked
right out. But all stood gamely to their mate
unto the last.
George Collins Levey, now in his 73rd
year, has been appointed by the Agents-General
one of the supervisors of Australian arrangements
at the Anglo-French Exhibition. Mr. Levey
came to Australia in 1851, and was for a time in
the Government service as clerk to a gold-
receiver ; he subsequently tried mining, and was
the first to employ machinery for quartz-crushing.
He afterwards wrote for the Melbourne press, and
tramped Europe 1859-61 writing for English
newspapers. Returning to Melbourne, he became
proprietor of the Herald, then a morning paper.
Later, he was connected with many exhibitions,
and has traversed the globe gathering exhibits for
many shows.
Philp’s stop-gap Cabinet put up almost a
record in poverty of power. Second-in-com-
mand was Denham, the Butter Rat, who
in season and out of ditto, preaches Secesh and
Anti-Sosh, although he was a member of the
democratic' Morgan Government, and remained
afterwards with Kidston. Minister-for-Railways
Campbell is a member of the saw-mill ring, but is
not much more than a political cipher. Works
and Mines Leahy owes his fame to being the
“ brother Patsy ” of Jan Leahy. Patsy is a country
newspaper proprietor. Minister for Lands Barnes
as a Wussleyan preacher is a success; then
charity draws the curtain. “Justice” Power looks
robust physically, but he is nothing more
than a popular man in sporting and mining
circles. Willie Stephens, as Secretary for Agri-
culture, has one claim —he is the largest dairyman
in Queensland, with many tenants on shares, and
is the owner of much land, but is not known out-
side the Tory pale.
“ G.G.” : There appears in The Bulletin
(14/11/’O7) a paragraph re Victor Daley, relating to
a watch found in
a hut on Tolarno
run. The anecdote
isn’t altogether ac-
curate. It says
Daley wrote the
poem, “It’s All the
Same to Mudge.”
No w i t was Charles
Wesley Caddy, an
old contributor of
yours, who wrote
this poem, which
appeared in The
Bulletin (8/9/’88).
Have a scrap-book
in my den at home
which contains
about 1000 clip-
pings from old
Bulletins pub-
lished between the
years 1888 and 1898
- —and a in o ngst
them “It’s All the
Same to Mudge.”
I knew little
Caddy well. The
first time the poem
in question ap-
peared, we were
all assembled, on
show night in Sep-
tember, 1888, in
Charlie Smith’s
hotel at Albury,
w h e n Maurice
Murphy, the once-
popular amateur
comedian, rushed
into the room and
delivered the poem
in fine style ; and
waving the paper
above his head, he
shouted : “The
Bulletin has
founded a School
of Poetry.” We all
had drinks on the strength of it.
Frank Pulsford, the accountant son of the
Senator of that ilk, cut into a pretty rich joint
when he offered to agent Crown lands for Queens-
land. In two years he has troubled the Treasury of
Bananaland for £3500 as commission, and is
entitled to draw a similar amount during the next
year on behalf of areas already sold. As he is
still collecting numerous discontents in N.S.W.
and trekking them northwards, he has much pay-
able ore in sight.
The Bulletin had a par (25/4/’O7)
stating that the Rev. Ronald, ex-M.H.R., had been
accused of using a dark word and that the accusa-
tion was not proven. In Presbyterian circles the
idea of cussing a little seems to be taken very
seriously, for the Assembly or the Presbytery or
something has been much moved, and the result
is an official letter to the Rev. Ronald :
On the Bth April a member ol the Presbytery (A) made
a formal charge against Mr. Ronald that a certain gentle-
man (B) had said, in the presence of A and another gentle-
man (C), that he had reproved Mr. Ronald for the use of
bad language. The Presbytery decided to proceed no
further with the accusation, for reasons assigned. On the
25th October, Mr. Ronald referred to this accusation, and
read from a letter, written to him by B, words which appa-
rently denied that he had used the words alleged by A.
The Presbytery resolved to communicate with B and O.
On the 19th November letters from B and C were laid on
the table. B declared that A had made a mistake. O
stated that he could not substantiate A’s,allegations. A
thereupon expressed his regret for any injury he had
done Mr. Ronald, and his apology. The Presbytery
unanimously found the charge unsupported, and that A
made the charge under a misapprehension, and recorded
their regret for any injury Mr. Ronald may have suffered.
At the first unusual looseness of the
bowels Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy should be given, and all danger
will be avoided.*
AIRY BADINAGE.—AT THE REAL-ICE
SKATING RINK.
FIRST GLACIARIAN : “ How long did it take you
to learn, old chap? ”
SECOND DITTO : “ About fifteen sittings .”
There is a Bill Squires still in Australia.
He is an old-age pensioner, over 70 years of age, and
a veteran of the Indian Mutiny, having served
under Colin Campbell at tne relief of Lucknow,
in ’57. A grateful Imperial Government awarded
him 9d. a day and a row of medals.
No Australian native has yet been Governor
of an Australian State or of the Federation. Two
Australians have been Acting-Governors, how-
ever. Pope Cooper, a Snowy River man, took a
turn, the other day, at the business in Queensland,
and many years ago Edward Maearthur, a Parra-
matta native, relieved Governor Hotham at Mel-
bourne.
The verbal ‘ ‘ scrap ’ ’ between Josiah Thomas
and Knox, in thePlou.se of Reps., the other evening,
is an illustration of the bitterness that strikes leave
behind them. Thomas was a member of a Broken
Hill strike committee years ago; Knox was the
chief administrative officer of the mine-owners.
After a bitter strike came a bitter boycott of the
leaders, and Thomas was among the men who were
reduced to positive physical hunger. Now Thomas
is in Parliament, all the same as Knox; and if
Knox expects sweetness from him he doesn’t
know much about human nature.
Chief Engineer of Melbourne Board of
Works, William Thwaites, went underground last
week, aged 54. He was a Melbourne native, and
an M. A. of Melbourne University. He began his
burrowing career in Vic. Railway Department,
but passed over to the S.A. ditto in ’76 as an
assistant surveyor. He returned to Vic. Public
Works Department in ’79, and looked extensively
at the landscape through his theodolite for Mel-
bourne water supply and other purposes. In ’B3
he became Roads and Bridges engineer, and Chief
Engineer of the Works Board in ’9l.
Henry Clarke, “ the father of the House,”
who died last week, aged 82 years, had a peculiar
windfall a few years ago. Mr. Jantes Hoskins,
an old Parliamentarian, dying, left £16,000.
Everybody believed Mr. Hoskins to be without
relatives, but on opening his will, it was found
that he had a son somewhere in England. In his
will he left the property in trust to Mr. Clarke,
with instructions to advertise and search for the
son, and failing to find him, Mr. Clarke was to
keep the estate himself. Up to Mr. Clarke’s
death the property was not, in his opinion, legally
claimed.
Sydney Stipendiary Magistrate Thomas E.
Mac Nevin adjourned sine die last week, aged 63,
after 40 years’ graft in the N.S.W. Justice
Department. From chief clerk in the Justice
Department he was appointed Police Magistrate
in 1896, and Stipendiary Magistrate in 1903. He
several times acted as Under-Secretary for Justice,
and his “Manual for C’s.P.S.” and ditto for
Coroners are considered authoritative.
Late Stipendiary-Magistrate Mac Nevin was
one of the late Chief Justice Martin’s early pro-
teges. Mac Nevin arrived from Dublin with the
blessing of his father’s legal reputation, and
Martin at once took him in hand and ran him
into the Justice Department. There were ructions
about it at the time, as several local youngsters
were after the billet, but there was no Public
Service Board, and members of Parliament and
leading officials fought over every vacancy.
Samuel Terry, the founder of deceased
Edward Terry’s landed estates, was among the
first in the field to win the approving smile of the
then reformer, Governor Macquarie. The
Governor found Sydney and the surrounding dis-
tricts over-stocked with pubs, licensed and un-
licensed. Nearly every third house sold liquor,
and, what was worse, most of them hocussed
the drinkers. Macquarie’ rode around on a grey
horse on the forenoons of several days, and,
counting his population, determined to give 31
pubs to the lot. That was arbitrary, for it
knocked hundreds of rum-sellers out of business.
But, further, he ordered that each of the 31,
in addition to a £2O license fee, should present
to him two respectable persons who would go
bond that the grog house would be decently con-
ducted. Samuel Terry went up smiling ; indeed,
his strong feature was his smile, and it is said his
bondsmen smileci also. At all events, he received
the Governor’s warrant to sell liquor, and his Ex.,
it is said, more than once sampled the stuff with
pleasurable results. Samuel’s smile continued to
be so gratifying to his Ex. that Macquarie made
him a present of 1200 acres of land on the
Hawkesbury and 2000 acres in other parts of the
country.
Died in Adelaide, after weary years of
illness, H. S. Anthony, who, back in 1885 or
thereabouts, took one of the longest business
jumps on local record—from the secretaryship of
the Anglican Synod to the management of a
brewery (Syme and Sison’s), in which he had
bought an interest. He did something in land
allotments too, and was one of the founders of
the now-fashionable Henley Beach waterside
township.
Commonwealth Government entertained
nine army veterans, living in Queensland, at
dinner on King’s Birthday. Eldest of the bunch
was Trooper Robert Lofthouse, of the 12th
(Dublin) Fusiliers, aged 83, who fought in the
Kaffir War of 1851, Crimean War. Turkish War,
and Indian Mutiny ; and the youngest, Sergeant
Alexander Tumlv, of the 79th (Crimean) High-
landers, aged 67, who fought in the Indian
Mutiny. The ages of the other seven ranged
from 70 to 79. Among them were Francois
Pelissier, a French artilleryman, who fired shots
at the Bear at Alma, Balaclava, Inkerman, and
Sebastopol; and Private George McVeigh, of the
52nd (Oxfordshire) Light Infantry, who, in return
for having been at the sieges of Delhi and Luck-
now and the relief of Cawnpore, receives a
pension of a shilling a week from Bull’s Govern-
ment.
THE PATRIOTS.
“I'm going to send for some of that Muck-
heilo vintage, ’47. Of course it will
he dearer and nastier than the Aus-
tralian stuff. But then it will hare
the advantage of coming from Hing-
land, and that is everything, doncherno .”
A queer apologist for the sweating Mel-
bourne Tramway Co., which Laborite Anstey
lately tried to have brought under the minimum
wage provisions of the Factories Act, is M.L.A.
Keast. Before he swelled into a fruit and grain
dealer, and then into a land agent and politician,
Keast put in nearly three years as a gripman on
the trams, working 44 hours a week for 36s. The
House, after considering the figures, was sur-
prised to hear Keast call the co. a “ good master ” ;
but it guffawed when it learnt that, as a conse-
quence of that three years’ perpetual vibration,
the member for Dandenong still has to wear
bandages on his legs. He will carry the brand of
the ‘.‘good master ”all his days.


* 1
p Mi
1
" "V
in
-
8
:
// -*
a
$
I
8H
iia
. ■
-..
*lffl
■
ii
/
T 3
W
-
II
i
*
it
•VI
!
■
OBH
M
g
.
m
m
■
111
SIS
»
mi
«
H
It®
■
11
K
■ ■
':7®i
KH
ii
i
m
m
>■
M
m
■
m
■
m
m
m
m
m
s§
.vj
YfTLv.,‘BormLj:)
SH
■
.
1,1
m l
“Three Coppers" always buy a Packet of
CAPSTAN CIGARETTES.


SUPERFLUOUS HAIR —This is the most dis-
tressing disfigurement a woman can have. Other-
wise beautiful women are made utterly miserable
because of this unhappy affliction. “ Rusmo ” is
the best hair killer in the world. It won’t, mind
you, remove those little hairs for ever and ever—
only electricity will do this—but Rusmo Haie
Killer will certainly make them instantly dis-
appear for the time, and so weaken their growth
that they will be slow to return. This alone is
great relief. Not only that, but all that is neces-
sary can be done at home in very simple fashion,
andinabsoluteprivacy. RusMOcosts5s. 3d. a bottle.
It can be ordered from any chemist, or will be
supplied post free by Mile. Rubinstein, the Yalaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney; or 274
Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Drown all sorrows and sink
all cares for
CHRISTfIAS IS COniNG,
and
Charles Heidsieck’s
CHAMPAGNE
is an
Effective Cure for All Ills.
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
0
Wholesale
for Australia —
Hogs:. Robinson
&Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PR IN CEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 26, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Over every paper one takes up lies the inky
way of Queen Victoria. After the fashion of
writers of the early and mid Victorian eras, she
underlined constantly and causelessly. So did
her uncle, Leopold of Belgium, writing to her ; so
did Lord Melbourne. So did all the inky-way-
farers. Young Victoria is quite penetrated by
someone’s kindness. She went to someone’s cottage
and ate fruit (not German sausage). Leopold
says that Melbourne is clever and amiable, and
Baron Stockmar is called a living dictionary.
Little intimate human touches make most of the
letters readable. The Belgian aunt returns to the
young sovereign a Book of Beauty, with the inti-
mation that all the portraits, save that of Miss
Meyer, were quite suitable for a Book of Ugli-
ness. And Miss Meyer’s type of beauty Victoria
did not admire, so she wrote. Probably, on the
merit of the name Meyer, it was of the Jewish
type.
In the first lap (or rather volume) there is a
most attractively-gowned picture of Queen Ade-
laide in an armless dark velvet gown, belted, with
full sleeves of filmy-laee, and a lace collarette.
You might wear it to-day, and people would call
it distinctive and artistic. Portraits of the young
Victoria, from infancy onwards, abound. They
have a jewel-like finish, with the hardness and arti-
ficiality peculiar to such finish. Also, they give
everyone, men and women, the most perfect
hands. An 1841 picture of the Queen shows her
in a poke bonnet, with a lace “curtain,” a big
feather and on her hair a wreath of thirteen roses,
graduated in size, outlining her round face. It
must have been a very fetching fashion, and one
that made the wearer appear more youthful.
One of the writers compliments the Queen on
always having handsome and graceful maids of
honor about her. The reader doubts the truth of
this. For the Prince Consort was a confessedly
handsome man, and naturally the Queen wouldn’t
throw too attractive damsels in his way. It was
a well-watched way. She never let him out on
the jag—not if she knew it. Lord Melbourne
compliments the Queen on the arrival of her first
child’s first tooth ; and, later, she writes to her
Belgian uncle that Pussy—her eldest infant—is
not at all pleased with her brother (the present
King). Also, later still, “ poor fat Alice has had
the earache.”
The Queen rarely makes any reference to art,
music, scenery, or animals. In her letters to her
uncle she frequently mentions her historical and
biographical reading.
Sir Harry and Miss Rawson are moving to
Sutton Forest this week, and will stay there for
the remainder of the summer. And all Sydney-
siders wish they could do likewise. The weather
is still cool, and blue and amber, but highly
demoralising and loafable (not lovable), and any
sort of work ought to be declared the eighth
deadly sin. I am going to apply for a billet at
Kosciusko, to watch the trout and see that they
don’t drink too much or get too wet.
Governor Rawson will take over the burden of
Governor-Generalship, report says, when the
Northcotes go a six months’ trip to England.
Dr. Clubbe and his pretty little missus are back
from England, America, Europe, and other
desirable alien places. America at work, surgery
work, seems to have impressed the Doctor.
A member of the Legislative Council ran a
sharp harrow over the feelings of his fellow
Solomons when he spoke of the inadequacy of
public hospital accommodation in Sydney. In-
stanced the case of a young woman who was turned
away and had to wander about at night looking
for a haven- Sydney and Prince Alfred Hospitals
are denying that they ever knowingly turned
away an urgent case, no matter how congested the
accommodation may have been.
No one seems to arise in his patent leathers to
say the unpleasant truth that, if a thousand more
beds were available at each of our public hospitals,
they would be at once filled by patients who
could mostly pay. Officers of the hospitals
inquire as to the means of the patient
seeking admittance. “Where is your home?”
“In Redfern,” replies the Sapphira, who in
reality comes from Mursiface or Jamberoo; “ and
my husband is out of work.” Falsehood number two.
But she, or he, may have a confederate in Red-
fern who doesn’t mind backing up the story-spinner
if the inquiries are pushed further—which they
never are. And someone who could well afford to
pay takes the charity intended for one who cannot.
But the surgeons themselves are to blame for the
misdirected charity. Sooner than lower their
fees for operations they will send a patient to a
public hospital and operate for nothing. Private
hospitals are fearfully expensive, and between
them and the charitable institutions there is no
medium. If there was a hospital where moderate
charges were made, and whose physicians would
accept moderate fees, the patients who now im-
pose upon the public hospitals would go to it for
treatment. And one of the regulations in force
in other countries might be adopted here. Pa-
tients applying on the score of poverty at the
public hospitals are obliged to sign a declaration
that they are without adequate means. If they
make a false declaration they are liable to be
prosecuted for perjury.
From a M.L. paper. The cost of the cable would
have bought the bride a new hat with a feather
in it.
BOYLE—STEVENSON.—On October 28, at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Singapore, Federated Malay States, by the
Acting Colonial Chaplain (Bishop’s Surrogate), Rev.
Frank G. Twindell, M. A., Brudenell Plummer, son of
Major A. Boyle, Bridge Hill House, Limavady, co.
Derry, Ireland, to Letitia Birnev G. S., only daughter
J. A. Stevenson, Wellington, late Audit Inspector,
G.S., New Zealand, and granddaughter of the late
James Stevenson, of Knockan and Ash Park, co. ’Derry
and manager Northern Bank, Downpatrick, eo. Down
Ireland. (By cable.)
At the N.S.W.-England Cricket Match the
grandstands were a study in hats and squeals.
Hats were mostly very pretty, but the squeals were
overtones. Whenever one of the flannelled per-
sons knocks the ball up where the poet says the
la,rk sings (at Heaven’s gate), the Australian
girl, with her hat on the first knob of her spine,
emits a squeal like unto that of a wounded
weasel—eeow ! Several thousand wounded
weasels squealing in chorus send the person with
an ear for music rushing for her homeward-bound
tram.
Miss Ola Jane Humphreys, who gets hereabout
the time the street bands are bangingout “ Hark,
the Herald Angels Sing,” will play as Marguerite
in “ The Scarlet Pimpernel ” with Julius Knight.
Talking of mummer stars, Carrie Moore’s pretty
little sister Lily, who will play Billy the Boot-
black in the pantomime, “ Bluebell in Fairy-
land,” got a cable from sister Carrie last week.
“Marrying, and returning to Australia” was its
wording. As she is marrying the man who gave
her all those horse and gasolene vehicles, her
home-coming ought to have a lot of extra lustre.
“ Bluebell in Fairyland,” now being rehearsed at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), will delight the young
Silken Hairs. It is a story dreamt by Billy the
Shoeblack, a kind of Bleak House kid, and the
music is attractive enough to keep the sleepiest
head’s ears at attention.
Camperdown Children’s Hospital, finding a
shortage of linen, devised an artful means of
augmenting the stock. A linen tea and floral
fete was arranged, and invitations scattered.
Visitors were not asked any fixed price for their
tea, but nurses held out a smile and a box. Result,
£55. As for the linen, under which heading
went also blankets, a large quantity was brought
by the visitors, and the invited who didn’t come
gave “ absent treatment ” by sending their dona-
tions.
Miss Nina Donnelly, a sister of Mrs. Agent-
General Coghlan, and daughter of the late Mr.
D. C. and Mrs. Donnelly, of Cowra, will be mar-
ried early in the new year. F. S. Mackenzie, of
Glen Albyn, Moree, is the bridegroom-elect.
Saw a ripping tailor-made lately. The little
brown Eton coat of the costume was trimmed
with mignonette-green velvet collar and cuffs, and
braided. A green crinoline straw hat, trimmed
with apple blossom, was in partnership with this
get-up, that reminded of spring and autumn.
Rev. F. H. Campion, principal of the Bush
Brotherhood of the Good Shepherd, was married
last week at Dubbo to Miss Noel Blaxland,
daughter of the late Mr. J. G. Blaxland. The
honey-combing pair will presently leave for
England.
Another Florentine night was given by the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron on Friday. A
feast of lanterns —a thousand Chow lanterns
shone o’er about half that number of guests. A
band, some fairy-like food, a sweet breeze and
Mr. Walter Reeks put the jasper roof on the
function. A girl with the most beautiful shade
of red and crinkly hair sat below the huge More-
ton Bay fig that has the iron of the anchor in
its heart and under a rain of light from a gas
jet. The shade of that Cleopatran hair killed
all lady-killers at a hundred yards. At least
their comments would give that impression. The
blacks and flaxens and mezzos didn’t enjoy the
chorus at all, and if the R.S.Y.S. desires to keep
up its reputation for diplomacy, and of running
its shows with the smoothness of a sea-mew’s
flight, it will bar that Helen-of-Troy shade of red
hair for the future.
Nuns of St. Vincent’s Hospital celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of their institution last
Tuesday. They yarded up the State Governor,
Miss Rawson, and a host of clerical and military
and medical and political Somebodies, and their
wives and daughters, and gave them a pleasant
afternoon. The patients wore for the half-century
entertainment pale-blue dressing jackets. Fortu-
nately most women can wear pale blue, but the
patient whom it makes look like a kippered
herring must have wished that the commemora-
tion wasn’t in her time.
Last Melbourne Cup meeting was a record
in more ways than that of attendance. Excepting
one day, which was hot and windy, the weather
was perfect. The V.R.C. potentates say they
never Cupped with so little trouble. There
was not a protest or complaint, and the stewards’
call bell was not rung once during the meeting.
There were no welshers, no police trouble, and the
V.R.C.’s own chief detective’s report was a blank.
The official police report for the week shows but
six persons arrested on minor charges. Yet,
besides the thousands of persons in the paying
places, there were some thirty thousand on the
free flat.
The world never knows what troubles some
men have. There is a harmless old gentleman,
living at Brighton (Vic.), who knew a Woman’s
Rights female during her residence in his suburb,
long, long years ago, and who said certain things
to her then. The oldish gent, who was then
middle-aged, knowing the lady’s opinions, made
some jocular references to her pleasing personal
appearance, and remarked, in the presence of
amused witnesses, that it was a pity to see her
still single. Thenceforward he was her meat—
and even unto this day he gets long, urgent,
affectionate letters which harrow his soul and
peace of mind, and are a burden to his old age.
The old yarn about the Duke of Portland
burying himself, in the shape of lumps of lead,
under the name of Druce, evokes a memory of
John Wroe. This famous prophet gave out that
he was immortal; but he died in Collingwood,
Melbourne, February sth, 1863. The late John
Daley, undertaker, Spring-street, buried him.
Yet for years the Wroeite cranks insisted that
Daley buried nothing at all, and all because
Daley said, “The coffin is very light.” Poor,
worn old Wroe was 81, a gaunt scrap, of General
Booth appearance. He was an outcome of
Johanna Southeott’s party, called the Johannas.
She died in 1814, aged 64, just when expected to
give birth to the Messiah. Three hundred pounds
were expended in a sumptuous silvery cradle,
Royal baby linen, bibs, tuckers, and what not,
for the promised infant. Wroe carried on the
business in a sort of way. One Stanley gave him
£9500, with which a temple was built in Ashton,
England. His admirers in Victoria built for him
Melbourne House, a fine mansion, at Wakefield
(England).
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :—.
The Butt-Rumfords depan d Westward by the Ophir,
an extra concert being given t e night before they sailed.
The Town Hall was packed, ai a encores dotted the land-
scape until there was no more landscape to dot. Not
only were the chief stars recalled and recalled until the
very chiefest star pleaded neuralgia, but even the meek
pianist was dragged back time and time again. Somehow
this sane-looking pianist boy has come in for a larger
bundle of laurels in this State than he seems to have
gathered elsewhere. And we think we know.
Mrs. Butt was robed in one of the choicest of her 49
evening frocks—a pale-green glaeb with a wonderful
sequined overfrock. Also there were diamonds and a
bouquet of crimson carnations. At her Saturday concert
she took away the breath of the multitude in a raiment of
vieux rose, but the green garment was a pretty close rival
for honors. Mrs. Jack Fox, an old student-chum of Clara,
accompanied her to Perth for a holiday, and was vastly
envied.
The Kennerley-Rumfords were entertained at luncheon
one day by their Exes., who, being in mourning, could
not decorate any of the concerts. This week they (the
Exes.) close up the Residence for the summer, and depart
to Marble Hill and rustication.
An engagement is hereby announced between Beryl,
only daughter of the rich Angases, of Lindsay Park,
Angaston, and Captain Ryder, aide at our little Resi-
dence. The damsel, with her family, departs to Britain
shortly, presumably to view the Captain’s ancestral
moated grange.
Another engagement is that of Charlie, eldest son of
Speaker Coles, and Miss Mabel Jackson. The two will
dwell at Kapunda, in “The Shrubbery,” the old Coles
domicile.
The Players played “ Camille ” last week, in aid—what
do you think ?—of the Cathedral parish funds. The Tone
and Semi-Tone who were not Butting lent their
presence and gave their shekels —and some of them made
so much noise about it that the first act was practically
buried in oblivion. Mrs. Bossley-Jenkins played Camille,
and adorned a yellow Empire gown, a creation of blue
and gold, a symphony in heliotrope, with panels of
gorgeous brocade, and a dream of white cr6pe de chine.
“Mario” from Brisbane :
Rumor credits our Governor with a resolve to steam
Londonwards early next year. He’s been having a time
b.Y no means all beer and rose-petals of late, owing to the
bewildering glut of free advice tendered him by Ministers
and would-be Ministers ; and considers it about up to him
now to negotiate a nervous break-down or something.
The over-strain breakdown is a dance which grows in-
creasingly fashionable in official circles these days.
Meanwhile, Lady Chelmsford is busy jogging the
members of the Children’s Hospital about those wards
for which she helped to provide the wherewithal.
One of Brisbane’s wealthiest bachelors weds a pretty
member of the Markwell clan shortly.
Mrs. Annie Perry, a lady hailing from Sydney, with a
pleasing voice and method, and some Paris towns, was
the vocal soloist at Wednesday’s Liedertafel Concert.
Brisbane arrived m force to hear Coleridge Taylor’s
“ Wedding Feast,” a beautiful piece of music full of
mystic tunefulness, albeit the work of an African black.
Genius jumps the color line now and again.
Passed over (20/11/’O7) fine old Mrs. W. F. Kennedy, of
Teryboo Station. She was keen on the immigration
question, and for 28 years constituted herself the per-
sonal friend and councillor of every lone femme-sole
that passed through Brisbane immigration depbt.
Yours Affectionately,
AKRNEHI.
Leon Brodzky, last hear'd of in Paris as sub-
editor of the N’York Herald, has been tempted
back to the British Australasian. He dreams of
plans that may produce a real Australian drama
and bring him back to his beloved native sunshine.
“ Stony ” : Consider the lily, and Solomon
in all his glory, and then regard a representative
quartette of Melbourne’s most-advertised pluto-
crats. Result: The lily, Ist; Solomon, 2nd ; the
bunch of, plutocrats, nowhere. The other after-
noon, I saw Bowes Kelly, Bill Knox (of Kooyong),
Rupert Clarke, and Jack Wren, all notorious in
an £s. d. way, and they all bore the brand of the
bloke who has no time to think of his toggery.
Knox of Kooyong still depends entirely on his
Hat to see him through, and Rupert has taken to
wearing a black tie with his evening clobber.
Kelly is frugal enough in appearance for any-
thing, while John Wren, the pore man’s
friend, is almost priestly in his asceticism. It
was a wise man who said “Clothes don’t show
the bank-balance.”
“ The Moochev ” writes :—•
I recently travelled as underling to a Hog in a Car
through Outback parts. There the motor car was an
unheard-of thing, and its appearance led to remarkable
results. Most wayfarers bolted off into the bush at sight
of us. As we approached the front of a house we could
see Dad leading the family in disorderly retreat into the
scrub at the back, Mum bringing up a bad rear. At one
place, where we pulled up for water, the Male Progenitor
poked a gun through the chinks in the slabs and yelled
Murder ! ” As we scooted along it was a common sight
to see heads peeping round trees at the roadside, figures
disappearing over a ridge, and horses bolting through
wire fences, and more than once drivers deserted their
teams to dive into the scrub at the roadside. One
religious old dame mistook us for the Day
of Judgment, and fell on her knees in the road. We asked
her to get off the track, but she turned her eyes
heavenwards and prayed, talking of “chariots of fire”
and “ trumps,” and “ pillars of cloud.” No doubt, she
meant the motor car and the tooter and the dust we
kicked up. The Hog became enraged and called her
names, and cursed her for an old fool, and she fell back
stiff in the dust, quite certain she was a lost soul.
We sneaked by and left her lost. The shock to the
district was very great, I’m told ; but, except for an old
chap with a weak heart, who dropped dead at sight of
us, and a family that leaped down a dry well to dodge
us, there were no serious mishaps. It was a grand trip
but for the presence of the Hog.
In a Yic. country district recently, not 20
miles from Melbourne, two city chaps, camping,
came into violent contact with the local beer
supply, damaged it seriously, and then fell into
collision with the police force —an invincible force
of one, that removed the objects with the deft
assistance of a club. When it was Tom and Dick’s
move next morning, the J.P. was too ill to go to
Court, so the force met the difficulty by taking the
culprits to the justice’s butcher’s shop, and the
bilious J.P. came out in scant garments, and, with
a deadly yellow complexion and a lack-lustre eye,
tried the law-breakers before the block. They
shuddered as they saw the block and the cleaver,
and wondered if in their drink they’d fallen out
of civilisation, and were now straightway to be
beheaded. But slowly re-assurance came. The
proceedings of the Court were interrupted by a
bedraggled female, who wanted breakfast meat,
and there was another brief adjournment while
the presiding magistrate served three pounds of
bedraggled sausages and a pen’orth of dog’s meat
to a small boy ; but the trial was resumed and con-
eluded with due ceremony and proper dignity.
Tom was fined £l, and Dick a like amount, for
being drunk and disorderly, and damaging the
features of his Majesty’s police. The business
ended with the precipitate retreat of the agonised
Court to its bedroom.
The idea of legally restraining the local
trader and manufacturer from raising prices of
articles unduly is as old as New South Wales.
Governor King issued a general .order in October,
1800, limiting the dealers and manufacturers at
that time trading in the town to a profit of 20 per
cent, on each article retailed. He covered wheat
and potato farmers with a similar order, and
maintained it was the duty of a civilised Govern-
ment to keep any party, singly or in combination,
from raising the price of necessaries of life higher
than the bulk of the people could reach.
The British Board of Trade has made an
announcement that no foreign seamen will be
shipped on British vessels unless they can speak
English well enough to understand the ordinary
words of command. This sensible regulation,
which doesn’t go far enough in a much-desired j
direction, will operate from January 1, 1908. It, ;
however, will not assist much in a port like New- ;
castle (N.S.W.), where the foreign ships flocking j
to the coaly city are often a heartbreaking cir- j
cumstance to pilots, tug-masters, Customs officials }
and shipping people generally. A N.S.W. pilot '
recently caused £lOO worth of damage to a French j
steamer, because the French officers didn’t under- (
stand his orders, not even his cuss words.
“ J.G.” : Be little white slaves (B.
7/11/’O7). The whole system of supplying waifs,
strays and orphans to Cow cookies demands
the strictest inquiry. Once I knew personally
a boy of about 14 who had been hired out to a j
teat-squeezer for a bob a week. The young serf’s
duties were to rise at 3 a.m., bring in the cows, (
milk about a dozen of them, take the milk five J
miles to a creamery, and return before 8 o’clock.
Then he hurried off to school. After school the ,
cows were gathered in once more and milked, and [
the calves, pigs, etc., fed. Then the boy “washed ,
up” and fell into bed. When he ran away, there i
was a general feeling throughout that cow-infested
neighborhood in favor of knouting him and then
frying him to death for his sickening ingratitude.
The Proposal.—A Pastoral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PROPOSAL is a thing that you learn how
to do only after you’ve already done it.
Now I had been in love with May for
over a year, yet, try as I would, I could not tell
her so.
The trouble was, I could not get a good setting
for it: I never had the opportunity when the
moon was shining, and the breezes whispering
love, because the second engineer on a dredge
always gets the evening duty, so that the chief can
spend the evening in the pub playing pool and
absorbing beer.
Therefore my love-making had to take place in
broad daylight. Three times a week I used to
wait for her on the quietest part of the track, so as
to catch her on her way to her married sister’s.
But who could propose to a girl in daylight in
the middle of a dusty track ?
One day, as I was waiting, a swagman passed
her, and an idea came—why not bribe one to stop
her? Then I could come to the rescue, save her,
propose to her, marry her, and live happy ever
after.
The idea appealed to me, and the more I though t
of it the better it seemed.
The next day I found a man whom I considered!
suitable. He was old and ugly, so I offered hi .i
half-a-sovereign to stop her, and run away when 1
came round the bend. Pie eyed me closely.
“ Are you going to marry the girl ? ” he-' .sked,
suspiciously.
“ Of course I am,” I replied. f
“ Well then, why don’t you ask the girl’s father
for her ? ” he said, as though the last word on the
subject had been said.
An extra half-sovereign quietened his Puritan
soul, but he made me promise to see the girl’s
father immediately after it was done. I inwardly
cursed him for a suspicious old fool, but promised.
And as he went away, he said : “ I’m coming
back this way again soon, and, if you are not
engaged to her, I’ll make it hot for you ” ; though
what he would do if the girl wouldn’t have me, I
didn’t know.
I timed it well —waiting round the bend, I saw
him catch her arm. I heard her cry for help and
rushed gallantly to the rescue, but too late.
My heroine had the villain by the ear, and Was
slapping his face with her other hand. Just as I
arrived on the scene he broke loose, and rushing
blindly into me, knocked me in the dust.
I sat up ; the swaggie was making tracks for all
he was worth, and Mamie was smiling down on
me.
I looked at myself, disgustedly. A beautiful
hero I looked, covered with dust and the heroine
laughing at me. It was too much.
“Look here, May,” I said, sullenly. “I’m
very much in love with you. Will you marry
me?” And as May said “Yes,” I got up in a
hurry and kissed her.
H.T.


T IMPORTANCE
i AWell Dreyed L&dyMvjt
H&Ve &Good Figure,
jy\v&krirv§
u Orvlv
(t
O
O
s
COE
Wjt ask 1
THEM
• AND A
SEC w
THAT YOU
l GET
kTHEM.i
T. M. Co.
Tarrant Motor Go.
104*112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
WITH his IC-h.p. “Tarrant”
Car, Mr. W. R. Grim wade, of
Melbourne, covered the total
distance of 320 miles from
Melbourne (Vic.) to Euston
(N.S.W.) last week, without
accident or trouble of any kind.
Mr. Grimwade left Melbourne
same time as Bendigo train,
and reached Bendigo ahead of
it. The average mileage for
the trip was 26 miles an hour.
—THE—
“Tarrant” Car*
8-h.p., 10-h.p., 12-H-h.p., 16-20-h.p.
Built throughout in our Works.
We are also Sole Agent 3 In Vic-
toria for—
DE DIONS, ARCYLLS, F.1.A.T.5.,
MERCEDES, ROVERS, FORDS, and
BRITANNIAS.
Our Repair Works are the largest
and most complete in Australia.
Bodies built to any design.
Complete Stock of Accessories.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 25, 1907.
Mv Dear Yarhie,—
For her first concert here Melba wore silver—
a silver mesh—fitting tightly over pink, and as it
was cut away considerably in the parts usually
retrenched in woman’s evening attire, and as the
lining was the most delicate flesh-tint, it was
hard to tell where lining began and how much
dimpled Melba flesh was hidden. ’Twas a most
effective gown; the fitting was so perfect, so
molten, that even the dimples showed. Then
there was a crusting of diamonds —such diamonds
as Melbourne rarely sees in such dazzling mass.
She is Silver Throat —our own Melba. There is
surely nothing like it anywhere —the divine
purity of her notes.
The welcome at Melba’s entrance was as
nothing to the fury that possessed the audi-
ence after her first song. The first was a tribute
to her greatness, and her return to her
home platform, backed by the memory of her voice.
The second acclamation was after her singing,
when the wonder of her voice struck home afresh ;
then even Melba must have been satisfied, a
Melba used-to European adoration.
At the Mrs. Emerv-Gould At Home at the
Salon on Thursday evening, Melba stayed the
whole evening, notwithstanding the fact that the
Diva was ill and had messenger boys arriving
with throaty medicines at intervals. Some
girleens, the pretty blue-eyed Louise Smith and
Miss Riley, Miss Healey, and Miss Chamber-
lain, sang Melba’s own songs at her most
sweetly. Mr. Bent was much in evidence. He
told Melba he “could sing too.” Melba chal-
lenged him from the platform ; offered to play his
accompaniment if he would warble then. Tommy
let the challenge slide.
Melba was garbed in black—perfect in every
dusky detail. A black cloak she wore had an
Elizabethan collar of black tulle with a garland of
pink roses. Mrs. Gould wore black also. She
is a handsome dame. All the pretty pupil girleens
made an avenue for the arriving Guest, and
showered rose petals at her feet. They presented
the hostess with three full scores of Wagner opera.
The Fashionable and the Fashionably Musical
rolled up in great form for “ Carmen ” what night
the pretty little Miss Pinschof took the name
part. There were ho severely critical looks. The
wh le audience had the kindly-friendly eye
for the pretty little amateur making a big
venture in a part that, perhaps, only half-
a-dozen women anywhere have made telling;
and in that rose-glow the performance
was enjoyable. The little Pinschof girl was
cold and girly and milk-and-watery in the first
act, but in the second and third acts she
was much more successful, and grew into
quite a warm and seductive little Carmen.
Popper Von wandered round like a collie showing
off a woolly pup,'and sister Elizabeth sparkled in
a Carmen-like gown, and listened to folk telling
her how they had watched her mother in this
same performance. Heinze beamed approval on
the show. Saw Blanche Arral in the house ; she
was bedecked with the most marvellous curls.
Truly, we women should cultivate the softer
arts, to the exclusion of all others. To golf, play
hockey, cards, or billiards is an indiscretion
indeed, be a woman young and pretty. For one
thing, she never plays such games well enough to
make a desirable opponent, so the real zest of
them is sacrificed to her folly. And by sharing in
masculine sports, she loses half her mystery, and
stands revealed as a shapely mound of soft flesh
and ill-considered muscular development, with
the petulant mind of mental adolescence. What
chance can she have in the competition for desire
against the dear dainty thing who can do no more
than flirt adroitly, or the other dear creature who
either sits silent or sings divinely, or that other
who exploits femininity to its furthest endurable
limits—whose only masculine attribute is a
knowledge of what men like best? Note some
delicate feminine as she stands slim and sweet,
singing “ Amor ! Amor ! Amor ! ” with a most
laboriously and perfectly-acquired simulation of
agonised passion. What right-minded man would
suggest that she had thick ankles? But he is
ready to actually and boldly state that his golf
partner has enormous ones.
Then the damsel, greedy for admiration and
cheap emotion, who looks volumes of sentimental
intentions at some credulous man, and makes
tacit admissions of deep feeling for him, is
infinitely more engaging than a maid who plays
draw-poker, and tells a chum lie’s a dear chap, in
a vocal paragraph. Yet, again, the billiard-play-
ing lass, who boasts of her break of 25 and refuses
disdainfully to take 20 in a game of 500—she has
no charm half as potent as the other girl’s weak-
ness. The other girl never argues—she listens
wonderingly ; she never boasts ; she blushes —she
never gibes ; she sympathises. She is no written
page, but a clear leaf, on which is subtly indicated,
as though by watermark, an invitation to mighty
man to come and impress his intellect, his experi-
ence, his sagacity. And there she scores, dear
sisters; she scores.
At the first Visitors’ Day at the gorgeous new
Dental Hospital there was a party of guests of
Parliamentary ability. It really must have been
a ghastly business to all but the keenly interested
doctor men. Just the ordinary common or garden
everyday patient was on view, fixed and bound in
various stages of fiendish torture. At last a
huddled heapof nerve-strained politicians tumbled
downstairs to the lecture-room, where they gazed
rapturously on circular polished seats with nary
a sign of cold steel in the vicinity. Then the
president and the vice-president and all the other
keen-eyed doctorin trundled them along for a
drink.
Though the practical “demonstration ” scarcely
appealed to any but the coldly scientific mind,
nevertheless the importance and size and con-
venience of the New Hospital made a strong
impression. It is the only thing of its kind in the
Commonwealth. Just as the public hospital for
every ill and accident and disease is the blessing
of the penniless, so this “tooth hospital ” will do
its splendid work. Like other hospitals, patients
pay if they are able. If not, every clever, up-to-
date instrument, and all the up-to-the-moment
knowledge of the attending professional men, are
at the disposal of people who would otherwise be
driven—for cheapness sake—to dreadful quacks,
where hygiene is unthought of and havoc wrought
unquestioned.
An interesting visitor to Melbourne this race-
time was American Professor Ricalton. He is a
much-travelled man. Many years ago he was a
young lecturer who used his long vacations to slip
away for giddy jaunts to the interior of Iceland
or to get-at-able places like the source of the
Amazon. Edison, in one of his experiments,
wanted a new fibre (to use in his electric-lighting
experiments). He asked the Royal Society of
Scientists to suggest a man with the jungle-
hunter’s scent. “There’s that man Ricalton,”
the Society agreed; “he’s been everywhere—
and the worse the place the better he likes it.
Ricalton undertook the search for this new
fibre, and tracked round several darkly
deep jungles. It cost him, a solid year
of hard work —great dangejj—and many thou-
sands of priunds. He wasypuccessful. and, re-
turning, went to see Edison.bp “So you got it !
remarked Edison absently, and vvent on with an
experiment he was at —as if Ricalton had been
out to buy a spool of thread.
In this Australian trip he is getting a rather
interesting series of photographs, in fact, perhaps
the only systemised and carefully itemised set of
Australian photographs in existence so far. He
is touring all the States, country and cities, and
besides carefully-arranged geographical photos
he is elaborating a set for geological study, and
several series to do with agriculture and other
industries.
Miss Ida Fell is staying at the Grand, under the
indulgent chaperonage of her papa. The enter-
prising demoiselle is considerably less vivacious
than of yore, and wears a novel expression of
ingenuousness.
That brainy matron, Mrs. James Gibb, goes off
a-jaunting by the Moldavia. Her itinerary will
include Burrnah, Java, China and Japan. The
wide-awake dame will probably return with a
store of well-digested knowledge calculated to
make an irresistible election policy for her large
husband.
Bigjohn Forrest and his wife go back to their
empire in a fortnight, intending to remain there
for some time. In their own State, the couple’s
importance never diminishes, while here—well,
of late, people have been less appreciative.
Mrs. Dunlop Jackson and her sister, Malla
Dempster, arrived home by the Orient. Miss
Malla, of the burnished hair, has had rather a bad
time during her trip. She was so ill that she had
to break her voyage at Fremantle. By the way,
the pretty spinster doesn’t endorse the rumor that
she contemplated tying a life-long lover’s-knot
round herself and mining man Critchley-Parker.
By Saturday’s express to Sydney went Sara
Anderson, who makes for an American boat and
an engagement at Buffalo, U.S.A. Husband
Regneas takes his lady to the boat, but returns
for a few more emphatic words with manager
Musgrove. Many Australian Germans farewelled
the blue-eyed lady, staunch Mrs. Markwald in
the front. Heard the Markwalds and Andersons
making appointments for Hamburg. The Mark-
walds and son Moritz leave for Yarmany next
month by a Lager boat. The newly-attached
prima donna—who scarcely prima-donnaed worth
a cent—departed also. She has an American
engagement. The rest of the company were
wildly rushing round Melbourne, hurling curses
at managements and demanding ducats.
There have been many dances and swagger
shivoos lately, but for sheer enjoyment there was
nothing like the Children’s Ball. Jennie Bren-
nan and her sisters give one annually. There is
no “fancy” dancing —no tiresome planning and
sorting—just a “real” ball, like a grown-ups.’
An army of grown-up boys—very much grown-
up—went along to ask “ for the pleasure.” There
is a joy to a very small girl in a party frock
of two or three inches, in being asked formally for
“ the pleasure ” by a grown-up man (with white
gloves) who has to bend nearly double to voice the
dance request. If the grown-ups dare to dance with
each other there is the awful dread of driving oyer
dancing dolls like motoring over fluttering
“ chooks.”
There was just one set dance ; all the largest
kiddies danced the minuet in a huge wedge. One
doll howled because she was not in it. “ How
old are you?” asked a sympathising grown-up.
“ I don’t know,” wailed the small one ; “ I have
a birthday to-morrow, and they’re going to tell
me ! But I’m bigger’n Maisie, and she’s dancing.”
“La Sylphe.” from the Opera House, came
along after her “turn.” She was surrounded by
worshipful men in a few seconds, but they none
of them got a dance. The young lady is an
American, very pretty, and much more solid-
looking in ordinary dress than in her “Sylphe”
attire. Her mother is a haunting chaperone.
She is an American, not much older looking than
her daughter. Mademoiselle La Sylphe thinks
that Miss Danseuse Brennan is missing a unique
opportunity by not composing a ballet for her
eight sisters. The sisters Brennan are a fascina-
ting tribe.
Cards for tea lured a fashionable crowd out to
Clayton Convalescent House last week. They
naturally looked for a new wing—but it was nothing
but a general furbishing up and a special inspec-
tion by the Northcote Lady.
The home itself is a beautiful, cleanly, airy
place, well-attended and restful. The committee
has done one good deed. In the garden, old gums
—ancient trees of huge girth—have been left
standing, and close on the wide shady verandahs
and balconies is an acre or two of untouched
bracken and sapling growth, with the heathy
grass between and the huge gums above, and the
blue curve of the ocean beyond. Hidden about
are weather shelters —summer houses, for the rest
of tired convalescents. It is an ideal spot for
“ getting better,” and crowds of poor folk from
the big hospitals are benefited by it.
A wedding announced for early in December is
that of Miss Freda Pirani, petite daughter of
Solicitor Pirani, and Harold Cohen, who is a gor-
geous young military gallant, son of “Monty”
Cohen, who owns the “ Vienna.” The St. Kilda
Town Hall has been engaged for the ceremony,
and the subsequent spree and the ceremony is to
be thoroughly Jewish (under a canopy) and fully
military.
A pal writes from Fiji:—“Mrs. Carreno
has just left Suva, having stayed here for a month
owing to one of her.fat little girls having taken a
big mouthful of influenza germs. The Suva
people have been kept interested in her and her
doings. On my arrival here I spent two
days surrounded by celebrities. On one side
that wandering earl named Lovelace and his
magnificent spouse ; on the other, Mrs.
Carreno ; and opposite, an Australian cricketer, by
name Marsden, whom the Fijians have dubbed
‘Matakibau.’ He is lieutenant to his Most
August Serenity, Ratu Kadavu Levu Roko
Tui Tailevu, who is the princely captain of the
Fijian cricket team that reaches Sydney and
Melbourne in December. Saw some of the gaudy
team at a turn-out at Government House for King’s
Birthday—chiefs galore, mostly about 6ft. or 7ft.
high.”
Tony Rebottaro —our gay gallant and singer—
was married quietly at Caulfield last Wednesday
to the pretty Miss Brockhoff, whose Papa has
been so successful in piling up gold by biscuits.
A returned jaunter from Uncle Sam’s Land
speaks of the all-pervading presence of the mani-
cure girl there. Here she is an identity cooped
up mostly in her snug rose-lighted beauty parlors
and chased (professionally) mostly by the she kind,
and but sparsely (professionally) by the He’s.
In the great U.S.A. (says this man) the manicure
girl is as numerous and obvious and prevalent as
the boot-polisher (who is omnipresent) and as
much in demand by the rushing' money-making
man citizen. She is in rows —with her natty tools
—in every barber’s shop, and generally polishes
away at the claw paws, while the owner ot the
hands is being shaved or shampooed. Talking ot
the boot-polisher—he is at every block ; all day—-
at all times —polishing away at every kind ot
boot and shoe. It is quite an ordinary matter to
see a well-dressed girl perched up with her dainty
footgear on his stand. There is no such thing as
our mysterious night-prowling Boots at an hotel.
But out your boots, and they’d be ignored or
stolen.
Miss Stella Esdaile, who has been living very
quietly since the tragically sudden death of her
fiance, Dr. “Ted” Levy, has come to the con-
clusion that life and youth are not such bad things
after all, and is to be married shortly to a wealthy
Riverina squatter.
The Cliveden household is again threatening
private theatricals. Periodically the dowager
breaks out in this direction, and then she pro-
ceeds to rope in those of her acquaintances whose
vanity is stronger than their sense of ridicule. In
the imminent outrage upon some modern master-
piece, the star Pinschof daughter will absorb
some limelight, and a couple of pretty dears will
play minor parts. The males who meditate immo-
lating their reputations for intelligence are not
advertising their identity. It’s a wise man and
woman, too, most often —who refuses to suspend
rational behavior in favor of amateur acting.
Gossip-gadders are pre-occupied, for the
moment, with the affairs of a well-seasoned pair,
who lately announced their intention of finding
out what romance tastes like after one has lost a
waistline in achieving fifty years. The lady in-
vested in a gorgeous trousseau, and the lover gave
his offspring orders to look to her for guidance
and chaperonage. The lady wears her trousseau
out, the lover callously watches the process, and
the offspring treats her late Mentor like an orphan
cousin, or something of that casual kind. And all
mention of matrimony has faded into a nebulous
legend. Probably at fifty Romance serves no
prettier purpose than to emphasise the enlarge-
ment of Romeo’s waistcoat, and place around him
an inconvenient halo, which makes his baldness
seem very shiny and painfully apparent. At
Juliet it points a satiric finger, directed at the
crowsfeet about her tired eyes, and the tarnished
glories of her hair. Romance is essentially the
attribute of frail and fervent youth. At twenty it
thrives on folly and desire ; at thirty it is garroted
by experience ; at forty it has a brief and futile
recrudescence; at fifty, the figures of one’s con-
temporaries, and a host of memories, murder it.
Then comes platonism, that last refuge of the aged
and indifferent.
The cricket season comes as a godsend to those
sweet creatures whose parents’ scruples—or purses
—don’t permit them the exotic gaieties of race
week, and all the other rather naughty, very
extravagant diversions. The susceptible inno-
cents vote Hutchings the most desirable thing in
the way of sporting immigrants that has hap-
pened for quite a while. Amongst the more
mundane observers Mrs. Ernest Raleigh was
prominent, with her sister-soul, Miss Tommy
Eenner, to act as audience to her illuminating
comments on the game. She turned up regularly
in becoming garments, roofed with a succession
of ravishing parasols.
Mrs. Howard, nee Kent, arrived on a visit
to her people in the Moldavia. She holidays
minus Mr. Howard, who remains in London.
Probably the charming little lady will remain
under the parental wing for some considerable
time. While in London she received quite an
alluring offer to go a-play-acting from a discerning
manager-man who heard her sing some soubrettish
songs.
The initial day of the yachting season at St.
Kilda didn’t amount to more than an aquatic
march-past. The G.-G., in a pair of spotless ducks,
cantered down the jetty under the aegis of Commo-
dore Willie Robb. The Sayonara did honor to its
owner’s quest by flying sufficient’bunting to orna-
ment the whole fleet. Charlie Wallace had his
beautiful Bona afloat. For the rest, a hundred
boats lay motionless on the bay, like huge white
moths on a silver disc.
When the yachtsmen adjourned to the club-
house, their chums began to turn up. The house
was exquisitely decorated ; but a brass band tha,t
pervaded the lawn was hideous. One furious audi-
tor was heard suggesting that the misdemeanants
should be stuffed tight into their respective instru-
ments, after a slow and hurtful cremative process
had been applied. The gathering wasn’t very
smart. Mrs. Ernest Brookes floated in late;
turned round, and floated right out again, looking
rather supercilious. Mrs. Isaacs, with Mrs. Atlee
Hunt, Mrs. Bryant, and Mrs. Eadie stayed for a
while. One vivid episode was Mrs. George
Garrard, looking like a ripe cherry, in a smart
linen. She discussed her sensations on steering a
yacht to victory. However, the two Huon maids,
Della and Muffle, looking like angels in mufti,
were the sweetest things on view. (Their grand-
father died that evening, by the way.) And the
Appleton girls looked dashing, as they invariably
do.
The Moldavia brought a pleasant cargo back
this voyage. The Stewart Murrays and Mrs.
Jack Fisken were amongst the returning trippers.
Mrs. Murray is more radiant than ever, and her
frocks are dreams. Mrs. Murray’s husband looks
a most contented man. Mrs. Fisken has also
brought along some charming garments, and the
MacCaughey daughters have grown into quite
adult proportions and airs during their absence.
John Fisken, still rather shaky, is convalescing in
the bussom of his family at Menzies’.
Curious to notice the subtle change in the atmo-
sphere of Theatre Royal dress circle. With
the Maud Mclntosh Meynell-and-Gunn play—
though quite bellowdrama —there is an excessively
dressed (or muchly undressed), frilly crowd. Quite
one of the theatres now, don’t-you-know.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“ A.L. ” : The editing and collating of
‘‘The Letters of Queen Victoria” afforded
London journalistic circles some small slabs of
amusement. The women typists engaged on the
work were practically prisoners within the Tower
■of London during the time Esher and Benson
were at grips with the deadly screed. It was
feared that the hooligan press might garrote or
bribe some of the girls in their eagerness to gain
possession of Victoria’s little letters to “ Dearest
Albert.” Also “My dear angel Albert ” appears
to have had a dreadful time hanging about the
palace playing chess with himself. Whenever he
yearned to be literary or brilliant, or attempted
to rhyme “dear” with “ Crimea,” the greatest
woman on earth used to bounce off the throne and
strew the palace floor with hair-pins. If Albert
cultivated a bulged eye and a boiled look, it is
•certain that Lord Palmerston exuded gall, and
was even damnably impolite when the greatest
woman on earth commanded that England’s
foreign dispatches, some 28,000 in number, should
'be brought to her before breakfast every morning.
“ Klinker ” : It isn’t always to have them
taught how to say “Haw ! ” correctly that people
with money send their sons to the Cold Country.
A tradesman who came to Australia some years
ago and made money has just sent his son off to
learn the same trade. He explains that if the
boy learns the business here he will be plain Bill,
but if he learns it in the Cold Country and comes
back a stranger to his father’s workshop, he will
be “ Master William ” —or so the old man thinks.
As this country has too many snobs already, it’s
to be hoped the son will have more sense than the
father, and will see nothing wrong with plain
Bill when he does come back.
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift
for a friend abroad —a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
current with Australian life.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
TEL. 47.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
201 George Street, SYDNEY.
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
W
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
fs
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-do sen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Give Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy a trial, and you will use no
other.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
df
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The official assignee in the Myerson bank-
ruptcy will shortly make a move to recover from
G. Reid some of those fees he received in big
notes from the Myerson female.
The second reading of the Invalidity and
Accidents Pension Bill and the Income Tax
Deduction Bill were set down for the same night
in N.S.W. Parliament. That was considered
clever tactics on the part of the Wade Govt.
Premier Bent must be feeling unwell
again. He sat out a deputation, the other day,
without being rude (except that he asked Pro-
fessor Kernot whether he was prepared to “ let the
poor municipal rate-collector and valuer go to
pot ”). And Bent is only polite when he is sick.
Sydney Telegraph, the day after the
Newcastle coal dispute was referred to Arbitra-
tion, printed a cartoon showing St. George Wade
killing the Dragon. But there ought to have been
a companion picture showing the Telegraph and
St. George Wade, before that, taking turns to hatch
the Dragon.
The leg-pulling Daily Telegraph corres-
pondent, who clamored t’other day for cheap
morphia in order that he and one of his friends
might go on being morphino-maniacs, has a proto-
type in Bananaland. Here’s what the Courier
(Brisbane) printed (31/10/’O7) :
What Queensland, especially the Northerners, should
resent is the brutal tariff of the same stamp as the tariff
which caused the U.S. civil war.
That is to say, a tariff which didn’t come into
operation till 1870 is accused of causing a war
that was all over by 1804.
Somehow, during the Iron Bonus debate
in the House of Representatives, Bruce Smith
forgot to fondly direct Australia to observe Japan.
Probably the reason was that the Japanese
Government runs the great Japanese iron and
steel works, which employ (“Japan Year Book,”
1907) 0664 men, and consume 125,01)0 tons of coal
a year. Probably, also, some Nippon ass lias
mentioned “Socialism” in a horror-struck
whisper ; but Japan lias stuffed that bogey into
the biggest, hottest furnace and gone straight
ahead.
NO COMPETITION ALLOWED.
After the Royal procession had left the Guild Hall,
British unemployed who tried to march through the!
streets were dispersed by the police, five being arrested?
—Cable Item.
THE LAW: “Move on, now, one procession of
unemployed’s quite enough for to-day.”
Alexandria (Sydney) municipal council
complains of its local Chow. Alexandria is one of
the haunts of the Chow market-gardener, and the
cabbage-man is now taking to the cabinet-making
industry. The aldermen complained that the
Chinese can be seen working all Sunday at their
trade, and every night until the council goes to
bed. How long they stay up after that the coun-
cil doesn’t know. The N.S.W. Factories and
Shops Act can’t prevent this unfair competition.
Under the Act, only the hours of bona-fide em-
ployees are fixed, and the Chow evades the Act
6y making every Celestial on the place a full
partner in each business carried on.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful medicine in the
world for bowel complaints.*
The cable sometimes tears the curtain
down. For instance :
London, Nov 15.—A conference of charitable organisa-
tions at Ottawa has urged the Dominion and Ontario
Governments to prevent the influx of mentally and
physically diseased and other undesirable people.
Somehow, a lot of the gilt is lately being rubbed
off Canada’s immigration gingerbread.
Tasmania has a chance to see what its
alleged, “Government of the people by the
people ” really amounts to. Seven members of
tlie House of Fat were sufficient to defeat the
Government’s free education proposal; and those
seven, all told, got where they can exercise that
power on the strength of 2665 votes polled be-
tween them. Tasmania says Yes ; 2665 Fats say
No. And the Noes have it.
“Widgeon”: Flannelette is beastly
dangerous stuff, in spite of the opinion of the wife
of Batchelor, M. P. Once, while boarding at a
country hotel, arrayed in gorgeous flannelette
Pyjamas I walked into the kitchen to get hot
water from an open fire-place. The pyjamas
caught fire, and burst into flame as instantane-
ously as Joe Cook can change his political beliefs.
I had to get out of those pyjamas. so quickly that
the cook and the housemaid haven’t spoken to me
since.
Bill Wilks, the N.S.W. Freetrader who
wants the curse of Protection for the industries of
his own district, last week “rose in a humorous
mood in the House of Reps, to say that, while so
much loot was flying about, he intended getting
some of it (the Iron Bonus) ” for Balmain. In
other words, “I know I’m picking Australia’s
pockets. But don’t shoot—l’m using the money
to buy votes. And, besides, I’m so entertaining.”
From Brisbane Courier (31/10/’O7) :
Mackay, October 28. —-The. quantity of sugar re-
ceived during the past week was 2346 tons, and the
total quantity from the beginning of the season
32,500 tons. The quantity for the same period last
year was 24,367 tons.
Which is indicative of the appalling ruin white
labor is bringing upon the Queensland sugar
industry.
Poor old John Forrest, who is never satis-
fied unless he has-his paw on Ministerial salary,
did a tearful moan at St. Arnaud (Vic.) about the
state of parties in the Federal Parliament. He
declared that the Labor party ruled the roost, and
that that was never intended when the people
agreed to Federate. Things would never be
right, he asserted, until “ the people of Australia
were governed by a majority of their own.”
I orrest is so blinded with tears because he can’t
get back into the position he left when he thought
the Deakin Ministry was on its last legs, that he
has begun to think the Labor party is something
apart from the people of Australia—a party sent
into the Commonwealth Parliament by the pigmies
of Central Africa.
I he best sixpenny-worth of reading matter
going just now on the bookstalls is “The Great
1 reference Debate,” a reprint (condensed)
of the speeches on Preferential Trade at
the Imperial Conference. Outside of
Gladstone’s first great budget speech as
Chancellor of the Exchequer, the finest
speech extant on finance and trade is
undoubtedly Deakin’s at this Conference.
He made a dull subject as fascinating as a
Macaulay an essay. He raised the issues
to a higher plane than any other speaker
at the Conference; and after reading
that two days exposition of a great Im-
perial policy, which must have been a
revelation to statesmen like Asquith
and Lloyd George, it is easy to un-
derstand the sensation which
Deakin created in London. The
other great speech of the debate
was Asquith’s. At the end of
the book Deakin’s reply to the
perky, cocksure Winston
Churchill proves one of the
most delightful examples of
light irony and crushing banter.
Speaking from the point of view
of “an outer barbarian,” Dealt in
harried and chivvied the self-
satisfied, superior Churchill until
he had literally flayed him with
good-humored irony and unan-
swerable logic. It is good reading
for Australians. Good old Bill
Lyne, too, held his end up well.
Too many lawyers in Parlia-
ment are a curge, but it is very ques-
tionable whether, in Australia at
present, the worst curses in the
States’ Parliaments are not land
agents, and members who mostly live
by commissions upon the sale of land.
The State, as land buyer, has brought
these curses into renewed bloom of late,
especially in Victoria.
The two motor ’buses which were intro-
duced into Adelaide as a counter-move to the
Government’s electric system are being tamely
‘‘offered for sale. They have snorted through the
suburbs a couple of times on trial runs, and aston-
ished the natives, but no attempt has ever been
made to put them into commission. So far the
press hasn’t dilated on the matter, and pointed
out the horrors and hopelessness of Private En-
terprise, but if the venture had been promoted by
Sosh !!!
In its “ Iron Bonus ” article of November
20, S. M. Herald scans the future with an eye to
accommodating itself to the inevitable. It is
willing to take to its breast any of the three old
devils against which, individually and collectively,
its rotary presses whirred for years. “In the
interest of the community, iron manufacture
should be encouraged,” it exclaims, and adds,
“ preferably by a bonus system.” But, if a bonus
system be not sufficient to establish the industry,
then it urges “a reasonable duty.” But again, if
bonus and duty fail, then it says, “ the question
might arise, in view of the enormous importance
of iron to our manufactures and to our defence,
whether or not the State should assume control.”
Shades of half-a-century of Herald policy !
P. J. Leahy, one of Philp’s gang, was
beaten by Barber, for Warrego, at last election,
and got his seat on a technical point. Not being
elected by the people, he should be an ideal
Minister in Governor Chelmsford’s eyes.
M.L.A. McCutcheon unintentionally
knocked one old Tory gag on the head when,
speaking on Premier Bent’s threatened purchase
of the Coal Creek mine, he asked, “How can the
mines at Outtrim and Korumburra compete
against a Government coal mine?” He quite
forgot for the moment that “ Private Enterprise
can always do the thing better.”
More results of this outrageous tariff. By
the German steamers Bulow and Bremen, there
will presently reach Australia 12 specially skilled
bottle-makers, required for manufacturing a par-'
ticular kind of flask hitherto imported. These
skilled operatives had been sought first in the
Cold Country, but could not be obtained —Free-
trade had driven the industry out of England.
It’s a bad strike that doesn’t do some
good. The one up at Newcastle, for instance, has
led S. M. Herald to discover that the manufac-
turing industries of N.S.W. alone consume
£600,000 worth of coke and coal per annum. For
the moment the old lady forgot her policy of
representing all Australian manufacturers as being
centred in Melbourne, and the demand for Protec-
tion as being merely another Victorian conspiracy.
Even the Anti-Sosh press has a low opinion
of Henniker Heaton’s mysterious tip re Forrest
being Premier of Australia “within a few
months.” Thus Sydney D.T. (19/11/’O7): —
On his record in Federal politics, .John Forrest lias for-
feited the right to be held in the highest regard. It is,
in one respect, a contemptible record. He has cut a
deplorable figure in Commonwealth affairs. His passion
for office and power has largely spoiled a fine career.
It seems there’s been trouble in the Anti-
Sosh corner in the Senate. Josiah Symon
resigns the leadership of the Opposition there,
and little Aunty Millen steps into his place,
whereat Senator Colonel Jawbone Neild protests
violently, and gives the public to understand that
he objects. The G. Reid crowd is a very, very
unhappy one nowadays; no wonder that its plump
leader looks fondly on the prospect of a fat post.
Sensible motion passed by Sydney Labor
Council:—
That the time is now opportune for the establishment
of a naval dockyard for the, construction and manufac-
ture of our own torpedo-boats, armaments, and any
other things necessary for our naval defence, which it is
possible to have manufactured here, having our iron in-
dustry already established, and all the natural resources
here necessary for such purposes.
An amendment to the effect that we should not
worry about defence, but should trust our brother
Jap, was thrown out.
A preferential tariff towards British manu-
factures is almost as old as Australian settlement.
In 1811 an ordinance read :
Ships from any part of the world importing cargoes
(the manufactures of Great Britain excepted) to pay a
duty of 5 per cent, ad valorem on the amount of their
respective invoices.
That 5 per cent, preference kept the trade sub-
stantially Anglo-Australian.
The latest reason given by a British leader
(Lord Cromer) why his country should stand by
Freetrade is that it dare not do anything else. If
it adopted Protection to guard its industries, or
attempted to give preference to its colonies, it
would stimulate foreign hatreds to action. So
England must continue to wither away under
Freetrade because she is not strong enough to
protect herself! It’s a Stinking Fish sort of
argument.
The Tory crowd professes bitter scorn
against the Labor party because it could have
carried a vote in the Senate for a State-owned
line of mail steamers, but didn’t, as it hadn’t a
majority in the Reps, to put the idea into effect.
In short, what the Labor party did was to refuse
to destroy the mail contract for the sake of
making a useless display of power in the Senate.
To The Bulletin that seems an eminently reason-
able attitude. Why should the Tory party, in its
hate of Australia, shriek so for a destructive
policy ?
Tasmanian Parliamentary Labor party has
moved for more pay, but a majority has decided
to continue to sweat the members on £IOO a year.
Anew Electoral Act, providing for grouped elec-
torates and a freak system of voting, has become
State law, and candidates will now have to con-
test the Federal electorates ; hence a rise in screw
was doubly justified. But Fat in Tasmania
answers everything with “Can’t afford it.” And
it never will be able to afford anything until its
land passes over from merinoes to men.
During the uneasy days that the New-
castle strike threatened to develop into a long
bitter struggle, the cries of the Daily Telegraph
for a special tribunal armed with far-reaching
powers—power to compel witness to attend,
power to extract evidence, and power to en-
force its awards—were heartrending. But as soon
as arbitration was practically arranged, the Daily
Telegraph resumed its old campaign against the
Industrial Arbitration Court. Yet if the press
had given proper support to that Court from its
foundation there would never have been even fear
of a strike at Newcastle.
Josiah Thomas, M.H.R. for Broken Hill,
when moving his amendment for a Common-
wealth-owned line of mail steamers, remarked that
some of the bodies known as Chambers of Com-
merce would “ crucify a Christ for thirty pieces
of silver.” Knox, Dugald Thomson, and other
Anti-Sosh supports rose on their hind legs and
made a tremendous fuss, and implored the
Speaker to- see that this remark was expunged
from the records of Parliament. Thomas’ ex-
pression of opinion may not have been in the best
taste, but it was harmless compared with the
marriage- tie and sanctity-of-the-home yarn, to
say nothing of the Down-with-all-religion fiction
which whole branches and leagues of the Anti-
Sosh organisation still diligently spread about
Josiah Thomas’ political party. Yet, Top-Hat
Knox and the others have never openly objected
to those slanders.
The Bulletin meets a man with a solid
grievance :
Seven years ago, my wife and I arrived here (Sydney)
from London, and started in business with a capital of
£2OOO. The morning dailies soon afterwards frightened
us with their continued accounts of how Labor legisla-
tion was driving capital out of the country and reducing
commerce to a state of chaos. Becoming alarmed, we
sold out at a loss and went to the Straits Settlements, where
we lost the balance. Returningliere on Monday last, the
first thing that struck us was the vast number of hand-
some buildings that have arisen/jin the city during our
absence, viz. , Anthony Hordern’s, tfce University’s “Ohallis
House,” the Bank of Australasia, the enlarged Union and
Commercial Banks, and a host of princely buildings
recently erected, and others now in course of construc-
tion. My wife queried : “ What do all these new banks
and warehouses mean?” I answered: “My dear, your
faith in the morning dailies is still as strong as ever, and
it can only mean that capital is being driven out of the
country.
ALL HANDS TO THE PARISH PUMP!
Now is the time when the States should intervene to
defend their rights under the Constitution. —ARGUS.
The railway bridge over the Laura
River (N.Q.), though built in the ’seven-
ties, hasn’t had a train across it yet. At the time
of the Paltner River rush, Premier MTlwraith
had a scheme for building a line from Cooktown
to Normanton. This line was surveyed as far as
May town, on the Palmer, and was built as far as
the one-pub township of Laura, when a change
of Ministry took place. The bridge had been
built at the same time as the line, but the latter
hadn’t quite reached the bridge when MTlwraith
lost his job. The new Premier stopped further
construction, and it hasn’t been resumed since.
Interest on the loan money with which the ele-
phant was built has been paid for about 30 years,
and a lot more money has been spent in keeping
the animal nice and white in case it should be
wanted for use some time in the future.
Years ago, when the oof-bird wasn’t as
shy as now, N.S.W. cheerfully swamped £57,000
in a “permanent and reproductive” canal out
Leichhardt way. Local log-rollers painted allur-
ing word-pictures of the time when the reclaimed
land thereabouts would be densely populated with
shops and factories, while ferry boats and gon-
dolas and things would churn up the drowned dog
floating on the bosom of the glorified drain itself.
But that bright dream has faded. The drain has
never paid for its upkeep, and the end, or what
will probably be the end, came tho other day,
when the Sydney Harbor Trust refused to renew
the lease of the jetty maintained by the Leich-
hardt municipality. This means the discontinu-
ance of dredging, which in turn means that the
canal will be obliterated by the accumulation of
silt. But the good old debt will remain, even if
the canal doesn’t.
A deputation of municipal officers that
waited On Bent a few days ago explained many
things—among them, why municipal valuations
are so low; why the average drain smells so high;
and why the dishonest trader is still allowed to
conduct a wholesale poisoning establishment in
connection with foods and drinks supplied to the
public. The explanation was quite simple : those
officers would get the sack if they weren’t blind
and deaf and incapable of smelling anything even
if it howled under their noses. One deputationist,
talking about public health, said few of them
would keep their jobs for six months if they ad-
ministered the Pure Foods Act honestly ; and,
generally, a more whole-hearted curse hasn’t
struck a Minister’s ear for many a day. This
deputation’s bosses are the Propputy-elected
councils; and it all shows the tremendous advan-
tage of having things managed by people with
“a stake in the country.”
“Mate” writes re Lord Muskerry (Bul-
letin, 14/11/’O7): —
He is official barracker in the Other Place for the
Merchant Service Guild, and is always to the fore when
anything affecting the Cloth is on deck. In a country
like England, where there’s no Arbitration Act, and the
Labor Party is still in the pick-and-shovel stage, or else
very visionaril.v socialistic, it is necessary to get some
outside assistance. House of Commons is stuffed with
shipowners, who fight tooth and nail against anything
tending to improve the condition of sailors, if it’s going
to increase expenses. Their power is clearly shown in
the late raising of the load line in all ships. Recently
they clamored for a reduction in the number and weight
of anchors and the length of cables, so that their ships
could carry so much more cargo. Muskerry was largely
instrumental in defeating that iniquity, and also in
having shipmasters included in the benefits of the Work-
men’s Compensation Act. He is one of the useful among
the many useless Peers, and deserves much credit. He
not only talks straight in the House of Lords, but uses
his influence to make others take an interest in things
respecting masters and mates.


VICTOR PIANOS are to be found throughout the
length and breadth of Australia*
No matter what the climate may be, we guarantee
them to give satisfaction*
They are grand wear resisters, and are specially
recommended where work is heavy, as they are fitted
with an extra pedal or a moderator stop acting as a
pedal for use during periods of practice —this adds years
to their life.
We sell them on easy payments*
PALING S
w
VICTOR
PIANOS.
w, -gg
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
Catalogue and Full
Particulars Post Free
W. H. PALING & CO. Ltd.,
338 6€oR6€ STR€€T,
sypn€y.
BRISBANE ♦.
and
NEWCASTLE
. . WEAR . .
BucKley* Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. 1C MT
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
sdf
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOT CATALOGUE (ILLUSTRATED).
A Man Talßed —
and in His talk He said “ I need a Typewriter. All
the business letters I receive are typewritten-all
my competitors Have mac Hines-but, I cannot afford to
pay £27 for one. I know that a Typewriter would increase my
business by getting more customers—would give a tone, which is
now lacking, to all my written communications, btat, I do not
think it would be worth £27 to me.”
This man then saw an advertisement of
The Briton,
and this advertisement said, 1 44 The Briton Typewriter ;is a standard
machine improved by simplicity. It will do all ithe work that any
Typewriter can do, and do it as rapidly, as easily, and as well as
any other standard typewriter.”
The man then said: 44 1 don’t see how they can sell a Type-
writer as good as that for the price—l am a little doubtful— btxt,
it will only cost 2d. to get full information, and I will write to-day.”
When he received the information, he said: 44 It all reads well, and
the pictures are all right, but I see they are riiering .a free trial,
and as they pay the freight both ways it w.il cost me nothing
to see and try the actual machine —that’s fair —I’ll itry it.”
After using the Briton, he said: 44 The machine its as good as
any I have ever? seen —I cannot express how .thoroughly pleased ,1
am with it, and it only cost me
£l2/10/0
Hera is an offer so vital —so fair that you cannot ignore ft.
Southern Sales, Limited,
284 George street, Sydney (Box 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
7 Grey Street, Wellington, >N.Z.


RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ Hiphen ” goes to see Victoria and England
play cricket“ When I reached the ground the cham-
pions were having lunch—one cricketing lunch, I was
enabled to estimate, equalling four hash-house dinners.
At last they came out. Leisurely they proceeded to get
busy. The batsman took block, dug a hole in the pitch
with a bail, spat on his hands, hitched his pants,
adjusted his cap, gazed earnestly at the heavens and then
all round the field, and stood prepared. The bowler,
however, was not quite ready. He 'Stood - for a while,
waving his hand and tick-tacking to the fieldsmen like a
bookie’s runner, then massaged his right arm carefully,
executed one or two lissom springs, and strode to the
crease. By that time the batsman bad to moisten his
hands again, re-hitch,his'pants, and examine the position
of the field anew. Finally the bowler bowled. Everyone
drew a deep, expectant breath. Except the batsman. He
let the ball go by uninjured. He’d have nothing to
do with it. Before the next ball was delivered
the batsman had the sight-board shifted. Then the
bowler bowled again. This time the batsman lifted his
bat high in the air, raised himself on his toes,.danced agita-
tedly, and tied himself into knots. He was going to hit.
a sixer at least! At the last moment, however, he changed
his mind, and tapped the ball gently back to the bowler
instead. (The bowler here stopped to roll up his sleeve
and wipe the ball on the grass. The batsman bashed the
earth at his feet with the bat, and walked slowly down
the pitch and removed therefrom a piece of fluff.) The
game was resumed. Off the very next ball a run was
scored amid cheers. The other batsman now took block,
hitched, spat and peered into the faces of the different
fieldsmen, who changed over, as he was a left-hander.
The bowler bowled. The batsman hit with violence,
and missed. That made him cautious. The remaining
balls he let pass. The umpire called over. The field
changed places. The new bowler took five minutes’
practice alongside the pitch to get his length. And the
contest started again. Just about here I must have
swooned. When I came-to, the field was deserted.
‘Stumps drawn?’ I asked. ‘Tea adjournment,’ I was
informed. I went away, and watched several decrepit
sports playing bowls. They only stopped every now and
then for drinks.”
* * * *
When the match N.S.W. v. England opened, the
visitors did not make an overwhelming impression.
They were nervous, and played in a very cramped style.
Captain Jones was seventeen minutes try ing for a chance
to run, and then opened with a four hit. By evening nine
English wickets had fallen for 283, of which Johnson
had taken four for 58, and Cotter three for 102. With
the exception of Hardstaff and Hutchings, the Englishmen
had played a most unattractive game. Sydney 7 desig-
nated the team Slush that evening. Saturday saw the
remaining wicket fall for 21, bringing the total score to
304. As the home team went to the sticks the crowd
cheered lustily—they were going to show these English
Johnnies how to play cricket. Then a sudden gloom
fell on the crowd. The first wicket went for six, the
second one for nine, and the third for 14. A man named
Barnes was out to kill, and even the mighty Trumper was
placed on the defensive. Runs came slowly, and the
crowd amused itself in the long intervals between
scoring by r trying to find a last line for the
Limerick which declared it was the champagne of
ericke.t when Trumper was at the wicket. But the
fizz was off the champagne on this occasion. The whole
side was dismissed for 101, and seven of them had been
caught for 70, thus proving that the English fielding was
sharper than a lying tongue, which, according to the
Scripture, is several degrees keener than a hollow-ground
shaving machine. Barnes was waving the scalps of six bats-
men, which he had obtained at the cost of only 24 runs.
England’s second innings opened more hopefully for the
home side, the captain being dismissed wearing the sigq
of the duck. But it didn’t continue, and at the drawing
of the stumps only four wickets had fallen for 330.
On Monday the English lifted the score to 301
in a dreary 7 manner, and left N.S.W. with 505 to
make to win. Again the first wicket went for
six, and a rot set in. It was awful. Only Duff
(11), Cotter (49), and Macartney (13), reached
double figures; three men were dismissed without
breaking ice, and the innings closed for 96. Fielder was
the successful bowler this time, having taken six wickets
for 27 runs, Crawford two for 29, and Barnes and
Blythe one each for 12 and 4 respectively. N.S.W. was
beaten by 408 runs. It’s an experience that may do
N.S.W. good.
* * * . *
Melbourne cricket cranks thought they were
dreaming when the record of Barnes v. N.S.W. (first
innings) came to hand. The one thing that seemed
certain from his performance against the Vies, was the
uselessness of Barnes. His bowling came dead easy ; he
could barely raise a bat to stay the Englishman’s
discomfiture in their first innings, and he didn’t
field too beautifully. Those “ lovers of the game ” who
can spare six hours a day for indulging their affection,
were pretty well agreed that Barnes would he a burden
on the team throughout the; tour, The news of his
average in Sydney 7 was an awful shock to them. They'
reeled under the surprise. At least, they didn’t exactly
reel, but they met one another, and stared mutually, and
blowing their noses, said “ Cricket is a funny game ! ”
* * * *
“Scutum” says terrible things about the
N.S.W. XI : “Jones’s ‘Funny Team’ made the N.S.W.
representatives look very silly indeed in the affair—
it couldn’t be called a match —that ended last Monday.
The fast off-theory bowling of Fielder and Barnes proved
that not one of the N.S.W. batsmen knew howto cut a
ball—even the only Trumper seems to have forgotten
the art. Think how Maelaren, of England, and
Iredale, of Australia, would, in their prime, have
back-cut that off-theory stuff to the boundary
at least twice in every over, notwithstanding three
or four men in the slips. The fielding of Duff and
Co. was absolutely 7 the worst ever seen on Sydney Cricket
Ground, and with the faulty catching was largely 7 re-
sponsible for the English making over 300 in each innings.
Jones, whose stand at the wicket is reminiscent of the
running-man target at a rifle competition, is certainly an
able captain, while Noble’s reputation" as a leader has
been badly smirched. His so-called strategy is all moon-
shine, and his star has very nearly set this time. From
the showing of the N.S.W. colts it would appear that
their stars have not yet risen.”
* ‘ * * *
The Bulletin hears front one who knows his
playing very well that bowler Barnes is something like
the ancient French cavalry, terrible when carrying all
before him, but not much good when things begin to go
wrong. As long as he can keep the batsmen on the de-
fensive, Barnes’ bowling is deadly, and he becomes keener
and Lrickier at every delivery. But if the batsmen can
slog him consistently and thoroughly for a couple of
overs, Barnes’ tail slowly droops till it drags in the dust,
the keen edge of his shooting becomes blunted, and his
deliveries faulty. Will someone please slog Barnes for a
couple of overs to see how far this is fact?
• * * *
The wicket-keeping of Carter, for N.S.W.
against the Englishmen, was awful, and the chances of
his inclusion in the test matches for Australia dropped a
great deal. Carter’s batting was also poor ; and it seems,
‘ therefore, possible that Gehrs, from S. Australia, will be
the stumper for Australia. Certainly a wicket-keeper
who couldn’t catch the ball when standing well back has
no claims whatever on the selectors ; and the blunders
by Carter in each innings against N.S.W. helped to pile a
big score for the Englishmen.
At time of writing no trace has been dis-
covered of that brilliant cricketer and sterling good
fellow, Mr. Andrew Newell, who has been missing
nine days. Me left home accompanied by two collie
dogs, and since then nothing has been seen of either him
or his canine friends. Mr. Newell was suffering from
nerve trouble, and was on leave of absence from his
duties in the Telegraph Department.
* * * *
■ Jones’ tfeam, in the N.S.W. match, put up the
rarity of a score of twelve double figures—all hands,
including Sundries, scoring 10 or over.
' * * * *
S.A.’s cricket team for its two comifig inter-
state matches is just the same as that so badly beaten by
the Erlglishmen, except that Gehrs has recovered from
influenza, and Mcßeath (the expensive and ineffective
importation from Sydney), is dropped. Dolling and
Townsend will also make the tour. It is officially an-
nounced that Clem Hill will not play in Melbourne, or
Darling in Sydney. Adelaide opinion, by the way, would
drop Claxton, and looks doubtfully on Darling. Both
are now rather slow in the field, and there is a feeling
that they should follow Reedman, Newland, Travers,
McKenzie, and Hack on to the retired list. Meanwhile,
the batting of the side is very strong, Wright is given a
chance ” for the tests as a slow bowler, and if O’Connor
can only show the bowling-skill that he certainly possesses
the usual win over Vie., in Melbourne, may be scored—
thou ;h a “ line ” through the respective showings against
A. O. Jones and Co. is not encouraging.
Even allowing for the dropped catches off fast
bowler Cotter ag'ainst the M.C.C., there was nothing- to
inspire hope in his bowling (except, perhaps, in personal
injury). The Englishmen enjoyed the over-pitched and
under-pitched stuff, and pasted it merrily.
“ Quan”: Referring to the agreement fixed upby
English Captain A. O. Jones and Joe Darling (on behalf of
the Board of Control), that the captains shall exchange lists
of teams before tossing, Bulletin (14/11/’O7) says, “This
step is necessary to prevent the ringing-in of ’players
under altered weather conditions." I’m not too sure
that that’s the object of it. I think it’s to prevent a re-
petition of the sort of thing that happened when the last
English team was playing N. S. Wales (second match,
begun February 12, 1904). Warner’s Eleven, as originally
selected on that occasion, included Fielder, but when
Cotter had got rid of Warner, Hayward, and Tyldesley
for 0,5, and 17 respectively, Knight, an excellent rot-
stopping batsman, was substituted for him.
CRICKETER H. F. BOYLE— (Just deceased).
“ 10.2.4 ” : Bulletin par (21/11/’O7) scoffs at the
recent Windsor pheasant-shoot in honor of the Kaiser,
and suggests that duck guns, etc., must have been used to
massacre the 700 victims bagged. That’s a libel on the
pheasant-slaying' game, which, though not sport in any.
sense of the word, is a very skilled performance indeed.
The pheasant, when fairly under way, is one of the fastest
birds on earth, and in most big English shoots the guns
are stationed in a hollow, over which the scared fowl
whirl at a great height, like demented snowflakes. Now,
it’s no good whatever to hit a pheasant in the body :
in that case, the perverse creature simply drives ahead
trailing a cloud of feathers in its wake, to die and be
eaten in the next county. And all present, more espe-
cially the host, seethe with fury at the wretch who has
done this, the most evil deed in pheasant assassinating
circles. To bag his bird the shooter must hit it “for-
ward ” — i.e., in the head or neck. And that takes a good
deal of doing. Have seen, for my own part, one of our
best local pigeon shots blow clouds of feathers out of eight
or nine pheasants running at an.easy “stand ” in the old
country, and not grass one. The crack British phea-
sant shot uses two, and occasionally three, 12-bore
guns, which are handed to him by highly-trained loaders.
He manipulates his artillery with inconceivable rapidity.
When the birds start hurtling over, the half-dozen
shooters wfyo are standing in a line underneath become
forthwith, with their loaders, so many madly agitated
automatons, and a blinding rain of stone-dead poultry
crashes to earth behind them. It looks easy, as juggling
always does, but in reality it’s difficult—as difficult as it
is to make 100 on end at first-class cricket, or at billiards
—and duck-guns would not ensure success any more than
brickbats.
* * » *
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron held the
first ocean race of the season on Saturday for the Beau-
champ Cup. The race started in a light breeze from the
North, but, as it freshened, it veered round to the usual
N.N.E., and blew somewhat violently. There was a nice
roll on the water, and, although a little more jump would
have improved the flavor of : it, it was good sailing fluid.
As expected, the race resolved itself into a contest
between Awanui and Rawhiti, the latter boat being
steered by Mr. A. R. Marks, and conceding Awanui
6 minutes 3 seconds. After 3 hours and 20 minutes
hard sailing, the big Maoriland-built yacht had
made up only 17 seconds of it. Awanui led
round the flag off Ooogee by one minute 48 seconds, with
the rest of the squadron nearly hull down, so to speak.
The stretches along the Bondi shore saw the great white-
winged Rawhiti moving very fast and overhauling the
slighter Awanui, till off Ben Buckler the Maoriland-built
boat was once more in the lead. Rawhiti continued in
front, and narrowly escaping an untimely end on South
Reef, finished 17 seconds ahead of Mr. Saxton’s flyer.
But the time allowance beat Mr. Brockhoff, and Awanui
won her third race this season. Heather was third.
Among the others, Culwulla had hard luck, the throat
halyards carrying away. Although after effecting repairs
W. Marks made a great effort, his case was hopeless, but
he managed to leave Petrel to do the whipping in.
* * * *
The 10ft. Dinghy State Championship, on Port
Jackson, made exciting sport for those who did not follow
the ocean yacht race. And it was a much more thrilling
affair. Thirteen boats started, and the curse of the number
soon made itself felt, reducing the flotilla to six before the
first rounding mark was reached. Olga was swamped,
and Arthur, Ensign, and Estelle capsized, while Moray,
Jessie, and Britannia retired before a worse fate overtook
them. At Steel Point, the N.S.W. took charge, followed
by Waratah and Weka, the other three struggling
along in the rear. Weka filled up and went over off Clark
Island, when occupying third position. The pace was
evidently' too much, and her disaster gave Australian a
chance, which was promptly availed of, the race ending
in a victory for the N.S.W. by 2min. 2sec., with Waratah,
Australian, and Planet behind in that order.
Botany Bay also saw some exciting racing, for
the 14ft. State championship. Nine started, including
the new St. George; she arrived with a tremendous
spread of sail, which compelled an early retirement as
soon as the blow commenced. The first disaster was the
fouling of Jessie and Our Own, and the rest struggled
along in the freshening wind to meet an angry sea rolling
in through the Heads. Undaunted by the spectacle of a
capsize just in front, a daring jibe by Euchre at Kurnell
enabled her skipper to cut out the leader, Air Motor. To
makeup the lost water, the latter crowded on the canvas
in an amazing manner and went rushing along at a great
pace, till Euchre was only a length ahead. Then the
pursuer just dived right under, filled up, and capsized.
There was nothing else in it, and the reckless skipper of
Euchre sailed home with nine minutes seven seconds to
spare. Olio and Eadith were second and third respect-
ively. ' j .
Both championship races were well contested,
and neither skippers nor crews hesitated risking a bath.
Some of the dinghies’ jibes were very daring, and carried out
with great skill andcoolness. It is in the management of
these little craft that real seamanship comes to the top,
and skill and sound judgment are at a premium all the
time. To see these little walnut-shaped boats, sometimes
quite invisible for their great bellying sails, rushing along
was a fine sight, and in the wild eagerness to secure
championship honors they held on their way' regardless
of everything, boat after boat filling and capsizing in the
wild rush. Oh yes, for seamanship, the small boat scores
every time.
* « ■* *
Cycle racing is to have one more chance in
Eastern Australia. The Melbourne Saucer Track, Ltd.,
is now an accomplished fact, and the toboggan slide is
being demolished at Princes Court, to make way for the
eight laps to the mile wooden track which theco. will lay
down. This is the sort of track that is in use at Salt Lake
City (U.S.A.), and will contain 79,000 1-in. strips of
Oregon, 18ft. wide. It will be canted to an angle of
55deg. at the turns, where the banking will be
12ft. high. On the straights the banking will rise
to 4ft. for stretches of 150 ft. About 7000 people
will be able to sit in the amphitheatre above and around
the track, and look down on the c.yciists whirling round
and round. Racing will take place Wednesday and
Saturday' nights. Although Floy'd MacFarland’s name
appears most prominently in the affair, it is understood
that there is other Yankee money invested in the concern,
and that if the venture is a success in Melbourne, Sydney
will be given a similar track. But all these things are a
waste of money unless the racing can be kept clean.
* * *
Dutton and Aunger left Adelaide for Port
Darwin, per motor car, last Monday afternoon.' A great
crowd rolled up to see them off, and cheered enthusi-
astically. The car is a 20-24 h.p. Talbot, and is loaded up
with 82 gallons of petrol. Further supplies are placed
along the track. The wheels are shod with the Michelin
non-skidding tyres, and the car carries a number of
appliances for fastening to the wheels to prevent slipping
in sandy country 1 .
In May 1906, H. B. James and B. Kellow,
looking for a world to conquer, dashed over 556 miles of
ordinary Victorian roads in 24 hours per medium of a
motor-car. This established a world record, and shed
g'reat glory on James and Kellow. Their fame spread
even to the uttermost parts of the U.S.A., and Yankee
Waldron arose, shook himself, and went for that record
with a 50 h.p. car. He smashed it by bumping over 600 miles
of awful Amurkan roads in the 24 hours. After that James
became melancholy, refused his food, and went about in a
state of gloom till dare-devil Stevens, who made such an
amazing run in the first Dunlop Reliability Test, came
along with a 40 h.p. Darracq and proposed that they'
should wipe out the Amurkan Johnnie’s exploit. On
Wednesday' week they left Camperdown arid reeled
through a dense fog at something like 30 miles an hour.
That mist lasted till something like 200 miles had been
jovered. So thick was it that at one place they missed
the road, and the roaring car went bounding out on
to the plain. At another time the record breakers
found themselves chasing a mirage of the road, and got
back to the real highway to just miss a bullock reposing
in the middle of it. Three times they had to slow down
and pick their way through mobs of sheep. And all the
time they' flew they absorbed fog, till it oozed from their
clothing. The 30-mile speed was not maintained very
long, and for the most part the fog was negotiated
at 27, which was quite fast enough. A curious
circumstance was the number of birds and rabbits
run over. Plovers were the smartest at getting-
out of the road, but even they' were caught occa-
sionally. Magpies and rabbits were butchered in
scores, and a few crows were also run into as they tried
to swoop across the road. But the crows were a nuisance.
When they were not knocked out they continued to hover
along close to the drivers, cawing and pecking, and had
to be beaten off. After 24 hours of this sort of thing the
motorists had the satisfaction of bringing back the record
to Australia, having covered 777 miles, and beaten the
Yankee record by 171 miles. The actual driving time was
21h. 33m., and during the last 12 hours no less than 422
miles were reeled off.
* * * *
Died, at Blenheim (M.L.), Henry liedwood,
“Father of the M.L. Turf,” aged 85 years. Deceased
arrived in the Dominion in 1841. He took to the racing
game with vigor, founded a .stud, and proceeded to win
all the principal races in the two Islands. This practice he
followed for many years. Seeking a wider field, he visited
Australia, and essayed to win the Melbourne Cup with
Strop. Though not successful in that, the veteran returned
home with some Australian gold. His star culminated
in 1875, when he sold'a half-interest in his horses to
G. G. Stead, who eventually assumed the position of
Maoriland’s boss racing man. “Old Henry’s” last big
win was in 1884, when he won the Canterbury Derby
with Black Rose. Most of Maoriland’s first-flight trainers
served their apprenticeship with the “Old Man.” R. J.
Mason (Stead’s trainer), Ted Cutts, R. Gooseman, and
Jack Rae were some of his “boys.” He was an inveterate
believer in “potatoes for horses, and a whip for the lads.”
On one occasion he publicly chastised an unsatisfactory
horseman. Unlike many' modern “ sports,” “ Old Henry ”
was never warned off, disqualified, or cautioned, and he
died a poor man. The R.C. Archbishop of Maoriland is
a younger brother of deceased.
J 4 * * *
The strike germ spreads. The 30 caddies of
the Dobroyd Golf Club have refused to carry unless their
remuneration is increased from Is. to Is. 6d. per round
of 18 holes. The “ goffers ” became scoffers, but not one
boy blacklegged, and finally what players there were
humped their own bag of furniture, and lost enough
balls to have paid the increased price several times over.
* ■ * * *
“ J.” : The slaughter of the surf bathers around
Sydney still goes on. And for every death there are
about a dozen narrow escapes. All manner of methods
for making surf bathing safe have been mentioned, and
all rejected as impossible or useless. But every idea has
taken the form of some fixed or floating object on w hich
the exhausted swimmer could take refuge till assistance
came. The real secret seems to be in compelling the
bathers to do as the South Sea surf-shooters do—take
with them a board, or something else that will float.
It may seem to take the joy out of surf
bathing to plug about pushing a hunk of timber in
front, or to try' and look like a dolphin with a life-belt
laced close round the manly form ; but it seems the only
way to check the slaughter. On the other hand, there
are" some people who consider the slaughter beneficial to
the community. “ There’s nothing weeds out the fools
so fast as surf bathing ! ” said one callous ruffian recently,
and somehow, although it was a brutal remark, it seems
to contain enough of the essence of real fact to make it
valuable.
* * * *
The yarn about the retirement of wrestler
George Hackenschmidt is not correct. At present the
muscular Russian is troubled with a return of fluid to th
knee joint—the actual cause of his visit to Australia som
time back. A Sydney medico and a rest set him up, and
although he appeared to be putting in solid graft he was
always nursing his elbow and knee—wrestling the old
Buttan Singh was a mere siesta. In a letter to a friend in
Melbourne, t’other week, Hacky says “ England is
swamped at present with ’rastlers, all fat and slow, and
averaging 19st. They have not made much impression
on London, however.” He expects to meet the best they
can dig up, and is in excellent nick to take on the job,
apart from his knee.
* * * *
Peter Bannon, the pocket Haekenschmidt,
had been wrestling under a mat-name, so to speak, before
he came to light in his true colors at the Melbourne
Athletic Club on Friday night, when Willie Bain failed to
strip for his advertised contest with the old brown Singh.
After considerable wrangling an arrangement was
arrived at whereby Bannon and Singb should engage for
£25 aside, with big Gus Rennert as referee. Bannon, a real
model of about 12st., bucked clean into the Hindu, and
considerably disarranged him from “ go.” He displayed the
activity and resource of a past-master of the mat, and his
equal at his weight hasn’t been seen hereabouts for many
a long day. Buttan was fully extended, and’ several of
his actions gave evidence of a return to his old tricks,
though Bannon made no bones about hustling the Buttan
against the ropes, and on one occasion Singh was near to
being clean through. At 18Jmin. Singh was within an
ace of securing a fall. His average opponent would have
been up the pole, but Peter spun from underneath like a
’hopper, and the fray' assumed the upright position,
A minute and a half later Bannon sent his man to the
ropes, where Singh bit, hit or something, and in return
received a butt, followed by a right swing. The referee
separated them, and arguments occupied the mat and else-
where till he awarded a fall against Singh on a charge of
poultry. A spell of lOmin. and the grappling continued,
but it lacked steam, as the men were tired and greasy,
the grease being provided by Singh, who looked as if he’d
visited an oil tub. Occasionally the fray would burst
forth with a spasm of energy, but, generally speaking, it
had toned down, eventually fizzling out without a fall by
11 p.m. ’Rastlers, referee and managers, assisted by the
law, retired to a back room. No decision was arrived at.
Boxing is a declining sport in Australia, and if
the present slump continues will soon be as dead as
cycling and sculling. Which explains why John Wren
suddenly got out of the promoting business in Melbourne.
It practically died in Sydney when James Brennan turned
the National Sporting Club into the Amphitheatre and
put on long girls iu short dresses instead of stocky
bruisers. After the lofty, clean, spacious, well-lit
and ventilated National Club the awful Gaiety' was
quite impossible, and had the best fighters in the
world been available, there was not a decent place for
them to biff one another in. But the fighters were not
available. Even Willie Squires had to go away',to Amurka
to get a decent match. Although there are a few
.struggles-round the suburban atldetio halls, professional
pugilism is moribund. The pugs have gone to work —
and when the pug goes to work the case is desperate.
* * * *
Squires, it is reported from America, has gone
east, with a view to participating in the brief half-dozen-
round scraps of the hurricane order in the City of
Brotherly' Love. Yankee boxers are like Shylock in some
respects—they stick to a mug as long as he has money-
left.
The Maoriland footballers in England—“the
Pro-Blacks” it is becoming the fashion to call them—may
have some difficulty in getting used to the Northern
Union rules under which they have to play. There are
only' 13 men aside ; there is no line-out (a point in which
the All-Blacks shone greatly), a scrum 10 yards out taking
the place of it. Lastly, and even more important, there
is no kicking into touch —unless one is clever enough to
screw-kick so that the ball bounces into touch. A direct
kick into it means that the ball is brought back and
scrummaged where it was kicked from, so that the clever
fullback, gathering it just in front of his own posts, and
clearing in the ordinary' way, would penalise his side
heavily.
* * * *
Melbourne Tattersall’s Club prizes, and indeed
worships, a frame full of caricatures, by Charles Lascelles,
of the Melbourne bookmakers in the last generation.
They are bitterly satirical, but this does not seem to be
perceived. Lascelles was a tenor singer and comic
vocalist. He came to Australia with Anna Bishop, and
his song “ Juliar So Very' Pecooliar” will be especially re-
membered. As a caricaturist he was first rate. His
portraits include Joe Thompson, Barney Thompson, Jack
Thompson, Bill Branch, Coleman, Fagan of the Dogs,
Green, Phil Glenister, the Barnards, Alf Joseph, and ever
so many more.
GREEN OLD AGE.
Assured by the Occasional use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
To reach a green old age and enjoy good
health can only be attained by the care of the
system. It is from the little irregularities of the
system that the common ailments arise, and
Nature gives many indications of the approach
of these complaints, which, if treated at once,
may be warded off. That Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a.
safe, sure, and
reliable remedy
is vouched for
by Mr. Mitchell
and his wife, who
reside at 513
Main Road,
MR. AND MRS.
MITCHELL.
(From a photo.)
Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane. H e
says : —“ For some years your Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills have been my only medicine. lam
over 70 years of age, and find a couple of pills
occasionally have a most rejuvenating effect,
regulating the liver, cleansing the bowels, toning
up the system, and thus keeping me in good
health. My wife, who is 68 years of age, also
takes a pill regularly, and having overcome
attacks of indigestion,' from which she used to
suffer, finds your pills a mild laxative and a
splendid medicine for keeping the system in
proper working order. I always recommend your
pills to anyone who is suffering from indigestion,
or who is not in good health. My family are
irown up, and they all believe in the efficacy of
)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”


■
Z"
Reduced
Trips
Round
the
World .
Do you want to
Travel ?
Can you afford the
time and money ?
THE problem, how to travel without leaving your home, is now effectively solved by Messrs.
Underwood and Underwood, of London and New York. The system is based
upon the principle of the stereograph, consisting of two slightly dissimilar photographs,
which, if viewed with a scientifically-built stereoscope, gives you the third dimension of depth,
or perspective, exactly as you would see with the naked eyes.
These outlooks are arranged in Tour form just as you would visit a country, each Tour
.being accompanied by Patent Maps and a Guide Book.
The System is an admirable one, and of untold value to one who has not the time or money
for travel, or for those who intend making a trip.
Call and inspect , or write for particulars to —
117 Collins Street ,
Me bourne.
A. K. ZIMMERMAN,
Sole Importer for Australasia.
THE BOOK OF THE YEAR.
pF“This Book is bound to be a record seller.
THE POOR PARSON
Illustrated by leading artists. With introduction by the Rev. Ronald G. McIntyre. PRICE 6s.
BY
STEELE
RUDD.
As Crockett has charmed us in guid braid Galloway Scots, and Ralph Connor has told us of the Sky Pilot amid
the gullies and mining' camps of Canada’s Far 'West, so Steele Rudd has done for the Back Country of Australia.
All Branches and Booksellers. N.S. W. BOOKSTALL CO., 476 George Street, Sydney.
“Hatched in Hell and framed in the
borough council ” was the description given by a
Salvationist of a bylaw under which he and
several of his pals were fined at Sale (Vic.) for
obstructing the carriage way. Watch that man :
he may be a Dowie or a Voliva, some day, with
that gift of language.
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
ALL GOOD AUSTRALIANS (by either birth or
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Applv for petition forms to
JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
r
i
There is no part of your cyc-
ling experience which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
(£oast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
ESOIE
©©aster
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
D. Y. KENNIE, representing 1
Birmingham Small Arms Co.,
Ltd., i Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Collins St., Melbourne.
Works: Redditch, England.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herscheli, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone
and thousands of others.
“REFEREE ” says : “ The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (o f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cot Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
Legal Notice.
IN the Supreme Court of New South Wales—
In the matter of Robert Gillmore last heard
of in Tenterfield in 1898. Pursuant to directions
in this behalf given by the Honorable Mr.
Justice Street Judge in Probate. Notice is
hereby given that on the eighth of August 1904
an order was made for the undersigned' to ad-
minister the Estate of the abovenamed Robert
Gillmore who has not been heard of by his
relatives for upwards of nine years. Application
has recently been made by James Gillmore of
County Sligo Ireland for payment out of his
share of the estate of his father the said Robert
Gillmore now in the hands of the undersigned and
unless the said Robert Gillmore communicates
with the said undersigned on or before the 15th
January 1908 his death will be presumed and
his estate will be distributed amongst his next
of kin.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Fstates,
Queen’s Square, Sydney.
*5
Ml
eft
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid.”
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Fore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
WORLDS
SOTOR RECORI
AN EXTRAORDINARY FEAT.
Wonderful Road Performance.
777 MILES IN 24 HOURS.
...0N...
DUNLOP
MotorTvres
Messrs. H. L. Stevens and H. B. Janies, on Nov. 20th
and 21st established a new World’s Motor Car Road
Record on Victorian roads, by covering the remark-
able distance of 777 miles in the full day, beatingthe
previous world’s record by 171 miles. Dunlop
Tyres were selected for this severe test, and went
through the full trip without a puncture or the
slightest trouble, despite the rough handling they
received. The Tyres used demonstrated what a
remarkable amount of hard driving “DUNLOPS”
are capable of withstanding—a fact that should not
be lost sight of by Motorists who want Tyres
that do not give trouble. Artistic
Booklet, describing these wonderful Tyres, posted
on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. f
ALL STATES AND N. 2.
aa
ACUTE HEARING
Deafness and Head Noises.
The instances in which the unfortunate people affected
with Deafness and Noises regain their natural hearing
(says the H kaltii Jouknal) are so rare as to arouse
unusual comment. Such, however, appears to have
been the case regarding the miraculous restoration of
the sense of hearing to a woman named Mrs. Jennie
Stuart, who resides at 62 Bondi Road, Waverlev, N.S.W.
Mrs. Stuart (who is a professional nurse) first noticed
something wrong with her hearing while attending a
patient in her professional capacity, whom she had to ask
to repeat her conversation on several occasions, and
presumed that it may have been the fault of her patient
not speaking sufficiently distinct, Mrs. Stuart, however,
suspected that there was something wrong with her
hearing.when in church one Sunday morning, she could
hardly hear the sermon. Being a nurse, and understand-
ing the great complexity of the Aural construction and
the many ills this delicate organism is subject to, she
naturally realised the importance of immediate attention,
and at once consulted a doctor, who made a thorough
and careful examination, after which he prescribed the
usual treatment, but, suiprisingly, the following Sunday,
Mrs. Stuart could hear no better, and, if anything, she
felt worse. She then consulted an Bar Specialist, but
with no improvement, so she bothered no more With
doctors for a while, in the vain hope that thetrouble might
disappear and her hearing would improve in its natural
course. But, instead of improving, it was only getting
worse and worse. She later consulted another specialist,
and then another, but without any benefit whatsoever, and
her deafness was growing worse from time to time, until
one day (about 15 years ago) she noticed a peculiar roar-
ing Sound in the head and a sort of ringing in the ears.
These nqises started again a few days later, and repeated
the following day, so that it became quite annoying. The
disagreeable noises seemed to increase from time to time
until they appeared to be permanent, and caused the
d afness to advance to a much more severe stage.
Nurse Stuart then consulted other reputable specialists
and some of the leading medical practitioners known in
the profession. All these able men have taken advantage
of every recognised medical treatment in this case, for, in
addition to the financial consideration, their professional
reputation was at stake, and they took a personal interest
in the woman. Her case received special attention, but
all the efforts made by these well-known medical men
seemed to have been in vain, for the poor woman was con-
tinually getting worse. She then tried some of the
advertised devices for curing Deafness and Head Noises,
but without any benefit, until, fortunately, one day she
was told of the Baroscope, which applied Pure Aural
Kinetics to the Ear.
Nurse Stuart, having tried everything', with the result
that she was only growing worse from day to day, natu-
rally lost all hope of ever being cured, and only tried
the Earoscope as the very last resource. But what a
happy surprise it was for her to notice symptoms of
improvement after a few days’ application of the Aural
Kinetics.
Nurse Stuart was gradually regaining her hearing in
such a manner that when she attended church ten days
later she was quite able to hear the clergyman speak
when sitting close by. The Ear Noises seemed to diminish
from day to day, and the good nights’ rest which Mrs.
Stuart was then able to enjoy seemed to constantly in-
crease her hearing, and in four weeks’ time she was so
improved that she could hear the clergyman quite plainly
from the very back seat in the church. The doctors
were quite surprised at the wonderful cure so success-
fully attained in this case, after they had given up all
hope of the woman ever regaining her hearing, and even
the specialists had proclaimed her case entirely incurable
prior to this treatment.
Since then it has been proved that the Aural Kinetics
applied by the Earoscope has cured innumerable cases of
Deafness, Head Noises, Ringing in the Ears, and various
Aural complications. The Earoscope seems to be entirely
different from all other treatments, inasmuch as it con-
tains no Drugs, no Chemicals, and no Electricity, but
simply Pure Aural Kinetics, which all sufferers can apply j
themselves right at their own homes quite conveniently, ,
and perfectly safe, without the necessity' of a doctor, and
without any interference to daily routine work, business,
or social duties. i
Anyone suffering from Deafness, Head Noises, Ringing i
in the Ears, or any other Auial complication, as well as ■
those interested in this subject, may write for further j
particulars to the Earoscope Institute, which will be sent ]
by them free of any charge on mentioning this paper. ■
The address of this Institution is:—The Earoscope Insti-
tute of Australasia, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“F.”: Apropos “Carl Preston”
British Admiral (B. 21/11/’O7). I can not under-
stand the iron plate on tree. The record says :
“ The British Admiral wrecked at King’s Island ;
79 out of 88 lives lost ; May 23, 1874.”
“Visitor”: A small Queensland district
■consists of a big mine, a little mine, and a battery.
A cricket match was played one Sunday between
a local team and a team from Wide Bay Creek.
The local men were beaten, and went to the pub
■to drown their sorrow. Boss of the small mine
shouted ; then the boss of the big mine ; then the
boss of the battery party. The shout was be-
coming bigger and bigger. Small boss shouted
again ; big boss, determined to make his shout the
biggest, sent a messenger to scrape up mouths
from anywhere. Later on, the usual thing
■occurred—a row started, and there had to be a
fight. The bosses started to run the show. Big
boss appointed himself referee. The rules were to
be purely Australian ; and everything pointed to
real ding-dong. Then the referee made a dis-
covery—he recognised in the two pugs his shift
boss and One of the miners, both of whom should
have been at that moment grafting away under-
ground. They explained that they had turned up
at the pub on the boss’s instructions. The man
he had sent out to scour the place for more men
had done it by simply calling all hands out of
his mine. The fight was postponed, and Sunday
■cricket matches have been stopped at the Black
■Snake.
“ Hassan ”: I have solved the great
question of the future of the British race. My
scheme is simplicity itself : move London out to
the No: them Territory. The trouble with Eng-
land is that it is far too small for its 45 million in-
habitants, and, even if it were not, more than half
of it belongs to the dukes, beer-manufacturers,
and Jews, and these don’t let the people inhabit
their property, because they want it for the rear-
ing of wild poultry to shoot at. My idea would fix
all that up. London, with its 5,000,000 people,
would be very useful in Australia, and by-and-
bye all the rest of England’s workers would drift
over here. In fact, practically the whole of Eng-
land would move to a better climate and a larger
house, a house befitting its wealth and
Who would not exchange a little, cold island for a
great, warm continent? All the dukes and
things might be left behind to shoot partridges.
And the expense ? Oh, blow the expehse !
Britain has a Dreadnought craze just now,
and the Germans are beginning to snigger at it.
A supposed authority said, in the Reichstag, the
other day
The decisive blow in naval war is the superior rapidity
of gun fire, which frequently determines the issue, and in'
that respect the Germans are twice as good as the English.
Admiral Hopkins, of the British navy, has said
much the same thing, pointing out that the
older British ship, Lord Nelson, with her broad-
side of five 9.2 guns against Dreadnought’s four
12in., can fire at least 10, and possibly 15. rounds
to the latter’s four. The Admiral adds that a
9.2 in. lyddite shell would disable a Dreadnought
turret j ust as effectually as a 12in. would.


SELECTING GIFTS by MAIL
Our Mail Order Department makes it easy to sbop from any distance.
No matter where you reside, you are perfectly safe in doing business
witb us by Mail Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.
FREE CATALOGUE
,k On X equest we will gladly send
you our Illustrated Catalogue POST
FREE to any address. Write for a
copy. It’s yours for the asking.
FREE CARRIAGE
Our system of TREE CARRIAGE on
all goods to any part of Australasia
means a big saving to you. Goods
packed to ensure safe delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR,
Silver-Plated, Richly Embossed.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk Lined.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S SOLID SILVER PURSE and CARD-CASE,
Handsomely Embossed.
With Solid Silver Extension Frame; size, sin x Sin.
Post £3. Pree.
Other Styles, £2/5/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/-
A. SAUNDERS.
CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER, Solid Silver,
Crystal Glass Roller.
Post 7/6. Pree,
- Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH,
Buckskin, Silver
Shield, Rubber Lined.
Post 4/6. Pree.
Ither styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE POT,
Silver Mounted, Cut Glass.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Larger, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Silver,
Steel Blade.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Glove Hook, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Finest Quality Bristles, complete in Silk-lined /Morocco Case.
Post .£lO, Free.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/ 10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWAN PINCUSHION,
Solid Silver, Velvet Top.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
' ;
*****
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS THIMBLE,
Steel Lined.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco, Leather Strap PURSE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 8/6. Free.
Other styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
US
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly
Embossed, Fine Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
CrystaPGlass Bottles, Solid Oak Base,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles. 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts and Screw,
Amber Stem.
Post 12/6. Free.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver Mounted.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK, Black Morocco, Silk Lined,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 12/6. Tree.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASS, Rapid Adjustment,
Large Field, with Sling and Case.
Post £ 2. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH, Solid Nickel, Highly
Burnished, Badger Bristles.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
mnjij»
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver,
Embossed Handles, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER CLOTH OR HAT BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
:
m
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COLLAR STUD BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Pierced Design.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco Covered,
Silver-plated Mounts.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.'VV.


HELPFUL GIFT
SUGGESTIONS. ..
FOR XMAS
HUNDREDS OF..
OTHERS in Stock.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold FLORAL SPRAY Bar BROOCH,
5/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-BAR BROOCH, Pearl Set,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Dinna Forget BROOCH, Amethyst
Thistle.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold “FORGET-ME-NOT” Spray and
Heart BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
G °‘ d " G0 B 0 «00Sf HES " “ d ='“*
12/6
15-ct. Gold, 25/,
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf Sprav
BROOCH, y
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Heart and Knot BROOCH, set
Ruby or Sapphire,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-BAR Buckle BROOCH, Pearl-
Set Buckle,
h
A. SAUNDERS.
16-ct. Gold 2-BAR BROOCH, set fine Opal
and 4 pure double-cut Diamonds,
£2/10/-
Our Illustrated Catalogue wil 1 Kelp you to
solve your Grift Problem. Wrjite for a copy
to-day. Sent post free to any address.
ALL GOODS SENT POST FREE to any address^
4
3.
/■
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SOVEREIGN-PURSE,
10/-
9-ct. Gold, £2/12/6.
15-ct. Gold, £3/15/.
/
s
V
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS 1 '
WATCHES, Richly Engraved case, fully-
Jewelled, 25/. Higher grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH BOX, Hand
Engraved,
8/6
lO/..
' Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
9-ct.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET,
£2 Larger, £2/10/, £3,,
with Safety Chain,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls,
£5/5/-
Diamond centre,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold COLLAR-
STUD,
5/6
15-ct. Gold, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, r Garnet,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, set pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold
17/6
15-ct. Gold, 30/.
18-ct. Gold, £2.
15-ct. Gold PENDANT
and NECKLET, set Pearl
and Amethyst,
£3/10/-
Pearls and Tourmalins,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold CHARM, set
Ruby or Sapphire,
8/6
,'A-
-ct.
SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN and
CHARM,
5/6
„ u SAUNDETfS.
Gold BROOCH, set Piearl, Ruby
Sapphire,
9-ct. Gold BAND
RING,
12/6
15-ct. Gold, 20/.
18-ct. Gold, 25/.
9-ct. Gold, set pure
Pearls,
12/6
15-ct. Gold, 20/.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise,
30/-
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumbbell
LINKS,
12/6
15-ct. Gold, 25/.
Plain, with Initials, 1/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Safety
Chain attached.
«£3/5/-
Smaller, £2/5/, £2/15/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamonds
*md Rubies or
Sapphires,
■£3/10/-
S-ct. Gold SCARF PIN,
set Ruby or Pearl,
10/6
SOLID
GOLD,
£7 10
SOLID
SILVER,
£2
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting KEYLESS WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2. Higher grade, £2/10/, £3*
£3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/. Solid Gold, £7/10/
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/-
_-t. Gold Shield and Dumbbell
LINKS,
21/-
15-qt. Gold, £2.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Ivy Leaf Bar BROOCH,
7/6
15-ct. Gold, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Bird and Floral Spray BROO'CT
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Bird and 3 Bells Bar BROOCH,
Pearl-set Bird,
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH
9-ct. Gold-Mounted,
A. SAUNDERS.
:9-ct. Gold 2 Ivy Leaf Mizpah BR'OOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH; Set Pearls and
Amethyst,
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, Set Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2 10-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH, Set fine Opals, Pearls,
and Ruby,
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set pure Double-
cut Diamond,
£2. £2/10/-, £3
Price to • size of Diamonds.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
J
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
’**-. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Australasian
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
VERY Australian looks
| forward to, sooner or
J later, taking a holiday in
S Maoriland or Tasmania,
I which means a fast, plea-
sant trip in one of the
numerous steamers of the Huddart Parker
line. At present the Wimmera runs from
Melbourne to Hobart, Bluff, Dunedin, Lyttelton,
Wellington, and Sydney ; returning to Melbourne
via the same ports. The Victoria and Zealaudia make
fortnightly trips from Sydney to Auckland, Gisborne,
Napier, Wellington, Lyttelton, and Dunedin ; and
the Westralia maintains the service between Hobart
and Sydney. After January next Maoriland tourists
will have the advantage of journeying by the magnifi-
cent new steamer Ulimaroa, which will be one of the
most up-to-date samples of British ship-building
genius: a magnificent twin-screw steamer of 5700
tons register, 400 ft. long, 52ft. beam, with accommo-
dation for 420 passengers in three classes to suit all
purses, with plenty of stock and refrigerating space
to suit the most exacting of shippers.
Huddart Parker Proprietary is the only one
of the Five Companies that includes Maoriland in its
radius of operations. The pleasure-seeker who starts
out to see the Maori at home rinds a long, lofty
ribbon of land, wind-swept, and, for the most part,
tree-clad-—a land where there are always clouds to
temper the heat of the suu, and where the wind but
rarely dies, excepting far up the slopes of its
snow-topped mountains, where there is an
awful and unearthly calm. If the Zealandia
opines within view of the land in the day time a
powerful glass will show the rugged promontory
known as Cape Reinga. Reinga is tiie Maori
word for the Land of Shades, and before the
missionary came (and even now in many places)
the Maori believed that the shades of the
dead journeyed northwards by well-known
tracks, till they came to the wilderness of
k Monganui, where the path was marked
for them by the knotted ends
of the flax. This strangely
marked track led over
the flat wastes to
where the land
heaves up to
1000 ft. of hill
that over-
looks Cape
Reinga and
Spirits
Bay. Ar-
r'i ved at
Cape Rein-
ga, the
Maor i soul
found a
giant rata growing out of the naked rock, as
no other rata vine ever grew on earth, hanging
down to where the shattered breakers of the
vast Pacific boil and hiss in mountains of white
foam. Down that rata vine they lowered them-
selves into the foam and passed to the Unknown.
It was a picturesque legend. Seen from the deck of
the Zealandia through a strong glass. Cape Reinga
looks picturesque enough, especially if it is a blue
sunlit day; but seen at close quarters it is a
veritable inferno.
Maoriland and Australia have much to thank the
Huddart Parker Proprietary for in opening up this
traffic. It is only since the co. commenced to run its
big, comfortable, well-appointed steamers there
that Maoriland has become a world’s tourist
resort, with such a rush of sight-seers that a special
Government department has had to be organised
to control it, taking over whole towns, and building
spas and making roads. Where before only the man
who had a fortune could visit with inconvenience and
difficulty, to-day, since the Tasmania and Warrimoo
commenced to run there, back in 1893, the man of
most ordinary means can take himself and his wife
there, have a pleasant and bewildering month, and
come back without being subject to the unpleasant
duty of having to whip the cat. The boiling lakes,
the spouting geysers, the bubbling mud-springs,
known vulgarly as “ porridge pots,” and the great
inland sea known as Taupo Moana, and the pictu-
resque Wanganui River, with its pyramidal.hills
clothed in evergreen bush and wonderful ferns, and
ancient battle-fields, are all brought within reach of
the man of modest means by the splendid Zealandia.
For the man who does not love to feel the firm
earth rock beneath him three times, a day or more,
and has no ambition to bathe in natural hot water, or
dilute his whisky with soda drawn from a hundred
feet below the trembling earth, there is the South
Island. To get there he takes the Wimmera. This
fine steamer will give him a glimpse of Hobart on the
way, drop into the immortal and ever-calm Milford
Sound to view the famous Mitre Peak. Had the
ancient Greeks seen Mitre Peak they would not have
placed the abode of the gods on Mt. Olympus.
That serene, silver mass rising from the blue
and purple distances, would have been the favorite
home of the Immortals. Then the Wimmera glides
down the shore of that ribbon-like land, past great
sounds and fiords wherein old whalers and pirates
held drunken orgies amidst an earthly paradise, away
to windy Bluff, up the more sheltered eastern coast
to Dunedin, where the passenger will disembark and
take the railway trip to the great Gold Lakes. Every-
body has heard of the bottomless Lake Wakatipu,
with its gigantic trout, and its amazing hills known
as The Remarkables. They lie within 24 hours of
Dunedin. But the most delightful lake on earth is
the lovely Manapouri. It lies far up in the midst of
the most terrific mountains in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, but which the Tourist Department has pierced
with splendid roads, and made easily cheaply access-
ible. The lake is full of islands, and trout. The blue
water goes tumbling down into its depths by a
hundred waterfalls, each more beautiful than any
other on earth. And then there are Lakes Te Anau,
Wanaka, Hawea, Tekapo, and Ohau. Some of these
are a thousand feet above the level of the sea, and
the last-named is nearly 2000 feet above it. Besides
which there are great blue glaciers, hundreds of feet
high, miles long and wide. An amazing country,
and all to be seen inexpensively by travelling by the
Wimmera.
Tasmania is an island of historic interest to Aus-
tralians. To the dweller of what one poet called
“this haggard continent” it has always appealed as
a sort of garden of Eden, hence its pet names, Apple-
land and Raspberry Isle. It is a place with a plenteous
rainfall, of green distances, and wildernesses of cool
ferns—things which appeal to the Australian.
To reaph it the tourist takes the Huddart Parker
steamer Westralia at Sydney, which can bp reached
from any part of Australasia by ,the steamers of
the Five Companies, whose branch offices supply full
particulars as to cost, how to get about, and so forth.
It is this facility for obtaining information, and tiie
advantage of having interchangeable tickets and
booking right through that makes it worth every-
body’s while to travel always by the steamers of the
Five Companies. There’s no hunting about at inter-
mediate ports, and humbug and delay over getting
fresh tickets.
tATe
But to come back to Tasmania : Hobart is just 48
hours from Sydney, and the island is one of many
variations, so that all tastes can be satisfied. The 4
eastern seabord is dry, the western unusually wet.
In fact, Hobart averages less rain per annum than
either Melbourne, Sydney, or Brisbane. Away in
the wooded north-west, there is neither heat nor
cold, while a day’s journey inland to the great Lake
district will give the tourist a practical demonstra-
tion of what sort of a climate they have in the
Scottish highlands. It is said that no part
of the world can show so many aged people as Tas-
mania, which is, no doubt, due to the cool,
strengthening air, the magnificent forest solitudes,
and secluded fern-tree vales, and which can be
enjoyed by the Westralia',s passengers with all the
conveniences of civilisation. Far back in the dim
past there were some fearful convulsions in
the little island, which have left enormous
peaks of most fantastic form overhang-
ing profound abysses and frightful
precipices. It is a miniature and
burned-out Maoriland. One of
the precipices of Ben Lomond
is 3000 ft. deep—a stupendous
sight. The result of this
bygone volcanic action
is a mass of scenery
indescribably wild
and grand, and
yet it is ail con-
tained within an
area 18fi miles
long by I<>s miles
wide. So for the
person who has
not the time for
a trip to Maori-
land, Tasmania
is a first - class
substitute.


The fefiiE Hand
Vol. IT.
DECEMBER 2, 1907.
No. 8.
PAGE
“ Sleep ”—(in colors)—Bernard Hall - - - - - - Frontispiece
Australia Felix—No. III.: The Most Important of Our Products - - 117
The Felton Bequest—(with Photographs)—John Shirlow 121
Great Stories —Norman Lindsay .......... 126
Vagabonding in Asia—Written and Illustrated by Alf Vincent .... 133
Printer’s Errors - - - - 138
Short Story Competition - 138
The Genesis of “The Bulletin” - 139
Early Summer—R. Crawford . - 142
A Christmas Pudding Dream —D. H. Souter - - 143
The World’s Beauty Quest 144
Two Battlers and a Bear—(lllustration by “ Hop ”) —E. Dyson - - - 149
Triolet—(Decoration by AJf Vincent) —“Nulla” ....... 134
Man Proposes—(lllustration by D. H. Souter) —George Lalor - - - 155
The Big Five—(lllustrations by Norman and Lionel Lindsay)—Ambrose Pratt - 159
The Intruder—Written and Illustrated by Norman Lindsay ..... 166
Editorial - - - 178
The Egotist—(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay) —W. Sabelberg .... 181
The Unattainable—Edgar Heane - - 187
The Sea Seekers—(Decoration by Frank P. Mahony)—Roderic Quinn - - 188
Reversion and the Thoroughbred—James Penn Boucaut .... 190
A Page of Photos-—T. Cummins - - - 193
One That Smote—(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay)—“Nawala”- . . . 194
A Bar .of Music—(Decoration by Alek Sass) —Helen Jerome - - - - 200
The Discoverer of Mount Bischoff—(with Photographs)—George Scott - 201
Marikoriko —Arthur. H.. Adams ---------- 203
The Duel in France—Louis Blin 204
Self-Esteem—B. E. Minns 207
For the Public Good—
Proprietary Medicine Frauds ......... 208
Liquozone - - - - - - - - - - . 210
The “ Eureka Consumption Cure ” - - - - - - - - 211
The Bear and the Basket - ... ' 212
The Sky Kings (Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay)—C. A. Jeffries - - - - 213
Courage to Conquer—Written and Illustrated by Hugh McCrae .... 220
“In the Course of Time ” (Illustrations by Alek Sass) —Mary E. Fullerton - - 221
The Last Year—George Levelfield ......... 225
R.MIS. Orizaba - 226
Life and Lette.es —
The Japanese Newspapers—J. I. Bryan 227
Ouida—N. E. T. 228
Hugh McCrae, Poet—Arthur Bayldon 229
A Banquet of Scribes —Eugenia Stone - 229
The Judicious Thief - - - - - ■ . . . . . . xxxxv.
THE December LONE HAND is a strong; “ story ** number. There
are eight fine stories and two score other great features,
“Sleep,” by Bernard Hall, is printed in three colors; so that
you simply must frame it. The whole spirit and tone of the won-
derful picture is reproduced.
Norman Lindsay tells the story of Helen of Troy in six great
plates.
THE BEAUTY QUEST. —Portraits of some of the fair women of
Australia, who patriotically answer to the American challenge.
FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD. —Further exposures of patent-medicine
frauds.
AUSTRALIA FELIX. —The character of the Australian people is
analysed and discussed.
Yes, the December LONE HAND will be one of the joys of a
glad season.
On Sale Saturday.
When you have read the LONE HAND, send it abroad. It has
always a good word for Australia.
m
/
GRAPH omoNE
Just what you Want
for Christmas,
A GRAPH=o=Phone Dance is Delightful.
You dance in your own home to the music of the beat
Military Bands, played in just the right tempo, and in clear
musical tones peculiar to the
COLUMBIA GRAPH
PHONE
It is so easily arranged, and so inexpensive.
For any kind of social gathering, a GRAPH-o-Phone is your
Best Friend. Write to-day for FREE Catalogue “ B.”
Columbia Phonograph Co. Cen’l,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
London, New York, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg.
Missing Friends.
CHESSNEY.— WANTED the whereabouts of GEORGE
OHESSNEY, born at St. George’s East, London.
Joined the Navy 1861. Age about 60 years. Sister Jane
enquires.
MRS. CHARLES BROWN,
“ Kumanga,” Greymouth, N.Z.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction .. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted bv J. C. Williamson’s. NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and' Mrs.' ROBERT’ BROUGH.
PRICES AS , USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
.. .. in’.'. ..
THE BLUE MOON.
SATURDAY NEXT, Stf-for the First Time
in Sydney, LADY MADCAP.
Prices as usual, ’Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
! (THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS-UNENDING. , f j
SENSATION—MIRTH—SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS —-FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT RANK
Something Doing All the Tipie.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Mofning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
'Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
A THOROUGH-GOING SUCCESS.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION.
THE LAND OE GOLD.
By George Darrell.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at .Elvy’s. _
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
RICHARD LESLEIGH presents
THE INCOMPARABLE CARTER,
WORLD’S MASTER MAGICIAN,
in conjunction with
THE FAMOUS MISS ABIGAIL .PRICE,
The Psvchie Marvei of the Age.
ALLAN SHAW’S 'COIN CONJURING CONCEITS.
Popular Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists—
LA SYLPHE, this Artiste stands alone as pre-eminent
among great dancers.
HENRI. ALEXANDER, in his unique Specialty Act.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Amazing and Original Wire Walking,
Acrobatic and Musical Pot Pourri.
TOM DAWSON, Everybody’s Favorite Eccentric Comedian
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicians.
MDLLE. RHODESIA. ARTHUR CROXON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry -Rickards.
THE MOLASSOS, Cyclonic Dancers.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy; Artists.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES —Grand Prix Motor Race.
Plan at Allan’s. AS" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
STILL DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn’s New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE MeINTOSH,
—in—
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allah’s.
Melbourne
Ground, 1/.
AUSTRAL
Cricket Ground. December 7 and 14, 1907.
NOVELTY MAMMOTH FLIGHT,
5000 Homings Birds.
■; Stand, 2/6. ROBT. McCULLOGH, Sec.
sdf
AS A
GIFT
The Plum Razor would make a splendid Christinas Gift
to any man who shaves. It is the Best Rjazor you can buy
for money. You CAN pay more but you won’t get
a better razor.
A Pew Extras—
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Price 10/6
POST FRpE TO ANY
PART OF AUSTRALIA.
ESTABLISHED 25 YEARS.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
“Agricola”: A mining camp out in the
hills, way back from Kiandra (N.S.W.), was
snowed up this year, and a tobacco famine set in
compared with which that of wheat in Egypt was
a small circumstance. The’sufferers drooped and
staggered at their work, and the face-man had to
take a spell after every six hits.: Old Bill Sperriek
had smoked clay-pipes for decades. Having used
these pipes till they were; past toleration, he .had
been wont to preserve them, nicotine-soaked as
they were, in case of misfortune with his new one.
In his distress he ground up the bowl of one of
these old pipes, mixed it with some teased string,
and lit up. Result, ecstasy ! The savor of Bill’s
incense was wafted afar, and soon Bill’s hut was
besieged. As William had a corner in what was
practically a necessary of life, he made good money
out of his aged cutties before a thaw set in.
Beerbohm Tree, whose Hamlet was de-
scribed by W. S. Gilbert as “funny without being
vulgar,” has been lecturing on trade-unionism :
He described trade-unionism as an actual source of
danger to the country. He urged that the nation which
worked 10 hours a day. must in the long run beat the
nation which worked only six or eight hours. Trade-
unionism, moreover, was frequently unreasonably tyran-
nical.
All of which suggests that Tree is better in the
r6le of Hamlet than in that of Political Economist.
“ 0.K.” writes cynically of an interesting
Melbourne housebreaker and his finger smudges
The capture of the Melbourne youth who owned up to
having robbed, or broken into, 16 houses within 14 days,
seems to have been due to a circumstance which stamped
him as a reckless novice at the business, and concerning
which the police had nothing to say to the newspaper
reporters. Whereas the successful young marauder
practically revealed his identity by affording an easy clue
to it, his arrest was credited to the “ finger print ” sys-
tem, and. the Melbourne dailies gave the world to under-
stand that Police Sagacity had scored again. The Age
report was both a plea for “ the unfortunate lad,” and a
tribute to the alleged sagacity of a detective. If read
carefully in between the lines, it amounts to an uncon-
scious indictment of the Melbourne police service, but
the average reader sees only the statements that
are intended to impress him. Here is a paragraph
from the Age narrative: “ Ferguson is a ward of
the State, who escaped from the Baysw'ater Salvation
Army Reformatory on 2nd inst. Since then (a period of
14 days) he has been exceedingly busy breaking into and
robbing houses during the absence of the inmates. All
the robberies he has committed have been characterised
by circumstances so similar that the police knew the same
perpetrator had accomplished them, and before long
Detective Potter was able, by means of finger prints, to
positively say who the perpetrator was. Ferguson’s
finger-prints had been taken at Pentridge prison, and in
handling things during some of his nefarious raids he left
good impressions behind him.” Then followed details of
a few of the housebreakings, and the first of these was
a robbery of jewellery and clothing.
The robbery, the pawning, and the recovery of the goods
occurred on the 4th Nov., and “ a description of the boy
who had pawned them ” was given to the police. So within
two days of his escape from the Reformatory, the boy might
have been arrested “on his face” and general appear-
ance. But for the next ten days he hovered around the
suburbs of St. Hilda and South Yarra, trying the back
doors of probably every house in each street he visited;
breaking into the houses he found unoccupied, and
always forcing an entrance by the same means—and
never suffering the least inconvenience from the police
who are said to have had “positiveinformation” of his
identity from the vague evidence of his finger prints, and
who should certainly have spotted him from the pawn-
broker’s description. Nevertheless the active young
person continued his course of house-to-house visitation
with gratifying results, until he had stupidly emphasised
his identity by associating himself with a bird cage. On
the morning of the 14th he took a trip to the Essendon
suburb, and there he annexed a cage containing six
canaries. Burdened with this conspicuous advertisement
he returned to South Yarra, and started to mix his business.
He offered canaries for sale where he found anyone at home,
and had sold four of the dickey birds before he came to
an unprotected house. Leaving the cage, with its two
remaining canaries, in the back yard, he proceeded to
break into the premises, using an axe to smash one of the
inner door panels. The noise of his wood chopping dis-
turbed the people next door, and although they could see no
cause for close inquiry into the matter, they alarmed him
by opening a window, whereupon he made a hasty escape,
minus the birdcage. Subsequently, the housebreaking
was discovered by accident, the police were sent for, and
the abandoned birdcage supplied an easy clue. A day
or two later the rash youth, who had paraded the bird-
cage from one suburb to another, paid the penalty of his
folly. A policeman “ heard that a boy answering his
description ” was staying at a hotel in St. Hilda,
and when they found him he pretty promptly
poured forth a torrent of confessions, and the
newspaper reporters , were seemingly sent for to
take notes. But never a word about the birdcage
incidents appeared in the press.
The points insisted upon in the Age narrative
were the value of finger-prints as evidence of a
criminal’s identity, and the misfortune of this par-
ticular young criminal in having been allowed to
converse in gaol with men who taught him the tricks of
housebreaking. It may be that this ready-witted pitcher
of his own yarn is a pitiable example of “ How criminals
are made,” but, all things considered, the manufacture
seems to have been strangely swift and complete in his
case. Also his moralisings are somewhat thin, like the
finger-print theory. For instance, the garrulous cheeild
of 17 remarked °f the Salvation Army home—“l have
nothing but good to say of Bayswater, but their system
of putting boys on trust too suddenly is not wise, for the
temptation to run away is too much.” The youth evi-
dently suggests that a desire for liberty is identical with
a mania for housebreaking. “O Liberty! what crimes
are committed in thy name !” said Madame Roland at
the guillotine. The historical lady had no idea that she
was uttering a prophetic reference to the callow hero of
the finger-print story.
Why suffer from pain in the stomach 1
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy will relieve you.
“ H.11.T.”: Always a lover of beauty, The
Lone Hand Beauty Quest has appealed to me'
very strongly. Am in the habit of taking stock
of every female, pretty and otherwise, that crosses-
my path. Have been in every capital of Aus-
tralia, and, as the result of my observations, anw
of the opinion that .Melbourne girls take the
scone for good looks, complexion, figure and car-
riage ; Sydney girls for figure, carriage and dress.
But Perth and Adelaide girls are well to the fore
as regards dress, etc. ■ '


sd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fsd
Y our Future
Is
Known !
YOUR FORTUNE FREE. Be Guided by the Stars.
TO introduce my unerring ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM throughout Australia I will, for a limited time,
send you FREE, an Astrological Horoscope of your life, if you will send your name and
address, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and //- for postage, etc. I want to tell every reader
of The Bulletin what the future has in store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and
years to brighten their lives ; what sorrow's, disappointments and reverses are hidden in the future, most of
which can be avoided if you only know how to go about it.
One Shilling, Stamps or Postal Note, and a Horoscope or Heading of your
Life, together with my interesting book “ Your Destiny Foretold,” will be sent to yon in a plain envelope.
When you receive this reading you will discover how absolutely correct, as well as wonderfully helpful it is,
and you will be glad to write me when you wish to know what todo about the future, for success in love,
marriage, speculation or business. You will, I am sure, be pleased to go out of your way to advise your
friends to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the Free Horoscope I send you.
DON’T DELAY. Consult Me To-Day,
Thousands Are This Day Blessing The Hour They First Wrote Me.
Prof. Henri De Astro,
366 BourKe Street. Melbourne.
Address s
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent! of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
nißS’CTons—'The Hon A W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas o’ Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
f
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
Bo
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated , .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra-
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
n uJa- p -J Postage to any Address
* ■ * I ■ in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queeil St., Brisbane
THE BEST POSSIBLE
CHRISTMAS PRESENT
is an Edison Phonograph with
Edison Gold-Moulded Records.
No other gift gives such lasting
pleasure. Everybody likes it,
from baby to grandmother.
No skill is required to reproduce
perfectly brilliant band music,
the finest vocal solos, duets and
quartettes ; the funniest char-
acter songs and vaudeville skits.
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH
provides more fun and music
than any other automatic enter-
tainer —yet is within the reach
of all. Hear it at your nearest
dealers before deciding on any
Christmas present.
IT SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
If you write us we will send you
a budget of interesting litera-
ture-post free.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
SilPlilHlH!
iiuiiiSiiiiiiHi
DA PC CEMPC is made in a
■ »»Wfc rKIIwC variety of styles
—from theattractive lawn fenceshown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
years ago, are still giving good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence be a
good one to have the agency for?
Write to-day for special offer.
CHAS. DOBSON, FRANKS & Co., Sydney
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
02 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MEN!
TAKE
DON’T
DRUGS!
*l*
w\
5^
«v
w x
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing
doctors does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other
with the same disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine doser,”
[ and the only change in your condition is for the worse. Why don’t yon
stop this medicine Habit? Why don’t yon avail
yourself of the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own
lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of Electricity !
This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of Electricity.
You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we apply it and you
will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to
the breaking-down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its alotted task
the entire human machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health —even life
—is to rebuild the weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply
of vital electric energy. This can only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now
admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is
crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good.
Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . . Electricity, as applied by DR. McEAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shocß, no burning or blistering', and
you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, WeaKness of all Kinds, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, Weaß Back, Sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys,
Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in,
and we will send you
postpaid a copy of our
new ioo-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dep. 10, Linden Court
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
OFFICE HOURS: 9 am. t.> 5.30 p.m
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Linden court.
CASTLEEEAGH-MARKET STS., SYDNEY
Please send me jour Free leeustraTED Book.
Name
Address
2
“ Agricola ” : If a local option vote were
taken among the birds on the rabbit question, the
result would be a three-fifths majority in favor of
continuance. Eagles, hawks and crows live
almost exclusively on bunnies now, and even the
magpie finds a dead rabbit an occasional welcome
change of diet. Of late the smaller birds have
adopted his fur for lining their nests. Raw
material is provided by the poison-cart, or by the
small boy with the pea-rifle.
“Vagrant”: The ’possum and wallaby
are making a bold bid to be classed by future
generations as indigenous to Maoriland. In the
Gatlin’s bush (a large tangle of forest and under-
growth in South Otago) the ’possum finds a fitting
home, secured from harm by rigorous acclimatisa-
tion statutes and inaccessibility of surroundings.
From Chasland’s Mistake to Ratanui the few
scattered residents hear the night-cry regularly,
and occasionally a glimpse is caught of the
screeeher. As to the wallabies that have been
acclimatised in the Canterbury province, shooting
parties go regularly every year to the Waimate
district to decimate the alien. P.S.—We have
also got the rabbit, which I understand is also a
native of Australia. Am I correct ?
“Poleaxe”: London Strand records as
a wonder of nature a fruit tree which overturned
two solid stones in its effort to get the light. But
what price the meek mushroom ? On the old
convict-laid Bathurst 'Road, near Mount Yorke,
have seen these fungi growing through the solid
macadam. Can anyone give a better instance
of applied natural force ?
“F.H.R.” : The day of the “traveller”
is drawing towards evening, and the sooner the
“sundowner” goes down the better. The man
who desires not a wife, children, or home, but is
content to wander the face of the earth from one
habitation to the next —begging, cadging, or
whatever name you call his pauperism by—is not
the man to make a nation. The bushman, on the
other hand, is the gamest, straightest, and most
independent being under the sun. He earns his
cheque, be it in shearing shed or mining shaft, at
fencing or clearing; and, though he does his
“ burst,” yet for every pound he spends that way in
a pub he generally puts another in his pouch to see
him to his next .job. And how far away that next
job may be in this land of distances! But with
his inexpensive tastes it’s a far walk that costs
Bill a pound on the track.


BEALE Australian PIANOS
SUPERIOR TO ANY IMPORTED.
The Beale - Vader Patent
Steel Tuning System.
SPACE
'OH
access
SCREWS. X
ml
ti
Showing SOLID IRON FRAME with
steel screws and tuning pins. A glance
will tell you that this construction will
endure for generations. The pins are
lubricated, and so can always be turned
with delicacy. Patented throughout the
world.
A Unique Feature
o/ tHe Beale Piano
is a Metal
instead of a Wooden
Wrest-Planß.
Imported Pianos
ALL Have Wooden
Wrest-PlanKs.
The Tuning System of
Imported Pianos.
r '
illl
Pins put through holes in iron frame
into a WOODEN PLANK, which, sooner
or later, must give way. In a space of
1| square foot, 216 pins, each l|in. by |in.
are driven. Timber cannot resist such
honeycombing under a strain of 20 tons.
The holes become oval, as shown above,
by the crushing of the wood fibres.
European and American piano-makers have for generations sought after a simple and practical metal-tuning system (vide Edgar
Brinsmead, of John Brinsmead and Sons, and Julius Bluthner, Leipsic); but though various devices have been patented almost every
week, the Beale-Vader Patent Steel-Tuning System is the only metal-tuning system in practical use. More than 9000 Beale Australian
Pianos are now in use throughout Australasia, and are giving universal satisfaction.
In addition to the above patent, we have originated many other improvements in piano-construction—a system of building the
cabinet-work which assures absolute immunity from warping or splitting ; a sounding-board which gives a softness and sweetness of tone
unapproached by any other piano (as vouched for by Herr Emil Greder, Frau Sara Anderson, and Herr Karl Studemund, of Musgrove’s
Royal Grand Opera Company ; a hexagonal steel core for the copper-wound strings in the bass, securing a firm hold for the copper on the
steel; hitch-pins cast in the iron frame, instead of laboriously drilling holes and inserting the pins—thus effecting a saving in cost, while/
improving the efficiency ; and many other details of minor importance, to instance one of which we mention a hinge for the lid of grand
pianos which allows of a moulding on all sides, whereas all foreign pianos have one side of the lid without moulding, due to the construc-
tion of their hinges.
We do not neglect the lessons and experience of the old-world makers; in fact, inasmuch as we hold the only patents registered in I
Australia for pianos, we can and do use all the best points of foreign pianos, with the added improvements above mentioned. The same ’>
energy and the same ability, inventive and directive, which have effected these important improvements where older manufacturers have
failed, are used throughout in the construction of the Beale Australian Pianos, and the result is that the people of Australia can buy pianos
made here by their own countrymen far superior to any they can import. We invite you to compare our pianos with the best imported
instruments, and you must acknowledge that the Beale Australian Pianos are unequalled.
CASH OR EASY TERMS ANYWHERE.
BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COM MONWEALTH.
BEALE CO. Ltd. , of SYDNEY
Australian Piano Manufacturers,
474 George Street, Sydney; 107 swanston Street, Melbourne; 28 Hunter Street, Newcastle; 24 Bridge Street Ballarat;
George Street, Bathurst; flitchell Street, Bendigo ; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 615 Hay Street, Perth.
PLEASE NOTE.—ONLY Address in Brisbane, 291 Queen Street.
Three times as many Bea/e Australian Pianos are sold yearly in Australia as of any other make.
They are sold direct from factory to usor — no middlemen •


Doctors and a Skin Hospital did Him
No Good—Sickness Caused Loss
in Wages of Over £3OO—A
Friend Whose Father was Cured
of Eczema Advised Him to Try the
Cuticura Treatment.
A TRIPLE CURE BY THE
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“Mv eczema has been ten years*
.'•tandmg and it has cost me over £3OO
in loss of wages. lam a carpenter and
joiner by trade. I have been under
doctors, and I also attended the skin
hospital, but none of them did me any
good. When I was at Horley I pur-
chased some of the Cuticwra Remedies,
and I was working about all the day,
not giving my leg a chance, but after
purchasing twelve sets of the Cuticura
Remedies they cured the eczema in my
limb. I also had spots on the scalp,
but they are all gone now. I have had
these sore pimples fifty years. My
scalp is now all clean. My eczema
was on the right limb from the ankle
upwards, which was as raw as a piece
of beef. I shall recommend the Cuti-
cura Remedies to all I see afflicted with
eczema. Publish this statement for all
the world, and let any one write to me
and I will reply.
“I also purchased three vials of Cuti-
cura Pills for my wife and they have
done her a lot of good. Before taking
them she dared hardly to eat anything
on account of the pain afterwards; now
she can eat anything and plenty of it.
She is getting quite fat now and is quite
a different woman.. I was first advised
to try the Cuticura Remedies by a
man who lives at Redhill whose father
was cured of a bad eczema on the head.
No doctors nor hospitals oould cure it.
After a few applications the whole crust
of the head came off and left him a
healthy scalp. This man’s age was over
seventy years. Although lam cured of
eczema I shall always have Cuticura
by me, and use the Cuticura Pills now
and then, for I find the Pills keep my
head very clear and my appetite good.
Chas. Gambrill, 166, High St., Rams-
gate, March 7 and April 17, 1906.”
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
as~ Post-free, Cuticura Book on SkintDiseases.
This Smart Goloshed
Tie Shoe.
IT is a very shapely little f
* with Cuban Heel and smart
Patent Cap. We have it in Australian
makes from 14/6, and also a similar style
by the best American Manufacturers—Kruppendorrf,
l.oodriches and Laird Schober—at an advance in price.
Men’s Glace Kid
Lace Bal at
18/6.
r.
A
A
\ V . ■ /
• '
This Lace Bal is
one of the best for
every-day wear; it
is made of the finest
soft Glac6 Kid, has a
welted sole, is ex-
tremely easy to the
foot, and may be had in
all the latest shapes, wide
and narrow toes, just as
you prefer. Price, 18/6.
Postage-Victoria, 9d.; to
any other State, 1/-.
Let us send you our new Brochure, “ Shoeliffht” —it
both our lVlen's and Ladies’ Lines.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne,
303 Chape / Street, Rrahran,
000‘S 11
The WaybacK iSeries,
Australia laughed ! ! !
aiid keeps laughing.
No. 3.
Red Harry Is
f— THAT
Nasty
I TASTE
THAT NASTY TASTE IN
YOUR MOUTH, WITH THE
DULL RUN-DOWN FEELING
THAT ACCOMPANIES IT,
THE LOSS OF APPETITE,
LOSS OF STRENGTH, LOSS
OF ENERGY, LOSS OF
INTEREST IN LIFE.
MEANS INDIGESTION
And should not be neglected, or worse will follow. Take Mother
Seigel’s Syrup; it strengthens stomach, liver and bowels, restores
them to natural action and so makes indigestion impossible.
HERE IS AN EXAMPLE:-
“ For years I suffered from violent headache and distressing attacks of
dry retching. I could not eat, there was a nasty taste in my mouth, and I was
always more or less ill. I tried all sorts of medicines without lasting benefit,
till I got Mother Seigel’s Syrup. That soon cured me.” From Mrs. FARELY,
05, Macquarie Street South, Sydney, N.S.W. March 4th, 1907.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP cures Indiges-
tion, Biliousness,Con-
stipation, Headache,
Wind, Palpitation,
Loss of Appetite,Dizzi-
ness, and the many
other ills that arise
fromadisordered state'
if the digestive system .
TAKE
MOTHER
I
Seigels
dfIHAS
AND
BE WELL
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is.
Packet of Ten lOd.
Great Reductions
... IN ...
MADAME MELBA
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS.
At Madame Melba’s Request
THE LONDON GRAMOPHONE GO.
REDUCED THE PRICE OF HER
RECORDS,
And from now on
MADAME MELBA’S
Gramophone Records
will be sold at
161-
REDUCED FROM £1 Is.,
THEREBY PLACING THEM WITHIN THE
REACH OF ALL.
MADAME MELBA .
29
8
CAV. CARUSO.
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
BY THE GREATEST LIVING
TENOR,
CARUSO,
Will also be sold at
16/-
REDUCED FROM £1 Is.
Melba and Caruso Gramophone Records may be obtained at
all Gramophone Dealers.
SEMI-ANNUAL GRAMOPHONE RECORD CATALOGUES JUST OUT.
Full Particulars and Name of nearest Agent may be obtained from
The Gramophone & Typewriter Co. Ltd
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
LA BAGATELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Mid far-flung litter of pages spoiled,
Alone with his teeming brain afire,
The poet sat and in rapture toiled
At an ode to his beautiful “ Heart’s Desire.”
The lady was talFto whom his ode
Was written ; and fair as the dawn was she,
That, dreaming of her, his warm blood glowed
With a kind of inebrious ecstasy.
This he had called her—a nymph whose charms
No naiad of woodland pool could peer,
And he fashioned fond rhymes to her round, white arms,
And her bosom of snow, and her shell-like ear.
He knew that to sing of her glorious eyes,
And her braided hair,-and the sheen of it,
As they actually were, would immortalise
His song and the beauteous queen of it.
So wrote he on, till, with soft footfall,
Came a lady magnetic who stroked his hair ;
And, oh, but the lady was magical,
So queenly she was and so tall and fair.
And her voice was musical, sweet, and low,
Like the pulse of some vibrant silver bell
That charms the hour when the last faint glow
Of sunset yields to the young night’s spell.
She spoke as she stood by the poet’s side,
And brief was the tale that the lady told,
For she was merely his new-made bride,
And the poet was letting his tea get cold !
MAORILAND. SlNC. S. CLARK.
■* * * *
Sydney pressmen are at last moving towards establish-
ing’ an Institute. At a largely-attended meeting on
November 10th, resolutions were carried affirming the
necessity of forming an Association of Pressmen through-
out the State, and expressing the view that the movement
should be open to all members (in N.S. W.) of the literary
departments of the daily and weekly newspapers and
periodicals. The Association should have the cordial
support of journalists.
* ■* * *
Somebody makes a bold bid for Paradise through a
S. M. Herald advt.
TTOTELICEEPERS.—Ex-journalist, with view pur-
* ' chasing an Hotel, will give services as Barman
and useful ; salary nominal.
No. 46, Herald Office.
Died, recently, at Hobart, Edwin Ings, for 25 years
sub-editor of Mercury, and latterly editor of TasmAnian
Mail. Ings, quitting England, began life in M.L. as a
schoolmaster, and drifted from gold fossicking into
journalism. This makes the third vacancy through death
in the editorship of the Mail since 1901, when George
Lahgridge passed out, followed a .year or two later by
J. M. Da.v. Old man Nicholls, of the Mercury, sees theiii
all out ; he has been editing Australian papers for 54 years.
* * * rr
TheN.Z. Herald (Auckland) had an unhappy fall-in the
other day. It star-headed (2/ll/’07) the following : —
YOUTHFUL STARLIGHT.
Arrested at Newtown.
Remarkable Incidents.
A Farmer Stuck Up.
It went on to tell how “the pernicious effects of the
Deadwood Dick class of literature had once more been
exemplified.” After a three-quarter column account of
the youth’s criminal doings comes this :
“ A CHARMING STORY".
* A Lindsay o’ the Dale.’
“ Readers will find in to-da,v’s supplement the first in-
stalment of a stirring story of Australian bushranging, ‘ A
Lindsay o’ the Dale,’ by Mr. A. G. Hales, the celebrated
novelist and war correspondent.”
* * * *
“X.” : The press of Wellington (M.L.), after much
recent turmoil, is settling stolidly back to the old
inadequacy. The Dominion, the new paper which was tobe
the stalwart fighting-organ of the Opposition, shows no
more fight than a slug in a lettuce. The New Zealand
Times, after a brief spasm of improvement, has apparently
decided to be content to remain half an inch ahead of the
Dominion in general manner and style. The Evening
Post is just about where it was —stolid, respectable, and
mostly rather stupid. Of the weeklies, the N. Z. Mail,
which promised , well under the new proprietary, main-"
tains features of exceptional interest; but the experiment
of making a Maoriland weekly carry a decent staff w’as at
best hazardous, and there are already rumors of the finish.
Fact is, journalism in Wellington badly needs a big infusion
of new blood. The trouble chiefl.y lies in the fact that
Wellington has barely yet emerged from the village state,
and the extraordinary idea that any man able to stand can
run a newspaper is still prevalent to an alarming degree.
But orthodoxy is indispensable. The press of Welling-
ton is orthodox. All truly respectable Maorilanders are
orthodox. When Robert Stout, who had been a fighting
agnostic, went to the Supreme Court bench, he became a
Unitarian. If there were any higher Court he could be
called to, he would almost inevitably become a Presby-
terian.
m * * *
“D.M.W.”: The newspaper business in Wellington
(M.L.) is getting exciting. While the Post imports A. G.
Stephens ; and the Times advertises desperately' that it,
and it alone, is the national paper ; and the Dominion is
preparing to open fire in the Tory interest ; and the Mail,
with a new' cov-er, Frank Morton, and a religious page, is
fighting furiously'; and the Free Lance is trying to pro-
vide milk with a slighter admixture of water ; and the
Figaro promises to kill the population with laughter ;
a new evening paper is threatened, and one adventurer
has thought the time opportune to publish a sheet, price
nothing-at-all. It solicits original contributions, and
pays for them. It gets them, too ; and they are remark-
ably qriginal.
■* Ifr * *
The cold commonsense Britisher has gone stark
Limerick mad. F’rinstance :—
That the ’s the Best Cigarette,
Is a tip that you cannot regret ;
And in buying, I’ll mention
There’s a three-pound-aweek pension—
Consider it. And three of London’s best-known literary
men (Greenbough Smith, editor of the Strand, Lawrence,
of the Chronicle, and “ M.T.P.,” of The World) “judge ”
the above and aw'ard £150 a y'ear for life to some one
supplying a last line.
* * * *
Sage S. M. Herald ending to an editorial concerning
the presence of jute fibres, from inferior woolpacks, among
Australian wool
“ Another sixpence or a shilling each for woolpacks,
plus a little more care in using them, would be well spent
if each bale of w'ool brought an extra five shillings.”
Only a really profound paper could have argued that out.
* * * *
The S.M. Herald and Mail prizes for agricultural
and dairy achievements, periodically advertised in
those papers, recall the great reputation for public spirit
Edw'ard Wilson, of the Argus and Australasian, for
years undeservedly enjoyed for almost identically the
same sort of encouragement to people on the land. The
papers offered prizes of cash for various pioneering: results,
and sometimes the Argus backed up the interest by' lead-
ing articles urging the importance of the competitions,
but never stating the source of the fund. As
Edward Wilson had the name of being an anony-
mous donor in other matters, and was the ruling
spirit of the Argus at the time, he was
referred to publicly as the cash-giver. But the death of
Ambrose K.vte, in 1868, dispelled the illusion. Kyte had
been an uneducated but thrifty Irish immigrant, who,
when he earned 15s. a week, saved 5s. to buy land, and
died worth nearly a million. It was revealed at his death
that Kyte’s hobby had been to encourage by bonuses and
prizes the development of the country. Gold-mining,
rifle-shooting and exploration were all subsidised appa-
rently by the Argus, the gifts running from £100 to
many thousands, but the secret of the donor’s name was
so well kept that Edward Wilson enjoyed many y'ears of
unearned public homage.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.’’
MOTOR CARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 percent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEW ARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference— F. Gf. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
.EYE
CURES
GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens*
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing' before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it w.as after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli-
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Only
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn’t taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.”
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
or other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind was unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
1
mltl/H
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns- \
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN <& HANBLiRYS Ltd., LONDON, * loft us Sts., Sydney
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP -vKALODERMA-JELLY. * KALODERMA-POWDER
iV ;
1
\ ,
m
c
jj-IV •*;
KALODERMA F\ WOLFF &SOHN
.Gesefzlich geschuhrh Karlsruhe.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers. Be sure you got WOLFF’S.
bole Agents:
LOHMANN & CO.,
Melbourne (St (Sydney*
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
•have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a!
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sare by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. *


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND TItE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
Jll William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up '1 2
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business spice 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout' Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esqq Chaipnfin ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, MJL.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ;F. Lord, Esq. . ■ _ ATO _™
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual {ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,074—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of florth Queensland
, ~ .000 x 1 inniTFn „
The
(Established 1888.)
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital and Reserves
LIMITED.
£700,000
370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd:).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes.
Tenterfield.
Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Z ealand *
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. — t
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
$
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was termed to Suppress Usury.
UNT-S.X^V.
(flontdepieteO.^|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
•74: CASTLEREAGH ST., 24, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors-Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
- - " Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood
Jkssop, Ksq. Melbourne
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COOOWYN Ad.A.
Write for Prospectus . 131 Pitt bt., bYD-Nui.
The trustees, executors
agency company limited
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .• • *f5,000 “ J
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman: R. Munay
Rtnilli Esq. C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, ,
Hon j ML Prate, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. JA ’ MKS BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
F
iAOT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Best book of Australian humor, 4s. (>d.
Shipping.
re. r». l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports. *
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A (rents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c,
The Royal j|ank of Queensland
LI HI J Titll.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Li ability, of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
I
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 30th
November.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 2oth
December.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES-Oapetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. •• i. an 5 n
New York, &c. .. So 5 0 to 3G o 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dnlfjety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
fDAMASCUS
*MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
IH. A. Schleman .. 1 Noon, Dec.
| A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Jan.
| A. Simpson .. ' Noon. Jan.
6
4
31
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l/ 1/s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N r QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
'Solomon Islands (about 8
sdf
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
gank of ||eui S outh Ul a|es -
ESTABLISHED 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. « ►. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund .. 1,500,000 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 55,00,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hoh.Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: .
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches irt all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
The gank of flustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. •• 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4: Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Business Announcements,
GET RICH QUICK.
RODS
—For Locating MINES,—
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
| Cdw. NORTON. 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It ! s the finest shilling s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA,
Write for Particulars. £?
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
The
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BUCK £lO <a £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon3field Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
SUpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Raven sthorpe Goldfields. '
S.S. Grantala. Saturday,
December 7, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 30.
S.S. Wollowra, Dec. 7.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSAGERIES jyjARmMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
F.— H.- S.
F ederal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“ ESSEX”
11,000 Tons. T. Priskh, Commander.
Will be despatched from Svdney on the 25th December
„ ~ ~ Melbourne „ 30th December
~ ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 4th January
FOR
London &. Liverpool
(Calling- at DURBAN only to land passengers.)
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon.
DURBAN .. £22
CAPETOWN .. £24155.
LONDON &
LIVERPOOL .. £49 10s.
Third Class.
£lO £ll £l2
£lolos. £lllls. £l2 12s.
£l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
PROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) .
COOMA, 2 D.m., SATURDAY,
November 30.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, December 7.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 14.
COOLGARDIE, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, November 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m.,
November 30.
ALLINGA, 5 D.m.
December 3.
COOMA, 2 p.m.,.
December 7.
SATURDAY,
, TUESDAY,
SATURDAY,
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 300
GEORGE STREET. . m
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Traiu).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 170 S.
Hotels. /
mm
*
George, hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


It
FOR MEN,
WOMEN,
and CHILDREN
Are made with Chrome Soles, they are pliable as rubber, will
wear twice as long as ordinary leather, and the soles will not
come off.
Having Leather Inner Soles, they can be re-soled at a small
cost.
One Pull of the Lace tightens the whole shoe to the foot
Made in Black, White, Tan and Red, out of Best Material
only, they will outlast any two pairs of ordinary shoes that cost
twice the price. Made also out of Patent and Glace Kid for
Sunday wear. No straps or buckles to pull away, as in
ordinary sandals. As a Lady’s House Shoe, they will last for
years, are noiseless, do not slip at heel, and can be worn
outdoors as well.
For Children, they will save three-fourths of the Boot
and Stocking Bill.
Absolutely the Best and
Cheapest Footwear on the Market.
lith'vv
Smith’s
Patent
N?
4723
For
I SCHOOL a,
Holjdaywear
Yachting,
seaside.
Boating,
CYCLING,TENNIS
& HOME USE.
•orn all °ver
A 5 AVST
HEAR
OOL,
[OMFORTAOLE.
/AND
,[)URABLE
firsbptfr
"EET
V
&
Pocket.
All Healthy Children
Sold by ALL BOOT and SHOE STORES.
Over 100,000 Pairs were sold during the past year, & all giving perfect satisfaction.
IF NOT OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR REGULAR DEALER, WRITE DIRECT TO
The “SHoe-ette Proprietary,” Box 663, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
And add SIXPENCE postage*
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
attention to country orders. ——-
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS.-In send-
ing your orders to tts you run no
risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory. We are not
satisfied until you are.
Dl277—Fine Diamond, Pearl, and
15et. Gold Brooch, £ 9/10 /-.
55313
C 3334. —15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearls,
and Australian Rubies, £3/3/-.
F 9278 —18ct. Gold Ring 1 ,
Half-Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £2/101-.
H64o.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
£7/101-.
H64l.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-.
GB9B2.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. J-ifoop Ring,
£lO/10/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7/10/-.
H 5274.
18ct. Ring, Diamonds
and Olivine, £2/15/-
k.
02793.
18ot. Gold, Rubv, and
Opal Ring, £2/7/6.
GB9S4.—Pine Diamond,
18cfc. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lBllO/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£ll/101-.
1911. —18et. Gold Ring,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£ 2/5/ -.
H 731
Diamonds or Sapphires,
18ct. Gold ,£5/15/-.
G 8986. —Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring-,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/10/-.
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring, £B/8/-.
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3/10/-
GB9SO. —Fine Diamond
Ring-, 18ct., £5/5/-
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
171 A. —18ct. Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £2/101-.
G 5296. —Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring, 18ct-
Gold, £lO/10/-
D 1276. —15cfc. Gold, Fine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £.7/101-.
•C 3332. —15ct. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Gape
Rubies, £4/15/-.
03314.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, £2/7/6.
033i2.—15ct. Gold and Real Pearl Brooch, £2//5/-,
You may have seen this style of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price, only no quality of gold is mentioned, and the word
paste is omitted before “ Pearl Set.”
C 3313. —Real Pearls and 15ct. GoldEßrooch, £2/5/».
C26l9.—Handsome Bangle, Real Pearls and Sapphires,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-.
F5419.—Tw0
Diamonds, Three
Sapphires, 18cfc.
Gold, £2.
03324. —Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, 15et. Gold, £3/15/-.
H 1228
Five Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/5/-.
-Pine Scroll Bangle, jA,eal Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/tO/-
ORDER BY MAIL IF UNABLE TO CALL. MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SENT FREE ON REQUEST.


THIS
RAGING WATCH
(CHRONO&RAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
THIS racing- CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing- Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a Second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, thp, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted—the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the cash, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal-
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post-free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling- silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
2
My
m
m
Beverage
is
F avoxirite
Montserrat
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink. *
Insist on the annuo* “MONTSERRAT
qbbbqbqhi
6
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the; lining membrane
of the Rose and passages
which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDIATOR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’ treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO .
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. aO, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
100 FINE CIGARS AS A GIFT.
Absolutely the finest cigar in Australia at the price.
Has a rich flavor that makes you want more—a
flavor that you won’t And in any other cigar at or
near the price. What a splendid gift for a gentle-
man friend !
KING OF ALL K & B HIGH LIFE, 17s. 6d. PER 100.
9d. EXTRA POST FREE.
Small Box of 4. Post Free 1/-.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney. E^ a yl!^ s ed
«
LIVING
PICTURES!
P
- -,-v
We are Cinematograph experts, and carry the largest stock of Machines and Apparatus in
' r the State.
We go anywhere to take pictures and give entertainments in any part of the city or country.
We have a regular supply of Films to the extent of 200,000 feet, and are ever adding new
pictures. *“
We let Machines and Films out on hire to responsible persons, or sell them at bedrock prices.
Ask us questions about anything connected with Cinematography.
EDISON CINEMATOGRAPH, £32 lOs.
LUBIN CINEMATOGRAPH, £27 lOs.
URBAN CINEMATOGRAPH, £35 lOs.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
My Opticians,
Opticians and electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Fit for Work
We all have our work to do, and the
need of being fit for it. PLASMON
COCOA, as the breakfast drink, and a%
bowl of PLASMON OATS to go on with/
work wonders in fitting us for our daily efforts.
f r
cocoa
OM
rhis is the ideal breakfast with which to start the day. It is
appetising and enjpyable. It is strengthening and highly
digestible. The cocoa and the oats (free from wOody husks) ,
’ are the best, infinitely bettered by PLASMON.
\ y
' y WHAT PLASMON IS: Plasmon is the best part of the
best milk, in the form of a tasteless powder. It can. be
added to any food. It enriches the nutritive value
tenfold, and makes all food more digestible.
Plasmon is the mainstay of health.
. Of all Grocers.
'''i.v/.ti'• ‘.v, AiAjW
rj^Hut
35
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
DRINK ONLY-
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
THE GREATEST
Blood Purifier
KNOWN.
This Great German Medicine is the
CHEAPEST and best. 128 doses
of Sulphur Bitters for $l.OO, less
than one cent a dose.
It will cure the worst /
kind of skin disease, /
from a common pirn- /
pie on the face to /
that awful disease, /
SCROFULA. In /
all cases of such /
stubborn, deep /
seated diseases, /
Sulphur Bitters /
is the best med- /
icine to use. /
Don’t wait un- /
til tomorrow, /
try a bottle /
TO-DAY. /
Don’t ever
take BLUE
PILLS, or
mercury,they
are deadly.
Put your trust
in Sulphur Bit-
ters, the purest
and best medi-
cine ever made.
Is your TONGUE
COATED with a
yellow, sticky sub-
stance? Is your
Breath foul and of-
fensive? Your Stom-
— ach is Out of Order.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
If you are sick, no matter what
ails you, use Sulphur Bitters.
Don’t wait until you are unable
to walk, or are flat on your back,
but get some AT ONCE, it will
cure you. Sulphur Bitters is
THE INVALID’S FRIEND.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
*6
Rk 3
PIPES
to thoTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists
G
■et rid of that
dandruff
before it
destroys
your hair.
Those tiny
sd
little scales on your scalp are
a sign of dryness. A dry scalp
cannot nourish the hair.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
is especially prepared to nourish
and build up dry, thin, starved
scalps. It feeds them and fur-
nishes the hair roots with proper
nourishment. It revives the
hair. Be sure you get Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap makes soft, white hands
HOHNER'S •
CLARIONETTE ACCORDEON
Only
11/e
fsd
Carriage
Paid
With a Special Book of Fingered Music, by which Anyone can
Play it without Teaching
The immense popularity of the Clarionette Accordeon has induced Hen
Hohner, the famous’maker of Mouth Organs, to produce a very hand-
same and elaborate instrument of the same kind, that
he has named The Hohnerette. It possesses all the good points
of the Clarionette Accordeon, and it has the additional advantage of the
perfectly tuned reed plates, for which Herr Hohner is so
justly celebrated. The music it produces is quite as powerful
as that of a bellows Accordeon and much sweeter and more sytnpa
thetic. All Accordeon players know that their chief difficulty is to regulate
the supply of wiud by means of the bellows ; this trouble is overcome with
the Hohnerette, because the player's breath provides the wind, and that can
be perfectly and easily controlled. Even inexpert performers on the Accor-
deon are able to play the Hohnerette effectively, as it is so easy to
bring out the tune clearly and with good expression, introduc-
ing a fine harmonious accompaniment. We supply with
each instrument a Book of Popular Tunes clearly arranged and
with the fingering shown by numbers. Anyone can play by this '
system. You have merely to press the keys indicated by the numbers, at
tne same time supplying the wind through the mouthpiece, and the music
is produced —soprano, alto, tenor and bass—with a wonderful volume
of melody. The price is 11/6 complete with the Special Book of
Popular Music, packed in a neat box and carriage paid to any address. If
you are not thoroughly satisfied when you receive the Instrument, you may
at once send it back and have your money returned.
The Onion Manufacturing and Agency Company
299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE.
Cabled statement that carol-singing is to
be discontinued in New York schools out of con-
sideration for the feelings of Yiddishers indicates
the remarkable strength of Israel locally. New
York is mostly owned by Jews. A recent purely
Semite movement for the prohibiting of the King
Billy 12th of July foolishness and the no less
maniacal St. Patrick’s Day doings in the city met
with defeat by a hair's-breadth only.


□
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
• • •
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SOR
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never bee% :
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
colds
‘lt affords me great pleasure to testify to the marvellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
i. I have proved its value in my own home.” ■
F. W. BINNS, Australian Journal Office, Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded until;! got fiearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and tnree
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago. She is quite well now, and has never had an at tack since.
A. ORB, Clonbinane, Sunday Creek, Broadford, Victoria.
11 The cough was just terrific, but vour Bronchitis Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
p. C. GREEN, State School, Rosebud, via Dromana, Victoria.
“I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure. w UTTON, 7 Little Railway-street, Durban, Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and coughs.” r
A. E. ANDERSON, Telegraph Office, Fremantle, West Australia.
“Mv husband was cured of Asthma bv vour Bronchitis Cure more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my son, five years old, who has had a cold ever since he was born.
I have onlv given him a few doses and he is better already.” ~T TC, T T, T,m ~r • , n
- (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART, Warwick, Queensland.
« Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at different times for years past, I wish to testify to the relief
always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any complaint arising therefrom. Yours, etc.,
• y E. V. GODDARD, 19 Fitzgerald-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
“I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH, Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld. Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“I was a bronchial subject for nearly 40 years, but have found Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P., Stawell Brewery, Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
Chest, and Sore Throat.” ( Mrs .) JOHN McKENZIE, Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years and tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any
benefit I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la last Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine for obstinate
Asthma on Saturday Since the first dose of your No. 2Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.
Asthma, on Saturday, since uie £ AMERON> « Leongatha,” Riversdale Road, Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.” „ , , , „ ~ . ,
(Mrs.) E. L- SYMES, Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte, South Australia.
« As mv purchases show, your remedies are increasing in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very much enlarged sale and great prosperity.
«« j have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that lam cured. j yyRIGHT, c/o Mr. D. McLean, Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis, during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am , ifrji AMS > Huntly Street, Elsternwiclr, Melbourne.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another often had to sit up in bed part of the night. Tried doctors patent medicines, and herbalists without
another , otten** , ... f anv thino- when, one day, hearing about vour Bronchitis Cure, I decided to give
itTtrfal W lHsld five bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breathing
and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recommend
and distressing cougn up ELIZA LANGTON, Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales,
to all my friends.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.
' r G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.’
S. STEEI.E, Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
1; but! heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD, Brooklands, Avoca Street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.” , „. . .
A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
good
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valuable
medicine. ( Mra .) j. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet: but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.” . .
J D. M'DONALD, Trinkev, via Quinndi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here. We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
WILLIAMSON & CO., Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever taken.” , .. 0 w
D. WILLIAMS, Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of your Bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect whatever.” „„„„ „ ~. . . XT ~
# T. LEWIS, Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ I must congratulate vou on the phenomenal sale of your Bronchitis Cure. It is astonishing.
FRANK UREN, Pharmaceutical Chemist, Hamilton.
“ I have used vour Bronchitis Cure myself, and have recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON, Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W
* The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.” . , .
CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
■ i used vour Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”
■’ p. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
‘Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.” . „ ... . „ .
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny Street, Paddington, Sydney.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both a
wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.” , . ~ ... ... . .
R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was
perfectlv’and rapidly successful under circumstances which undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59 other leading residents.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS 9 The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure ” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded and so setting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNhS BRONOHIiIb CURL
has Consequently it has become necessary to draw T your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARN L S and see that you get it.
HEARN US BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No - 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
mm
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
In Maoriland, where the mouth of the
landlord is wide, the State is now taking a hand,
and playing trumps. In 1905, while King Richard
still reigned, Parliament passed the Workers
Dwellings Act; but things have only lately been
got into working order under the good-intentioned
law. It is all very simple : the State puts a little
money into bricks and timber, and lets out the
result at 5 per cent, on the outlay. The occupiers
have to pay rates and insurance. Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin have all
got a few of the cottages—so far, there are about
80 of them all told. The rents run from about
9s. to 10s. 6d. per week for five rooms, and
there’s a hot-water service, not to mention
conveniences that the Private Enterprise slumlord
views as perfectly preposterous. These things
don’t appeal all at once to the person who has got
used to doing without them, and the Department
was a bit damped-down because the places were
not rushed ; but Jimbill and Mrs. Jimbill are
finding out the use of things, and the Department
is finding out what Mr. and Mrs. Jimbill want—
which is mostly a little less decoration and some-
thing off the rent—so the prospects are brighter.
Also, the prospects of the Private Enterprise
slumlord are gloomier.
“The Prooshan ” : Some match-cadgers
brazenly say “Givusamatch,” “gotamatchonyer,”
or “gotaluciferabouteher,” at the same time
holding out a hand for the match. But there is
the silent grafter who indicates his desire by
scratching his forefinger across the rear of his
anatomy or left palm, as he throws a sort of “ I’ll
trouble you ” look aboard his physiognomy.
Some carry an empty box in the vest pocket,
which they hook out with apparent satisfaction
after slapping their trouser pockets alternately, and
twitching their coat pockets simultaneously.
They then stroke the atmosphere with the
dummy, inclining a disappointed ear for the
rattle that never comes. Then they open the
box, look into it, and say, “Well, I’m damned,”
and request a few to put into it. A simple
citizen often says, “Go on, take enough; I’ve
got plenty”; whereupon the cadger helps him-
self to fully half the contents of his box. Next
to a term of “solitary,” the only cure for the evil
is as follows: stalk a Bill Squires bull ant and
get him into an empty matchbox. Then wait for
the cadger in the dusk, and, when the cadgological
moment arrives, pass him the bull-box, and
tell him to keep the lot.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE "»
CANT
B
BEAT
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
6/0
OUR
Special
Snap.
4/0
2/0
wm i
fsd
5
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEY BRAND.’
M34—Mustad’s
Nos. 1-2-3
(id.
M4o—Mustad’s
Nos. 10 to 1
4d.
M44—Mustad’s
Nos. 10 to 1
6d.
Best Japanned Kirby Bent
1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0
6d. Bd. 9d. lOd.
Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong—
-5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0
1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6
10/0
1/10 per box of 50.
Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted—
U 1/0 2/0 '3/0 4/0 5/0 .6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
4d". sd. sd. 6d. 7d. Sd. 9d. lOd. 1/- i/2 1/4 per box of 50
Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong
U t/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. (id. Sd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/10 per box of 50
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik.
England, 9d. Dow to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book, d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
£
w
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. ’ How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post- How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, ,5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeciif,s and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Sew Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddbn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements oe Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iDST" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1s» Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all i'egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, Iss post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Sjscrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
ipsa
m
Oaline
is the new face cream that will bring
natural beaut)' to the plainest face,
and will prevent the hot Australian summer
from spoiling your complexion.
Soap and water removes surface dirt only
and leaves irritating waste matter in the
pores of the skin. Oatine, the new face
cream, removes this waste and leaves the
skin fresh and clear, soothing and healing all
sprps and, blemishes.
It is made from fresh clean oats and con-
tains no,, animal fats nor injurious mineral
spits! No matter how hot the weather, it
will not go bad. It cannot grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Try Oatine now. It will remove all
freckles and prevent the dry heat of the
Australian summer robbing your complexion
of its bloom and loveliness. In dainty white
jars f 1/9, or larger size, containing four
tinfes the amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
HYPNOTISM-
ANYONE can l'earn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers, brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions ; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
[f interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” (14 pages,
profusely illustrated! This work instructs you
how to master all the seciets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing. Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. ‘lt is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
DYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.I’* 1 ’*
7ft
V
sZ
l/.M-C.
.22*
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONL Y.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
mm
mm
►/ /
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
/ perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
ail cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Engr.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d-
Si Britisl)=Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Solk Agents in N.S. W.), 94 KINC STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


Note
Trade Mark.
mZEi
i2±
3
ll
1
Tff
))j i>| TO MMMANtMTkV oviaoou
71 HABITUAL CONtTIPATIOM
KIDNEYS, UVEA ANO BOWELS,
In Nature’s Service.
Men, women and (especially) children need at
times a corrective, laxative remedy when Nature
is sluggish in her duties. Biliousness, headache,
indigestion and flatulence generally indicate a
constipated condition, and the surest, safest and
pleasantest help to Nature is
This ideal household laxative has gained its
great reputation by sheer merit, as it is quite
opposed to old-time ideas of drastic purgation,
and acts thoroughly but gently and naturally
upon the liver, stomach and kidneys without any
discomfort at all. Be sure, therefore, that you.
ask for California Syrup of Figs.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
Alarm.mg lis\ ISalclsft.e®s!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life asid vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others*
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern ToLet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“I have only used your ‘HARIENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/-, 2/6 8? 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
Ni
mk
■H
m
Sss*3pfj?*
Edwards' Marlene'' Co.
95 €? 96
Higi iiolborn,
London, w.c.
Ridiculous?
Why? Because you no longer have any excuse for
suffering from obesity and overfat. Excess fat is not
only a condition, it is a disease! Also, it make*
you ridiculous to your friends. Get rid of your fat.
You can be safely and permanently cured of obesity.
ctff “FATCURE.
reduces fat, and makes the reduction permanent.
Thousaudshave used it. It always gives satisfaction.
The price places it within the reach > f all. It is
pleasant to take and non-poisonous. You need it.
COPIED FROM ACTUAL PHOTOS,
Absolutely no harm can result from using “Fateure”
This treatment is unique amongst anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no
deleterious ingredients and though it reduces weight rapidly, its use could not harm the health of
even an infant Its purity, effieacv and freedom from deleterious 01 harmful substances is
absolutely guaranteed. Its use invariably improves the general health , a general improvement
becoming noticeable a few days after beginning to take it. Fateure is put up in tablet form.
MRS. GERTRUDE lIENERY, Paddington, N.S.W., writes:—“After using Fateure for about thre®
months I find myself reduced in weight by over four stone. My general health is much improved, in fact,
began to improve the first week. 1 now enjoy my meals, enjoy m.v daily work, and enjoy perfect health and
a normal figure. No more palpitation and weak heart spells make me feel a different woman.
CALL, OR POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
If you can call we will give you Free Sample, and weigh you privately. If not, write for Free Sample.
All correspondence is confidential, and samples and treatment are pl aml y wrapped so that contents of
package are not disclosed. ■ ' ' '
The WATWORTH GO., Suite J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
Lilith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU wait in the eastern tea-house,
You walk in the western street—
A beautiful, shameless evil
That clutches at straying feet —
The world, the flesh and the devil.
Ere darkness and day-star meet.
Beware of the strange, fair woman,
With paint on her harlot-face
The cry of the ancient warning
That tells of the old disgrace,
When afraid of the sordid morning
You crept from the market-place.
You have mirrors and chains and girdles,
And the spell of a painted fan,
But instead of the Hope of Woman
The leer of the courtesan,
And each blood-red stone inhuman
i Was bought by a soul of man.
You turn from the little children
With a brilliant, white-faced sneer—
The cradle is Eve’s, and the hearth-fire,
And the simple household gear ;
Ye are red hell-flowers of desire
Where no folded buds appear.
The stiffen’d and painted geisha,
In pitiful blinded sin.
Who waits in the geisha-city
That she yet may feed her kin,
And the heartless girl—we pity
Where Satan hath entered in—
Are but one alluring Lilith
From the East unto the West,
Stretching white arms to our brothers,
A passion-flower at her breast.
(Oh, sorrowing, Eve-like mothers
With knowledge and love opprest !)
A forest of hands are reaching
From deeps of the sweet abyss ;
They have soft, white, ringless fingers
(The little green snake-flames hiss).
But a sick revulsion lingers
On the track of the madden’d kiss.
We have given our sons to Lilith
In cities where night is Hell ;
They speak no word of the battle,
How they saw, and fought, and fell.
They were goaded like foolish cattle—
Oh, Woman, is this thing well?
M.L.
RATA.
“Leggo Me Ear.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNCLE ABEL was a silent man who seldom
said the same thing twfice to the same
person. He would say a thing and have
done with it. And he was never known to speak
ill of any member of the family. If one started
to do it about another to Uncle Abel, Uncle
Abel would listen until he saw the drift, and
then say decisively and finally :
“ Leggo me ear ! ”
That usually concluded the interview'.
He’d stand a bore as long as ever he could,
and at last say :
“ For the Lord’s sake , leggo mb ear.”
He would listen to commercial travellers, can-
vassers, blokes, fellows, chaps, coves, who wanted
to put him into a good thing, and confidence men
and spielers of all descriptions, until they seemed
to have amused themselves sufficiently, and then
he’d say, laconically :
“ Leggo me ear.”
It was very disconcerting, especially to confi-
dence men, spielers, and fly young blokes.
After his wife, Aunt Anne, had nagged him for
an hour or so —and she was the champion nagger
of a large and discontented family—Uncle Abel
would say, warningly :
“ Leggo me ear.”
This would really start her. What came before
w'ould only be a prelude. Uncle Abel would
stand it for half-an-hour or so, and then give her a
last chance.
“ For the love of Heaven, woman, if you have
any sense, stop right there and leggo me ear ! ”
Uncle Abel very, very seldom swore, by the way,
hut when he did —! He’d stand her for another half-
hour or so, or until his head swam and hummed,
and he thought he was going off it. Then he’d
spring to his feet, put his fist through a window',
a picture, a looking-glasss, his hat —or hers, or
anything handy and suitable, and roar :
“You something something of a something of
a woman ! — leggo ME flamin’ heer !”
Then she'd be satisfied, and go about her house-
work with a sweetly patient and resigned manner
and expression for the rest of the morning.
With the co-operation of her sisters she managed
to get Uncle Abel tidied up and into chapel one
Sunday afternoon. It was hot and drowsy, and
the sermon long, and the layman, who “ held ser-
vice ” that day, was a dreary and conceited bore.
Uncle Abel dozed, and being disturbed by extra
loud ranting, and imperfectly conscious of his
locality, he said sleepily, yet distinctly :
“ Leggo me ear.”
They steered him out, and the family said
they’d never be able to hold up their heads in the
district again, for very shame—but they got over
it in time. Uncle Abel’s remark was popular with
the young men—and old ones, too.
In dead earnest he upset an electioneering
meeting with it once, and ruined the candidate’s
chances in-' that district for ever.
Aunt Anne drove him to beer, and a few years
later he died of alcoholic poisoning, aggravated by
being thrown from his horse on a hard road on a
hot day, and letting fourteen bullocks and a load
of wool pass over him.
After die doctor, they brought the parson.
Uncle Abel was conscious, and the parson
droned along in the usual way for some time. At
last, Uncle Abel seemed wishful to speak, and
muttered something, painfully, and tried to rise.
“ I cannot hear what you say, my brother,”
said the clergyman, bending down, his ear ; then,
as Uncle Abel still strove to rise, “ Wait, my poor
brother, I will help you support your head,” and
he slipped an arm under Uncle Abel’s neck.
“ Now, brother, speak ! ”
Uncle Abel gasped, “ Leggo me ear ! ”
“What is that you said, brother?” asked the
good man, with intense anxiety.
“ Leggo me heer ! ”
And he fell back.
It was launched out of Uncle Abel like a
battleship that has stuck on the ways, and
then slips unexpectedly. It was the last effort.
The reverend gentleman let go Uncle Abel’s ear,
and, a little later, Uncle Abel passed out in peace.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Slow Train.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE slow train creeps wearily along through
the bush. The engine seems an elderly,
tired engine, that is forced to do harder
work than it ought. To-day it listlessly drags a
couple of carriages, a dozen or more sheep and
cattle trucks, a van, and a few goods waggons
along the endless lines of glistening steel that
pierce the scrub country.
The passengers are nearly all second-class, and
in the smoker they sit —brown-faced bushmen
mostly—with their coats off, and pipes in their
mouths. The day-is hot, the carriage is hot, and
the shimmering heat can be seen rising off the
plains. We talk for hours about the shearing just
concluded, about the bush, about the city, about
everything we understand, and some things we
don’t understand. We smoke for hours. We play
cards for hours. We gaze out of the window for
hours. But the hours in that day are so
many and so long, and we grow weary of
the pipe, the cards, the papers, the talk, the bush,
the carriage, and each other. Some try to doze,
but the awakening from a daylight train-sleep is
horrible, and I avoid it.
Our stops are frequent and very long. We
draw up at every siding, and linger awhile.
Almost every station borrows our hard-worked
engine and uses it for shunting. ■ We stretch
our legs up and down the platform, and the
intense bush silence is broken only by the snorting
of the locomotive, the occasional clatter as trucks
are coupled in the station yard, the bellowing of
the bullocks in the trucks, and the “ caw-caw ” of
the crow overhead, or the smile of the jackass in
the scrub.
We plunge wearily on again. The Gertnan
mother with the five children in the ladies’
carriage patiently flicks the flies off her youngest,
that lies sleeping on her breast. We remain so
long at: stations that someone suggests forming a
cricket club, and playing all the towns as we go by.
We are all thirsty men on the slow train, but
the Crowd in the next-door smoker is particularly
dry, and its parched tongue hangs on the floor.
The water in the bottle is too hot to drink, and
when there is no bar on the platform, two or three
of them dash across to the nearest pub. Their
first pub visit is a flying one. Then they find they
have plenty of time, so they don’t make the pace
so hot the next visit. Each time they take longer,
and have less desire to leave the bar for the train.
At the same time, the party that rushes to the
pub grows smaller. Finally, only one man
staggers in quest of Beer. His friends doze off in
the carriage, and forget him. When the slow
train blows its slow whistle, he is nowhere in
sight. As we round the curve into the cutting,
half a mile away, a figure waves its arms on the
pub verandah, and faintly throws a bottle after
us. The slow train has been fast enough to leave
somebody at last, and in its pride it says, “ Now
let thy servant depart in peace.”
Darkness has come when we roll into a refresh-
ment station, an hour late. The chops and
sausages in the tin dish are cold, but the tea and
coffee are boiling hot.
We go back to our carriage, loosen our boots,
braces, and collars, and try to snatch a sleep.
The fat, red-faced, thirsty man in the next com-
partment will persist in singing something about
“ Yer cun git a (hie) shweetheart any day, but n’
a-nother mo-thcr.” At every stop he asks the
porter if there is a bar on the station. I put a
newspaper over my head lo keep out the light,
and the flies, and the mosquitoes, and the blue-
bottle, and the stray moth, and try to think of
nothing. Every now and then my senses swim,
but then the train stops, and I am awake again.
When it doesn’t stop it whistles ; when it doesn’t
whistle it bumps ; when it bumps and whistles
and stops it shunts ; when it has finished shunting
it drinks at something that looks like an elephant s
trunk, hanging from a gallows.
In the early morning there is a long stop, and
a porter calls out something unintelligible. The
fat man falls out of the next carriage with en-
thusiasm.
“ Por’er ! Por'er ! Where’sh the bar ? ”
“No bar here, sir, All aboard, please ! ”
Then an argument starts. The red-faced man
refuses to get into the carriage, and challenges the
porter to put him in- He says the railway
management is rotten. He never heard of such a
thing in his life before—“ no bar on a respectable
railway station ! ” He is going to write to the
press about it. The portly passenger also accuses
the porter of conspiring to leave him behind.
There are sounds of a scuffle.
I must have slept quite a long time. I wake
with a cinder in my eye and the ruins of a hat on
my head. lam one huge cramp, and my neck is
stiff, I have caught a cold. The carriage
is as stuffy as a tomb, and the daylight shows
faintly at the window. The train gives an extra-
violent jolt as if pulling up, and a travelling-bag
falls from the rack on my head, and bursts. I
emerge cursing from the wreckage, and find we
are at Sydney. I get out on the platform with
my collar in my hand, and without time to lace
my boots, and a sardonic kid wants to take my
ancient carpet bag to the Hotel Australia.
As I go out into the dawn, the fat passenger is
clamoring at the unopened bookstall and demand-
ing a drink.
BEAUMONT SMITH.


Find Zam-Buk Balm a Real Boon.
Outdoor workers, who brave all weathers in rough work, generally
have skin-trouble of one kind or another. Perhaps the skin gets hard,
and cracks most painfully. Then, again, those whose
occupations are of a manual nature, are always lia e
to bruises, cuts, lacerations, etc., according to the
nature of their calling.
Zam-Buk Balm is soothing and healing
for all such conditions of the skin, and is
consequently a real boon. Every outdoor
worker should carry a pot of Zam-Buk Balm
in his pocket or tool-bag.
Mr. J. TURNBULL of 29 Shemel Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, says:— “l strongly recommend
Zam-Buk Balm to bricklayers, masons, carpenters, and,
in fact, all in the building trade, where accidents are
so liable to occur. lam a carpenter by occupation,
and am constantly knocking my hands about.
Cement and lime get into the cuts and sores,
causing them to fester, and, if neglected, would
necessitate my leaving off work, thus losing ,
time and money. Prompt application of Zam-±>uK,
however, gives instant relief. My children have also
found Zam-Buk invaluable for burns, cuts, bruises,
and chicken-pox sores, allaying the irritation and inflammation
of the latter complaint in a very short time. I can confidently
recommend Zam-Buk as the best family ointment, which no
home should be without.”
N,
Zam-Buk, the world’s greatest healing Balm, is unfailing in cases of cuts,
burns, sprains, scratches, bruises, sores, scalp troubles, piles, bad legs, ring-
worm. rash, sore feet, Sunburn, prickly heat, etc. All Chemists and Stores
sell Zam-Buk in 1/6 and 3/6 pots—the 3/6 containing nearly four times 1/b.
Post free for same price from The Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'anvßul?
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA.
Pears Annual
CHRISTMAS, 1907. READY NOVEMBER 25th.
(Published by the Proprietors. A. & F. PEARS, LTD., 7T-7S New Oxford Street. London )
The Literary and Artistic Programme includes:—
Seven Great Tales
BY
Seven Great Authors
Geo. R, Sims, Barrv Pain, The Baroness
Orczy, John Strange Winter, W. Le Queux,
Frank Richardson, Cutcliffe Hyne.
Illustrated in Black and White and in Tints, by
Seven Great Artists
Frank Dadd, R. 1., J- C. Dolman, A.R.W.S., Tom
/Browne, R. 1., A. Forestier, Maurice Grieffenhagen,
Gordon Browne, R. 1., and Will Owen
In Handsome Coloured Cover, and accompanied by
Four Presentation Plates,
Each in about 13 Colours, viz.
“A Chip of the Old Block."
By Fred Evans. Dedicated bj- special
permission to Lord Roberts, V.C.,etc.
“ A Merry ’Xmas,”
By Frank Dado, R.l. An Old English
Skating Scene.
“ Dessert,"
By E. Ladell. A beautiful Study of
Fruit.
“A Quiet Pipe,"
By the late Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale jQgents for Jlustralasia, QORDON & QOTCH.
Black Birdin’.
(A Ballad of Captain Bully Hayes.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~¥7tT’ HEN Sydney was old Sydney, we a
%/%/ soiemn contract made
* » (Ho, fill yer pots, and down the hot-
spiced ale !)
Black Birdin’, ere the parsons stole our South Sea
Island trade
(’Twas merry then upon the High Seas trail).
Green Isles were all about us, them rantin’, roarin’
days,
And our trade was hides when we set sail through
blood-streaked ocean ways,
Wi’ a cut-throat crew, and captain like Old Nick
or Bully Hayes
(Then times was times. And mine’s a gospel tale).
No faster, cleaner clipper raced across the seas of
blue,
Like a gull she dipped and tumbled ’fore the
breeze,
Wi’ our pennant at her for’ead —any country’s
flag would do —
And our pretty, shinin’ cannon at her knees.
And Bully steered for Sheol, and his word was
death or life.
Red-hot was he, and double quick wi’ pistol and
wi’ knife.
We’d a crimson crew of cut-throats —men as lived
on rum and strife,
When we sailed the sleepy, sunstruck Southern
Seas.
Cross seas we’d made, and heavy squalls, but
spied, one afternoon,
Whete the purple billows splutter, boom, and
roll,
Red coral reefs, an atoll wi’ its sunny-blue
lagoon,
And its balmy smells, and huts, and woody knoll.
Canoes are launched, and niggers wild they runs
us up the beach.
Around them dripping cocoa-palms green parrots
curl and screech ;
Baskets o’ taro, fruits, and fish brown women
brings to each,
And we tasted of the kava in the bowl.
Three days in peace and plenty there we idled to
and fro,
Like happy pigs a-sunnin’ on the lawn-
Then duty called us from the Sleepy Isle —’twas
time to go,
Although the brown gals had our souls in pawn.
We loved their taro, shells o’ pearl, bright plumes,
and skins o’ shark.
But more their bronzed, bare, shinin’ selves; so
shortly after dark
We hooked two hundred niggers, and wi’ us they
did embark
Before their village drums had waked the dawn.
’Twas great to lay in cargo there beneath the
glitterin’ moon,
For yeller gold and black-birds were we fain ;
Slaver were we, but smuggler too, pirate and
picaroon,
For though we always cut we came again.
Armed to the teeth we sailed away wi’ pennant
flyin’ free
To Pitcairn and to Radack Chain, and merry men
were we,
The Terror o’ the Coral Isles, the Scourge of every
sea
(Ho, we were out for plunder might and main !).
Under the stars we danced and sang, good rum we
drank and deep,
For nappy days was cornin’ near and soon ;
Down in the hold them groanin’ nigs lay huddled
heap on heap,
But our pistols kept ’em orf the fust saloon.
And rich were we, our trade was brisk, at dawn
we sailed away,
And not a sail we sighted till we anchored in
Tooth Bay.
Full well we knew where willin’ gals and drowsy
sunshine lay,
And the parrots and the palms and blue lagoon.
Oh ! that boomin’ surf and tropic beach, wi’ kegs
o’ rum fer booze,
And some native wives to help the fun erlong,
At Ysabel or Rennell, or at golden Santa Cruz,
Where them steamy, giddy smells rise hot and
strong.
And up among the Marshalls, where bright the
fireflies glow,
There the lazy trades sough “Stacks o’ time,”
and all the ships sail slow,
And dusky beauties dazzle in the Isles where we’d
to go,
And there ain’t no watch, nor ropes, nor duty s
gong.
But times hez changed, and under Hayes we’ll
never ship no more
(Now the trader missionary rules the roast)
Through Solomons or Carolines or down New
Guinea’s shore,
It’s Brisbane now, and round the dreary coast.
You steam by Suez or the Cape, the tame ways
o’ the Wes- :
But I would sail Nor’-E ist across the high seas I
love best,
To dip below the sunset for them Islands o’ the
Blest
(And to good old Bally Hayes a rousing toast !).
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Making of a Beachcomber.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Man stood on the white, glisten-
ing beach, and watched the long swells
break lazily against the reef 200 yards
away, every now and again flinging showers
of spray high into the air. Far beyond the
line of breakers there was dimly visibly, like
a smudge on the throne of God, the smoke of the
trading steamer that had brought him from the
lands of civilisation to the little island of the
South Pacific. And as he saw the last link that
connected him with custom and conventi n
blotted out, the thought came to him that now,
for the first time, he was free to live his own life.
So, for a time at least, he cast aside his clothes,
and plugged into the clear water of the lagoon,
which, being practically land-locked, was free
of sharks. Soon he had left behind him the strip
of beach from which he had started, and, now
wading, now swimming, found himself beneath a
gentle rise that sloped, verdure-clad, down to the
water’s edge. Still swimming on he came to
where a miniature cliff had been formed by the
action of a tiny fresh-water stream that romped
down into the lagoon. He let the cool water of
the cascade splash into his face ; and, closing his
eyes, lay back on the water in a very ecstasy of
enjoyment.
Suddenly from above there came a merry ripple
of laughter, and, opening his eyes, he saw stand-
ing on the edge of the rock a brown-skinned
native girl—a merry sprite, a very daughter of
Eve. She stood there, unabashed, for all that her
covering was but a string of purple flowers
twisted round her comely head. Then she clasped
her hands above her, and, straight as a dart,
plunged into the lagoon beside him. She set to
splashing his face with water, and he, in the
abandonment of a strong man’s enjoyment of life,
entered into the play, and splashed her in return
so willingly that she was soon glad to hold up
her hands in token of defeat, through sheer want
of breath wherewith to carry on the contest.
So they played and romped in the water till
the sun stood but a few inches above the horizon,
exactly in the same manner as, no doubt, our first
parents did in the fabled garden, where grew the
tree with the perfidious name.
But all things must end sooner or later the
pleasantest things usually end first —and the Man
remembered that he was a good two miles from
the house of the only white person who lived
permanently on the island —the trader who had
agreed to put him up till the next boat called.
So he climbed again into his clothes, and turned
to go, casting a parting nod and a smile at the
girl. But she, stepping suddenly in front of him,
stretched her hands across the narrow path and
blocked his retreat.
“Ah, little minx,” laughed the Man, “ so you
are just like your white sisters after all, only you
propound your question a little more openly, and
demand your answer a little more boldly.”
Then the absurdity of speaking like this to an
almost naked island woman in a language she
could not understand struck him forcibly so
forcibly that he burst out laughing, and concluded
by saying, “ Anyhow, you’re a damn fine girl!
There is a freemasonry —if that is the proper
name to apply to it —in matters connected with
love that needs no words or written language to
make known its meaning. And by this the girl
knew that her wish was granted. So she beckoned
him, and he followed her to her village as a
matter of course.
And here they lived happily together for nearly
twelve months.
* * ■* *
The story of the Man’s advent to the Island
was the story of an Indiscretion ; that is to say,
an indiscretion as applied to the man’s lapse, but
a mortal thing when tacked on to the
woman. The Man's lather, to whom outward
appearances remained permanently above par —
for which reason he always w'ore a black coat and
shiny top-hat —figured it out that on this pccasion
a temporary disappearance on the part of the son
would remove the taint. And shortly after the
top-hatted parent had arrived at this view of
things, and the son, dutiful to the prospect of his
father’s shekels, had buried himself in the vale of
oblivion, it somehow became known that valuable
pearls were to be found in the waters adjoining
the island. Whereupon the Mission Society
became seized of the belief that the natives of that
particular island were hungering for salvation, and
that the crime of allowing them to starve instead
of feeding them on the Book should not be per-
mitted. So the Society sent a Pious Person
amongst the Islanders to satisfy their craving.
When the Pious Person first discovered the
Man and the Island Woman living in contentment
and peace, he was shocked. But later, when he
learned that there had been no laying on of hands,
or other function beyond the matter of a pipe,
some tobacco and a knife, given to the woman’s
father as fair exchange for his daughter, it gave
him, so to speak, an acute attack of moral indi-
gestion —so acute that for a time he quite forgot
about locating the pearl-bed.
His first assault was upon the Man, who, being
of a genial disposition, gave his ear to him, but
made no sign that he would act upon the advice
tendered. But the Pious Person knew that in
such matters, if you have the woman on your
side, the battle is practically won. So he told
the woman how nice and handy a thing it was to
have a little band put on the finger by a duly
authorised person. He dwelt on the material
advantages to be derived from such a course, and
illustrated his discourse with pictures from back
numbers of Qood Words and Sunday at
Home, which he had brought with him for the
enlightenment of the heathen.
The pictures triumphed with the Woman, and
she asked the Man to consent to do this. At
first he treated the thing as a joke, and merely
laughed when she suggested it. But brown
women who don’t wear much clothing can im-
portune just as well as their white sisters, and
finally she also triumphed.
So the man of broadcloth and tracts married
them, to the edification of the elect and the diver-
sion of the unregenerate. And, being filled with
pious unction and the majesty of the thing he had
done, and being a badly-selected Pious Person
and considerable of a fool, he wrote to the Man s
father how he had snatched a brand from the
burning, and diverted his son s steps from the
broad highway of sin to the narrow path of virtue
and matrimony, and he hinted that such a deed
■was worthy of recompense.
In due course, the Pious Person received a letter
from the Man’s father. For the time-being, he
had evidently shed the cloak of convention and
appearances, for the letter was written straight
from the heart, as the ordinary everyday man
writes when the spirit moves him to anger. It
said, quite abruptly, that if his son was such a
blanky idiot as to make a fool of himself on
the advice of a blanky parson, and marry a
blanky nigger, he could go to Hades his own way,
but the father’s money would never go there with
him.
When the Man realised what this letter meant
to him, he grew to hate the woman and the
Mission Society and all its ways. And from a
man he became a foul, rum-sodden thing, a loathly
beachcomber, at whom the native children threw
evil-smelling things, and whom all white men
turned away frojn their doors.
“ But, then, he is married,” remarked the
Pious Person, “ and, of course, that is a great
triumph for us.”
H. F. WICKHAM.


“Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
so with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
M
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to the hospital,
but was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
sleep grandly. I feel like a new
man -” A. H. Watson,
Gawler, S. A.
This is one of very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. Keep y our blood pure by using
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. There are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “ AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FREE
And Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
F
R
E
w.
%
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction. .
We take all the Bisk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., B.K.*Pitt-st., Sydney
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/I#, 2/9, & 4/6.
The Bulletin
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minn's, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Pest Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21U George Street, Sydney.
POST
CARDS.
f
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name g m~
lul
•vicnvansN
‘oovaiAim
‘wsiivwnHHa ‘xnoo
•AQ3W3H HSIION3 I
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fall.
They Always Cure,
Pills
• true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London,
KfcCß
THE BALLET GIRL
d
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Tlhistrated Lists of Books and. Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
FREE!
. TJ
CO o
ca *
UJ s
UJ <5
COS
DC
ney
sd
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prize*, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Raobit Rifles, Ladles’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Eree to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to sand us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted paclcets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money ( b /-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you Will find the task of sell-
i ngfheni ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Florists' seetf Sopplif Co. 52
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
V
A Remedy
To Your Hand*
The day of experimenting is past. Time
was when a reliable medicine was not easily
procured. But that was before the coming
of Beecham’s Pills. Since the introduction
of this wonderfully successful remedy un-
certainty is reduced to its lowest point, and
an easy and pleasant cure is presented. It
is quite safe to say that no other medicine
enjoys the popularity of
BEECHAM’S
PULS
Their success is entirely due to their
efficacy in cases of . trouble connected with
the stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels.
Whether it be in the earlier stages, where
there is little more than discomfort, or in
the aggravated conditions that follow on
delay and neglect, Beecham’s Pills are
most valuable. They strengthen the
stomach, correct the bowels, act benefici-
ally on the liver and kidneys and assist
in the making of pure blood. In a word they
Are a Guarantee
of Perfect Health*
Sold everywhere in boxes, price
and 2/9. [3
.VV :i
S.S
■
K
"¥7t7'E have always given proof of anything that we
t T claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you want
a remedy which will cure you, it seems wise for you to
take the one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and' we
will pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever
used a testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
-■ ' ■■■' : N - : ■ '-P :
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
Tired Feelings, Sleeplessness Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys. We don’t ask any man to
buy our appliance on a speculation. We know that it
will cure These troubles, and we want our pay only when
the cure is complete. If we fail in our task it’s our loss,
not yours. All you lose is your time, and if our Belt
fails to cure you, you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest, and
finest electric body appliance in the world—one with 50,000 cures to its credit—has failed, and
that there is no cure for you in electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY WHEN CURED.
A FREE BOOK.— We have just completed our Beautiful Illustrated Book, descriptive of our treatment.
It is worth reading-. We will send it free upon request. Write to-day.
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [3
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings, full Bulletin size
> 21s
Price,
-ter
men
ANO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood < Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK.
-‘The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
—— j , ; from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin no\v a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of iijformatiou for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar hook has ever been published.
FREF specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
I giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES'’(the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). |3P" Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ E/mtey House/ 9
151 Elizabeth-st..
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Use Your
fiose-Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get ifiore out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
no better Hose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
pood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Manufacturers and Importers,
.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
TO
THE
EBBa
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER 8T„ SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will bte sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
Hypnotism
Header, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour.. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
iust issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets _
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautifu’ and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE; sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a. life-time. Address—
'S
R. H.
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
u
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
■
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Btrlotly ONE MAN Rook Drills.
SOLS AGENTS:
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
tTTACK
of
m
m
0
&
Art
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
*nd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agonts—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Griwwade & Co., Melbourne.
.ockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST
CLASS STORES,
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.’
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler |
371 George Street,
SYDOXTEY.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIWIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemitti.
f
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
®OSSO
agiL.
The Beaver has stood the test of time.
CbHF
Abb
WOLF
or
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,so a, SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J, & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
sdf
'■•'•'STm
%
9
S
It acts like a charm in
V- '■
o JB^r
The only known Specific for v
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials, of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World , in bottles, Is. I| d, ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 OZ. , 4s. fid!, each,
CAUTION. Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE bag the Trade Mark, “The
.Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c„ without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Kocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
wm
m
m
mm
iSMs
&Sflc3i
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
“MABOR” ASSAY MATERIAL
ACCORDING TO TESTIMONIALS THE ADVANTAGES OF “ MABOR ” ARE—
No change required in the methods of making or using.
Much shorter time to dry Cupels when made.
Absence of Variations due to atmospheric conditions.
Much greater regularity in the Cupels produced.
Absence of cracking in the muffle.
Accuracy in results of assays.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., ™s 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
