

IDEW-A-IVS ™e WHISET
*9
107
Kent Street,
. —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES. BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
; ; .V
'sriraaa
m
pdliy’s Orient fiotsl.
PIONEER
| LEATHER
jllfjlßE LTIN Cl
EUF.RV BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., U 7 York St., Sydney
McLAREN’S
COMPOUND
TRACTION ENGINES
Are Simple, Efficient,
Economical & Durable*
LARGE STOCKS OF ENGINES and DUPLICATE PARTS HELD IN SYDNEY.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY to SOLE AGENTS,
7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
—
Take it back,
1 must have-
Pine Apple Brand
ws
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
linolite
(LINE O* LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
galleries, advertise-
ments, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, «*c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current
Sols Aoknth for Australia:
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Oemmonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Btreet, BHIBBANE
Victorian Depot: 4* Queen Btreet, MELBOURNE.
WALKER’S KILMARNOCK WHISKY
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
HOSE.
For DELIVEBiY, SUCTION, STEAM, OR, ROCK DRILLS.
Send Your Enquiries and ORDERS to—
Works at—
SILVERTOWN,
ESBEX, ENGLAND.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
T.,.phone NO. s«, «35. 279 WOW S‘™ et - SvWey, M.B.W.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
30 PITT STREET, SYD3VTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting a.d Barb Wire (lowa Patter n )._
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD'S BEST
Oil. ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTB
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ANNUAL SALE
OF
Crockery, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
ckc., Is now in Full Swing.
Including: Several Bankrupt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
Harris on his recent World’s Tour for Bargains.
11l
(Wholesale and Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Watch MeUaouroa Daily Papers for Detailed Prices at title
Sale, which will astound the Public and the Trade.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Poet free.
HEUOBH SPA WATER.
With Helidon Spa as a Table Water no
restraint at meals is necessary.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
Y01.28.—N0. 1454.]
[Thursday, December 26, 1907.
»
registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEGIN THE NEW YEAR WELL
By having our FORTNIGHTY NEW BOOK LIST SENT REGULARLY AS ISSUED.
ANY INQUIRY GLADLY ANSWERED. LISTS ON ANY SUBJECT.
BOOKS OBTAINED from all SOURCES PROMPTLY and at ORDINARY PRICES.
Geo. Robertson & Co- Prop. Ltd.,
BOOKSELLERS, STATIONERS, etc. 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
IHE NATIVE COMPANION.”
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Brady.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. O. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
m
hudso/v
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable fox* old and young.
The Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bactericidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner: “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland .
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
[3.
THE RED PAGE
HORI GREY
WORTHY of its great subject is the
biography that Geo. 0. Henderson,
Professor of History at Adelaide
University, has written under the title of
/Sir George Greg, Pioneer of Empire in
southern Lands (Dent, London). No other
man in history rendered the Empire such
varied services, and his was the great privi-
lege to lay firm and broad the foundations of
nationhood in two continents. And though
“shunted” by Downing Street, and, as
Henderson justly points out, for good
(official) reasons, Grey had the satisfaction
of an honored old age of retirement. Grey
was the ideal Crown Colony governor, and
his waned with the waxing of the
representative .government idea ; though,
paradoxically, it was he. who made that
ideal of State nationhood possible. Rebel,
autocrat, socialist, diplomat, writer, soldier’
explorer, governor, premier, federationist’
Privy Councillor, he had all the elements of a
great man, and his greatness is confirmed by
the fact that the ideals hq so strenuously
championed have but grown with his death.
Henderson s work is to be commended for
his insistence upon the value and strength
of Grey’s influence. The biographer lias
well indicated how ideal forces operate in
the field of statesmanship in building up new
nations. And Henderson’s claim that Grey
was the founder of far-reaching policies in
South Africa, Australia and Maoriland,
stamped with the impress of his personality,
is more than just.
Grey was a child of the nineteenth century
renaissance. And nothing impresses the studen ;
of his career more than his unbounded faith in
the possibilities of human nature, his deep and
lasting sympathy for the masses of the people, and
his splendid devotion to the welfare of the native
races in the Southern Hemisphere.
It is necessary only to summarise his
efforts for the upbuilding of a sturdy nation-
alism to show chat we are still but following
in the tracks he blazed. Closer settlement,
one man one vote, the education of the
ma'sses —these he put in his Maoriland pro-
gramme as far back as 1876. In 1843 he
was opposed to loans in South Australia. In
his first Administration in M.L. he fought
the big landowners, and the warfare cul-
minated in his policy of “ bursting up the
big estates,” and the Compulsory Land Pur-
chase Bill of his enthusiastic disciple, Sed-
don. Most of the things he fought for we
have already got, or are in process of getting.
But there are several big ideals that were
checked by the inertness of Downing Street.
The Federation o'f the Pacific he advocated
at a time when the Pacific was to let;
and he had it in his power, had he been un-
trammelled, to federate South Africa. He was
the first statesman to foresee the necessity
for that confederation. He advocated it as
early as 1858. Henderson points out that
had Grey’s scheme not been blocked by
Downing Street there would have been no
Boer war. But Britain deliberately refused
the Orange River’s petition to return'to
British sovereignty. Grey argued that the
best way to foster Imperial unity was to
encourage self-government in its completest
form, even to the election by the States of
their own governors. His programme of
Imperial federation also took in the neces-
sity for Irish Home Rule. The principle of
colonial nationalism is now practically ad-
mitted by Britain. And Grey’s continual
insistence upon the necessity for the educa-
tion of the people has not been lost sight of
by us. It is a great heritage that Grey has
left.
He was an autocrat by descent: he became
a radical by experience. On military ser-
vice in Ireland he deeply felt the miseries
entailed by large estates and the absence of
opportunities for the peasants. Against
these two intertwined evils his political life
was one persistent and successful struggle.
His life this side of the line began with his
explorations in the North and West of Aus-
tralia ; and his character was early recog-
nised by the British Government. He was
the strong man they could call upon at all
times when there were great difficulties to
face. He raised South Australia from bank-
ruptcy to prosperity. As High Commis-
sioner for South Africa he averted a native
war ; his strong hand was twice successfully
requisitioned in Maoriland. But he
needed freedom from interference, and
the conditions favored him. For in
those days the Governor was a despot.
It took from twelve to eighteen months to
get a reply to a despatch, and'Grey took full
advantage of the respite, and when he dis-
approved of the Home Government’s positive
orders, would craftily write for fuller instruc-
tions and meantime go, chuckling, on his
autocratic way. Absolutely without fear, he
never failed to set his own convictions against
the policy of the British Cabinet. He
hung up ” for five years the constitution
sent by Earl Grey to Maori land, on the
ground that the time was not opportune ;
but in that constitution he tried to make the
Upper House elective, and won from the
British Cabinet a great extension of the
franchise. His “ high acts of disobedience ”
to the Home Government were indeed suf-
ficiently explicit and sufficiently frequent to
make him an awkward servant. He publicly
encouraged the Orange River petitioners
while the stupid British Colonial policy did not
want them ; against positive orders, he
arranged with a private German firm for the
immigration of 4000 German settlers to South
Africa, and expended £107,000 over the
amount allowed him for that experiment in
colonisation. He ignored important des-
patches, or gained time by equivocal replies.
But his point of view was that of a statesman
and a prophet. In his despatches he wrote:
The British Empire is so vast, and so unwieldy,
that it is all-important that the whole world
should see it has not overgrown its strength ; but
that it possesses quite as much energy and power
at its extremities as at its centre ; and that if any
vital portion of it is seriously endangered, all parts
of it can, without communicating with the centre,
simultaneously stir themselves to meet the emer-
gency as if each part were the head and centre of
action for the whole body.
That was Grey’s defence for his splendid
act of disobedience by which he contributed
largely to the saving of India for the Empire.
At the outbreak of the Mutiny, not only did
he despatch to India every available soldier
and horse within Cape Colony, but, upon his
own authority, diverted to India a contingent
of British troops that had happened to
touch at the Cape under orders to proceed to
China. The importance of this, the most
valuable and also the most dramatic incident
in Grey’s career, is, it seems to us, not suf-
ficiently emphasised in Henderson’s able
work.
The difficult situation that can be created
by the presence of over-sea soldiers in a
colony is evident in Henderson’s account of
the muddle of the Maori campaign. Though
Grey was General Cameron’s superior officer,
the British officer evidently regarded the
War Office as his supreme authority. The
General, who had 10,0(X) regular soldiers
under his command, declined to pursue the
enemy far into the interior ; the M.L.
Government believed it was the only possible
way to exhaust the Maories and end the war.
From the slowness of his marches and his
reluctance to leave the coast the Maories
called him “the lame sea-gull.” Yet
Cameron was a brave man ; but
troops trained for European war are
not fitted for warfare of this kind. That
fundamental fact was proved in the Trans-
vaal ; it would be confirmed if ever Aus-
tralia had to depend upor Imperial troops
for its defence. The capture of Wereroa pa,
upon the Wanganui, furnishes a striking
example of the value of local knowledge and
colonial initiative. General Cameron, on
being requested by Grey to capture this pa,
stated that he would require at least 2000
more men. Grey quietly got to work, and
with a small force of 473 men took the pa,
capturing 50 natives without the loss of a
man.
Such was Hori Grey, friend of the natives
and of the people.
The key to Grey’s character is not to be found
in a love of power; but rather in a passion for
public service.
And an understanding of Grey’s later days,
when he stepped down from the Governor-
ship of Maoriland to champion the cause of
the people in Parliament, when he became
Premier, and founded the still growing
Liberal party, when at last he quarrelled
with all his confreres, and found himself a
solitary leader without a party, is to be found
in this pronouncement by Henderson :
The “vicious mole” of Grey’s nature was an
official intractability that broke down the pales
and forts of reason, undermined his self-control,
and left him the prey of arrogance, vanity, and
personal resentment,
Always he was a rebel, a splendid rebel.
But to rebels all the progress and uplifting
of this world is due ; and Australasia has
most cause to be thankful for the long
rebellion that was his life. Hori Grey died
worth only £5OOO, leaving libraries of in-
estimable value to the people whom he
loved, in whom he fiercely believed.
■ ♦
A good idea of the magnitude of Australia’s
resources can begot from The Golden West (Is.),
the third issue of an annual from Perth. This
illustrated compilation deals chiefly 'with the
little-known North West corner of the continent.
It comprises a history of explorations, and
descriptions of the great pearling, mining, and
pastoral industries of the hitherto hardly
developed North West.
THE E ET'VK ItS OF AN ORVINAHX
U'OJI.I ,Y
By the authority of her son, a selection from
the correspondence of Queen Victoria, ending
with the death of her husband, has been edited
by Arthur C. Benson and a prefixed person named
Esher, and published, in sumptuous style, by
Murray (three vols. £3 35.). These letters afford
many interesting side-lights upon British and
European politics for a period of 25 years ; but, to
the general reader at this side of the globe,
they are more interesting for the view they ex-
hibit of the private life of an ordinary woman
occupying, through no fault of her own, a difficult
position. Even so simple a business as courtship
was, for her, an awkward matter. Two of her
German cousins, Ernest and Albert, were sent
over to England on appro., and though
Ernest must have felt the importance of
being eldest, Victoria preferred the younger
brother. Of “ dear Albert,” her much-underlined
“ earthly angel,” she gives this first impression :
“ He possesses every quality that could be desired
to make me perfectly happy. . . . He has, besides,
the most pleasing and delightful exterior and
appearance you can possibly see.” And she con-
veys the news of her engagement to her uncle, the
King of the Belgians, thus :
My mind is quite made up—and I told Albert
this morning of it; the warm affection he showed
me on learning this gave me great pleasure. . . .
I love him more than I can say, and I shall do
everything in my power to render the sacrifice he
has made (for a sacrifice in my opinion it
is) as small as I can. He seems to have a
very great tact—a very necessary thing in
his position. These last few days have passed like
a dream to me, and I am so much bewildered
by it all that I hardly know how to write; but I
feel very, very happy.” All much underlined —
exactly the sort of letter Maud would dash off
on her knee to her uncle Bill when Charles set her
mind at rest by asking her to name the date. And
all through Victoria’s correspondence she exhibits
the same sane conventional femininv point of view.
She was, above all things, domestic, and, mated
with a tame and matter-of-fact German husband,
she was perfectly happy in her hqme with her
ever-increasing family. But she was always the
Queen, and even before her marriage she had
some trouble in making Albert understand that
she, and not he, meant to ohoose his household
for him. Albert didn’t like this, but at length
reluctantly assented to her appointment even of
his secretary. One cannot help feeling sorry for
Albert.
Victoria’s relations to her Prime Ministers are
full of interest. Lord Palmerston began by
treating her as a woman who would naturally not
want to be bothered by too much business; but
she sharply reminded him that she must see all
his important despatches. But the feminine note
pei’sisted. Her interest in her Prime Ministers
had always something of sentiment; she felt their
resignation like a personal loss. She was always
characteristically conservative, hating changes,
even of government. Interesting, too, are the
glimpses this correspondence gives of the opinion
of monarchs of the existence of that troublesome
fact, the People. These royal correspondents
regard things like the People and the Parliament
rather as an estimable maiden lady might look on
a big house-dog that occasionally growled at her.
It was a useful thing to have in the house, but
some day it might bite. But Victoria’s concep-
tion of loyalty is charmingly naive. She gossips
to another monarch: “'The feeling of loyalty in
this country is happily very strong, and wherever
we show ourselves we are most heartily and
warmly received, and the civilities arid respect
shown to us by those we visit is most satisfactory.
I mention merely a trifling instance to show how
respectful they are—the Duke of Buckingham,
who is immensely proud, bringing the cup of
coffee after dinner on a waiter to Albert himself.”
You see, a queen in her quest for loyalty cannot
get any further down than a duke who acts as a
waiter.
The personal intercourse of monarchs is very
like the personal intercourse of blokes. Thus the
Queen of the Belgians writes to the Queen of
England when the King of the French, who was
the father of the Queen of the Belgians, is visiting
the Queen of England, requesting, the Queen of
England not to ask the King of the French to
breakfast. (That sentence, for a democratic paper
like this, seems rather overcrowded with monarchs.)
“It would disturb him in all his habits, and be
bad for him, as he would certainly eat, a thing he
is not used to do in the morning. . . . It would be
much better for hini if he only appeared to
luncheon and dinner, and if you kindly dispensed
him altogether of the breakfast. ... If I must tell
you all the truth, my mother is afraid also he will
eat too much. ... If by chance Lord Hardwicke
was in waiting during my father’s stay, you must
kindly put my father in mind to thank him for
the famous cheese, which arrived safely, and was
found very good.” Breakfasts and cheeses —thus
these sovereigns scribble to each other. And how
do subjects write to monarchs ? Let us take, as a
specimen of the courtier-touch, Lord Melbourne
to Victoria on the occasion of her sending him the
pictures of two dead dogs. ‘ ‘ Lord Melbourne has
never yet thanked your Majesty for the pretty
etchings of poor Islay and Eos, which your Majesty
sent to Lord Melbourne when he was last at
Windsor. Lord Melbourne has ordered them
both to be framed, and will hang them up in his
room here. They will afford Lord Melbourne
most agreeable and pleasing souvenirs of the
happiest period of his life.” One can picture
Lord Melbourne gazing with ecstatic loyalty at
the portraits of those two very dead dogs.
As an indication of the utter unimportance of
this country during the quarter of a century
covered by this correspondence, it suffices to
note that Australia is mentioned only once—
when a South Australian wine-grower sent a
present of his first vintage to the Queen, though
‘ ‘ Lord Stanley will not venture to answer for the
quality of the vintage.”
As letters, the collection is not as interesting as
the Letters of the Brownings, and scarcely as
excising as the alleged love letters that Laurence
Housman pretended were those of an English-
woman.
«
Some yells from “Janor” in rebuttal of the
article, “What the Australian Worker Reads”
(22/8/’07): “This township is a typical Gipps-
land mining centre (there are dozens such),
remote, difficult of access, with small postal faci-
lities, and it is the distributing point for the most
poverty-stricken of all the goldfields of the State.
The adult male population served by this town-
ship barely exceeds 200 souls, all of whom, ex-
cepting half-a-dozen business folk, are engaged in
gold-mining—there is no other industry—and this
is their printing bill: Metropolitan dailies, 50
subs. : ditto, weeklies, 90 subs. ; country news-
papers, 125 subs.; Australian and foreign maga’s
and scrap monthlies, 50 subs. There is also a large
postal delivery of papers and journals from all parts
of the earth. Also the local miners, by co-opera-
tion, have purchased 250 well-selected volumes,
and laid the foundation of a circulating library,
which is to be added to as funds accrue. These
books are housed in a public hall, built and owned
by the diggers. Amusements are plenty—for a
miners’ lawn tennis club flourishes, the rifle club
is virile, cricket and football abound, while the
gold-hunting members of the brass band can hold
their end of the trombone up with any combina-
tion of sound in the State. As for the tent, it has
vanished. During the recent flutter at Poseidon,
a few men have lived under calico, but outside of
that quite unusual happening, not one per cent,
of present-day goldminers dwell in tents. Numbers
of miners in my district have been speculating as to
which goldfield Dr. Schachner struck during his
three months’ incognito, and reckon it could only
be Poseidon, for on older fields the same condi-
tions prevail as I have described above. After
forty odd years of gold-hunting, I can affirm that
no class of Australian workers read as much as
miners, and a large percentage of them are edu-
cated or well-read men, and democrats all the
time. To the gold miner himself there is no
‘ magic ’ or ‘ romance ’ about his occupation, save
the glamor of the great forests, the wide open
spaces, the daily living close to nature ; these are
the things that hold and enthrall—not the yellow
dross. Three months generally suffices to knock
the romance off mining work ; though it is all too
short for anyone, however keen an observer, to
arrive at accurate judgment of the workers in the
four big industries of the Commonwealth over
the vast area of the three Eastern States. Hence
these yells.”
Longstaff’s big picture for the Melbourne
National Gallery, commemorating the end of
Burke’s vain attempt to cross Australia, is well
spoken of by London Athenceum. The moment
chosen by the artist shows Burke and his two
surviving companions arriving, starving, in the
camp at Cooper’s Creek, to find that the rest of
the expedition had, after waiting for them for
eighteen weeks, abandoned it on the morning of
that day. The critic gives Longstaff praise for
his success upon a colossal scale of what must
practically remain only an exact historical illus-
tration. This success is due mainly to the sobriety
of his color-scheme, and to the impressive stand-
ing figure of Burke—“a powerful presentation of
utter despair, still rebellious against the Fates.”
But in parts the composition is weak, and so large
a canvas is said to require a “tighter handling.”
Apparently Longstaff has executed his difficult
task worthily.
“Jaybell” speculates: “That ‘Red Page’
notice of Percival Lowell’s book on Mars has set
me thinking. What’s wrong with my theory
that that planet may be Tophet or Gehenna or
Purgatory or Limbo? Its vegetable production
appears to be rather too limited to suggest
Arcadia or Paradise, or good pine-apple territory.
I haven’t any fault to find on the score of its
crusty old age, but it seems to me there’* a flavor of
addled pints and crawfish in the scarlet folio’s
idea of a Martian population of highly civilised
nosegays. To my mind, thei’e is every indication
that the multitude up in the sister planet consists
of brawny Chows who got tired of remarking
‘ Whaffor?’ here below when the lettuce wouldn’t
sprout, and who missed the Chinaman’s pro-
verbial luck when they were wafted to the other
sphere. But, Chow-like, they assimilated the
desperate situation at a glance, and there-
upon bucked in and perfected a reticulation
scheme that is now the marvel of any enthusiast
who cares to look at it through a lens
till his eye bulges in the middle and sags at the
sides. It fairly catches my breath, and makes
me thirsty, contemplating the magnitude of the
wet task undertaken by the Martian Chows to
bring the cabbagee to perfection and the callot to
a full sense of its own crisp importance. And all
that effort for a few thread-like drills of garden
stuff! By the noeent cucumber (and that is a
deep-green vegetable oath), .1 am on the brink of
a conclusion that Mars is the real, material,
genuine Hell, and Johnny Wun Lung is slowly,
but surely, reclaiming its "desolate vastness. The
usually accepted idea of a warm perdition is likely
to be exploded just as soon as Mars gives up its
secrets to scientific inquiry. And it won’t come
as a shock to me to learn that earth’s contribution
of lost souls is freezing considerably in the
Martian backblocks, and buying John’s forced
vegetables at famine prices. Give a Chow a lease,
a kerosene tin or two, and a hoe, and he can turn
any Hell’s blazes of a wilderness into a plotch of
greens. He can convert it quicker than he
throws off the perfume of China from his
domestic arrangements. If it were only possible
at this stage to dissect the smell of Mars, I think
my Chow theory would resolve itself into an
actual fact.”


Popular Presents
At Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
HALL MARKED
LINKS.
No. 898. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked 13/6
15ct. „ „ „ 31/6
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/6
No. 599. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked 14/6
15ct. „ „ „ 31/6
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/-
No. 902 Links.
Oct. Gold, Hall marked 11/6
15ct. ~ „ ~ 26/G
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/-
No. 903. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked 14/-
15ct. ~ „ „ 317-
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/6
No. 906. Links.
9et. Gold, Hall marked 14/
15ct. „ „ „ 31/6
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/6
No. 907. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked
15ct. „ „ „
Silver, Hall marked ..
11/6
26/6
2/6
No. '904. -liwiTcs.
Set. Gold, Hallmarked 14/6
15et. „ „ „ 34/-
Silver, Hall<marked, 3/-
No. 909. Links.
'Dct. Gold, Hall marked 13/6
Hsct. „ „ „ 28/6
.'Silver, Hall marked .. 3/-
No. 908. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked 14/6
L r >ct. ~ „ 31/6
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/6
No. 905. Links.
9ct. Gold, Hall marked 14/-
15ct. ~ ~ „ 30/-
Silver, Hall marked .. 3/6
For all
Seasons of
the Year.
m
Celebrated Waltham Watches
World renowned for accuracy and good appearance.
If a Watch be handsome, and, as well, a good time-
keeper, perfection is reached. Gold Filled Cases are
guaranteed by the Makers for Twenty-five Years.
Gentlemen's Heavy JBct. Gold
Keyless RIVERSIDE MAXI-
MUS LEVER WALTHAM
HUNTER. The highest grade
mqvement made by the Waltham
Co. An admirable Presentation
Watch,
£23 10s. -
%
/
Send for
Price Lists,
Post Free
on
Application
If yoa have tneft ’re-
ceived our 1000-page
General Catalogue—
The Big -Red Book
—send lor a copy ;
it will he posted free.
Gentlemen’s Royal Waltham Watch, Engine Turned Case Nickel,
Movement, 17 Jewels, Gold Settings, exposed Pallets, Compensa-
ting Balance. Adjusted to temperature. Patent Breguet Hair
Spring, and Patent Micrometric Regulator. In the following
grades
£ s. d.
Sterling Silver Hunter 4 10 0
Gold Filled Hunter (See Guarantee) 6 5 0
Gold Filled Open Face (See Guarantee) . , .. .. 62 6 j
Gentlemen’s Riverside Waltham Watch, Engine Turned Case, Nickel
Movement, similar to Riverside Maximus, but with 17 fine Ruby
Jewels. Adjusted to temperature and three positions. In the
following grades : £ s. d.
Sterling Silver Hunter 5 15 0
Gold Pilled Hunter Case (See Guarantee) .. .. .. 9 7 6
Gold Filled Open Face (See Guarantee) 9 2 6
Heavy 18-carat Gold Hunter 17 15 0
Lighter 18-carat Gold Hunter .. 15 15 0
Gentlemen’s Waltham Lever Watch, Engine Turned Case, fully Jewelled.
Thoroughly reliable Timekeeper, and,a Watch that will stand
rough riding. In the following gradest— £ s. d.
Sterling Silver Hunter 2 10
Gold Filled Hunter Case (See Guarantee) 410 0
10-carat Gold Hunter ... .. .. 9 2 6
~ ~ Open Face 8 12 6
14-carat „ Hunter 11 7 6
„ „ Open Face 10 16 6
18-carat „ Hunter 13 10 0
~ ~ Open Face 13 0 0
The “ Fenchurch ” Non-Magnetic Lever Watch, a thoroughly reliable
timekeeper, with screw Bezel and back, rendering- it dust proof;
also fitted in Hinged and Snap Oases — £ s. d.
Nickel .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 14 0
Oxydised Steel 0 15 0
Improved Short Wind Waterbury, with Second Hand, Enamel Dial,
medium size, Series G .. .. .. .. .. . 10s 6d
Ladies’ Improved Short Wind Waterbury, Enamel Dial, Series L, 10s 6d
Gcnt.’s Non-Magnetic Sirdar Lever, fully Jewelled, Compensating
Balance, Engine Turned Sterling Silver Hunter, a good service-
able Watch, excellent timekeeper—36s. £ s. d.
Open Face 0 27 6
Open Face, Gun Metal Case 0 18 6
Open Face, Nickel Case .. 016 6
Nickel Hunter Case 0 22 6
Improved Short Wind Waterbury, with Second Hand, Enamel Dial,
Series J 12s 6d
Improved Short Wind Waterbury, with Second Hand, Enamel Dial,
Series I, same size as Series J, 8s 6d
Gent.’s Silver Hunter Chasserel Lever, highly finished throughout,
fully Jewelled, Compensating Balance, a perfect Timekeeper,
highly recommended 42s
SILVER OPEN FACE 37s 6d
Mentor Nickel Lever Watch, a serviceable Timekeeper, at a nominal
cost 5s 6d
No. 911.
No. 910.
Cold Pencil Cases, 9ct.
Gold, No. 910, 23/6 ;
Silver, 6/6.
No. 911, 9ct.
21/-; Silver, 4/9.
Gold,
GOLD BROOCHES.
No. 43x.
9-ct. Gold, l Sapphire or Ruby, 3 Real
Pearls, 11s. 6d.
IP§
No. 44x.
9ct. Gold, all Gold, 9s. 6d.
No. 45x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Sapphire or Ruby, 4 Real
Pearls, 13s. 6d.
No. 46x.
15ct. Gold, 1 Sapphire or Ruby, 3 Pearls, 335. 6d.
’usiaußP w
Kg. 47x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Emerald or Amethyst, 11s. 6d.
No. 48x.
9ct. Gold, 3 Amethysts or Topaz, 1 Real Pearl, 20s.
No. 49x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Real Amethyst, 15s.
No. 50x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Amethyst, 2 Pearls, 11s.
No. 51x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Sapphire or Ruby, 1 Real
Pearl, 10s.
No. 53x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Sapphire or Ruby, 4 Real
Pearls, 10s. 9d.
No. 55x.
9ct. Gold, All Gold, 12s. 6d.
\j& \
No. 56x.
9ct. Gold, All Gold, 9s. 6d.
No. 57x.
9ct. Gold, All Gold, 11s.
fSL
No. 58x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Sapphire or Ruby, 9s. 6d.
No. 60x.
9ct. Gold, 1 Am et hys t, 11s.
No. 912.
No. 921.
Cold Pencil Cases, 9ct.
Gold, No. 912, 20/6
Silver, 5/6. 9ct. Gold
18/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-
Silver Penoll Case, Hall
marked (No. 921), 2/6
ANTHONY HOIDEKN and SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
I.td.
S YD3NTB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
weighing', classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprade ™ BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Danck, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is.’ Reynolds’
Court op London Series, ,2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappiio, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder,, is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. Tiie Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific W restling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, l>y Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
I3F~ AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
G
4-^WME
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return tp ns with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d!
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Eadies’
or Cent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silverware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer ? This
great offer is only open for a limited time,
Write at once. THE GUTTA PERCHA TRADING CO., J2O Ash St., Sydney.
ENO’S FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
FRUIT
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
Capsule marked END'S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
fnpartd only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO,,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES "* o *> ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
)
I
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
I NO MONEY WHNTED
: in 800 d and
The Best Peqny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
. Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
■ Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
i Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.
GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
, Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send vou
, any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
ority of our Cards) which you may sell among vour friends or keen for
your own use, and at any time within one month after vou receive the Cafde LLUf r
i due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our OranH p,f, • ? . the amount
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Pavment 2e n ! StS t ° f , g ? od '
may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz and we S 1 Remember! You
with your Order. You may rely on our treating: you fairlv if i c n \°! ley , whatev er
may utuci any 4uttul.ll.jr uum Vn © UOZ XO ICD UOZ. and We TOO 111 re Ilf) rnnnmi u\
with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairiy, as it is toour i nterest to h att .
Trial Solicited. Simply send us your Order fcr One, Two, Three or unto tl A
we will forward the Cards to vour Address. We want a « i—Jr. p . ° , n Dozen, and
Trial Solicited, oimpiy »cuu u» yuui uiucr icr une, Two, Three or,in fo 'l'an rT
/ we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of a rre?t=°,. Dozen, a
) show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuahle d» ts.and we want to
) to our Agents. y rosiiraras uume valuable Presents we give away
ithe trade;
1 SUPPLIED.
\
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray's Buddies, Sydney, N.S.W.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
/
B
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
AUC.B. U
Corsets '
have
rust-proof
supports.
sax
■4;
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
womon that here is a' type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS (Sb CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE; 16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY
and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDfI
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
mam
Beautiful Home Decorations
p*
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
a FAVORITE” GOLD EWAMEIi (Washable) Kich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIIV EVAMEEjS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful cluna gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘BAPOEIW” BATH TUB BSAMEL. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. Fov sale at all wp~to-dute dealt rs• Avoid imitations •
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN •* FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
nowiE
lflM3
[?DIL(L§
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature o!


A crown of glory—is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
> date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
| has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 65 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
, glory if you will
follow the ex-
t
ample of this lady and use
filler’s
flair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co M Lowelli Mass., U. S.//
Winchester
tei fl
ter h
m
SV
3®w; •!:>:,
JA AU
$ i&X h,Mt; w
, ; 'I
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Newßivals”are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
modern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make even pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals” next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is, Packet of Ten, lOd,
= Flesh=
Firm and Solid
“Irene,” Wharf Road, Concord,
N.S.W. July 24, 1906.
“My son Raymond (15 months) became
so weak and ill with diarrhoea that,
although I tried everything I knew, he
seemed to be just wasting away. The
first dose of SCOTT'S Emulsion pro-
duced improvement and now he is a
picture of health and vigour.”
(Mrs.) S. ZAHRA.
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the irishman.
THE REASQN
WHY the trouble
CEASED.
The purest Lofoten cod
liver oil in SCOTT’S
(the most nourishing
which money can buy)
strengthened every or-
gan in the little body.
SCOTT'S was taken
gladly and digested
easily; that is to say,
every bit of the nutri-
ment did good.
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicine
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
Ask for Barm ing ton s OL^BRONCHTTIS t
and seetkatyou get it . c • ASTHMA .
DRINK ONLY -
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
HAIR DRILL
OUR READERS INVITED TO CARRY OUT
A WEEK’S FREE TEST.
Remarkable Results Promised.
Have you ever heard of “ hair drill ” ? No.
Well, every hair of your head is a little soldier,
The duty it shares with its more or less numer-
ous fellows is that of maintaining the tempera-
ture of your brain at normal. Without a well
trained head of hair your brain must become too
hot in summer and too cold in winter, and you
have headaches when the sun shines and colds
in the head when the sun doesn’t shine. _ This is
considering the subject of your hair quite apart
from the aspect of mere appearance, important
as this is in itself.
"How can you drill vour hair?”
Well, are you willing to try ? Are you willing
to test the drilling of your hair for one week, if it
entails no more expense than the trivial amount
of 3d. ? “Yes,” you say
All right; now, will you just note that the
present condition of your hair is either one or
more of the following:
1. Dry,
2. Brittle,
3. Lustreless,
4. Losing: Colour,
5. Falling:,
6. Scurfy,
7. Greasy,
8. Slightly Odorous,
or
9. Thin or Patchy,
If you can candidly admit that your hair does
come under one or more of the foregoing descrip-
tions, you certainly ought not to let slip this
opportunity of so easily and so cheaply finding
out what the right kind of care for your hair wd
do for you —you certainly ought to try one week’s
free test drill of your hair. Do you not think so ?
The week’s test will produce results that will
open your eyes to the possibilities of proper
hair drill.
The trial, short as it is, will yet show you— ■
That your hair can be drilled into fine
condition.
That your hair need not be too brittle or
too limp.
That your hair need not be too lustreless
or too shiny.
That it need not be too highly coloured or
too colourless.
That it need not fall out when brushed or
combed.
That it certainly need not be scurfy,
greasy or odorous.
The one week's trial, for which the enterpris-
ing proprietors of the famous preparation
Edwards’ “ Harlene” are willing to send a suffi-
cient supply to every reader of this paper, will
also show another remarkable effect. It will
show how important to the welfare of your brain
is the condition of your hair, and before the end
of the week you will revel in a sense of mental
lightness and alertness. Your test will not be
speculative in the slightest degree. The special
free bottle of “ Harlene ” placed at your disposal
for the purpose of the test is used by most of
those members of Royalty and Society who are
noted for beautiful hair.
The week’s test is open to both sexes and all
ages.
Why not send to-day, and thus place yourself
in a position to commence the week’s trial at once.
A strong word of caution should be given
against taking internal remedies, which will ruin
the constitution, and cheap, worthless remedies
which will ruin the hair.
HARLENE is stocked by all Chemists and Stores.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To Week’s Test Dept., Edwards’ Harlene Co., 95-96 High Holborn, London. W.C.
Please forward me. as per your offer mentioned above , the special free bottle
0 f “ Harlene ” necessary for one week’s practical trial of this preparation as a
Hair Drill.” Enclose 3 penny stamps to cover postage. Mention name of Paper.
Mame Address
o-x—
- vr
f‘l v
1956
If You Value Strength |
Begin the first meal of the day
with the best diet you can get —
PLASMON COCOA as your breakfast „
drink, and a bowl of PLASMON OATS
porridge before the fish or bacon. You are
sure then of health and strength.
If you value health, or find a need of strength, these
PLASMON preparations will be good for
you. They are deliciously palatable, and
worth ten times more than ordinary cocoa
and ordinary oats. Unlike the latter,
PLASMON OATS are absolutely free
from husks.
WHAT PLASMON IS:
Plasmon is the best part of
the best milk, in the form of
a tasteless powder. It can
be added to any food. It
enriches the nutritive value
tenfold, and makes all food
more digestible. Plasmon is
the mainstay of health. Of
all Grocers.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON
. /. -■ A . .
COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Bok 0G.P.0.
RETAIL: A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Come Ye Back to Arcady!
The burden of my songs shall be,
“ Oh, come ye back to Arcady ! ”
And I will call you, in my lays,
To sweeter and to simpler ways.
For, ever in sequestered dells
The godlike soul of Shakspeare dwells,;
And there the sordid world forgets
By banks of thyme and violets.
And still, for ever sweet and young,
The pensive songs that Milton sung
By copses where the hawthorn blows,
With eglantine and climbing rose.
And Virgil here came home at last
To sing his Georgies ere he passed ;
Wherein the ancient perfume clings—
The attar of the odes he sings.
And Sidney, quaint in lore and loves,
Shall ever haunt Arcadian groves ;
And Wordsworth wanders in the woods
In search of rustic solitudes.
And here, in withes of woodbine bound,
Shall old John liuskin’s ghost be found —
A kindly ghost, deploring yet
Man’s growing strife, and needs, and fret.
Bucolic peace and sylvan shade,
With country dance of youth and maid ;
When Phyllis trips along the mead,
And Strephon trills his ribbon’d reed.
What time Diana, swift of feet,
Goes flashing through the woodlands sweet;
And wild god Pan his music shrills
To wake young Echo in the hills !
What time the farms are wrapt in sleep,
With yarded kine and folded sheep;
In lonely brakes the plovers call—
Is this not best, the best of all ?
Therefore I call you, in my lays,
To sweeter find to simpler ways ;
And my song’s burden still shall be :
“ Oh, come ye back to Arcady !”
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Childless.
They haunt me through the sleepless hours, the
sons I dreamed to have,
The race that might have sprung from him to sing
and love and fight;
And when at times I weep because my hopes have
come to naught
I seem to hear their voices grieving with me in the
night.
And yet if I go laughterless, sad-eyed and slow of
step,
Some mothers wonder why I grieve, their sons
have gone astray ;
Their daughters known disgrace and shame;
“ How happy you must be
Who have no child to break your heart ! ” so,
enviously, they say.
Even if my tree of love had borne only a blighted
thing,
A canker-eaten, scentless rose, a frail, unlovely
flower,
’Twere sweet to know that one through me had
felt earth’s lust of life,
And lying on my breast had known at least one
golden hour.
N.S.W.
R.B.
Winifred Brown.
I once was light-hearted, good-tempered, and gay,
Not a trouble or care to oppress me,
And I cantered through life in a rollicking way,
Thinking nought could disturb or distress me.
The world was a circus, and I was a clown,
Till Fate introduced me to Winifred Brown.
In our journey through life there are byways
unseen,
That will lead us to good or to evil;
One will lead to the right, into pathways serene,
While another will lead to the Devil.
I had choice of two tracks when I rode into town.
I turned to the left—and met Winifred Brown.
She was close to the sliprail that led to the farm
When I first saw her merry eyes glancing,
And my soul became captive at once to the charm
Of her beauty, so sweet and entrancing.
The flag of my freedom at once fluttered down ;
My heart was surrendered to Winifred Brown.
Oh ! Those halcyon days ! Like a poet’s sweet
dream—
Sweeter far than was ever invented.
Then I told her my love ; and my joy was supreme
When she bashfully blushed, and consented.
I was prouder of her than a king of his crown,
For the world was my own, with sweet Winifred
Brown.
: . , . '■ / A
All the guests were assembled. The parson was
there.
To unite us for worse or for better,
When I got a surprise, for a girl with red hair
Came and curtseyed, and gave me a letter.
It was short, it said brieflly, “ I’m not coming
down,
Will you kindly apologise ? Winifred Brown.”
Then a postscript said, “ Charley, I hope you
won’t mind,
But, I’ve met my old sweetheart, Pat Hogan.
We have made up our quarrel; he’s awfully kind,
So I’m going with him out to the Bogan.
We were married this morning. I hope you won’t
frown,
Yours, W. Hogan (nee Winifred Brown).”
N.S.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.


’Beautiful • Durable*
fiRE -proof • Inexpensive
As/
r xt<yV
5?
SiSSMt
-Jp--
V Z* 1
Vi-v;
!^j£JsHsg:
WUNDERLICH
J&K'F METAL
Ceilings, friezes.
I CORNICES, i
( Wall Linings &j
Strenuous
Worker/
'f*
Z5r?-
CADBURY'S COCOA
is the ideal beverage because it is rich
in strength-imparting essentials and there-
promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
VirginiaH Leaf.
h,
mss
m
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
I English Watches
mnmm
Prize Awards:- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IB6L Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892
_ _ A
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
N
ROTHERHAMS
LONDON
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JdhnSeccs.
Scotch whisky
m
m
lUllmlltnl
m
A
7,
7a
7.
Z
1
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
HEAD OFFICE - MUTUAL LlFE BUILDING,MARTIN PLACE,SYDNEY.
*&cferm//jator
V J\EV£RfAUS
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Betwppn Ellzn.hpf.h A (Inaflerono-V.
LAD'ES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSINC SALOON.-*! TItANSFORMATIGNs''n)ad7Sn the'utest
i T fc ,^ ble t 0 be . wo r n on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
and in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combiners made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
s
• ' 7 ■ -.•>
' ■ ’ *® -... - '-i
‘ J‘
can
, v
«4V- '*£«> «• „ .ly '*
i V .**' m
- >v, i
„• .-■■ - % -
-
.
■
E.RicK e C2. U5, Sydney e Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1454.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1907.
Pbiob 6d
TWO CHRISTMAS BOXES.
Bill Lyne puts prosperity into Australia’s stocking. (N.B. —In the north-east corner appears a reminiscence of another Christmas in N.S.W.’s
un-Federated and alleged Freetrade days, when Santa Claus Reid handed out the rail-painting job.)


NOTICE.
Owing to the New Year holidays,
“ The Bulletin ” will be published on
Tuesday, December 31 (instead of
January 2).
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia, for the- A iint.rtili.inis.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you, every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ‘words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamps
for return it ‘will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Iliads and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draion —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
tiotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
V ancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sprecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole A dvertising A gent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1907.
OUR MILITARY DEFENCES.
So far, the two most conspicuous opponents of the
Deakin Government’s proposed system of com-
pulsory military training seem to be the Sydney
Telegraph and Keir Hardie, British M.P.
This ill-assorted pair represents the two chief
arguments, if they are worth calling such, against
the defence of Australia. The Telegraph is, of
course, the same old Telegraph. It talks vaguely
about “conscription,” though nothing dimly re-
sembling that has been suggested ; it might just
as appropriately speak with severity about the
worship of Baal. It weeps about “militarism,”
which is also quite remote from the case. It
assures the community that compulsory military
or naval or any other training is quite contrary to
the spirit and traditions of the British race, in
which matter it shows a lamentable ignorance
of British history. It holds forth at some
length about the advantages of a hireling
or mercenary army over a national force
armed in defence of its own hearths and homes,
It assures the community at large that Australia
won’t stand —won’t dream of standing—any pro-
posal for compulsory training, in which case it is
difficult to see why the paper should worry so
bitterly ; if the nation doesn’t like the idea, then the
idea won’t come to pass, and the matter is ended.
The Telegraph, in fact, takes the Phoenician or
Carthagenian view of the matter. It believes in
buying and selling; in being a race of fat im-
porters, dealers, traders, bottle-ohs, and so on ; in
having a little hired force to defend us while we
live at ease. And, on the other hand, Keir
Hardie babbles about arbitration, peace, Social-
ism, the millennium, the free admission of all races
to our country, and the Brotherhood of Man
generally. Between the two the case against
defence is fairly well summed up, and it is a
poor case all told.
* * * *
To take, first, the familiar theory that there is
something inherently “un-British” in compul-
sory military training. Even if this were true,
it would have no bearing whatever on the case.
Britain is not situated as we are. Britain has
44,000,000 people from among whom to raise a
voluntary or hired or mercenary army, and
44,000,000 people to pay for that army, and, so
far as concerns its own islands, which are its
main consideration, it has only 121,000 square
miles of country to defend. Australia has only
4,000,000 people, while it has 3,000,000 square
miles of country to defend. Moreover, conquest
in the case of Great Britain would only mean
absorption by another civilised white race of the
same family, the same literature, the same habits
of thought, and practically the same religion and
mode of government, and even if the compulsory
partnership lasted for centuries or for ever, it
would only mean, at the worst, a consolidation of
white races. If Britain likes to fool with
that risk it has a perfect right to do
so. But the conquest of Australia would
probably mean the loss of our white status,
the subjection of our women to a people with
whom woman is a slave and polygamy a habit,
and the replacement of Christianity by Joss or
Buddha. If Britain were extinguished by Ger-
many it would merely become a powerful member
—probably the most powerful member—of a great
white civilised empire, with the chance that
some day its subsidiary sovereign might become
the head of that empire. It doesn’t take the risk,
as we do, of having its daughters sold in the
Chinese slave markets or disposed of to the
licensed Japanese brothels. Even if the system
of depending upon a feeble little army of
mercenaries is good enough for Britain —which is
more than doubtful—it doesn’t follow that it is
good enough for Australia, any more than the fact
that the rabbit is carefully preserved and
encouraged in England proves that the multi-
tudinous bunny should be preserved and treated
as a friend and brother in Australia. Our present
rabbit policy is quite as un-British as—in fact is
far more un-British than —our proposed defence
policy, and the rabbit is quite as good an argu-
ment as the soldier.
* * * *
But as a matter of fact Britain for centuries
depended on compulsory military and naval
service. It was compulsory service that won its
land battles from Ethandune, over 1000 years ago,
down to the days of Marlborough, and even
later. And it was compulsory service that won
its naval battles until the days of Trafalgar.
Indeed, compulsory service for defence purposes
is still the law in Britain, though the law isn’t
enforced these days. The British people only
abandoned compulsory military service even in
foreign wars about a century ago, and substituted
for it the dubious habit of subsidising foreign
armies, of depending on foreign alliances, or on
hiring foreign mercenaries—the last-named prac-
tice was followed as recently as the time of the
Crimean war. But however “British” these
methods may be, they are of no possible use to
Australia. We cannot make foreign alliances for
offence and defence; the power to do so is want-
ing. Even if we could, our 4,000,000 people can’t
put up the money for subsidies to foreign allies
on the lavish scale that Britain used to adopt.
And we can’t hire a German Legion at
a few days’ notice as Britain did in the
Crimean days. A serviceable Chilian Legion
might perhaps be obtained for cash, but that is
exceedingly doubtful, for the old species of mer-
cenary soldier has almost died out; and in any
case, Chili is very far off, and in periods of great
stress the hired legion that arrives late might
almost as well not arrive at; all. Moreover, when
4,000,000 people form a lonesome white man’s out-
post, with 400,000,000 probable enemies at their
very doors, and the remote British suzerain has
very little in the shape of an army, and despair-
ingly admits that the strain of keeping up its
navy to the “ two-power standard,” which is said
to be the irreducible minimum required for safety,
is getting to be past its strength, the case may soon
be beyond being helped by treaties or alleviated by
the aid of dubious mercenaries. It is time to fall
back on the old British practice that lasted for
over 1000 years, instead of on the present British
methods which really only date from somewhere
about 1832. And compulsory personal training is
no more an infringement of liberty than com-
pulsory taxation for the support of a hired army.
Something must be compulsory—either service or
cash. And it is more manly to submit to com-
pulsory training for our own defence than to
follow the present example of Britain, which
nowadays scorns what it calls “conscription,”
and depends in great part for its defence on the
conscript forces of Japan.
» * * *
Then, in addition to the folk who babble about
thingsthat are allegedly “British” and things that
areallegedly “un-British,” there are the cranks like
Keir Sardie and his kind, who talk vaguely
about “peace,’’and blither about “arbitration,”
and hold forth at large about the “ Brotherhood
of Man.” Peace is a beautiful thing, but it cannot
be preserved by having no adequate reserve of
trained citizens to enforce order against the
possible foreign invader, any more than it can be
maintained by having no police to preserve order
against the possible local disturber. If the interests
of peace forbid us to be prepared against the Asiatic
who may break into Australia 500,000 strong, then
they equally forbid us to prepare against the
burglar who may break, one strong, into Keir
Hardie’s private domicile when he pays us a
visit. And arbitration, unfortunately, isn’t likely
to be of any use to us. The one question on which
we are likely to- quarrel with Asia is the question
of the free admission of Asiatics to Australia, and
the swamping of our white status, our civilisation,
our religion, our prospects, and everything that
we prize, by myriads of colored settlers. On
that question we can no more arbitrate than Keir
Hardie could arbitrate on a proposal to sell his
daughter, if he has one, to servitude in the
Japanese Yosliiwarra. As for the Brotherhood
of Man, it is a good phrase, but it really
means no more than would the Brotherhood
of Animal. The Chinaman, the Hindu and the
white Australian are fellow men, all presumably
the work of a common Creator, and consequently
they should, presumably, live in harmony—but
they don’t. The cow, the tiger and the boa-con-
strictor are fellow animals, all presumably the
work of a common Creator, and they should, pre-
sumably, live in harmony—but they don’t. If
Keir Hardie and his kind will try the experi-
ment of introducing the tiger and the boa-
constrictor wholesale into England, and turning
them loose to establish the Brotherhood of Animal
along with the local cow, then the question of
the Brotherhood of Man may perhaps receive
serious consideration in this country. And if
peace and unpreparedness and arbitration do
any good in the first case, then we may
begin to seriously consider them in the second.
But just now we have to do with Things
As They Are, while dreamers like Keir Hardie
talk of Things As They Might Be. And
we are the lonely sentinels of the white race
—the people who will have to stand the brunt of
the trouble when it comes ; while the silly globe-
trotting doctrinaires, who come here for a few
brief weeks, and preach the gospel of non-
resistance, and then bolt away to the comparative
safety of Europe, will be out of harm’s way.
* * * *
Long ago, before the invention of cannon, and
rifles, and gunpowder, and ironclads, when men
wore armoi - , and fought and shouted and labored
in hand-to-hand conflict in the forefront of the
unpleasantness, the European and the Asiatic
met on something like equal terms. Then the
Saracens annihilated the Crusaders ; the Turks
desolated Europe up to the walls of Vienna
and threatened the Holy Father in Rome;
the Arabs swamped Spain; the Tartars
conquered Russia ; and the smoke of the
cities to which the Huns had applied the
torch was visible from the walls of Paris. In
later years, when Europe had developed firearms
and military tactics, and had built great fleets,
and constructed cannon, and forged steel and iron
defences, while Asia still relied on the spear and
the sword, and still labored and shouted and bel-
lowed personally in hand-to-hand disturbance,
Europe acquired a huge contempt for Asia, and
regarded it as a minus quantity or thereabouts.
Then certain European nations—especially Britain
—went mad, and proceeded to teach Asia the
secrets of Europe’s military superiority. Conse-
quently Japan has risen, and China is rising, and
Afghanistan is making its own rifles and its own
cannon ; and the days when the camp-fires of
Asia could be seen from the walls of Paris
may yet return, because history has a habit
of repeating itself which is dreadful to con-
template. And inasmuch as a peaceful atti-
tude was of no account against the Tartars,
and seeing that the Huns took no stock in arbitra-
tion, this lone, solitary outpost of the white man
will do well to prepare for the day of trouble.
There is no idea of “ militarism,” as it is popu-
larly called, in the proposal to train the youth of
Australia to the use of arms. They will not be
available for foreign service, but purely for home
defence. When the men whose votes can make
war are also the men who have to go out, rifle on
shoulder, and conduct the war, it is only in the
last extremity that war is made. The civil popu-
lation is often cheerfully ready to order a hired
army out to needless battle, but it seldom orders
itself out without good reason. And the best
guarantee that other nations will keep the peace
towards us is to show a front which will convince
them that war against us is a dangerous experi-
ment.
* * * *
The weak point in the military scheme of the
DeAkin Government —its naval scheme is full of
weak points—is its inadequacy. It is proposed that
all able-bodied young male Australians shall, for
three years, put in 18 days’ training per annum.
The training is to end at the age of 21, yet the
citizen is to be liable to be called out for the de-
fence of his country till he reaches the age of 40.
At 40, according to the Deakin Government’s
proposal, his only qualification for defending his
country will be that he learned something of
shooting and a little military tactics 19 years
before. This is a most unreliable qualification.
The able-bodied citizen should put in at least a
week’s careful and vigorous training every year
till he reaches 40, and becomes exempt. He
should do this, partly for the good of his country,
and partly for his own good, to keep his muscles
in condition, and to prevent his paunch getting
out of bounds. Switzerland, which has developed
more than any other Power the principle
of defence by a citizen soldiery, trains its
men for a week each year up to the
age of 44, and if Australia did the
same it would be making no needless or excessive
sacrifice in the cause of national safety. No com-
munity can expect to acquire a whole new conti-
nent without being called upon, sooner or later,
to show cause why it should retain possession.
No mere fragment of humanity can constitute
itself the remotest outpost of the white race, and
plant itself in that capacity at the gate of huge,
angry Asia, without being invited, one day or
another, to maintain its position by brute force.
And to subject its young men to 54 days’ military
training in the whole course of their lives—in
other words, to make them camp out and shoot on
their holidays for three years when otherwise they
would probably camp out and fish—isn’t taking a
serious view of the position. The idea is some-
thing much better than has been hitherto
attempted, but even then it doesn’t amount to a
serious attempt to deal with the situation.
NAVAL DEFENCE.
While the Australian Government’s land defence
policy is, up to a certain point, fairly courageous
and enterprising, its naval defence scheme is
timorous and unsatisfactory. The scheme bears
strong internal evidence of being dictated, not by
Australian interests, but by foreign considerations,
and it fails to offer even a tentative solution of
the problem of coast defence, confining its atten-
tion strictly to port defence. Something
much better was hoped for from a Govern-
ment which had shown itself sufficiently in
sympathy with Australian ideals to condemn the
humiliating naval tribute agreement. But it is
evident that the influence of the British Admiralty
and Foreign Office, combined with the disinclina-
tion to suggest to an Australian Parliament the
new expenditure required for the beginning of an
efficient naval defence policy, has been effective
enough to turn “I would” into “I dare not.”
Why the British Admiralty should show an active
hostility to any suggestion for a real Australian
navy it is hard to understand. The British War
Office does not take up the same attitude with
regard to an Australian army. And yet no
argument of any validity can apply against one
more than against another. It is not, presumably,
imagined that the Australian navy will ever set
out to bombard London, any more than it is
thought that the Australian Light Horse will
ravage Hampstead Heath. But, whatever the
reason, or absence of reason, the fact stands that
any proposal from Australia for efficient naval
defence meets with jealous hostility from the
British Admiralty authorities. They are ready
to take our money. They will take our men to be
trained on their ships. They will even let
us provide ships, if they are officered
and controlled by British persons. But an
Australian navy having the same status as the
Australian army, committed first to the defence of
Australia, and, secondly, to the furtherance of
such Imperial interests as the Australian Parlia-
ment may sanction—that, to their mind, is abhor-
rent. Still, there is no legal, or even sentimental,
reason why the prejudices of the British Admiralty
should be considered. It is difficult to understand,
therefore, why an Australian Government, which
in other matters is Australian, should in
this one matter submit to the dictation of a
British department. But that dictation is what
the announced Deakin naval policy clearly shows.
* * * *
There is at the present time particularly little
cause why an Australian Government should con-
sider the unreasonable British jealousy in this
matter. The Australian Parliament has just
approved under the tariff of a grant in aid of
British trade which will represent from £1,000,000
to £1,500,000 a year. That, coming directly out
of our revenue by Customs remissions and pre-
sented to British manufacturers, may be taken as
a fair return for the measure of defence to Aus-
tralia which the Imperial navy represents—a
measure which has been very considerably reduced
since the Anglo-Japanese treaty and the with-
drawal from the Pacific of all first-class British
warships. Australia is no longer liable to the
taunt that it takes something of defence and
gives nothing in return. Begging for the time
the question as to whether—being a new country
with much developmental work yet to be done—
it can reasonably be expected to do more than
undertake to defend its own territory and hold
this lonely outpost for the white race, Australia
has made a contribution, and a very generous con-
tribution, to the treasury of Imperial interests.
It can now go ahead in the matter of its own
defence without the slightest feeling of unfairness
to the Mother Country.
» * * *
The Deakin naval defence policy relates purely
to ports, not coasts. There are to be provided
each year for three years, three submarines and
two torpedo-boat destroyers, not suitable for
ocean work. The total naval defence at the
end of the three-years period would thus be nine
submarines and six torpedo-boat destroyers, and
these would be officered by the British Navy,
and divided among the Australian ports. They
would provide no sea-faring career for Aus-
tralians, no defence for the Australian coast.
Their sole benefit would be to make Australian
ports a little safer and a little better as bases for
another navy. That is why the proposals are
fairly consistent with British Admiralty ideas.
They represent in no real sense an Australian
navy or the beginning of an Australian navy.
The Australian Naval Defence Committee, repre-
senting the best skill Australia could command in
naval matters, proposed, as the beginning of an
Australian navy, four ocean-going destroyers, 16
destroyers of the River class ( not river boats, but
built for rough water and ocean work within a
limited range), and four torpedo boats. That
would have been at least a flotilla which could
have taken to the sea and put up a fight off
Broken Bay or Thursday Island. The Bulletin
did not endorse that programme, which it con-
sidered far too timid. This paper could see no
reason why Australia should not commence at
once with the first vessel of a real fighting type.
For
The torpedo-boat’s a spiteful little vixen ;
She is long and slim, and saucy as a witch ;
She can set the green and slippery sea a-foaming,
And can throw a tube and never drop a stitch ;
Her elder sister’s yonder grim destroyer ;
She can show her heels to all the navy’s bunch ;
But both of them stand back when work is needed—
The battleship’s the lady with the punch.
If Japan can build battleships, why not Australia?
If little South American republics, with their
infinitely inferior resources, can have cruisers,
why not Australia ? But the Deakin Government
goes back on even the proposals of the Naval
Committee and puts forth a half-hearted plan,
not for a navy, but for an improved system of
harbor defence.
* * * *
There are national reasons against this strangling
of Australian naval aspirations. The Common-
wealth should never be satisfied until it is
guardian of its own fate on sea and land;
should never be content whilst the interference
of outsiders is allowed to control its policy in
vital matters. There are strategic reasons of the
weightiest against the shunting of an Australian
navy. It is more and more evident each year that,
in case of a general war, the Pacific will be
stripped of British warships and Australia be left
at the mercy of the Asiatic fleets. In that case, a
flotilla of port submarines and destroyers would
be useful in helping to safeguard the chief ports ;
but they would be useless to prevent or even harass
the landing of a raiding force ; they would be abso-
lutely ineffective, say, against an attack on Broken
Bay designed to cut the greater part of the popu-
lation of Australia off from the northern coal-
fields, and to set up a base for the capture of
Sydney and Newcastle. Australia needs a navy
to patrol its coast, not a superior system of sub-
marine mines to guard one or two ports against a
frontal attack. If we’re not fit to build a navy —
if from complaisance to the British Admiralty,
or through cowardice and incompetence, we can’t
hope to hold our coasts, better not worry about
appointing a High Commissioner to London.
Rather let us send ambassadors to Tokio and
Pekin, and make in advance the best terms
possible with our future enemies.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Voice of Balaam, the Son of Beor.
Sydney Evening News recently published some
articles signed “E.5.P.,” concerning the Port
Arthur battlefields, and thereabouts; and it didn’t
seem to once occur to the News that it was paying
its globe-trotter to cruelly confound the blessed
“ policy of the paper.” For example, take this
(14/12/ 07) about the Tokio Exhibition :
The Japanese have certainly now arrived at the point
of manufacturing all the European articles required for
their home consumption—articles which, until they did
so, had been imported from Europe and America, and sold
to them at a high profit. This will never be again, for
everything, from a toothbrush to a warship, from a
pocket-book to a Maxim gun, from a gentleman’s necktie
to a piano, was there. So the days of imported goods
of a miscellaneous nature, “ Made in Germany,” or in
England or America, are gone for ever, except in the case
of very few articles, which, for some reason or another,
cannot yet be manufactured in Japan. But they will be,
probably, by the time of the proposed International Exhi-
tion of 1912 .... Times have changed within the last
20 years, when I was advised by a friend to bring to Japan
some little crystal articles for presents to the Japanese,
“ for, you know,” said he, “ they have no glass in their
country, and they cannot make it.”
Let’s think. “They have no glass, and they
cannot make it.” Now, where has The Bulletin
heard some expression like that lately ?
. . . The Japanese Government is now paying back
with interest the long years of loss they suffered through
their tariff being dictated to them, in order that the
foreign importer might he the gainer, by making it now
considerably harder on the pockets of Europeans to
purchase their own manufactures. But in this the
foreigners are only being paid back in their own coin.
It is a case of retribution, which the Japanese consider
perfectly justifiable, and, if the foreigners don’t like it,
why, then they can go, and there will not be many tears
shed at their departure.
That is a glimpse of the progress Japan has made
under Protection within a brief 20 years. And
having paid a correspondent to see and be struck
by this progress, the News still maunders its self-
discredited yarn that Protection spells ruin, and
only Freetrade means progress.


Bill Lyne.
The big man of the Federal Session just closed
was Bill Lyne. He overshadowed all others
completely. Taking the Tariff schedule in his
charge “ the rogue elephant plodded ponder-
ously with it through forests of obstruction and
auagmires of talk. What he couldn t smash he
got round. Sometimes he trumpeted with rage.
More often he caressed the Opposition with his
prehensile trunk, and moved that Opposition
gently but firmly aside. Occasionally he dropped
a little bit of his load on the road. But it was
not often. When the end came with the Olinst-
mas adjournment there was, so far as the
Reps, were concerned, a fine high tariff wall
well builded. It had some little gaps ; Australia
will see to those gaps later. But, on the whole,
it is a good wall. And Bill Lyne was builder-in-
chief. There was not much eloquence spent in
the achievement, not much talk of principle.
Lyne took what he could get, and the best he
could get; that was his principle. Lyne was in
the House always, plodding away with facts and
arguments and persuasions, getting through an
amount of work that would have killed a
more imaginative, nervy man ; that was
his method. It was a triumph of business-
like persistence. Bill Lyne moves up by it
a big step in Australian consideration. At
onetime, he floundered hopelessly in the Federal
Legislature. He for long succeeded in doing no
more than hang on to the edge of Circumstance.
He seemed out of touch with the new spirit
of Australian life. At one time, The Bulletin
(which can afford to acknowledge mistakes when
it makes them) said that “ Bill Lyne must
go,” just as it once spoke scornfully of
“ J. Culvert Watson.” Now it is evident Bill
Lyne must stay. He is among the big leaders.
♦
“Where the White Man Can’t Work.”
Up North the Kanaka, said to be the very man
to stand the Queensland climate, is thinning out;
he goes back to his islands, but leaves the bones
of 20 per cent, of him behind to manure the
Queensland canefields. And as Thomas Tanna
departs the white man surges north to take
his place—the white man for whom, accord-
ing to Bruce Smith down south, and Mrs.
Molyneux Parkes down south, and Janet
Mrs. Clarke, also down south, the torrid
north is utterly and hopelessly unfitted. With
his pick and his shovel and his swag and his
other sundries the w'hite man hustles on his way
towards the equator, consequently Queensland,
which in 1861 stood for much less than 3 per cent,
of the population of what is now the Common-
wealth, now contains over 13 per cent.
With this rush of population northward,
and this replacing of the nigger by the
white man in tropical Australia, a curious thing
is happening. The death-rate of Queensland is
reported as showing a very large decrease. In
1906, according to the just-published Victorian
Year Book, Queensland had a smaller death-rate
than Victoria, N.S.W., S.A., Westralia, or Tas-
mania, and a far lower death-rate than any coun-
try in Europe, Asia, Africa, or America; further,
it is represented as running a neck-and-neck race
with Maoriland for the honor of having the very
lowest death-rate in the world. So much better
does the white man thrive in tropical Queens-
land—where blatant and irresponsible fools say
that he can neither live nor work —that the death-
rate there is now not much more than half that of
the United Kingdom, and less than half that of
Germany. The imported nigger population, said
to be “specially adapted to the tropics,” died
like flies in the Queensland canefields, and it was
the huge mortality among these and other colored
races —also alleged to be “ specially adapted to the
tropics”—which once made the Queensland death-
rate fairly high as Australian rates go, though even
at its worst it has, for many years, shown a
better record than the healthiest of European
countries. But as the Kanaka diminishes, and
ceases to adulterate the bills of mortality, Queens-
land begins to do extraordinary things. Here
(from page 336 of the new Victorian Year Book)
are the figures :
deaths per 100,000 inhabitants.
De-
crease.
1902. 1903. 1904. 1905. 1906. 1902-6
Victoria .. 1340 1290 1192 1210 1242 98
Westralia .. 1363 1260 1191 1083 1187 176
S. Australia .. 1186 1079 1022 1015 1034 152
N.S.W. .. 1195 1163 1062 1013 989 206
Queensland .. 1208 1238 1011 1047 956 252
Maoriland .. 1050 1040 957 927 931 119
In
crease.
1902-6
Tasmania .. 1090 1186 1101 1028 1117 27
It is a quaint superstition, and a silly survival of
the belief in the healthful qualities of the fatal
British variety of weather, which causes Tas-
mania, with 1117 deaths per 100,000 people, to be
regarded as the sanatorium of Australia, while
Queensland, with only 956, is spoken of with terror
and alarm, as if it were a species of white man’s
grave. The Bulletin, of course, isn’t sanguine
enough to suppose that the publication of these
official figures will make the slightest difference
to the circulation of the silly Tory lie about the
North being a country where “the white man
can’t live.” That lie will probably last 50 years yet.
Many of the wealthy Tories of Australia are
wilful and perverted liars ; the others are simply
afflicted with the unspeakable illiteracy of the
fashionable classes, and are frankly ignorant
of things which a hod-carrier or cor-
poration laborer would be ashamed not
to know. Therefore, persons like a certain
potentate of the N.S.W. Chamber of Commerce
will probably still go on telling considerable audi-
ences that the country in which the white man
exhibits the smallest death-rate save one on
the face of the earth is quite uninhabitable
except by niggers. It is a curious side issue,
by the way, that the only country which beat
Queensland for healthfulness last year is the one
which the Tory declares has been “ruined by
Socialistic legislation.” Apparently hot weather
and Socialism agree with the white man's consti-
tution, and do a lot to postpone his funeral.
+. .
Mostly Concerning one Smithkins.
“ p.” tells a yarn with a moral hanging to its tail:
Every few years a Peace Society comes to the surface,
spouts a little, and then sinks again to darkness and the
depths. One has just begun to spout again ; and I have
been looking for the name of a dear old chap who has
been a prominent office-bearer in several previous
“arrivals,” but I can’t find it. Perhaps, like me, he has
been thinking over something that happened years ago,
and has decided not to spout any more.
The dear old chap—not so old then—was at his desk on
the teacher’s platform. He had “ views” even in those days.
He hadbeen in the Church, and his “ views ” had lifted him
out of it. He hated the idea of punishments—corporal
punishments especially. No cane ever stuck out of his
desk. Now, Smithkins knew that. Smithkins was
a little mosquito of a fellow, full of irritating
buzz and sting, and the dear old chap who wouldn’t
sting back was Smithkins’ victim every day. It went on
for months. Of course the thing had to end some time ;
and it ended all in a vivid moment. Exasperated to the
breaking point, the dear old chap looked round help-
lessly. There was no cane, no strap. There was only an
ink-pot; and as he had to do something, he shied that.
Now, he had had no practice in shying ink-pots. It was
a fool of a weapon, anyway ; for he got the ink down his
own sleeve as he hurled it. It deluged the best hoy in
the class, missed Smithkins, and smashed in the middle of
a map of Europe. It raised a big black volcano in the
heart of Holland, and inaugurated a new European river
system flowing into the Mediterranean. But it only
made Smithkins grin, and he was still grinning when the
poor old inexperienced punisher, horrified at his own
outbreak, rushed out of the room. He left the school
shortly afterwards. He knew that he was a mockery.
But he hung on to his peace notions, and it was he
whose name used to be among the list of chief officers
whenever one of these societies came to the surface to
do another spout, and it is he whose name I can’t find
now. He must have reflected that Smitiikins always
stuck his horrible little sting into him, and into no other
teacher; and he must have remembered how his no-
physical-force ideas encouraged Smithkins to come on
and be annoying and offensive ; and how, when flesh and
blood couldn’t stand it any longer, his unprepared ness
and inexperience made a horrible mess of things, and did
more damage to himself and the best boy than it did to
the grinning Smithkins.
With his helplessness and his futile ink-bottle, he
represented the Australian levies as they will be—if
the Peace Society has its way—when Smithkins in-
vades this country from Asia 100,000 strong, and our
people have to turn out, trained or untrained, and throw
something. And his flight and his resignation represent
what will happen to Australia after the first battle —if
the Peace Society has its way. And the months of tor-
ment which he endured from Smithkins before the col-
lapse represent exactly the time that peaceful, unarmed
Australia will yethave to put up with—supposingthe Peace
Society has its way—before the final trouble, the helpless,
exasperated throwing of the ink-pot at the enemy, and
then the downfall.
The Country Workman.
During the discussion, in Vic. Legislative Coun-
cil, upon the amending Factories Act, the old,
familiar and wearisome yap about the country
laborer was raised for the millionth time. About
20 Rich Landlords rose, in succession, to allege
that, while Wages Boards and such things may be
right enough for the large towns, they are not
needed in the country. Also, for the 20,000 th
time, it was mentioned that Wages Boards would
spread death and destruction amongst the primary
industries, and that an eight-hours day was “ not
practicable ”on farms. Yet, at some later date,
the same heavy imbeciles will arise to complain of
the drift of young men from the country to the
towns, and they will make severe remarks about
the young men of to-day, and compare them scorn-
fully with the early pioneers. Finally, one of the
orators will waddle down to the Argus
office and insert an advertisement for “man
for dairy, wages 17s. 6d. per week and found.”
Just at the time the Legislative Council was cut-
ting the country clauses out of the Factories Act,
the Western District butter factories were issuing
their November payments for milk. Here are
some of them : Colac, £20,942; Camperdown,
£10,210; Glenormiston, £8324; Warrnambool,
£6381; Grasmere, £6616; Farnham, £4711 —a
total for six factories, and for one month only, of
£57,184. At Colac the individual cheques for ’the
month ran from £413, £244, £2lB, £2ll, down-
wards. At Grasmere the largest cheque was £220,
and there were 17 over £IOO. At Glenormiston
the top cheque was £361, and there were 25 over
£IOO, while the average for 110 suppliers was £75.
And this is the industry that would crumble to
pieces if it paid decent wages ! The fact is that
the dairying industry could easily afford to pay
double the present miserable rate of wages, if the
landlord only sat on its chest in moderation. The
talk about an eight-hours day is just so much dust
raised to befog the main issue. The employees
will not trouble much about the hours, so long as
they are decently paid, and decently treated. A
Wages Board, comprised of country residents,
could, in a couple of days, fix up a scheme that
would suit the industry admirably. At present,
dairying is the one industry at which grown men
are unable to earn enough to marry upon ; and, in
an empty country like this, such a state of affairs
—for which, as the figures given show, there is no
excuse—is a scandal.
South Africa and the Unemployed.
A letter from a land which has tried Freetrade,
plenty of cheap imports, the importation of capi-
tal to develop the great natural resources, low-
priced colored labor, and all the things Bruce
Smith admires:—
Presently I, too, shall be among the unemployed, and
my wife and babe may be asking me for the bread I may
not be able to supply. That is the thought which keeps
throbbing in my brain, the ever-present haunting dream
of thousands in golden, sun-tipped South Africa. And
now the thing is done. My dream of permanent employ-
ment in the land of promise is over, and in a few weeks’
time my wife and 1, in company with hundreds of like
unfortunates, will be journeying we scarce know whither,
but away from this country of disenchantment, this
devil’s apple called South Africa. The personal note is
always with us, but to-day I understand, as has never
before been possible, the feelings of that weird and hope-
less assembly of out-of-works which ever grows larger
and larger and more insistent for work and bread. And
to understand is much.
For the past three years, and perhaps ever since
war devastated this land, a deadly inertia has been
gradually creeping over the trade of the country,
seizing upon the vital centres of commerce, stifling
all initiative and enterprise, and dragging down
the colonies, new and old alike, in its relentless and
never-ceasing advance. The causes are not far to seek.
The thousands who flocked hither at the close of the war
were not producers. They came to import, and to buy,
and to sell, and to write, and to do a thousand and one
things which do not matter in a new country. Few came
to work, fewer came to farm, none came to manufacture
and to produce. It was really a rally of the—shall it be
said ?—useless ; a gathering of men whose one aim was to
serve their own ends and to feather their own nests. The
great seaports—Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London,
Durban, and even outcast Lourenco Marques, became
crowded with merchants and their clerks. Their harbors
were filled with ocean-tramps and with great liners stuffed
with the merchandise which was not wanted, and never
would be wanted till the true settlers, the workers, en-
tered into the heritage awaiting them. The warehouses
were glutted with goods, the yards were piled high with
timber destined to rot away in the fierce noonday heat,
the railway trucks groaned under their loads of useless
commodities hurriedly sent up country, none much cared
whither so long as they went—but the new life, the new
vigor, the new' strength of the community never arrived.
This is but one cause of the present unparalleled de-
pression. Over-importation has much to answer for, but
the whole burden does not rest upon the shoulders of the
merchants. The mines, those vast pulsating engines for
the destruction of human life and the levelling of human
intellect, did not play their part. They fouled the
national nest. Their owners gambled heavily and lost.
The throw of the dice miscarried. The shares went down,
down, down, and the dividends doled out to the pockets
of their Park-lane owners never reached this country,
but such as they were remained in the coffers of Lombard-
street, or were dissipated in the swirl of London society.
This is the second cause of the depression in South
Africa. And the third follow’s hard upon it. It is the
tinkering with constitutions, the pulling down and
the building up, the incessant question-asking in the
Commons, the constant interference of the Mother
Country in things colonial. Here in South Africa we are
not free men. London and Jew'ry own us. The Parlia-
ment of the Empire and the Under-Colonial Secretary, or
the Under-Colonial Secretary and the Parliament of the
Empire, possess our souls, and the Kaffir, the Hottentot
and the Zulu alone are truly free.
During this month over 2000 men will be thrown upon
the streets by discharge from our railways. The great
businesses and corporations are vomiting forth their sur-
plus. De Beers, the richest company south of the Equator,
is sending forth to poverty 500 men. Large firms are
closing down. Warehouses are shutting. In Durban
alone over 300 shops and warehouses stand empty—and
in a few months time the exodus of British subjects from
South Africa, British born and bred, will assume even
more alarming proportions than it already has done.
Dutchmen will inherit the land. Jews will possess the
mines. And Scots and Chinamen will hold fast to the
warehouses and stores. At least, so say the enemies of
Scotland.
In the meantime, the personal element will ever intrude
itself into a widening circle of unfortunate homes, and
the hopes and aspirations of many will turn from the
flesh pots of the Transvaal to the fertile plains and valleys
of Australia. Sydney Harbor and Table Bay will be
joined by an ever-increasing stream of unfortunates—
passing, however, in the one direction only, since the
lessons of South Africa have now been too well learned.
4.
Some English Railway Facts.
A recent cable announced that the London press
was making merry at the efforts of the Australian
Government to arrange industrial matters on a
basis fair alike to the worker, the employer, and
the public. The London press seemingly cannot
understand a country where no one is allowed to
rob. That seems to them an absolute negation of
the spirit of freedom. It would be much more
sane on the part of the English press to look
to its own land. British railway management,
for instance, is a fearsome thing; but so far
there has been no press campaign against
it. The position taken up by the railway
directors is that English farmers and manufac-
turers must use the railways, and, therefore, are
fair game. The foreign manufacturer and
farmer, on the other hand, will not ship goods
over the English railways if the freight absorbs
all the profit; therefore, the foreigner must be
dealt with tenderly. In The Bulletin, lately,
a writer pointed out how the English hop
industry was steadily declining, in spite of the
fact that it is worked with the cheapest labor
in the world. And what wonder when the English
railways charge 355. per ton on hops from Ashfield
in Kent, while the French grower can ship his
from Baris to London for 17s. 6d. ? The Chamber
of Agriculture complains that the coast towns of
all Britain can be supplied more cheaply with
produce from farms 150 miles away in France than
they can be from Lincolnshire over the English
railways. French eggs are carried from Dover to
London for 3s. 3d. per ton, while English eggs
laid around the same seaport are charged 225. 7d.
per ton, thus giving the foreigner 19s. 4d. prefer-
ence on every ton carried. On cherries, the
foreigner has a preference of 10s. per ton; his
dead poultry is given 14s. per ton advantage over
the local chicken, and the same applies to butter
and cheese. England was once a great silk manu-
facturing nation, but the railways helped to
kill the business by giving the French silks
preference in the matter of freight, and
carrying English goods at owners’ risk while
the foreign goods were carried at companies’
peril. The most startling example of preference
to the foreigner is in the matter of radiators, on
whjch the railways charge 365. Bd. per ton from
Glasgow, where they are made, to Nottingham,
where they are largely used, while it only costs
12s. per ton to bring the same machine from New
York to Nottingham. Fish caught on the
Scottish coas-® by British boats pay £4lss. per ton,
while the foreign boats that bring their surplus
into Aberdeen, and send it by the same train, pay
only £1 per ton. Foreign bar iron from London to
Staffordshire costs from 6s. 4d. on Belgian to 9s. lOd.
on German ; British bar iron from Staffordshire to
London pays 13s. 4d. Foreign wire from London
to Birmingham is charged from Bs. 2d. on Dutch to
11s. 2d. on German; English wire from Birming-
ham to London pays 245. lOd. yer ton. After an
exhaustive analysis and dissection, the English
Chamber of Commerce decided that what would
cost 6s. 3d. freightage in the TJ.S.A. would
amount to 295. 2d. in Britain, and that
for equal service and tonnage the English
merchants and farmers paid £2,000,000 more
than did their German rivals on the State-
owned railways of the Fatherland. And with all
this sort of robbery and national treachery going
on right at its own doors, the London press can
find time and space to throw sarcasms at Austra-
lian efforts to make trade and industry fair and
equitable!
♦
Some of Cohen’s Security.
Cohen has some splendid security on the northern
rivers of N.S.W. Early in the campaign
against .Nature in that part, officialdom
just spent money and “gave employment.’’
At the mouth of every bar-harbor may be
seen cropping up amongst the sandbanks and
siltbeds a disorderly heap of rocks ; these are all
that is left of training-walls, which didn’t train
worth a cent. Afterwards, the imported “ex-
perts” came along. Their plans were in most
cases so absurdly extravagant that even spend-
thrift Governments were not game to go the
whole borrowed hog with them. Despite it all,
the river entrances are not one whit better than
they were. The local people have all along
been less concerned about real harbor im-
provements than about getting money spent
in the district, in the interests of the pub
and grocery trade. When the vote petered
out, the gloom which settled upon the affected
towns was thick enough to trap a, fly. Having
nothing else to do, the residents in such cases
held meetings that bubbled over with indigna-
tion. With a strongly-worded telegram in his
pocket, the local member would next day haunt
the Works Department, or ask questions in
the House, or move the adjournment. Then
there was another aspect of these works
which was winked at by the public,
because any exposure might have meant stoppage.
In one case it was shown clearly that a contractor
was paid for stones of a weight greater than the
lifting capacity of the quarry cranes. More than
once the clay strippings, too, were trucked and
jettisoned, and charged as five-ton stones. The
river and harbor dredging has been very little
better. For the past 30 years or thereabouts
plants have been employed in the Clarence and
other rivers lifting the silt with pump and bucket,
and depositing it a mile or so away on some
shallows, to be washed back again with the first
flooding of the river. If there is a day of reckon-
ing for the N.S.W. Works Department, there
must surely be a scent of brimstone already
hanging around.
o
The Queensland Farm Laborer.
The unspeakable Tory press of Brisbane, which
for wilful misrepresentation sprints hard after the
Australian record, is busy trying to rob Kidston
of the support of the “ Black Soil ” members, who
hail from the Darling Downs. The proposal of
Kidston to bring the rural industries within the
scope of the Wages Boards is the stick these
members are being beaten off with. The House
of Fossils refused to accept the clause, “just
because ”; and the Tory papers are urging the
farmers’ representatives to render another Kid-
ston regime impossible, “ just because.” They
ha ve no other argument worth mentioning. “Just
because ” constitutes their hope of another finan-
cial drunk, and more Philp. There is no arguable
reason why rural laborers should not be afforded
some sort of legalised relief, if they can make out a
case. All that Kidston asked isthatthey should be
entitled to be heard. Queensland specially lays
itself out to encourage the “primary industries.”
It employs a staff of experts in the Agricultural
Department; it maintains several State farms as
object lessons; it imports stock and seeds and
trees for distribution; it pays the Orient Co.
£25,000 a year to go up to Brisbane from Sydney
for butter consignments ; it takes charge of the
export meat industry ; it advances money at 5 per
cent, to concerns that handle the farmers’ produce.
Having done all this for the industry, the very
least that the State can do is to see that the
servants of the industry have a chance to remedy
any grievances they believe they suffer from.
Apart from all that, it is supposed to be one of the
great pillars on which British liberty is based that
justice shall not be denied to even the meanest;
yet the Tory party of Queensland, which professes
to regard old British institutions with extra-
special veneration, denies the means of justice to
this farm-laboring class. Why ? Is it fear ? Is
it because their alleged regard for the pillars of
British liberty is a sham, while their love for
cheap-sweated labor is real ?
The Labor Leader from Afar.
“ Two Seas” looks back upon his ill-spent youth:
The English Labor agitator, who blows hitherwards
when the agitating business is slack in his own country,
is surprised and grieved to find that ‘‘the Australian
workman is too fat and contented.” That kind of work-
man has no use for a dude in a velvet coat—a dude whose
mission in life is to stir up the thin and discontented until
they “arise” and clank their fetters, and whirl their
chains around their heads, and, incidentally, provide
funds for a new velvet coat when the old one gets worn at
the seams and greasy around the collar, where the long,
oiled hair of the visitor dangles. But the men he
harangues in Australia can’t understand the language
designed to appeal to the English wage slave.
I recall my first acquaintance with the British work-
man in the days of my youth—not far distant. Most of
the “hands” in a relative’s factory had been working
there over 20 years. They served seven years’ appren-
ticeship at nominal wages, and, when out of their time,
earned from 20s. to 355. per week—a week being 60 hours
of strenuous toil. Some of them worked in cellars, ven-
tilated only through the trap-doons which led into the
workshops above. In these dismal dungeons, lit by
gas flares, and poisoned by the fumes of forges,
lacquering ovens, and sulphuric acid brass-dipping
tanks, men sweated with handkerchiefs tied over
their mouths the whole circle of the clock, with
li hour off for meals. And (ye gods !) such meals, eaten
in an atmosphere like a Presbyterian’s Hell. Most of
them were married men, who had to live near their work,
and a single room, at 6s. per week, in a crowded “ court ”
or alley—where the week’s washing had to be dried on a
line stretched across to the opposite neighbor’s window—
had to do for the whole family.
On Fridays, there was only a copper or two left for
tucker, and the errand boys, who fetched the men’s teas
from the neighboring shops, were clouted if they failed to
return with full value for the money. A tea order was
usually “a farthing’s worth of tea, a farthing’s
worth of sugar, a doorstep [slice of bread .-11111
butter] and a bloater ’’—total, ljd. If the “'doorstep”
or the bloater looked too thin, the urchin was sent back
with orders to change it. “ Cawfee ” was a luxury pur-
chased ready-made, and it was no unusual thing lor a
That Mighty Myth, the Public!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the daily paper editor is feeling ill at ease,
From malignant Cobdenitis and most hopeless
Bright’s disease,
There is only one reflection his disordered mind
can please—■
That perhaps it’s all the better for The Public !
When a policy propounded is too utterly absurd,
When it’s even more ridiculous than commonly is
heard,
There’s a grain of satisfaction in the editor’s last
word—
That perchance it may be better for The Public !
In the latest Tariff question he has got it on the
brain !
’Tis a daily and an hourly and perpetual refrain
That, although the manufacturer in some respects
may gain—
’Twill be something truly awful for The Public !
It may suit the men of Capital he’ll readily
consent;
It may also suit the workers to perhaps a less
extent;
And the shopkeepers and shopmen will not lose,
that’s evident —
But it’s something wholly frightful for The Public !
Civil servants may not feel it as remarkably
severe !
And with statesmen, lawyers, doctors, it will
scarcely interfere !
But the addle-headed editor to this will still
adhere—
That it’s really very dreadful for The Public !
’Tis a Tariff which, upon the whole, can do but
little harm
To the rich man, or the poor man, or the man who
owns a farm !
But what fills the fatuous editor with furious
alarm
Is the horrible effect upon The Public !
He will deal with every class in turn and show
that each may gain,
That it benefits, or fails to hurt, all classes in the
main ;
But although it may suit everyone his heart is
filled with pain
For the burdens it will place upon The Public !
That’s the curse of Cobdenitis and the bane of
Bright’s disease
To the editor who gets them very badly ; for, he
sees
Not alone the various classes, but, entirely outside
these,
An imaginary body called The Public !
“And suppose there’s more employment,” says
the Daily Heliograph,
Not by way of jocularity or editorial chaff,
But in solemn, sober seriousness that nearly kills
the staff,
“It amounts to subsidising by The Public ! ”
When you’ve counted individuals of every rank
and grade,
All the classes, masses, lasses, asses found in every
trade,
When a count of ALL professions and the idle rich
is made,
Where the Devil is this myth they call The Public ?
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


TYREE AUTOMATIC RABBIT DESTROYER.
Tests have now been made at Binda, Crookwell, Coota-
mundra, Randwiek, and other places. In every case the
rabbits were killed automatically in their burrows with-
out labor. Price, from £4 each.
TYREE AUTOMATIC SPRAYERS.
Thousands of these machines are now in use for killing
Grasshoppers, Prickly-pear, Lantana, Briars, Blackberries,
Poison-plant. For spraying sheep for Blowfly. For
Whitewashing, Painting, Disinfecting, Fire-extinguishing,
and numerous other purposes. Price, from £4 each. For
further particulars, write Tyree Lm, 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
man to pour some out of e can into bis mug, fill the can
up with water, and send the long-suffering bo.v back to
explain that he had made a mistake—it wasn’t “ cawfee ”
he was sent for, but a “screw” of 'baeca. The boy was
generally cuffed at both ends of his journey, but he was
used to that. His only trouble was to get a feed on any
day in the week. Have seen him getting his dinner by
the simple method of standing outside the door
of the peas-pudding shop and grabbing a pen’orth
from the hand of the first boy that came
out. He had no chance with the men’s trays,
for if only a corner from a “doorstep,” or the tail
from a bloater was missing, he had to take it back,
and, if his explanation wasn’t satisfactory enough to.
convince the coffee-shop proprietor, he was hurled out-
side with the mutilated food, and thumped heartily-
when he returned to the factory.
VVe have no boys like these in Australia—standing
around eating-houses with a wolfish glare in their eyes,
always alert and ready to grab food, or to duck from
the blow they are ever expecting. We have no men
like the fathers of these boys, whose bitter poverty
compels them to allow their children to hunt in the
streets with the stray dogs for food. But the little
dude in the velvet coat, having been so successful in
banishing poverty from England—by the simple method
of calling upon the poor to “ Arise 1" and clank their
chains—comes to Australia, and is disgusted to find
that the Australian workers “ are too contented and
fat.” They don’t understand the eloquence that appeals
to British workmen —the men who purchase their
groceries by the farthing’s worth. Many of them have
never even seen that secret of England’s greatness, the
Free trade “ fadge,” the fourth part of a penny, glori-
fied by the image of the King of the richest Empire in
the world.
No wonder the British Labor-leaders get angry when
they come over here to convert us ! “ Why be con-
tented and fat,” they inquire, indignantly, “when by
arising ! and clanking your chains you can be like us ”
—and have farthings to spend?
♦
Again the Affable Alfred.
Last Friday there was published in the Sydney
papers three small-print columns of rather polite
correspondence between Prime Minister Deakin
and State Insect Wade about the Australian
capital. Reading it, one is inclined to gnash his
teeth at the dreadful affability of Alfred. All
through the narrative Wade quite ignored the
fact that the Australian Parliament long ago
selected a site for a capital, and in letter after letter
he implied, with oily insinuations of treachery
and breach of faith, that the Australian Govern-
ment had declined to move in the matter, and
that the Ma State was patiently waiting for its
wrongs to be put right. And never once did
Deakin go after him with an axe and tell
him briefly that the capital has been selected
according to the strict terms of the Constitution,
and that it is the cantankerous, childish obstruct-
iveness of the N.S.W. State Legislature which
alone stands in the way of a settlement. In the
excess of his affability he didn’t once remind
Wade of those plain words in the Constitution
which say “ The seat of Government of the Com-
monwealth shall be determined by the Parlia-
ment,” and tell him that his interference in the
matter was a gross impertinence. And he wasn’t
even roused by this clause in one of Wade’s
earlier letters: —
The Constitution of the Commonwealth has now been
in operation for nearly seven years. Its inauguration was
delayed in the first instance by the objections on the part
of N.S.W. to the provisions of the earlier Bill dealing with
the location of the capital.
That silly old yarn has already been burst a
thousand times. It is all false from beginning to
end. N.S.W. accepted the first Bill, which left
the capital an absolutely open question, by a good
majority, and it was only the disgraceful breach of
faith of the N.S.W. State Parliament in altering
the minimum affirmative vote required to carry
the Bill from 50,000 to 80,000 which nullified the
acceptance. And the only visible reason why the
80,000 affirmative vote wasn’t reached was that the
people of N.S.W. were assured over and over
again that the Br.addon clause was utterly
ruinous ; the “ location of the capital ” • was
hardly mentioned during the campaign. Yet
the mild Deakin didn’t even resent having this
glaring old fable pushed at him as a reason why
Wade should dictate to Australia about the site
of the capital. The prospects of Australia getting
its rights seem very poor unless Alfred can get
rid of nine-tenths of his horrible affability, and
buy a gun with the proceeds.
+
Japan Draws in its Tail.
According to cables from Tokio to London,
Japan’s recent swelled head is making it feel very
sick in the region of the pocket. When the head
was at its swollenest, vast military and naval
undertakings were entered upon. The Monkey,
having humbugged itself into the belief that it
had given the Bear no end of a beating, insisted
upon pushing its tail in among the great nations,
and decided that it must have an army and navy
to match the size of its afflicted head. It was too
puffed up to remember what sort of a poor upstart
it really was. It forgot for the moment that
millions of its population are so poor that they
can’t even eat good rice—they eat the weevils and
sell the rice. While thehysterics lasted, thecountry
which had got used to making sacrifices—even of
its daughters—pulled through somehow. There
was such a run on anything Japanese among the
fools of the world that Japan was even able to
sell some of the weevils as well as the rice, and
that was a help. But the hysterics soon passed,
and then Japan found that its swelled head was
costing it about a-third of its entire income. A
memorandum written by Wakatsuki, the Im-
perial Japanese Financial Commissioner, was
quoted in The Bulletin a few weeks ago. Some
of the country’s own particular and numerous
Cohens had been making inquiries about the
security; and Waka was turned on to comfort
Cohen. “ Pooh ! ” said Waka, in effect—still in
the best swelled-head manner —“ what is your
little interest bill to a great people like us ! ”
The whole burden of tax, national and local put
together, on the shoulders of the people, is only some-
thing like 30 per cent, of their incomes.
Wakatsuki’s “only” was magnificent. But even
granted that the Jap had been trained to make
sacrifices, the point comes when sacrifice means
starvation; and starvation was never camped
very far away from the hovels of millions of these
people. In 1898 the whole revenue from taxation
was £9,300,000 ; now it is £26,900,000. Income tax,
started as the patriotic contribution of the wealthy,
is now squeezed out of everybody who receives
£3O a year. If Japan decides that it had better
draw in its tail a bit, nobody, then, need be
surprised. But there is not the least sign that it
intends to radically alter its plans. It merely
“ postpones ” expenditure. It might borrow more
money, and go ahead, and probably burst; it
prefers, instead, to go slower, and nurse its credit.
The Japan that does that won’t come pounding at
Australia’s door quite so soon, possibly ; but he
will be a more dangerous Monkey when he does
arrive. The country that goes into a campaign
with its credit good and active is never a pleasant
enemy to blimp against; and Japan is just about
as careful of its credit as Australia has been
prodigal. Still, though Australia may have a
tougher proposition to handle in the end, it may
now probably have a few more years in which to
make its own preparations. And that will be an
advantage, provided those few years are used and
not wasted. But it is no use getting a hundred
yards start in a race if you lean against a post and
wait for the other fellow to catch up.
♦
Mr. W. B. Hill, a Sydney man interested in
Northern Territory tin mines, recently informed
a Brisbane interviewer :
White labor is scarce, and the percentage of Chinese is
too large. A clergyman in the Territory has made
the startling statement that fully 80 per cent, of
deaths up there are due to alcoholic excess, and my own
investigations bear this out. There are between 500 and
<SOO shanties, and only seven hotels. Sly grog-selling is
carried on in a most open and shameless manner, and
boarders at hotels go across the street to shanties to pur-
chase beer. This is done because the shanties supply
cheaper liquor.
In other words, in this “ terrible climate ” where,
according to B. Smith and Mrs. Molyneux
Parkes, the white man can’t live, the real case
is that the white man doesn’t seem able to die to
any extent, in the ordinary way. Nothing short
of poisonous grog is able to finish 80 per
cent, of him—and poisonous grog would
hasten the end of Beelzebub. In the Territory
the bulk of what population there is has concen-
trated itself far north in the least healthy part of
the country. Yet the death-rate among its white
population is below that of England—this despite
the climate and the awful fact that there are
about 600 groggeries for 4000 people. If the
British isles had 6,600,000 drinkeries, what sort of
a death-rate would they have ?
♦
From an ardent Melbourne Labor sympathiser :
It was a bad move when the guardianship of the poli-
tical Labor movement in Victoria was taken out of the
hands of the trades unionists and invested in the Political
Labor Council. True, some good work has been done
under disadvantages by the P.L.O. ; but that body has
been water-logged on almost every occasion when it
should have been going full speed ahead.
Here’s my experience of Leagues in Melbourne. The
branch meetings are held anywhere—in a laundry,
over a milk shop. The attendance varies from seven
to thirteen —mostly contributors to Tom Mann’s salary.
The subjects discussed are varied. The world, from
China to Peru, is surveyed in a gossiping, domestic
fashion, and the nationalisation of monopolies, and the
question of Australian Defence, are incongruously inter-
posed in the narration of a quarrel Brown had with
Smith anent a goat. Most of the speakers practise at
being members of Parliament. They imitate the diction
and style of Tom Mann, and make an awful noise.
Their cliquishness, the Tom MANN-ite element of discon-
tent, and the extravagant ambition of every third mem-
ber to be in Parliament, all conduce to a row sooner or
later between Labor members of Parliament and the re-
spective branches ; and that will, pro tern ., cripple the
progress of Labor principles. A five-pound note, by pro-
viding subscriptions to pack a league, could easily decide
the rejection of almost any Parliamentary candidate.
Labor members know this. They recognise the selfish-
ness, the danger of corruption, these leagues afford. Yet
they do nothing. And so things drift on, and if we are
not careful they will go on drifting till they bump against
destruction.
A large strip of country between Cowra and
Grenfell (N.S.W.), known as the landra district,
enjoys this year what is regarded as an excep-
tionally fine wheat crop. The land is let out on
the shares system, and there are some 60 farmers
struggling on the ground. The land-owner sup-
plies the land, the seed, and one-third of the
manure; the farmer does the rest. Machines,
labor, keep and housing are all in the farmer’s
responsibility. The owner receives one-half the
produce up to 20 bushels per acre. When the
crop exceeds that the excess goes wholly to the
agriculturist. It is the hope of that excess—
which apparently never arrives—that gives rise to
the farmer’s rosy visions. Yet though this is an
exceptionally gorgeous year in landra the crop is
only expected to run 15 bushels to the acre.
If this hope be realised, the owner receives 7\
bushels; if the crop is only 10 bushels, he still
gets one-half, and so bn downward till sharing
becomes a delusion and a snare. Allowing for
interest on the original price paid for the land and
for the cost of the landlord’s one-third of the
manure, the blessed, owner of the soil would be
fairly well paid at one-half of a five-bushel crop,
but the other half wouldn’t support any farmer
who lived on a level higher than that of a rice
coolie. Nevertheless share-farming goes on, and
new men crowd on to shares-lands when the old
ones have been starved off. They do this partly
out of foolishness, but mostly because the Federal
graduated land-tax is still hovering in the dim
remote.
A summary of the Barclay Tableland, Northern
Territory: A tract of land 360 miles by 80.
Magnificent pastoral country, well clothed with
the best Australian grasses ; fairly well watered,
with an average 16in. rainfall; underground sup-
plies of water easily obtainable at 200 ft.; reser-
voirs easily and cheaply constructed ; a good
healthy climate (the thermometer sometimes falls
as low as 32°), in which fever is an unknown ail-
ment. On the rivers and low country coolibah,
gidyea, gutta percha, white wood and Lands-
borough pine are amongst the timbers, and there
are extensive belts of forest consisting of hard
and durable timber, chiefly gum. The principal
rocks are limestone and quartzite. A splendid
sheep region, and, with railway communication,
capable of carrying a large population. This
country is now given up to cattle. McArthur
River station has an area of 15,000 square miles,
Brunette Downs 7000, Alexandria 10,000, Rock-
lands 6000, Lake Nash 3000, Avon Downs 2400
(the only sheep run, and it carries 35,000 jum-
buclcs), Creswell 1000, Afton 1000, Austral 2000
(not stocked, used as a dep6t for Syd Kidman’s
travelling stock). When the Australian Govern-
ment takes over the Territory, and rushes a broad
gauge railway, fit for swift express traffic, through
from Port Darwin to Adelaide, and resumes the
great estates, and starts to hurry desirable white
immigrants into the Territory, it could put a
million settlers on the Barclay tableland, and
then the place wouldn’t be as crowded as the
emptiest country in Europe.
The only Dan O’Connor discoursed at
Manly (N.S.W.) the other night, but the press is
a soulless sort of boiling-down establishment,
which grabs two or three hours of an orator’s best
“iloquince,” treats it by various processes, and
hands out in return about two bald facts. The
account of Dan’s meeting in next morning’s
papers practically amounted to a statement that
Dan had taken certain manuscript to ’Frisco, and
that ’Frisco had fallen on him, and he had to fly
in his socks, and leave the manuscript. In fact,
something like a whole herd of hotels lay in ruins
upon the manuscript, and it was no use waiting
to dig it out.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ When Knights were Bold.”
Theatre Royal “The Scarlet Pimpernel.” Mati-
nees, “ Blue Bell in Fairyland.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Palace “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Mummy and the Humming
Bird.”
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ Her Love Against the World.”
Bijou “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
Exhibition Building .. Melba (Boxing Night).
«
The “Girls of Gottenberg,” at Her Ma-
jesty’s (Sydney), is the story of the hook that not
only caught the fish, but sold it and had a
rattling good time with the proceeds. Lauri is
the hook. He turns up as the valet and general
beast of burden of Reginald Roberts, who is
Duke of Saxe-Something or Other large enough
to take a photograph of. Just as conductor
Howard Carr gives the final shake to his
stick in the martial overture, Duke
Saxe-Roberts is joining the Blue Hussars
as a lieutenant. But—most horrible discovery on
the threshold of his military career—he finds thatat
Rottenberg, where the Blue Hussars are stationed,
there is only one girl; and even when the one girl
is Pressy Preston, what is a single pair of lips
and cheeks among so many! Simultaneously
comes word that the Red Dragoons are ordered
to Gottenberg and glory that is to say,
Gottenberg and Girl, Gottenberg being full of
what the soldier mostly deserts for. Then
Roberts, the desperate fisherman, uses Lauri
as the hook, dressing him up in gorgeous
colors as one does the snare for the
trustful trout, and sending him out as Envoy
Extraordinary from the Kaiser, with orders to
the effect that at the last moment his
Majesty has changed his racnety mind,
and Reds and Blues are to change places.
Having carried through Duke Saxe-Roberts’s
plan, the Envoy Extraordinary, however, insists
upon continuing an Envoy Extraordinary, and
orders the arrest of anyone who comes between
him and his Imperial lord’s reflected majesty.
•k 4t H? *
So while the valet fills the Royal suite at
the Town Hall, the Colonel sleeps with the
spiders, and Duke Saxe-Roberts is billeted
at the Red Hen, over the river. Yet even
the most uproarious comic opera must marry
the Duke to his blue-blooded cousin, in order to
keep the diseases in the family; so the Red Hen’s
beer-girl has changed places with the rompish
Elsa, daughter of Saxe-Nierstein, and thus every-
things ends all right.
* * * *
In Melbourne, where these newest of
comic opera “ girls ” were tried on “ the wolf ” (in
a Ma State-insect manner of speaking), Florence
Young was the rompish Elsa. But the panto-
mime has called away Florence, whose energy
spreads over all the stage while the audience
catches her good temper, and Olive Godwin
takes her place; and Miss Godwin romps with
difficulty. Yet, once she has used her fine
clear voice and roused the crowded house that
way, she warms up wonderfully. For the rest,
Sydney is most interested in Fanny Dango, a
newcomer whose merit lies nearer her toes than her
tongue. There have been all sorts of song accom-
paniments, but none more picturesque has ever
been designed than the swaying sextette who
make a moving-picture background to her principal
number. Lauri is Lauri in a part that won’t
lessen his popularity, and all the other
people of the Royal Comics have parts
that fit them nicely ; while it is many a
day since the excellent chorus had such
gorgeous clothes to wear or such haunting things
to sing. All round, then, “ The Girls of Gotten-
berg ’ ’ can be marked up as being safe for the
same good time in Sydney that they seem to have
had in Melbourne.
* * * *
The seasoned playgoer and reader knows
two sorts of dream-plays—the sentimental and the
comic. “The Road to Yesterday,” for ex-
ample, was a well-written work, but weepful.
“When Knights Were Bold”—produced at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night by the
Geach management—is indifferently written,
yet quite funny. Sir Guy de Vere is a
modern baronet, and withal (amazing dramatic
circumstance) temperamentally dull, flat and vice-
less as a total abstainer’s wedding feast. He has
the commonplace viewpoint of a suburban
alderman without the drive and enthusiasm
which so often lands the latter type of
citizen in Parliament or gaol. De Vere
loves his beauteous greenery-yallery cousin—the
Lady Rowana Eggington. But Lady Rowana’s
tastes are mediaeval to the verge of mid-
Victorianism. She despises the worthy baronet’s
unimaginative nature, and contemns him as
a sordid fellow. The consequence is that the first
time he gets drunk he falls to nightmaring in the
wayback realms of Chivalry and old Romaunt.
* * * *
And there he is discovered (Act II.) in even-
ing clothes, and the company of his lady relative,
an Irish adventurer (who is after Rowana himself),
a Jewish financier, and more armored Saracen-
exterminators than enough. Julius Knight
or Cuyler Hastings would be social suc-
cesses in such an environment; Frank Thornton
(who plays Guy) is l a shrinking, self-effacing soul
who, to the roystering quarrelsome aristocracy
of the period, seems altogether loathsome
and unworthy. Much knock-about joy is
extracted from the tribulations of Guy.
Ultimately the Irishman—a most offensive
braggart—and the Hebrew—who, had he really
lived in those wild Yid-baiting days, would
have lost his nose and one or more ears
at short notice—are comprehensively foiled
(Ha! Ha!), and matters end as they should.
Frank Thornton absorbs most of the fat in this
show. There is no niggling reserve about his
treatment of the part of Sir Guy, whose futility is
limned with a whirlwind-like strenuosity. JJiss
Donaldson makes a sufficiently intense, not to say
priggish, Lady Rowana; and Douglas Hamil-
son’s sketch of Isaac Isaacson is good. The minor
parts are well filled, and the piece goes from
start to finish with all the “ snap ” and rush of a
runaway tram.
* * *
“Clause Six,” a 20 minutes’ two-character
curtain raiser, eventuates at 8. The parts are filled
by Mr. Powell and Miss Clare Manifield. The
lady is a very sweet little person, who, after 19£
minutes at cross purposes, consents to marry Mr.
Powell (a mislaid cousin with prospects, a fancy
waistcoat, and other desirable assets), and so
enables the male portion of the audience to go
out and get a well-earned drink.
** * *
“The Scarlet Pimpernel,” which rose
last Saturday night on the horizon of Sydn'ey
Royal, is a sort of reply on the British side to
“ Beaucaire.” Here it is the Englishman who,
masquerading as a fop, is at heart a lion of the
true British breed, fit in brains and thews
for any dozen of the rascally Frenchmen
who, across the Channel, are murdering aristocrats
as a popular diversion, in those days before the
Seven Devils of the Revolution had been curbed
by the great Napoleon. “ The Scarlet Pimpernel”
alias Sir Percy Blakeney, Bart., alias Julius
Knight, has for wife in the story a French
actress, who unwittingly has sent many
aristocrats to Madame Guillotine by be-
traying _ them to the desperadoes of the
Revolution. He, in return, has formed a secret
league to save as many as possible of them from the
clutches of the Paris sails culottes. Therein is
the story, which follows true melodramatic
lines in sensationalism of incident and im-
probability of characterisation. A touch of
humor is given by the foppish pretences of Julius
Knight and the dour philosophy of a British
rustic, who sees in an untimely rainfall more matter
of importance than the murder of a million aristo-
crats. So is made up a quite popular play of the
current taste, with no attempt at real dramatic
art, but plenty of obvious situations and good
stirring clap-trap.
* * # *
The cast of “The Scarlet Pimpernel”
gives the piece the best of chances. A stronger
combination has not been seen in Sydney
for some time. Miss Ola Humphrey, as a
lady who was a French actress, and is
the wife of a British hero, has a fine
“fat” part, and from her first appearance
in a cart-wheel hat (which gives the final
“Sweet Nell ” touch to the character), whirls
into popularity. Miss Harvey, a very pretty
Suzanne de Tournai, and Miss Susie Yaughan, a
sonorous and dignified Comtesse de Tournai, are
her chief feminine supporters. Julius Knight, as
the noble hero, inefficiently disguised as a fop, has
a series of magnificent costumes and attitudes,
and carries them all off well. With him are
Harry Plimmer as the Prince of Wales, and
old friend A. Greenway as Lord Dewhurst, and
Leslie Victor as a French spy with a snaky
voice ; and quite a host of others. The programme
calls it a great cast; and it is—worthy of a great
play if such had been available. But that is
another story.
** * *
Though they put all the “show ladies”
on a one-meal-a-dav diet, and knocked corners off
the porcelain ballet, and pruned the demons’
horns, and sawed delicate fronds off Johnny
Sheridan’s bright green brogue, it was no good—
they found at the last moment that “Cinderella”
couldn’t do herself justice at the Sydney Palace
until further alterations had been made to the
stage. So the opening of the show was post-
poned from Saturday until Boxing Day.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has several aces in its hand
just now, chief of which is Martin Henderson, a
blind musician, who takes the concertina—tribal
instrument of the push—and, by caressing and
squeezing and waving it, makes to rise before you
a cathedral with stained-glass windows complete,
and the organ playing inside. Another artistic item
isLaSylphe, who creates an Egyptian atmosphere
with a weird snaky dance, done to the accompani-
ment of weirder music. Price and Revost are
announced as in their last week, so anyone who
wants to see how many ways it is possible to fall
over furniture and yet avoid fatal injury will
have to hurry. This pair has perfected
the art of falling down humorously, and mankind
asks nothing more of anyone. The four Eugenes
have a crisp, clean acrobatic turn, which includes
some excellent somersault work ; and Tom Daw-
son—the home-grown humorist —succeeds in
making several English comic songs sound funny
—a gift possessed by few. There are other turns,
of course, but space is a sacred thing and very
scarce.
#
“ 10-2-4 ” does a retrospect :
There aren’t many things more depressing than a retro-
spect of Australian dramatic productions during the past
half-year. About 80 per cent, of the shows staged in
Sydney and Melbourne since (say) July last were melo-
dramas. Not more or less convincing melodramas such
as Pinero writes on occasion, nor yet witty Shawian ones,
but wild, screeching, blood-and-dynamite impossibilities,
inducing in the judicious the same feeling of weary
protest that surges up while observing Tom Mann
advocating Sosh and saying “Arise!” or G. Reid
bellowing Anti-Sosh and also saying “ Arise ! ”
“Human Hearts,” “The Fatal Wedding,” “A Warn-
ing to Women,” “The Beautiful Fiend,” “Her Love
Against the World,” “The Tyrant,” “The Female
Swindler,” “ A Life’s Revenge ” —these are a few of the
many outrages perpetrated in the six months that have
just sped. In one week four of the sort—viz., “ The Way
to Kenmare,” “The Southern Cross,” “The Midnight
Wedding,” and “The Yellow Peril”—raged contempo-
raneously in Sydney. The leaven of more-or-less rational
stuff is thin and elusive. “ Mr. Hopkinson ” was worth
seeing—mainly for the presentment of the name
part by Hugh Ward. Yet there was no tour de force
of acting so far as Ward was concerned; it simply
happened that the actor was curiously well-
suited by mannerism, appearance, and a score of other
natural qualities to play Hopkinson. But theatre-goers
weren’t hypercritical on these or any other grounds.
They eagerly accepted the joyous stuff offered them, and
clamored for more. However, they didn’t get any more,
Ward being “ off” and rather dull in the remaining shows
staged by his management. Latterly, we have had
“Brewster’s Millions” and “John Glayde’s Honor”
enacted by mimes who know their trade. These aren’t
plays of exalted merit, but they easily touch the dramatic
high-water mark of the past year. The imported musical
comedies have been the worst up to date. The essence
of a good variety show is that its average turn should he
fairly good. In recent musical-comedy variety shows the
average stunt has been ; awful, and the best—well, nothing
to write to mother about. During the period under review
play-house frequenters who weren't attending at some of
the above were shuddering before the fliekergraphed
infamies of the Kelly or “ Robbery Under Arms” mis-
creants, or watching faked bloodshed in connection with
the Eureka Stockade massacre. Does this sort of thing
represent the intellectual level of any fair section of
townsfolk ? Pray Heaven not. And yet, if it doesn’t, why
is it so persistently offered to us ?
* * *■ *
Herbert Flemming’s Comedy Co., including
eight newcomers from t’Ola World, will face the
music at Melbourne Princess’s on Boxing Night,
when “The Mummy and the Humming Bird”
takes the stage. If the new members of the co.
prove to be all that is expected of them the com-
bination should both hum and mum, for some of
the members already known to this end of the
universe are Miss Beatrice Day, John Forde,
J. H. Paulton, Miss Quin, and manager Flem-


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The uniform success of Chamberlain’s :
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy has won.
fo£>it a world-wide reputation.*
NOTICE.
Owing to the New Year holidays,
** The Bulletin ” will be published on
Tuesday, December 31 (instead of
January 2).
A wet wicket is the batsman’s despair*
Lut those who absorb mental sunshine from
D.C.L. Whisky are always on a good wicket. At
any rate, they know when to come r in out of the
moisture. D.C.L. gives to the wise player in
life’s game the best chance in every test match
with Fate.*
A good New Year resolution—to send
The Lone Hand to a friend abroad, so that he
may think well of Australia. Send the subscrip-
tion money to The Lone Hand office, and we’ll
pay the postage.*
ming himself. The piece sounds frivolous in its
title, but the advt. describes it as a four-act play
of marked originality which has scored a great
success in England and America. Also there is
something large and impressive in the fact that
Allan Hamilton is the lessee of the theatre for the
forthcoming season.
* * *
At Melbourne Royal the change of bill is
to happen on Saturday, instead of Thursday. On
Thursday, which is Boxing Day aforesaid, “ The
Midnight Wedding ” will be matineed for the last
time, and the evening and the next night will
bring the long run to a close. “Her Love Against
the World ”is the trouble due on the 27th. There
was an intention to sandwich “Camille” between
the melodramas, but the consumptive lady of easy
virtue has been indefinitely postponed. Miss
Mclntosh, Harcourt Beatty, Mervale and the
other people who kept “The Wedding” warm
for more than fifty performances will now devote
their energies to “ Her Love,” etc. The name of
the drama is bound to be shortened if it catches
on. Popularity breeds abbreviation in such
matters.
** * *
Judged on its first-night appearance, and
credited in advance with the cuts and condensa-
tions inevitable to such bulky matters, the new
panto at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, is a fairly
brilliant attempt to repeat the “Mother Goose”
success. There are; snatches of humorous
fooling in “ Humpty Dumpty,” and the
parts that savor most strongly of musi-
cal comedy are not wholly unconnected with
the name part in a harmless necessary story in-
tended to appeal to the young. In short,
“ Humpty Dumpty ” is sufficient of a panto, as
times go, and quite enough of a gorgeous en-
tertainment for anybody. It has rather the
effect of an ordinary Christmas annual in
which some of the latter scenes have trans-
ferred to the first act, and some of the early ex-
travagance has been held back for the finish.
These departures from old precedent give an un-
warranted suspicion of novelty to the show.
Humpty, it seems, is a malignant person, con-
trolled by a demon king and a good fairy—a sort
of demon understudy—with power to ao every-
thing but marry the Princess. He creates a
hard-faced mother for himself, and causes the
local dyspeptic monarch, who is Bert Gilbert, to
marry the mother aforesaid, who is Harry
Phydora. And thereby Humpty becomes a super-
natural heir to the tin crown of his stepfather.
But he fails to marry the Princess. Finally he
turns magnanimous, and presents the young lady
to the principal boy—an excellent arrangement,
seeing that Florence Young plays principal boy,
and her hearty, healthy way of acting and singing
is calculated to rouse Princess Maude Thorne
to energy.
* * * *
Miss Thorne is merely a negative subject for
praise. She is prettier and more gracefully
feeble than Olive Morrell, the Princess of last
year. Another pair of lovers are the shapely
Mabelle Morgan and little Irene Dillon. The
latter has one song and dance, and would be an
excellent soubrette if she were to hold herself
more upright. Of the others in minor characters,
Harry Shine has hardly enough to do, whereas
the animal impersonators do a little too much.
Their best animal is a baby elephant that goes
mad fore and aft. Bert Barton is a serious,
well-spoken Humpty Dumpty, and the come-
dians who raise a generous crop of laughs
from the barren panto, soil are Bert Gilbert and
Phydora. The Gilbert of to-day is the slim, dry
quaint joker of ten years ago, very little altered
in method. He has a melodious voice for
catchy songs, and his ballad of love, with an
accompaniment of four-and-twenty girls, is a
notable hit. He is humorous by himself, and
even funnier in association with Phydora, who
presents a middle-aged female in a number of
different wigs and garments, and is a highly
respectable joke all the time. As far as a
panto, is based on scenic effect, this one
is built upon a rock. The ballet at the
end of the first act is an undeniable
“boshter ”in all respects. The blending of color
in scenery and dresses is as pretty as the dancing
and the girls. The last scene, more daring than
the rest in the color scheme, is another fine
gathering of young females, but these special
attractions for bald-headed man are naughty com-
pared with the intermezzo spectacle, which goesone
better than the swing scene of last year. This
time it is a revolving wheel, glittering with elec-
tric light and radiant with girls. Every spoke of
the wheel is alive with girls. They com? down on
the near side like a cataract—an arithmetical
stream of girl emblematic of the Waters of Life
which make thirsty where they most do satisfy.
* * *
Blanche Arral, at popular prices, gives a
concert—the last of four—at Melb. Royal, on
Boxing Night, what time the Philharmonic
Society will celebrate its annual occasion with
time-honored oratorio, at the Town Hall.
** * *
On Boxing Night the second of Melba’s
concerts at the Exhibition Building will help to
relieve the streets of the metropolis of their
holiday foot traffic. Early last week the question
was debated as to whether the Melba rush would
be greater for the first of the Exhibition concerts
or the second, but it is now generally understood
that the persons who hesitated were lost on
Saturday night last. The booking for both con-
certs was gigantic.
** * *
The Wirths are mourning the loss of two
notable performers of the gee-gee species. The
circus train ran off the line, and in the caps;ze-
ment the educated pony, Fairy, was killed.
Fairy used to do a “turn ” in conjunction with a
big horse, and he left no understudy to take his
place. The same accident put an end to the
jumping career of Playmate, who was a record-
breaker at the business. If the game little animal
recovers from his injury, he will be only a pen-
sioner of the circus—useless for show purposes.
** * *
West, of the wonderful picturegraphs,
opened a big season before a fair audience at
Wirths’ Olympia, in Melbourne, on Saturday
night. That commodious edifice has been
floored throughout, and gives seating ac-
commodation for 4000. Most of them
were there, and they seemed really happy,
despite the fact that a torrid afternoon had re-
duced most people to a sort of viscous condition
not conducive to calm and patience, However,
while the big brass band discourses beauteous
music a number of young Swedes come hurling
through space on ski, and you almost feel the cool
wind of their passage. Then a dog rescues bank-
notes from a burglarious assassin, and King Ned,
looking surprisingly well and stout, commences to
lift his tile to the multitude. Altogether this
picture show is fine ; also it is cool.
** * *
J. T. West, who is one of the world’s old
masters among the photographers and showmen
of animated pictures, has a fixed policy in cater-
ing for the masses. He holds that his public
should be treated as persons of some intelligence.
In so far as their taste may incline to blood-and-
thunder melodrama and cheap sensationalism,
they will get what they want at the theatre, and
from the newspapers. They go to the cinemato-
graph show in a general way for entertainment,
educational or oddly amusing, the “comic” pic-
tures being addressed to juveniles to the same
extent that a panto or circus is. And the busi-
ness of West’s Pictures, says the experienced
dealer, is to cultivate more and more the public
taste for subjects of intellectual interest rather than
to enlarge Deadwood Hick’s sphere of influence.
Ten years ago the phonograph records were
mainly restricted to jingling music and American
jokes. There has been a remarkable advance in
the average quality of the subjects, as well as in
the production of them. The ordinary unculti-
vated person has just as much capacity for artistic
feeling as the somewhat cultivated ordinary per-
son, who poses in admiration of an inscrutable
“Whistler.” But you can’t develop his capacity
by giving him gory melodrama in dumb show,
says West.
* # * -*
The company of amateurs that presented
“The Tyranny of Tears ” in style at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) two or three months back, gave another
performance at P’ran New Town Hall last Wednes-
day night before a supposedly distinguished audi-
ence. The actual performance didn’t transpire till
8.20 p.m., a mandolin orchestra and some attractive
nurses (vending lollies and things) getting in more
or less deadly work meanwhile. However, the
show was, on the whole, very good, even allowing
for the dreadful acoustic properties of the hall.
Mr. D. M. Beere has improved on his Parbury to
some appreciable extent. His work, notably in
the third act, was excellent, and so superior to
that of the others as to make the contrast a little
ridiculous. Fred Newman, as the Colonel, is
still prone to accentuate the tremendous im-
portance of an apologetic old joker who is
stuck for a word; while the cynical bachelor
(Mr. Emanuel), though quite tolerable at times,
was often a vexatious person, with a rever-
berating voice. The Misses Pinschof were, as
usual, dressily magnificent, but, artistically, a
little absurd.
* # sfc *
Nobody of consequence who wasn’t there
last week will drop into the Christmas bill at
Melbourne Opera House prior to Saturday, any-
how. Seeley and West, who wear respectively a
plum-colored suit and a black face, and are
musically disposed, also Rhodesia and the other
people, will greet the glad New Year in Mel-
bourne. If they are called away to another State
the notice of removal will appear in next Bulle-
tin. Meanwhile, it is not too late to remark that
Hayman and Franklin should discover a new
duet if they are to remain worthy of larger type
than Terry and Bentley. The “ Hebrew Imperson-
ators ” are practically a one-man turn, whereas
Terry and Bentley are a double event, and the
lady half of the firm fills her place in a graceful
style of her own. Also, she has a refined speaking
voice, which has been reckoned an excellent thing
in woman ever since the days of Holy Writ.
** * *
Adelaide Tivoli has just completed one
unbroken year of variety show. Bert Sayers and
Brandon Cremer, Rickards’ under-lessees, have
made a success of low prices, with a show always
adequate and occasionally striking. Recent
features have been Antonio’s performing dogs,
with a picture show of William Squires in
America receiving that all-too-sudden Punch that
took the Purse. Pictures are everywhere, and so
are concerts —sometimes the two together.
Wirth’s circus is raging furiously (“seven
shows for one ticket”), and is rivalled by
Skuthorp’s stockyard display, at which outlaws
and bullocks buck all comers to blazes by moon-
light. Andrew Mack has moved on towards
Perth, closing with the old “ Arfah-na-Pogue,”
which was the more attractive by reason of not
having the insistent, unmistakable built-in-
America brand of all Mack’s other plays. The
’Varsity students, having given bond to behave
reasonably at Commemoration, took the Royal
for one night of entertaining foolishness, and had
a packed and high-priced house. Meanwhile,
Manager Pollock, of the Royal, has been out fish-
ing for plays, and now promises that in 1908
Adelaide shall have absolutely everything that
Adelaide can ask for.
A tale of the sea, with an unsatisfactory
ending, came up in Sydney last week. Early in
December the British ship Ancaios, with a crew
made up from many nations, left Newcastle
heavily burdened with coal. As soon as the tug
cast off the crew broke into open mutiny, and
declined to work the ship. For 24 hours the
vessel wandered round the compass without
steerage-way, and with no one at the wheel or on
the lookout. The captain, the mates, and the
ship’s cook tried vainly to get enough sail on the
vessel to carry it off the land, when it|would have
been blown out into the wastes of ocean, and the
men, it wasthought, would haveeithergone to work
for their own safety, or else thrown their officers
overboard. In the end the Ancaios was picked
up by a tug and towed to Sydney. The crew’s
tale as told in court was a lurid account of the
captain’s conduct—so lurid as to cast a doubt on
its accuracy in some minds, for even a very
“tough” skipper seldom begins throwing hard
substances till he is out of sight of land. The
P.M. struck a compromise; he decided that the
men had a distinct grievance, and, all the same,
sentenced them to seven days. This result
has spread alarm among shipmasters. If the men
were justified in their mutiny, they should have
been discharged. If they weren’t, seven days
seems a feeble jest, seeing that the loss already
runs to over £5OO, and the deserted windjammer
is laid up in Sydney with a reputation which
makes the getting of a new crew a matter of vast
difficulty.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Quite the most absurd of the rumors now current in
connection with the opera company which Melba talks of
bringing here next year, is that which credits her with
saying that Jean de Reszke will probably come as tenor.
Jean de Reszke has retired for ever from the operatic
stage. He teaches selected pupils in Paris now at an
enormous fee per 20 minutes lesson. Last year, and the
year before, Hammerstein of N. York offered jhirn the
unprecedented fee of £lO3O a night for a season of 40
nights ; but de Reszke refused, vowing that money could
not buy him into grand opera again. This forbearance
is not due only to the fact that he is an immensely rich
man. The singer is said to have a morbid horror of
sounding one note after his amazing voice shall have
begun to fail.
“ Melb ”: Our half million has thronged into a colossal
amphitheatre, stalls, and dress circle to judge the duel
between Ruby Bona Wallace and Frank Gavan Duffy.
Just the kind of thing Charles Wyndham delights to stage
in London. Titheradge and Mrs. Brough have done it
here. Janet Achurch and Herbert Flemming showed it
in “ Forget-Me-Not,” as likewise did Genevieve Ward and
W. H. Vernon. On the first day Ruby was in black, with
copious white ostrich feathering round her pompadour.
Purves was keel-hauling Charles Wallace, not by any
means in a brutal fashion. Superficial people said he
ought to have been on the other side. Not at all. His>
style, his rasping “ Now, Madam ” would have been preju-
dicial. People said, too, that Duffy ought to have been
Ruby’s champion. No, again. A bigger and more indig-
nant-looking man was wanted as the lady’s champion.
For her great effort Ruby turned up as the Woman in
White, plump as a partridge and mild as a dove. Pallid,
but not exactly nervous. Somewhat languid. Never
fiery. No indignation. Just quiet “Noes.” Ought
not the jury to have been half women ? To this
complexion must we come, with women as voters.
Madden refused to turn them out, when cunning Duffy
suggested that it was not good enough for them. Ruby
ought to have been indulged with a Chair. In general it
was a finely-staged performance. Madden, as a stage
manager, recalls Dot Boucicault. But Dot Boucicault
would certainly have allowed the lady a chair.
The Ruby Adams voice which trilled forth publicly for
the first time last Wednesday, at Sydney Town Hall, is of
a marvellous range. The singer reached D in alt.
during one item. Needless to say (as the junior reporter
would write) Miss Adams wants another bunch of years’
training.
The dragging tail-end of a crop of anecdotes re the'
recent German Opera visitors still leaves a furrow in the
sand of history. For instance, there is a hotel in Maori-
land which will remember little Carl Foller, an excitable
tenor. One day, finding that there were no matches in
his room, he rang the bell but received no answer. He
hung on to the bell like a lost soul hanging to a straw,
but only met the same callous disregard. Becoming
excited, he rushed into the passage in slight undress, and,
calling to his aid a limited repertoire of the British
speech, he greeted the housemaid toiling up the stair’
with the cry of “ Fire ! ” When the girl’s senseless form
had been attended to and the local resources brought into
requisition, it was discovered that Mr. Foller had merely
desired to intimate to the girl that he wanted his gas lit.
The other tenor, Massimio Massimi, made it his unvarying
custom to get sick at sea even in a dead calm. He even
got sick on land when he read a shipping ad.vt. One'
night he fled in disorder from the saloon, leaving his
baggage and artillery behind him. A couple of girls-
followed to find him leaning in a graceful attitude over
the rail. In answer to an innocent query as to whether
the moon was yet up, the unhappy tenor said, sadly, “ It
is, if I’ve eaten it.”
Young Leslie introduced a little gun juggling into the
grand march in “The Girls of Gottenberg ” at Melbourne
Majesty’s; and one night, towards the close of the
season, his musket came down on the head of the prettiest
of the chorus girls, and wiped her right out of the opera
for the time being. She was carried off, and for the next
five minutes the performers were directing such anxious•
looks towards the wings that the audience suspected the
worst. However as nothing has been heard of a burial it
is assumed that Leslie’s gunnery was not fatal. After
that the girls gave the gun-spinner a wide berth.
“8.P.”: The ordinary mummer’s conception of a'
bushman’s customs and “ clobber ” passeth all under-
standing ! Take the biograph picture of “ Robbery Under
Arms,” as faked by Meynell and Gunn. On the screen-
the bushrangers appear armed with the latest, up-to-date
rifles and revolvers, instead of the old cannon-bore Snider,
in use at the time of the story. The next absurdity one
notices is the costumes of the ladies who were mixed up-
with the fortunes of the gang. They are dressed in the
very latest skirts, blouses, and millinery. The mummer
who impersonates George Storefield forgot to remove his
fashionable, three-inch, turned-down collar before posing
for the machine. Then my conception of Warrigul would
be a slim, active, always-alert nigger—not the 11-stone
specimen of the typical “ you-gib-it-t’chickapence-boss,”
public-house nig depicted on the screen. Again, I don’t
think that the ’rangers were in the habit of turning out
dressed in immaculate white riding pants and shirts and
highly-polished top-boots ; and the Australian bushman
does not mount his horse backwards (standing behind the
saddle, with his face towards the horse’s head), though
that’s the way they invariably mount, according to the
biograph. All these things make me say—well, “Drat it.”
“ Theorbo ” : Just after my recommendation, in these’
pages, for an Australian grand opera co., tumbles in the
news that Melba is on the job. That was the business
end of her jaunt. Of course Musgrove will be in it, with
all his stock of scenery, costumes, and scores. It may be
assumed that Melba’s constant friend, Madame Calvb,.
will come out. Melba sings Michaela to her Carmen, and
has also obliged by taking the small part of Queen Mar-
guerite in “ The Huguenots.” I think Melba was nervous
about facing the London season. A cruel and false rumor
was circulated in America last season that she had broken
down, but she never sang better. Yet the spell
was advisable. She is going ,to give Australia all the
Wagner operas. I fancy they will be in Italian, from the
manner in which she sketches out her arrangements for
Italian and French artists.
“Cosallen”: Someone ought to get the rising of the
court for a colored picture of our own Plorrie Young
which, for some days past, has disfigured Sydney. Have
seen Plorrie in every part she has played here during the
last few years, and have never seen her looking as she is
pictured in the enormity referred to. Should think she
had a good case against the perpetrator, whoever he is.
Plorrie Young’s admirers (and their name is Legion and
Smith added together) turn aside and drop a silent tear
when they encounter the eyesore.
A bounding wire-walker now on exhibition in Australia
is jbilled as the best on earth, and the most astonishing
skipper on a taut string that ever amazed mortal man.
But, good as this handsome miracle is, he cannotmaintain
all these claims while little Oaicedo still lives. Oaicedo
is the slim, limber, Venezuelan, who came out to orna-
ment a Williamsonian pantomime some years ago, and
imparted so many thrills with his sensational work that
a nervous manager could not bear to see him revolve,
and used to hide his head in the office so as not to witness
the seemingly inevitable tragedy. Oaicedo still goes on
hitting tbe wire with two infallible feet, and is as
clever and daring as ever, although now the grandfather
of three children, and the father of fourteen.
“Ooalopolis”: You can’t beat the showman for
advertising, and, incidentally, for bad spelling and in-
credible grammar. Listen to this (copied from the sign-
board of a local “ penny-a-shot ” individual): —
LOOK HEBE,
DEFENCE oF ASTEALIA,
“ needs Good shots,”
learn and brake all you can,
FIXeD TARGETS, moviNG TARGETS,
WILL fall if you hit ’em,
Ther’s wallabys, an dogs, rats, and duks,
rabits an possams, rats, goats, an other birds.
Floating balls,'kard TARgeTS, you can
take yours aw'ay and show it 2 your frends,
and show your hits.
All these a Id. a shot.
Clay PIPES TO SMASH UP.
Electric and other MA-chines.
A Id. lites an starts ’em.
Moving picturs in ther latest, lited by
ELECTricity.
Test your strength ? Try your mussels?
Your wait and hight.
A Id. starts any 1 yer like.
Mrs. Blanche Arral—just now appearing in Melbourne
under the direction of John Wren—has been allegedly
identified by an ex-attache of the Austrian Legation at
Paris, and this mysterious informant has “ let on ” to a
Melbourne Herald reporter. Mrs. Blanche, he says, is a
Princess on her first husband’s side —Princess Sergius
Nicholas de Peschlcoff. Also her age is 33, and she “ was
celebrated all through Europe ” as Claire de Hardinois
before the Prince met her “ in the flush of her great
success” and married her. Then she went to St. Peters-
burg with his Highness, her husband, and sat
on his family seat for two years. But there
was her own personal family to be considered,
“her father having been a count.” So she went to
Brussels to revisit her noble ancestry, and when she re-
turned to St. Petersburg she found that the Prince was
dead, and his ruthless Russian relatives had seized his
real and personal estate, “ together with a large sum of
money belonging to herself.” Ever since then she has
been endeavoring to recover her property and the third
of her husband’s estate. The earnestness of her endea-
vor, by the way, is evident in the fact—vide Melbourne
Herald— that she resumed singing under her old name,
and went to Java and Tonkin, and finally came to
Australia disguised as Blanche Arral —the first Prin-
cess on record who ever disguised herself for
professional singing purposes. Whilst she was thus
endeavoring to recover her property in Russia she
met Mr. Bassett in America, and married him.
He had previously fought for his country (and his strong
Yankee accent) “ with the rank of captain in the First
•Ohio Infantry,” but he cared ho more for rank than his
wife cared. He came to Australia as Mr. Bassett—plain
“ mister”—in spite of his being a captain wedded to a
Princess. This is an amazing narrative, all things con-
sidered, yet it stops short of the whole truth. The
attache of the Austrian Legation at Paris, yielding to
the solicitations of John Wren and Barney Reynolds,
must have decided to draw it mild. Blanche Arral, as
far as The Bulletin knows to the contrary, is really the
rightful Queen of Barataria. She was stolen from her
•cradle by the Shah of Persia, who was walking in his
•sleep at the time. Fortunately she escaped to Paris in a
balloon, and was received with unbounded enthusiasm,
•especially in comic opera. Some time after her arrival
in Australia her birdlike vocalism attracted the attention
of Mr. Wren, who is a bit of a bird himself, and Mr. W.
•offered to back his new' attraction to beat Melba in a 20ft.
•sing, under Marchesi rules.
Mrs. Melba’s booking for her two “popular” concerts
•at Melbourne Exhibition Building wipes out every indi-
vidual record made in Australia, and will probably repre-
sent the diva’s best score for two performances :
Old Santa Olaus came down the flue,
And stood by Melba’s cot;
Her modest stocking hung in view—
He looked at what he’d got.
Then took the Earth, and crammed it in,
“ Here, Nellie,” growled the mannikin,
“Just take the bloomin’ lot! ”
“ Harriso* O.” : For the last few years I have made a
careful study of the methods resorted to by actresses,
singers, and others for the purpose of gaining advertise-
ment. There are at least four persons who may be said
to have brought the art (for it is an art) of self-advertise-
ment almost to perfection. They are King O’Malley
(picturesque), Judkins (grotesque), Tom Bent (burlesque),
and Miss Clara Butt (materfamiliesque). The first is a has-
been, the second never was, and the third soon will be ;
but the Lady w»ith the Voice is still fairlyNup to date,
thanks to the help of Puppa, Buba, Joy and others.
Then take another instance—Tittell Brune. Owing to
absence of kids this lady had to fall back upon the
“ dear-r gur-rls ” dodge, combined with scrupulously
regular visits to kirk, but this worked only moderately
well. The domesticated and pious systems are generally
•successful, though Peggy Pryde, when high-kicking her
way to fame, adopted somewhat different tactics.
“ Ruru ” (Maoriland): Your London correspondent
(Poverty Point, 28/11/’O7) remarks that AddieLorking, the
Maoriland child actress, would make an ideal Peter Pan,
“ if she is still the Addie that she was.” On that point there
is no doubt. She has grown beyond the infant pheno-
menon stage (not that she ever was an I.P. in the oppro-
brious or Crummies, sense of the term), and is now a tall
•slip of a girl of fifteen or so, and pretty as a picture.
:Saw her recently playing the leading part in a Japanese
play staged here in aid of a local charity, and for charm
■of manner she would be hard to beat, while her acting is
•striking for its humor and brightness.
THE GODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, fill a golden cruse, and pour
Black rams’ blood on the sods,
With meal, and milk, and honey, for
Oblation to the gods.
We’ll crown great bowls of ruby wine,
Hymn Dionysius’ praise;
And round dull prophets’ brows entwine
Garlands of singing days.
We’ll drink the sun to rest; that done,
There’ll be no sad goodbye,
Till stars are paling, and the sun
Once more relights the sky.
Upon the beach of Night are strewn
Pale singing shells called stars—
Fair Aphrodite’s scented zone,
Pan’s pipes, the sword of Mars.
The gods still live ; a lucky chance
Has marked them in the skies ;
Chant “ Evoe ! ” beat the drum, and dance
In joyful sacrifice.
In every cup a reveller quaffs;
A satyr, too, takes part;
A nymph of Aphrodite laughs
In sighing maiden’s heart.
Where sullen Saturn wheels and turns,
And mystic evening gleams
With phantasy, our incense burns
To Hermes, god of dreams.
Then, fill a golden cruse, and pour
Black rams’ blood on the sods,
With pious Pagan rapture for
Oblation to the gods.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
A NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIC.
“ What’s in a name ? ” the poet queries ;
Such foolishness my spirit wearies ;
There is no question as to which’ll
Draw bigger crowds—“ Melba ” or “ Mitchell."
HIPHRY.


Gloves for “My Lady Fair.
fl\
Gloves and Presents.
The terms seem synonymous,
and, however hackneyed Gloves
may be, nothing could be more
appreciated by the fair sex.
The Box we illustrate is priced
at 21/-, and contains—
-1 pair 3-Button Fownes’ White
Kid Gloves.
1 pair 8-Button Length Best
Kid Gauntlet Gloves.
t pair 12-Button Length Fine
Suede Gloves.
1 pair 3=Button Fine Linen
Suede Gloves.
Colors can be selected to suit the tastes of the recipient. These Gloves will be sent
Carriage Paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD., SYDNEY.
HAVE A CAMERA
on your Holidays and Amuse Yourself !
THE “CRACKSHOT” CAMERA OUTFIT. Price, 16/-. Comprising
a “ CRACKSHOT ” CAMERA for Photos, 3/ x 2i inches, Carries 6 Plates,
Good Lens, Instantaneous Shutter, 2 View Finders, 2 Magnifiers. A
CANVAS CASE, with Shoulder Strap, and a COMPLETE DEVELOPING
and PRINTING OUTFIT. Price of “ Crackshot ” Camera, only 8/6.
THE “METEOR” CAMERA OUTFIT, for Photos, 41 x 3J inches
('[-plate), complete with Case and Developing and Printing Outfit.
Price, 27/6. Price of “ Meteor ” Camera, only 16/6.
THE No. 0 or No. 1 “VICTOR” CAMERA OUTFIT, for Photos, 41
x3l inches (1-plate), Magazine holds 12 Plates. These Splendid Cameras
are Universally Popular. Complete, with Case and D. and P. Outfit.
Price, 45/- Price of No. oor No. 1 “ Victor” Cameras, only 32/6.
THE No. 6 “FOLDING VICTOR” CAMERA OUTFIT, takes Photos, 5 x 4 inches, Compact and Effective
Cameras, Complete, with Sole Leather Case, and I). and P. Outfit. Price, 90/-. Price of No. 6 “ Folding'
Victor” Cameras, only £4.
THE l-PLATE “FAVORITE” CAMERA SET, for Pictures, 6| x 4J inches, Complete with Tripod, Best
Quality Case, and D. and P. Outfit. Price, £7/5/-. Price of the “ Favorite ” Camera Set, £5/15/-
Fresh Plates, Papers, Chemicals, and Every Requisite Used in Photography Stocked Largely.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, NEAR G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Branch ; 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Alba,” from England: In four days I
h ive looked upon four kings—and the blight con-
tinues. Haakon, of Norway, handsomest of all,
pissed yesterday with Maud' of England, and his
jangling blue and gold postillions. Alfonso, of
the horse face and the underlip, is a dreadful
example of high breeding and low thinking.
While in London he ran amok in his motor car, a
fact carefully suppressed by the great slobber
dailies. While in France, Alfonso, of the moke’s
profile, twice lost his baby, the dear infant
Asturias and heir-presumptive. Nobody prose-
cuted him for attempted child-desertion. But
what a man is this German Kaiser, with the
catarrh-inflamed eyes and the uplifted mo !
The recent Moltke-Harden revelations have
shaken him to his roots. He is like one who has
been allowed a peep into that glittering and
wonderful machine the German army—only to
find it corroded with the acid of Gomorrah. One
cannot help a touch of pity for Wilhelm 11., for
he was the man and his the army that should have
shaken the throat of Japan. To-day Europe
stands aghast at this dry rot, this shadow of
Sodom which threatens Germany’s white legions.
Wilhelm has come to England to cover his head.
And Edward VII.. who never got up at 3 a.m. to
whoop his army out of bed at dawn, met him at
Windsor station with a big cigar. In these days
of leper armies and Congo horrors, it is a relief to
meet a king who confines himself to his big cigars.
GAY DOGS.
SYDNEY : “Oh , George, I do feel wicked!"
GEORGE : “So do I, Sydney; what shall we do? ’
SYDNEY: “I have it! Let’s ride home in a
smoking compartment."
Tait has introduced to the Victorian
railways another Yankee railway notion —the
“Stop, look, and listen” notice at cross-
ings. There is a legend that some American
cos. years ago hired an expensive lawyer to
frame a notice that would block legal proceedings
in case of accidents at crossings, and the bill for
these four words, which the expensive lawyer
produced, ran to £5OO.
Melbourne and district are a trifle con-
cerned about the apparent ease with which
criminal lunatics evaporate from Yarra Bend
these times, and go into general circulation again.
James Ryan, a homicidal gentleman whose
specialty is train-wrecking, walked out of the
asylum a few weeks ago, or jumped out, or fell
out, or flew—anyhow, he got out. So railway
travellers in the vicinity of the metropolis
gather a little additional uneasiness from
the possibility of Mr. Ryan being engaged
building a cairn of rocks or running up a log
barricade ahead of the locomotive. Since then
there have been three other escapes, and in each
case the runaway is a man who is apt to pat his
fellow creatures with an axe. The asylum
authorities have been unable to discover the leak,
and the police cannot find theleakers. What with a
lunatic asylum with a hole in it, and the likelihood
of Bent breaking into song at any moment, the
disadvantages of living in Melbourne are obvious,
and people are crying for the breaking up of big
estates so that they may go on the land.
The duties of the present-day State school
teacher are many, and, as a rule, they are per-
formed cheerfully and well. In the old times it
was considered sufficient if the kid-whacker
slammed into the infant a knowledge of the three
R’s, but the palmy days of teaching are gone, and
it is just as important now, from a departmental
point of view, anyhow, that the teacher should
have a knowledge of the bad habits of
the native bear, and the domestic arrangements
of the wagtail, as he has of grammar. A species
of carpentering has before now been indulged in,
but the lords of the Education Department have
not, as yet. taken any official notice of pick and
shovel work. Until they do , one teacher, at least,
is not going to include it in the day’s work. She
is a lady stationed in the Wimmera (Vic.), and has
charge of a school which is built in the vicinity of
a water channel belonging to the Western Wim-
mera Water Trust. The channel—like most
things pertaining to a Trust —is badly in need of
repair. Every now and then it goes on the burst,
and the lady teacher adjourns the lecture on the
politics of the boiled owl, and scampers forth at
the head of the scholars to effect repairs, and pre-
vent the school being washed away. This per-
formance has been going on for years, and the
lady has now written to the Trust, saying that
she’s sick of it, and that as the whole thing could
be repaired properly for about 405., she will be
obliged if the Trust will send down a real man to
do the job. Evidently, the Trust feels a little
ashamed of itself, for it has written in haste to
the teacher, informing her that the plumber will
call.
• * * *
Thus the late “Medi-Cuss” in his last
letter from the North
Up to a few weeks since I had marked down in
memory’s tablets Hungerford, Euriowie and Milparinka as
the three most God-forgotten spots on the footstool —this
after more than 20 years’ battling about Australasia.
But that was before I visited in Southern Queensland, and
made acquaintance with Biranbrandi (locally known as
beer and brandy), Hebei and Tego.
At the first-named Eden there is a post office, an aban-
doned school, a store, and the most ramshackle pub in
the universe, and how the people exist bangs Banagher.
Yet the place must be fairly healthy, and the publican a
straight-goer, for it was told, as an absolute fact, that in
the 35 years the present owner had been in the premises
there had never been a death in the place.
However, we got there a few days too soon, for shortly
after leaving Mrs. Landlady passed out, and the eternal
monotony of things was still further broken by the wild
and woolly myalls of the district, a tribe consisting of two
or three aged bucks and a toothless gin, who held up the
pub while the funeral party was absent, and comman-
deered the entire liquid stock-in-trade.
En route to Hebei, at a noon camp, we pulled up to
replace with wire a lost hub band, splice a broken spring-,
and replace some missing bolts. There battlers along
that fine and large sample of local government roads may
behold, printed on a board affixed to one of the tall gate-
posts on the rabbit-proof fence, the following chaste and
truthful legend :
“ This trail is not quite endless, let the pilgrim mark it
well,
Ten miles north is Biranbrandi, while forty south is
Hell.”
As monotony-breakers our party certainly shone, for
while at Hebei the language used over the poor prospects
of business so worked up the nervous system of the soli-
tary trooper’s moke that he bolted five miles, and the
bobby came near having to arrest himself for endeavoring
to cross the N.S. W. border without a tick inspection
permit. •
At Tego, certainly the tail-end of all creation, while
buying some tobacco at the little shanty called a store,
the parson’s son, who was playing David to my Jonathan,
and, incidentally, trying to drive the soul-cases out of a
pair of good horses, remarked to the forlorn-looking
woman who was serving us, “Great Heaven! is there
anything to be hoped for in a miserable spot like this?”
“ Yes,” came the quick reply, “death.”
And but a few days later that hoped-for event arrived
for that poor little human waif, per medium of a bullet
from a Winchester rifle, fired into her back while she was
out looking for horses.
Not far from Tego, on the N.S.W. side of the border, at
still another blot on the landscape, we came across a bush
school in charge of a young and charming girl, who re-
ceives from this Deform Government the colossal sum of
£26 per year—a living example of the true cussedness of
that department that is a disgrace to the State, and
which J. Pannikin, Esq., speaks of as being “ wise and
generous.”
Asked how she managed to put in existence, the young
lady said that it kept her so busy figuring how she was to
spend her bloated income that she had no time for con-
sidering her miserable surroundings.
My opinion of the worse than criminal meanness of the
heads of a department that so damnably sweats women
would, if expressed in print, procure me three years free
board and lodging ; but as I hope to ere long see the day
when an outraged public opinion will rise and hang some
of the callous, bell-toppered gang responsible for a state
of thing’s that would disgrace a Sydney rag shop, I refrain
for the present, as I want to help pull on the rope when
the joyful time arrives.
LIFE.—(FROM THE BEETLE'S POINT OF VIEW.)
That Sydney divorce-court story of the
two wealthy spinster sisters who implored a male
person to marry one or other of them is somewhat
remindful of the private and confidential narrative
of Mr. Gee, long deceased, whose name survives
in the English Turf records. But the Gee story
was sweetly sentimental in its way, and the hero
was a rich and joyful widower ere it became well
known. He had been butler in the service of two
prim maiden ladies, who paid him so handsomely
that in due course his British butler’s thoughts
turned towards a pub. He intended to retire from
livery and take his ease at his own country inn,
like ten thousand Jeameses before him. When he
gave notice, the two gracious sisters were
simply appalled at the prospect of a new man
in the old place. Life without their accus-
tomed Gee seemed not worth living. They
begged him to reconsider his resolve, but he
was adamant. Then they waited upon him
in a deputation to suggest a compromise.
Would he remain as the husband of either
of them, and manage the household as
before ? Whichever one he cared to
select for a wife, the other would be a
contented sister-in-law. So Gee bowed
his buttling head respectfully, and
replied that—if it made no difference
■ —he would prefer Miss Lucretia,
who was a little younger than Miss
Tabitha. Whereupon they thanked
him, and named the happy day.
When the carriage arrived to
take the bridal party of three to
the village church, Gee, in plain
clothes, obsequiously held the
door of the kerridge open whilst
the ladies took their seats. He
refused their pressing invitation
to come inside and be the bride-
groom-elect. He felt that he had
not ceased to buttle. If it made no
difference, he said, he would prefer
to ride on the box beside the coach-
man going to the church, but would
assume his position of lawful husband
for the return journey. So Gee and
Lucretia were married, and lived
happily ever after, and the fortune of
Tabitha, who predeceased her sister, melted into
the family estate. Anon, when his good straight-
laced wife was laid under the turf, the bereaved
Gee went on it and broke into a gentle canter, so
to speak.
* * * *
A Port Melbourne wife had a sweet re-
venge the other evening. The old man had just
given the father of a hiding to the lady’s own
particular “ Bob,” whereupon the pair of males
wen run in for riotous behavior. Then the sweet
dame turned up at the lock-up, bailed out the
tertium quid, and let the old man cool his eye in
the cell all night. But it was his turn next day ;
pleading the “ unwritten law” in certain events,
the beaks discharged him.
The Congregational Union of Victoria
demanded, the other day, that the State should
abolish “marriage scandals” by suppressing
matrimonial agencies. While Bent was consider-
ing how to say something indefinite, Government
Statist Drake chipped in with a memorandum
stating that one Congregational parson regularly
advertised his willingness to marry the whole
world at cut rates, while the largest agency in the
city relied on the services of another Congrega-
tional minister ; yet, though the Union had been
asked if it approved of these capers, it had appar-
ently not only said nothing to the parsons
referred to, but hadn’t even the manners
to reply to the query. Presumably the
Union hasn’t got any control over these
parsons; yet, as long as they can get half a
dozen or so people to pretend to be their “con-
gregations,” they can hang on to their marrying
licenses indefinitely. The sect’s confession that
it can’t regulate the business is the best
evidence that the State should—by appointing its
own servants to do the job. Then, if the public
wanted frills hung round the business, the parson
could come in—just, by the way, as the “dis-
senting ” parson comes in in dear old Hingland.
PURELY PARISIAN.
LADY : “And what is your special occupation?"
SERVANT : “Please, mum, Oi’m a Frinch chef."
Following, from current London Sporting
Times, is the class of reminiscence that is read
with avid interest by a frequent type of Britisher :
t remember I was once standing with the old Duke of
Cambridge and the late Duke of Teck at a theatre when
an ignorant attendant addressed the latter as “Your
Royal Highness,” and the Commander-in-Chief as “ Your
Grace.” Neither moved a muscle, but both were inwardly
amused, and though they did not utter a word, their eyes
said unspeakable things. It was highly amusing.
Now, in the name of Sheol, where is the joke ?
THE WALLACE WHEEZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last evening-, a man was found lying in Commercial-
r >ad, South Melbourne, in an unconscious condition. He
was taken to the hospital, and the doctors discovered
concussion of the brain, and other serious injuries. The
man’s name is unknown. There is, as yet, no means of
ascertaining how the damage was inflicted.— Melb. Aon.
Dear Bulletin,—Hush, whisper low,
And to the doors on tip-toe go.
Is no one lurking ?
A grim confession I would make,
With hair a-stir and lenses a-quake,
And eyeballs jerking.
It is my work ! He met me there.
The sun was high, the day was fair,
The breeze beguiling.
He seized me by the left lapel,
As one who has a tale to teli.
His face was smiling.
He held me gaily to the spot.
I lingered, little dreaming what
Mad maggot bit him.
He said : “ I want to ask you if
You know why Mrs. Wallace ” Biff !
’Twas then I hit him.
VIC.
SNELL.
A PRAYER TO THE ARCHBISHOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Canon Nash
Has done a “ mash ”
With maid or widdy,
Why keep it dark,
Archbishop Clark ?
Is he a “ spark 1 ”
A shepherd giddy?
Your gaitered Grace
Should state a case
To give us solace,
When comes to pass
The end, alas !
Of “ Mrs. Wallace.’*
If Canon Nash
Was gay or rash,|
O, tell the story !
AVe want, forsooth,
The blessed truth,
The words, the acts ;
O, state the facts
For Heaven’s glory ! !
Plank down the Proof,
Don’t stand aloof
And look so haughty
Prelate, speak out,
Dispel the doubt —
Say something naughty.
VIC.
O.K.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HICHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Kheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAQNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. IF. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
It costs but a small amount to keep
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy always on hand, and it is economy in the
end.
The [one Hand
HE JANUARY NUMBER is a holt-
DAY ISSUE, EULL OE BRIGHTNESS.
Consider some oe the features :—
The short story prize last year was won by
a Maoriland girl not yet 17, with a virile
study of Cave-man life. That story, “As it
was in the Beginning,” is printed in January.
It has good red blood in it.
Other great stories of the January number
are, “ The Enchanted Sample Case,” by
Milton Macgregor ; “Two Battlers and a
Bear,” by Edward Dyson ; “ The Big Five ”
(continued), by Ambrose Pratt; ‘ ‘ The
Butterfly and the Bookmaker,” by A.
Conor-O’Brien ; “The Experiences of Clar-
ence,” by Arthur Adams; “Bibbons,” by
Carlton Allen ; and “ Playing the Game,” by
Alice Muskett.
In more serious mood are : “ England and
Australia—a Comparison,” by E. W. M.
Grigg, wherein this notable London jour-
nalist shows us the Australian as he sees
him; “ A Most Rare Old Dutch Map,” by
the eminent geographer, George Colling-
ridge ; “The Poetry of Brunton Stephens,”
by another notable poet, Essex Evans;
“The Day’s Work,” by Grace Palotta ;
and “Marion Edwards,” by Beatrix Tracy.
The verse is particularly strong in the
January Lone Hand: “ Red John of Has-
lingden,” by Hugh McCrae (with decoration
by Norman Lindsay); “A Cyclonic Love
Ballad,” by “Hop”; “Lambin’Ewes,” by
H. C. Davis (with decoration by Mahony) ;
“ Happy Children,” by Arnold Wall (decora-
tion by B. E. Minns); and “Bacchus,” by
W. Dyson.
For the sporting community there is an
excellent article, with many illustrations, on
Yachting.
Those are just a few of the plums. It
would take pages of The Bulletin to
describe the whole of the pudding. But
it’s fine holiday fare, good measure, filled up
and overflowing.
You should be able to get the January
Lone Hand with this week’s Bulletin.
Ask for it !
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
»i
AN AMERICAN BOOT.
Public taste is slowly but surely leading- towards wider
fitting boots of the foot-form character. And it is sensible.
Such a boot gives absolute freedom to the feet—being the
same shape as the foot, and there is really no boot so
comfortable or easy fitting. We have just opened our
first shipment, and they are as fine a lot of pure American
boots as ever came to Australia.
Price in Box Calf or Vici Kid, 18/6, 25/-, 27/6.
ORDER FORM. PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
Please send me a pair of Boots as above at..
My size is. I enclose
Name
B. 26/12/W. Address..
PEAPES & CO, LTD,,
MEN'S jt jt
OUTFITTERS,
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Now it is Sydney Municipal Council that
is up against the Asiatic problem. At Bel more
produce markets there are several Chow stall-
holders ; also, just across the street there is a long
string of shops, wherein some more Chows vend
the fruits of the earth to unpatriotic Australians.
Market stall-holders are charged per load ot pro-
duce taken into the building. Stall John takes in
his little load in the morning, and sometimes that
little load lasts a long time. Seemingly Stall John
is satisfied to have the stock on his hands. He will
supply the purchaser of a small lot, but the
customer requiring something a little larger than
a small lot, Stall John suavely conducts to his
pal, Shop John, across the way. Generally the'
customer is flattered by Stall John’s courtesy, and
goes over to Shop John. So Stall John is satisfied
(he keeps his barrow supplied, and saves further
market dues); Shop John is satisfied, and the
customer is satisfied. The only people who are
not satisfied are the white stall-holders, who
haven’t any adjacent shop-confederates, and have
to pay further dues every time they want more
supplies; and the City Council, which objects to
its markets being made a mere touting place for
Shop John. Also naturally the Council objects to
the loss of the revenue that would accrue to it if
Stall John used the markets for the purpose for
which he is allegedly there. So the Council is
profoundly considering what to do about Stall
-John.
Hood, of the Victorian Supreme Court,
t’other day slid back into the age when every per-
son whose mind happened to be temporarily or
permanently clouded was chained up to the
nearest weighty log and left there. He had be-
fore him a man guilty of an aimless attempt to
murder Samuel Jones, General Superintendent
of Transportation on the Victorian Railways.
Jones’ official title, nailed on to him by Tait from
Canada, appears to be the only excuse which the
accused man had for shooting at him. It was
shown in the defence that the prisoner had pre-
viously been confined in a lunatic asylum, and
that he had had frequent fits. In sentencing the
man to four years’ imprisonment, with hard labor,
Hood declared that “even if the prisoner suffered
from attacks of lunacy, he would be better in gaol
than wandering about taking fits and shooting
people.” Perhaps by this time Hood realises the
sheer brutality of that remark.
THE LITTLE GENTLEMAN.
"You silly ass I Don’t you know a gentleman
should always open the door for a lady?"
The discretion of it. “Len” Braund
struck this continent just in time for the Wallace
case, and now Parsons—the |“pretty legs”
expert—has arrived with his craft to find
himself the most-discussed sea-dog in the
entire Commonwealth. On the other hand,
the Willies— viz., Lawson (who, according to
Duffy, is the youth “anyone would love”) and
Kelly, M.P. (who called at Lanark, motor-car in
hand, one Sunday afternoon), are both firmly
absent in England.
HER CLOTHES.
“ Isn’t she wonderful ? Such superb technique! ”
“ Yes, and it must have taken yards and yards."
A recent advt. in Maoriland Herald
brought a rush of young women to the office, in
the hope that the advertiser might be interviewed
at the counter :
"vyANTED. —Gentleman requires Young Woman as
'' Companion for one month, to visit Rotorua ;
wages 15s. a week, all expenses paid. Apply by
letter, stating age, to Confidential.
The personal applicants came in all ages, shapes,
and sizes, and the letters offered an immense
selection of summer goods at 15s. a week.
+ * w *
“ D.’s” plaint: —
Have been for years an earnest student of the eterna
type of feminine who goes in for street collecting. She
is mostly, in private life, of a Vere de Vere pride. There
are but two occasions on which she will suffer the
advances of the strange male, viz. ; (1) When she has
been run over by a tram ; (2) when she adheres to a
wooden collecting-box. So far as looks are concerned,
she is, as a genus or clan, well worth any ordinary mate’s
advances. In fact, she is for the most part prepossessing,
not to say alluring. Taken at the correct moment (viz., im-
mediately after a tram has passed over her, or a collection
box been dealt her, as the case may be) she will be found
to be far from unfriendly. Again she is mainly Hebrew.
Judge my amaze-
ment when I
sallied hopefully
forth on a recent
Saturday morn-
ing in quest of
th e Grail, or
something, and
found that the
Sydney Mission
people had alter-
ed all this.
Everything had
suffered a sea or
other change.
The matrons and
maidens of Israel
were absent.
There was no
single female of
identifiably Yid-
dish extraction
depending from
any collection
box that 1 could
see through the
length and
breadth of the
city. Again, the
“ helpers ” —the
correct term, I
believe were
plain. I never
saw a less en-
trancing band of
women—and for
three years I
was hon. sec.
to a Female
State Frights
and Anti-llome-busting league in B. Smith’s electorate.
Also they were haughty. Ye gods, but they were extremely
haughty! I never* felt so like a malefactor as when I
refused a lady with a markedly-developed Methody face
in George-street; nor so much of a slinking, parsimoni-
ous hound as when I handed a bob I could ill afford to
another on the same spot later in the day. lam all for
unconventionalit.v myself, but this mission society seems
to be overdoing things.
* * * *
In the Wallace case Barrister Duffy has
been stringing up witness after witness on the
spikes of the bunyip’s older brother, the dilemma.
“Sosso” Rogers met the trouble early in the
proceedings. Asked “Supposing a woman dis-
honored herself with you, would you admit it, or
would you lie?’ he hesitated for a long while,
and finally petitioned for more time to consider
the matter. After lunch the cruel, persistent
Duffy asked him if he was ready now, but had to
be satisfied with the non-committal reply
that “he couldn’t answer thequestion.” “Sosso’s”
trouble, of course, was, that if he said he would lie
about the matter, the jury would be invited to re-
gard Sos. as a person who owned up to a capacity
for perjury; while if Sos. said he would tell the
truth, the jury would ask itself what it thought of
a person who would put the lady away. Nobody
has ever been known to put a brand on a dilem-
ma, but it’s a well-known and horrible beast all
the same—especially this sort of dilemma. Yet
after all, “Sosso” had a short and simple way
out. “Haven’t the faintest idea; which would
you advise me to do ? ” would have met the case.
Or he might simply have said that if such a case
arose he would take legal advice before acting.
“ S.” : The Burke and Wills picture by
Longstaff is now suspended in the Victorian
National Gallery, and the verdict is that it was
“ worth waiting for.” Many efforts were made
to rush the artist, and it must be Admitted that
seven years is a long hesitation. From this point
of view Longstaffs painting is a work of time, if
not of eternity. Better, however, wait seven
years for a good picture than seven months for a
had one, and this painting is worthy of the subject.
In dimensions it is only inferior to the drop curtain
“ Moses ” and the back-cloth “Brigands,’’ bvtitis
miles ahead of both as a work of art The
figures are life-size, the men, the atmosphere, the
“feel” are all true, and the story of the lost ex-
plorers is more pathetic and convincing to me on
this canvas than it has been in any other form.
The work is highly dramatic, of course ; it is a
dramatic theme—a tableau—but there is nothing
theatrical, nothing over-emphasised. The draw-
ing is admirable and the paint is good—it breathes.
By far the best Australian historical painting to
date.
The other day the Law in Victoria was
asked to presume the death of Francis Evans —he
left Melbourne for Fiji in 1876 and had never re-
appeared—so that his children might get the
remains of his estate before they died of extreme
old age. Evans was understood to have died in
Fiji shortly after arriving there, his mate
(Moroney) having written his mother to that
effect, and sent his personal effects, along with
some £7 in cash. Unfortunately the 30-year-old
letter had been lost, and Moroney had been lost
also. The Law put on its wisest look and inquired
if there was any record of Evans’ death. There was
not, registrars being less numerous than cannibals
in the South Seas at that time. Then the Law said
the certificate of his birth might be of some use,
though it didn’t specify in what way. Counsel
replied that, though Francis had been born in
Victoria in the early ’fifties, there was no record
of his birth either. Here the law put an ertcra-
profound look on its countenance an£ ooserved
that so far as the evidence there was no
Francis Evans whatsoever and never had been ;
in fact, he had never existed, and the whole
thing was merr, imagination, like Anti-Sosh or
Reid’s FreeVade policy. Counsel observed that
the estate wasn’t imagination, anyhow, there
being a .ew hundreds left to Francis or his
children by a brother, who died a while back.
Having pondered deeply for a space and con-
sidered the smallness of the estate and the large-
ness of Costs, the Law said it might be as well to
declare Francis dead, and serve out the estate.
But it did so with hesitation and grave doubts,
because if Francis did hereafter transpire he
would be a mere corpse, a late lamented, and his
claim bn the estate would be gone, and his name
Mud. Francis will, therefore, please accept this
intimation that he is expected to remain dead.
THE FUNNY MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Keir Hardie’s reply was mainly in humorous strain.
—Argus.
The sweated mortals of the slums
Gry out in pain. Who will assist
The Cause ? Their saviour-hero comes
Along—a blessed humorist !
Hark to the sounds of starving scum—
The noise of feeble curses hissed
From filthy darkness ! Brass and drum
. Bellow —here comes the humorist !
Grey hands of hate wave in the air,
The slop-wright’s claw, the navvy’s fist,
They beckon and implore—and there
He grins, the English humorist !
The gloomy toilers of the Pit
The joys of life have mostly missed.
“Ah, yes, indeed—l’ve mentioned it
In speeches ! ” brays the humorist.
A piebald brotherhood —a throng
Of mongrel men—is on his list.
A White Australia? Hear the long,
Wild laughter of the humorist!
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
AUSTRALIA’S STOMACH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is one urgent circumstance, however, about
which no one seems to agitate with much enthusiasm—
namely that of Australia’s stomach.—Bulletin, 5/12/’O7.
Sing a song of Tummy,
Listen to my plea !
Leave off learning Sanskrit
At the ’Varsity.
Never mind your ’ologies
Stupid LL.D. ;
Learn about your “ innards,”
Give up drinking tea.
You have learnt “ inhaling
Through the nose ”? ’Tis well ;
Also, some Theology
Teaching Death and Hell!
Oh ! These silly isms
Taught by silly fools
Knowing naught of Tummy,
, Tummy or his rules !
I, enthusiastic,
For the outcast pray,
And I sadly warn you
Turn will have his day !
Oh, that poor old Tummy
Day and night you cram
With all sorts of horrors—
Pickles, mustard, jam !
Mute and unprotesting
Tummy is, until
He goes out of business
Having had his “ fill ”!
Now my song is finished.
Off to Paris House
Gaily goes dear Tummy
, Quiet as a mouse !
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Gas Suction etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Wade and Waddell loan estimates, which
tore through the N.S.W. Parliament the other evening as
though they were a motor-car, furnish some more
evidence that the Oarruthers Public Works Fund is the
fraud The Bulletin always said it was. Oarruthers, bent
on getting a surplus somehow, dropped his revenue
into his right-hand trousers pocket. Then he looked at
the bills, and paid the washerwoman her sevenpence, and
tuppence for a bootlace, and found he had 15 bills left
and a handful of silver to pay them with. But instead
of paying the 15 bills out of what was left in the right-
hand pocket, Oarruthers’idea was to call it “surplus,”
and shift it over to the other pocket, and then pay the
bills out of that pocket. Nobody was any better off
in the end, because Oarruthers would have had to pay
the 15 bills anyhow, and he didn’t have any more to pay
them with than if he hadn’t done any juggling. But the
poor little trick allowed Oarruthers to pose as a great
financier who produced surpluses, and spent them on
“permanent and reproductive” undertakings hitherto
paid for out of loan money.
Yet, in spite of that Fund, the Wade and
Waddle Ministry now turns up with a demand for
£2,470,981 loan money, also £1,500,000 for the renewal
of an old lOU ; and included in this £2,470,981, for which
Oohen is to be tapped as soon as possible if he isn’t
tapped already, provision is made for such things as “17
engines reconstructed and reboilered, £28,017 ” ; “ duty on
40 engines imported, £14,247”; a quantity of wire-
netting, additions to rolling stock, the making
of new roads, additions to various buildings, etc.
Such a fraud is the N.S.W. Public Works Fund that even
the repairing of engines is charged to loans ; in other
words, works that were paid for with borrowed money in
the first place wear out, and the patch that is put on the
hole is paid for with more borrowed money, so that a
patched engine has to stagger along under- two loads of
debt, and has to struggle to earn two lots of interest; and
if it breaks down in the process, then the shortage has to
be made up out of more taxation. Instead, in fact, of the
Public Works Fund being used to supply permanent and
reproductive works out of revenue, it is obvious that it
isn’t even paying for repairs and renewals, not to men-
tion such unproductive things as new streets, and such
perishable goods as wire-netting.
Some day all Australian banks will be required
to balance on the same day, and then their figures will be
worth more for comparative purposes. Also there will
be other advantages. Some banks are very friendly
towards some others ; when they don’t balance on the
same day, one bank can help another, and one lot of
liquid assets can give a fine, substantial look to two
balance sheets. The Eternal Bank balances on Septem-
ber 30 ; the Everlasting Bank on December 31. On Sep-
tember 29 the Everlasting Bank suddenly finds that it
has more coin than it w r ants, so it lends the Eternal
Bank £lOO,OOO, and then the Eternal Bank’s holding of
coin and other liquid assets is very impressive when
the balance sheet comes out. Next month the
Eternal Bank hands back the £lOO,OOO, and in a
few weeks it passes on another £lOO,OOO to the
Everlasting Bank, so that the latter’s holding of
liquid assets shows up fine and large on December 31. So
the window-dressing goes on, and a little stock is made to
go a long way. By and bye there is trouble, and a smash,
and the public says it is so surprised, because the figures
of the Eternal and the Everlasting always looked so good.
If all banks had to make up their accounts on the same
day twice a year—March 31 and September 30 would pro-
bably be the best—this gentle art would be wiped out.
In the first list that follows the figures are those
for the last 12 months for which banking accounts have
been published. In some cases the 12 months run to the
end of September ; in one or two they don’t come down
later than March
Added m , ,
Profits. Dividends, to Re-
serves. serves.
Australasia .. £380,975 £224,000 £129,975 £1,427,325
Union.. .. 380,165 210,000 90,155 1,204,310
New Zealand.. 343,881 87,500 200,381 281,675
N. S. Wales .. 269,547 210,635 58,912 1,561,645
Com. of Aus... 147,270 63,520 22,254 247,488
Com. of Syd... 139,782 100,000 39,782 1,220,373
National
(Melb.) .. 98,101 74,910 23,191 169,848
Victoria .. 86,651 73,900 12,751 192,490
National
(M.L.) .. 64,901 38,750 26,151 335,318
Q. National .. 65,203 -- 8,000 59,000
E.,S. and A... 58,983 26,972 23,261 186,169
Adelaide .. 56,265 34,000 22,265 305,504
Westralia .. 52,751 30,000 22,751 411,318
Colonial (M’lb) 41,618 26,356 15,262 115,858
London .. 36,454 18,653 17,801 33,908
Com. ofTas... 31,728 18,900 4,828 153,806
Royal (Vic.).. 27,501 12,687 14,814 84,941
Royal (Q.) .. 22,179 19,501 1,178 70,146
National (Tas.) 17,647 11,174 5,473 41,173
City of Sydney 13,115 11,000 2,115 11,120
Ballarat .. 8,227 6,950 2,277 71,828
Dep. & Mort-
gage .. 10,363 9,190 1,173 2,527
North Q’land.. 5,662 3,448 2,214 24,429
A. .. .. 3,873 3,873 14,384
£2,362,832 £1,311,046 £750,837 £8,226,583
This shows what was done with the money :
Paid in dividends. .. .. £1,311,046
B. interest paid State .. .. £40,000
~ old losses written off .. .. 16,000
Com. of Aus. aid to Assets Trust .. 56,496
Written off, Com. of Aus. .. .. 5,000
„ „ E.S. & A 8,750
„ „ Union 80,000
„ ~ Australasia .. .. .. 27,000
„ „ Q.N 33,203
* „ Royal (Q.). 1,500
„ ~ Com. of Tas 8,000
„ ~ National (Tas.) .. .. 1,000
Repaid old deposits, Q.N. .. .. 24,000
300,949
Put to reserves 750,837
Total visible profits £2,362,832
And to summarise, comparing the situation with that of
the previous two years :
1905. 1906. 1907.
Dividends .. .. £1,150,407 £1,166,074 £1,351,046
Added to reserves 330,867 346,148 750,837
Written off, etc. .. 334,845 398,196 260,949
Total .. .. £1,816,119
Less div. paid by
London Bank out
of reserves .. 2,755
Profits .. £1,813,364 £1,910,418 £2,362,832
In this last comparison the £40,000 paid as interest to the
State by the Bank of New Zealand is treated as dividend
and capital. The most notable feature, apart from the
large increase in profits disclosed, is the jump in the
amount put to reserves. This, however, is very largely
due to the fact that the Bank of New Zealand
finished its job of filling: up the hole which
was left by the old Private Enterprise regime;
and the profits which for 12 years had gone
that way now go to formal reserves. The (Queensland
National Bank’s figures are under some suspicion. First,
it has a large amount of old deposits on which it is pay-
ing very little; then, under the last arrangement with
the Government, 75 per cent of the net profits have to go
towards repaying old private depositors ; and as this part
of the old private deposits carries no interest, the bank
hasn’t much inducement to magnify the net profits,
especially when it can find plenty of use for them in
writing down old over-valued securities.
• • • • •
Every bank has its own way of doing things :
no two general managers are hatched out of the same
egg. One bank piles up figures : it shows the biggest
profits it can, and the biggest reserves it can. Another
general manager, in charge of the same bank, would use
part of the profits to write down assets. That part of
the profits would in that case not be shown. The Bank
of Australasia, for instance, has taken large sums out of
profits to write its premises down, until they now stand
at £251,836, while the premises account of the A.J.S.
stands away up at £366,742. If the Bank of Australasia’s
premises are worth more than £251,836, then the excess
represents an internal, hidden reserve ; and the amount
used to write the asset down below the real value has
been profit, though it has not been shown. Banks, like
others, have to take the lean with the fat. Some of the
profits they make in the fat years have to be regarded
merely as provision to meet the losses that are inevitable
in lean years. Some banks make that provision without
showing it; in other words, wffen losses do arrive they
won’t have to write down their reserves to meet the
losses. Others don’t. But, as far as they are set out, the
earnings of the various banks, on the basis of capital and
reserves, were as the next table shows. These and the
dividend figures are for the last term for which accounts
have been issued in each year
Interest earned per Dividends
annum on Capital per cent.
and Reserves. per annum.
1906. 1907. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Union .. ..£7 15 4 £l7 3 9 10 10 14
New Zealand .. 16 10 5 _£ 1 2^
Australasia .. 912 3 15 10 10 12 12 14
National (M.L.).. 10 8 3 14 010 12 12 12
Com. ofTas. .. 9 6 0 11 7 3 12 12 12
Royal (Melb.) .. 10 3 7 10 10 10 6 7 7
Westralia .. 9 1 9 10 4 2 20 20 20
National (Tas.) ..6 14 2 8 19 3 6 6 7
E. S. and A. .. 7 2 1 8 510 4 4J 5
Adelaide.. .. 618 4 8 4 8 8 8 8J
N. S. Wales .. 7 9 10 7 12 10 10 10 10
Colonial .. ..769 724 5 6 6
Com. of Sydney.. 6 4 6 613 3 10 10 10
London .. .. 42 11 69 S -f?
It 5J 5£ 6J
Com. ofAus. .. 514 1 6 1 5{ *
National (Melb.) 5 910 6 0 Ij* * j?
Ballarat .. ..552 561 7 7 7
Victoria .. .. 49 11 55 4 ®
N. Queensland ..4 1 4 417 9 2£ 2J 4
Royal(Queensland) 316 4 45 5 3| sj 4
Dep. and Mort... 5
City of Sydney .. 219 5 3 811 2£ 2£ 3
* Ordinary shares.
t Preference shares.
No comparison of any value can be made between the
Bank of New Zealand’s earnings for the past two years,
calculated on the foregoing basis, because of its altered
financial arrangements ; the State now holds £1,000,000
worth of preference shares, and to that extent has re-
duced the old debt. The Bank of N. S. Wales increased
its capital during the last half-year, issuing new shares at
par : this was equivalent to an increase in the rate of
dividend. The Bank of Adelaide put up its dividend to
9 per cent, in the second half of the year.
When the Bank of New Zealand got into
trouble 14 years ago the most hopeless-looking of the
assets were handed over to a Board for realisation. The
bank helped this Board by handing - over its net profits ;
and so unexpectedly large was this help that 12 months
ago the Board was able to say that it had practically
finished the undertaking business, and was ready for a
quiet funeral in a plain coffin itself. What was left of the
old trouble was then handed back to the bank. The
unrealised assets stood in the hooks at £461,047. They
have since been rushed out at such a rate that on Decem-
ber Ist only £128,401 remained. Thus £332,646 (book
value) of these old assets have been got rid of in I, Tie 12
months. Meantime advances and other assets have in-
creased by £85,754; so the latter is apparently the
amount realised from the sale of old assets which'stood
in the books at £332,646. Figures like that show the size
of the disaster which would have hit Maoriland if the
Government hadn’t gone to the rescue in 1894, and put
the bank in the way of earning big profits to fill the vast
hole which gaped in the accounts.
The Bank of New Zealand disappointed some
people by announcing a div. at the rate of 10 per cent,
per annum at the interim meeting this month. When
ordinaries get 10 per cent., preference shares must get 7£
per cent. ; but preference shares (held by the State) can’t
get beyond 10 per cent., and when they reach that point
ordinaries will be entitled to 15 per cent. The 10
and 15 per cent, dividend would absorb £125,000,
while the annual profits for three years past have gone
beyond £300,000. It is clear that some, anyhow, of the
directors look for a pretty sudden spring in the dividend
to 15 per cent, for ordinaries ; and Martin Kennedy, one of
the oldest of the directors—for a while past associated
with the London Board—made a long speech at the half-
yearly meeting, paving the way for the rise. Unless
something hard and unexpected hits Maoriland during
the next few months, an announcement will very likely
be made at the end of the bank’s current year (March 31).
*■){■**
A few years ago, when the N.B.W. friendly
societies were overhauled by actuarial experts for the
first time, a state of pretty general rottenness was
revealed. In numerous cases “ lodges " were already
unable to pay the promised benefits, and most others
were drifting that way. The Acts of 1899 and 1902, how-
ever, put matters on a scientific basis, and the money
placed to reserve for future claims during the past four
years, viz., £273,029, is more than one,-third of the amount
saved in all the previous 29 years. The “ funeral fund ”
practically the life-insurance branch of the business—
which had been reduced to positively grotesque pro-
portions as the claims naturally increased, has been
augmented by 52 per cent, in four years. It had been the
old business over again : because most of the members
were young, and death claims were few, funds mounted
up ; and, as friendly society men are not as a rule used
to big amounts, the size of the accumulations led them
to either cut down contributions or increase benefits;
and the newer societies adopted the low-contribution
scale. There was general smash looming ahead, when the
State took a hand, and contributions and benefits were
settled on a proper basis. At the end of 1906 there were
107,723 members, with £1,057,496 of funds; the
expenditure for the year was £299,199, of which
cost of management amounted to a moderate 10 - 7
per cent, of the total income, and the year’s lay-by
was £96,628. For many years these societies, or most
of them, were objects of mirth, mainly; but, nowadays,
since the State has interfered and practically provided
them with an actuary, they are taking a place as sound
and desirable business propositions; and when they have
moulted the rest of their flummery, and dropped the habit
of calling one another “Noble Grand,” and “Most Wor-
shipful and Prodigious Buffalo,” they will be worth set-
ting up alongside, say, the A.M.P.
* ■* * *
The Wellington (M.L.) Municipal Tramways
accounts for the second year to March 31, 1907, have now
been published. The undertaking began with a deficit of
£32,930, represented by cost of loans, interest during
construction, and expense of altering telegraph lines, etc.
This amount was reduced to £32,113 by a set-off of in-
terest earned on deposits. The position in the two years
has changed in this way :
Deficit.
Preliminary expenses .. .. £32,113
Written Sinking
March, Profit. Interest. Off. Fund.
1906 .. £23,960 £12,098 £7,436 £3064 27,687
1907 .. 34,518 15,778 10,641 4071 19,588
The sinking fund is included among the reserves, which
have gone towards reducing the deficit; but the depreci-
ation fund is not included. After paying interest and
providing for depreciation, the profit was £4426 in
1905-6 and £8099 in 1906-7. The city council includes the
preliminary expenses as an asset, but is writing them off
at the laggard rate of 4 per cent, per annum. In the
foregoing table, of course, they are not reckoned as an
asset.
The total amount of capital raised by way of
loans is £452,423. Of that £409,170 is represented by per-
manent way, rolling stock, and other fixed investments.
(There is a paper item among the fixed investments,
“ Patent rights, trolley-head, £700,” acquired during the
year, which possibly ought to be added to the deficit
above ; but it can pass—it is only a “ small one,” anyway.)
Depreciation is being provided for at the rate of 2f per
cent. This is really the fund out of which replacements
must be made ; and though it is all right at present, it
will nob be any too much when the renewals start to
come in. There is always the danger, when a community
sees that a few thousands of profit are being made by a
new undertaking, that concessions will be demanded;
and in view of the fact that hardly anything is going out
yet to pay for repairs and maintenance, the profits in
this case are by no means large enough to stand any
cutting into.
The sinking fund is not a very vigorous one—
-1 per cent.—but any sort of a sinking fund at all is a
blessed relief from the common drift of Maoriland public
finance. The money is invested partly in bank deposits,
partly in the city’s own debentures ; and as to the latter
there are some misgivings. The object of the sinking
fund is to store up enough money to presently pay off
Oohen, so that the city will really own the tramways, and
will be able to instal low fares and divert profits to city
improvement generally ; but if the money is invested in
the city’s own debentures, the chances are that when the
time comes for the city to pay over the money, it will
have to borrow to do it; and Wellington in that case
won’t be much “ forrarder.”
* * * *
The National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia :
Written Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses, off. Funds.
1898 .. £479,665 £240,447 £86,398 £152,820
1899 .. 499,753 222,764 91,058 £7219 178,712
1900 .. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1901 .. 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 .. 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
1903 .. 634,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904 .. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905 .. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1906 .. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907 .. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
In 1897 this society took over the Mutual of Vic-
toria, and since then it has doubled its income,
with a little bit left over for the past year.
A great deal of the new business has come from
S’Africa, where, down to a couple of years ago at
any rate, new business was easily got, and in big amounts.
Partly for that reason it was also got at comparatively
low cost. The real value of that business has yet to b,e
proved. When a place is booming, and people look at
things through a wine-glass, the tendency is to scorn the
modest insurance policy, and talk in thousands instead of
hundreds. Later on, where the policy for hundreds could
be kept going, the policy for thousands is abandoned.
Up to now', it is true, the National Mutual’s recent record
in the way of lapses and surrenders has apparently not
been at all bad ; but something more definite may be said
about that after the issue of the results of the triennial
investigation, now just about completed. For this isn’t
one of the offices that follow the excellent plan of the
A.M.P., and give ,every year particulars, not only of the
new policies, but also of the policies discontinued through
death, maturity, surrender, and forfeiture.
The growth of the business is certainly very
striking, and reflects the energy and enterprise of the
office. For the past year 11,909 new policies were issued,
assuring £3,080,128 ; for 1906 the great A.M.P. issued
17,122 policies, assuring- £4,585,436. Going back to 1897 it
w'ill be found that the A.M.P. issued 11,625 policies for
£3,085,388, while the National Mutual issued 4523 policies
for £1,108,430. Thus the A.M.P. issueds497 more policies
than it did 10 years ago, while the National Mutual issued
7386 more. But, as mentioned just now, the value of
much of this new business in the National Mutual has yet
to be proved. The A.M.P. kept hitherto to a w'ell-tried
field ; the other broke new and uncertain ground.
The expense rate is still high, especially for an
office of this size:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1898 .. £lB 0 3 per cent. 1903 .. £l7 14 1 per cent.
1899.. 18 4> 5 „ 1904.. 18 1 5 „
1900 .. 16 14 11 „ 1905 .. 18 2 9
1901.. 16 1 3 „ 1906 .. 17 13 9
1902.. 17 511 „ 1907.. 17 10, 8
But that test is not enough. It is necessary also
to know the proportion of new business that has been
got for the money. The renewal premiums (old business)
amounted to £§32,740. Assume that this costs 7 per cent,
to work = £37,292. Add 3 per cent, for single-premium
and annuity business = £1442. Total, £38,734. The ex-
penses amounted altogether to £157,512. The difference
between these two—£llB,77B—will be the cost of the new
business. The new-business premiums amounted to
£104,230, so that this new business cost 113’9 per cent, of
the first year’s premiums. On the same basis the
A.M.P.’s new business last year cost 84T per cent. The
Citizens’ and one or two other offices have got well down
towards the same figure, helped mainly by the Industrial
business. The National Mutual runs no Industrial branch,
but it appears to do a considerable amount of halfway-
house business. The medical expenses point to that. In
the A.M.P. “medical fees and expenses” absorbed 15-5
per cent, of the new-business premiums last year ; and in
the Widows’ Fund they called for 19 - 9 per cent. In the
National Mutual they ran to only 7 - 3 per cent. It looks
highly probable that this means a good deal of without-
medical-inspection business ; and the chances are that
what is saved in expenses will presently be absorbed in
larger claims. The a’lleged saving must, anyhow, be kept
in mind when comparing expense rates.
Interest earnings are moderate :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 13 3 per cent. 1904 .. £4 13 9 per cent.
1901 .. 413 4 „ 1905 .. 413 7 „
1902 .. 411 7 „ 1906 .. 412 8 „
1903 .. 4 13 11 „ 1907 .. 411 6
This office, however, adopts the practice of deducting
rates and taxes from interest earnings. Thus the interest
earnings are reduced, but the expense rate is reduced
also. The least satisfactory feature in connection with
the assets is the poor holding of gilt-edged securities ;
7-5 per cent, of all assets represents public (including
municipal) securities. On the other hand, no less than
49-8 per cent, of the assets are in mortgages. Consider-
ing the risk that this disposition of the assets involves,
the interest earnings are distinctly moderate. Fortu-
nately the society has something substantial in the way
of an investment fluctuation reserve; it amounts to
£84,414, £1993 having been written off it during the year.
In computing earnings this reserve is, of course, included
with the Bunds. Among the assets the objectionable
“ Deferred instalments of annual premiums ” still appears-
—an unreliable paper item which now stands for £93,001.
The Nation al Mutual persists in including this as an asset,
though every other Australian first or second or even
third-rank office has abandoned it.
* * *
The National Trustees, Executors ani>
Agency Co. of Australasia (Melbourne)
To Be- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1898.. £2390 8 per cent. = £2400 £23,886
1899 .. 2402 8 „ „ 2400 £2 23,888
1900 .. 2403 8 „ „ 2400 3 23,891
1901 .. 2406 8 „ „ 24,00 6 23,897
1902 .. 2407 8 „ „ 2400 7 23,904
1903 ...2408 8 „ „ 2400 8 23,912
1904 ..2433 8 ~ „ 2400 33 23,940
1905 .. 2414 8 „ „ 2400 14 23,959
1906 .. 2725 9 „ ~ 2700 25 23,954
1907 .. 2714 9 „ „ 2700 14 .23,998
The Maddens /all have more than a streak of humor; and
Walter, of th at ilk, being managing-director, of thisf'co.,
turns to account even such unpromising material as
a balance-sheet. It is quite a big balance-sheet; but
it mostly consists of entries like these: “ Debts
due on judgment, nil" ; “ debts due on simple contracts,
nil"; “moneys at without security, ml.” Then, after
noting this nice regard for infinite detail, you turn tc
find out the things you want to know—the things that
matter—and you don’t find them. The co. got into the
habit of paying an 8 per cent, div., and an 8 per cent. div.
required £2400 ; so, year by year, the profit and loss
account showed £2402, £2403, £2406, £2407, £2408. The
profit and loss account states the gross profit, “after pro-
viding for contingencies ” —and that is where the
humorous managing director chuckles ; for everything
depends upon what provision is made for contingencies,
and the accounts don’t breathe a word of what the
accumulated provision for contingencies amounts to. No
doubt trustee cos.’ accounts are awkward things to
handle. There are commissions on the corpus of the
estate and commissions on the revenue, and some of the
former ought to be reserved to help pay the expenses of
management. But it is pretty obvious that this co.
carries the matter to such a length that, for all practical
purposes, its published accounts are almost valueless.
In 1898 salaries and other expenses were £3892 ; last year
they were £6293. That ought to mean much bigger
business and larger profits ; yet, as a matter of fact, the
disclosed profits have only moved up from £2390 to £2714.
* * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building,
and Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899 £l4Ol 1| p.c. = £lO9O £3ll £40,922
1900 2344 3 „ ~ 2201 143 41,065
1901 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903 2590 3 „ „ 2477 113 41,890
1904 3044 3 „ ~ 2584 460 42,350
1905 3017 3 „ „ 2595 422 42,772
1906 3349 3J „ „ 3061 288 43,060
1907 3872 4 „ ~ 3547 £lO,OOO 33,385
The amount of the dividend for the last half-year is cal-
culated on the total capital paid up when the books were
balanced, and it may be a few pounds over-stated. The
co. owns, besides city property, extensive country lands,
including Furracabad, up Glen Innes way (N.S. W.). It
is these latter properties which have been written down,
as shown in the table above. The following gives some
idea of the principal movements :
1900. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. .. £75,176 £87,018 £87,728 £89,348
Deposits .. .. 50,689 37,460 40,253 43,341
Other liabilities .. 45,559 65,467 52,909 48,847
Advances, etc. .. 42,003 57,593 58,927 61,289
Citv properties .. 57,503 38,372 38,384 36,35,9
Other properties .. 106,314 119,898 125,821 116,154
Cash balances, etc. .. 7,459 8,153 2,568 2,905
The co. has been gradually getting out of city property,
and evidently acquiring country property for subdivision ;
and these subdivisional sales are no doubt mostly on
terms. The latter transactions are covered by “ advances,
etc.” It is generally supposed that great profits have been
made out of this subdivision business during the last few
years, not so much by this co. as by private specu-
lators. No doubt in a good many cases profits have been
counted before they were properly hatched ; for it is one
thing to sell land at high prices on terms and another to
get paid for it. Against that contingency this co. may
have made provision which isn’t shown ; if it hasn’t, the
profits have been very small, and what are shown as
profits may not be profits in the end. Anyway, the fact
that £lO,OOO has been written off estates isn’t too com-
forting. It is a speculative business, the.prospects of which
can’t be summed up with any certainty from the pub-
lished accounts.
* » * *
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit 00. (Melbourne) from the time when, £16,022
having been embezzled, £14,728 of capital was written
off, Which left the co. with £826 of reserves
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Apr., 1902 ..£lOl9 8 per cent. =£sl6 £503 £1329
Oct., 1902 .. 1156 8 ~ „ 516 640 1969
Apr., 1903 .. 688 8 ~ ~ 516 172 2141
Oct., 1903 .. 949 8 „ „ 516 : 433 2574
Apr., 1904 .. 820 8 ~ ~ 516 304 2878
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8 „ „ 516 224 3102
Apr., 1905 .. 856 8 ~ „ 516 040 3442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8 „ „ 516 347 3789
Apr., 1906 .. 986 8 „ „ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8 „ ~ 516 434 4693
Apr., 1907 .. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907 .. 655 10 „ „ 645 IQ 5072
There is nothing to explain the slump in profits. If,
however, the present figures represent a normal state of
things, the dividend is excessive. The capital and £5224
of deposits are represented by the family tea-pot and the
other things that an Uncle of good character makes
advances on ; and moth and rust are liable to eat holes
in such securities, so 'that something large and solid
should be laid by out of revenue to fill up the holes with.
Probably during the half-year some writing down has
been done that isn’t disclosed—it is a case in which a lot
of things might happen without shareholders being any
the wiser, if the published accounts were their only feunt
of knowledge.
* * * *
Every third man or thereabouts nowadays is
waiting till Broken Hill Souths touch 405., and then he is
going to buy. Another third is waiting to accommodate
him, and meantime is encouraging him not to wait for
405., but to snap them up at say 455. The one-third that
are bears masquerading as bulls remember that, no later
than the year 1904, paid Souths sold at 235, and con-
tributing Souths at 15s. 9d. “Ah !” says the optimist;
“ but look at the enormous ore developments in the last
couple of years.” Quite true, there have been develop-
ments such as no other Barrier mine has had. But mere
size of ore body isn’t of much consequence in a
low metal Blanket. In the first half of 1903 the
net profit was £21,117, and it was then clear
enough that the ore bodies below 800 ft. very large.
Above the 800 ft., the report said at that date, the reserves
were 1,100,000 tons, while below' the 800 ft. “ the possi-
bilities are very great, as the extent of the ore bodies is
proving' greater at the lower levels than in those above.
So there w’as no question about ore reserves even at that
date. Yet Souths (paid) went down to 19s. 6d., and the
others to 11s. In 1902,' things w’ere even worse ; m the
latter part of that year profits got dowm below half-a-
crown a ton. And they wouldn’t have been a farthing
more if the ore reserves had been 20,000,000 tons, unless
ore could have been picked out of a higher grade. Ore
reserves ought to be a most important factor in settling
prices of shares ; but the man who depends upon them as
the most important factor will get left. There was Block
14 tor instance ; prices soared up lately in spite of the
fact that the mine had wretched little reserves. About
all the public considered was that the mine was at the
moment making a big profit. And the chances are that
the public will pay just as little attention to the South s
big reserves during a slump as it lately did to Block 14’s
miserable reserves during a boom.
$ * * *
For 18 months, while silver-lead shares were
gradually creeping up to heights that turned old heads
dizzv The Bulletin made itself, and a lot of other people,
tired by persistently wanting to know what all the fuss
was about. At the start, the boom was worked.on the
zinc racket. When it was clear that nothing new had
been discovered in connection with zinc treatment, the
“ improved statistical position of lead ” w'as trotted out
by papers that ought to have known enough about metal
brokers’ “ lead statistics ”to scoff at them. The history
of the lead market was the one guide worth anything,
and the man who reckoned that £2l, £lB, or even £l5 for
lead was a permanent thing, could not have known what
that history was. Only twice between 1881 and 1905 did
the year’s average reach £l5. Ten times it was under £ll.
For two years, the papers, with very few exceptions,
allowed themselves to be made use of by the bulls ; now
they as meeklv allow themselves to be used for bearing
purposes. They are very likely right, though, in sug-
gesting that most shares will go . lower. There is not
much hope of a quick change in the American position,
and until that happens neither metal nor stock markets
are likely to get any better. People who sell out silver-
lead shares now, therefore, have a very good chance of
being able to get in later on at a lower price. But while
these shares may go lower, nothing is much more certain
than that, sooner or later, they will again go higher.
The lead market swings to and fro. It was down to £lo£
in 1885 and up to £ls£ in 1888 ; back to £9 in 1894 and up
to £l7i in 1899 ; back to £lo£ in 1902 and up to £2l in 1907.
And shares rock backwards and forwards with the metals.
Nothing much is to be gained in most cases by telling the
man who was fool enough to buy in at the top, how low
his stocks have been ; having made a fool of himself, his
best course now is to hang on if he can, and wait lor the
recovery that is pretty certain to come. If he could be
trusted not to make a mess of things again, the strictly


, -^ e Aerial Tramways which have been erected
or the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
ilk- 11 re fine examples of present-day skill and
cnnical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
aving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
n.y other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
uhjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
*«" and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
ni ■ i, . o Bempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
. ® 00., of London, the largest firm in the world
tor the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Dives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
la®™’ P rlce P er bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
103 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assay ers, Mine Managers and others—
relton, Grim wade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
'yaranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.]
* * » *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal of
London, in its July, 1907, issue, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ It is
writing well over £1,000,000 of new business every year in
Australasia, the United Kingdom, and Africa ; it has
accumulated funds which are within a little of £3,000,000
sterling, invested with due regard to security, but, never-
theless, in such a way as to return substantial interest;
and in the last five years alone it has paid to policy-
holders £1,328,000 in settlement of claims.”*
* * • •
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. , Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * •
Marriott and' Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen Street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and Londoh,*
* « » *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they'had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the*-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.t
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd. , have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia. *
• » « *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* .* * *
Producer and Suction Gas Plants and
Engines.—Directors, managers, and engineers, who have
so often had prospective dividends absorbed by excessive
fuel and repairs account, should consider this successful
and economical power, which reduces running cost to 6|d.
per horse-power per week of 54 hours, including attendance.
Gibson, Battle'and Co., Ltd., 7 'Bent-street, Sydney, will
send particulars of plants from lOb.h.p. to lOOOb.h.p. to
those interested. Krupps, of Essen,' have placed repeat
orders on three successive occasions for engines of 1600h.p.
because of their proved reliability and excellent running.*
* * * *
A particularly fine illustrated booklet of
packings, insertions and engineering rubber supplies has
just been issued by the Dunlop Rubber Co., who now
supply the greater portion of the rubber-goods trade of
Australasia. The Dunlop Co. desire to place a copy of this
valuable and interesting catalogue in the hands of every
Bulletin reader who uses or has the ordering of this class
of goods, and will be pleased to mail a copy on application
to the Dunlop Co., 108 Flinders Street, Melbourne • 255
Clarence Street, Sydney ; 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ;
268 Adelaide Street, Brisbane ; 67 King Street, Perth or
Worcester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.*
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE ACgNTS for
OTTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY.
by. J. Pohlig, Colosrne as
supplied to ML Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies. '
—Excavators and Dredging: Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2
correct course, no doubt, would be to sell and get in
again later on ; but a man who lately thought the top was
the bottom isn’t likely to recognise the real bottom when
it does arrive.
* * * *
The people who are going to be wise this time
and buy silver and copper stocks when the markets are
low, and put them away and become rich and bloated
when next the market booms, have a thing or two to
remember. It isn’t every mine or mining co. that can
last through a slump. Most of them, struggling to keep
going as long as they can, peck at the good ore, and then
in the end find themselves up against faces of poor stuff,
and compelled to spend large amounts (which they
haven’t got) in order to get to new ore bodies. In most
cases that means reconstruction. Oos. that run against
that snag have to buy money, and the old shareholders
have to make the sacrifice. The co. that faces a slump
with little or nothing in the till is a co. to be avoided.
The slump in zinc (spelter) doesn’t get much
mention, but there has been one, nevertheless. Present
price is about £2l ;12 months ago it was £27 15s. At
£23 per ton the B. H. Prop, was lately making 225. per
ton of zinc concentrates, equal to about 4s. 9d. per ton of
tailings (116,240 tons of tailings last half-year gave 25,353
tons concentrates). The concentrates give about 45 per
cent, zinc ; so, at £23 per ton for zinc, there was a profit
at the rate of about 48s. 6d. per ton of zinc. With zinc
down 40s. below £23, it is obvious that the profit must
be only the odd shillings, unless richer tailings can be
treated or working costs reduced.
The premature closihg-down of the Australian
Smelting Co.’s works at Port Kembla suggests one or two
things concerning the failure of so many Australian cus-
toms smelting works, from Maryborough (Queensland)
round to Premantle (W.A.). The failure of these, or
many of them, has not been due to want of enterprise so
much as to excessof enterprise, plus the usual bit of
roguery. Aldershot (Queensland) began in a land job
pure and simple, and, except for one or two little bursts
when Australian brains looked like pulling the English
people out of the mud, the works near Maryborough have
never presented symptoms of sound industry. Works in
the wrong place, no big mines behind them, and bad
English control have got Aldershot so deep into the
mud that it will probably never get out. It would be
madness to spend more money on the spot.
The Port Kembla works appear in more
respects than one to be a reincarnation of
the Dapto scheme; and, although it is hinted that
these works will presently re-open and astonish the
natives, it is very doubtful whether they can be carried
to success on the present lines. The Sulphide Corpora-
tion all along has had the Central mine, Broken Hill,
behind it, and that mine has been big and rich enough to
pay for many mistakes and miscalculations. All the
same it is a good thing for Australia that Cockle Creek
has kept going: the Commonwealth could ill afford
to see the last of its lead customs works give
way to the German metal buyers. No doubt Aus-
tralia has got excellent prices from those German buyers.
The fact is, they must have the lead concentrates for
their European works, so in effect a premium has been
paid for the Broken Hill stuff. This premium is not
always available, but for about two years in five it pre-
vails, and then returning charges come down, and the
Barrier cos. smile with dividends. It is during those two
years that the Australian lead customs works are
smothered under the fierce foreign competition. In some
cases, instead of shutting down, they have rushed in and
bought supplies at the enhanced figure—and collapsed
in consequence.
Concerning the Fremantle smelter, lead sup-
plies (when gold material was, plentiful) and gold supplies
(when lead was available) appear to have been its double-
barrelled difficulty. To send gold ores to the smelter is a
costly game, and, anyway, there are no big available
deposits of refractory auriferous material in Australia ;
certainly not enough to keep a smelter busj r . Concen-
trates carrying the bulk of the gold not amenable to
ordinary amalgamation or cyanide are all right for the
smelter ; but, then, gold concentrates at present in Aus-
tralia do not mean big tonnage, so a gold smelter cannot
hope to keep its head up. Aldershot (Maryborough, Q.)
started out to be a gold smelter, and it stopped. It had
no lead supplies, and in the end finished without gold
supplies, either in its bins or its cash box. Failure of the
concentrating plant at the Pinnacles will not cheer the
London people who are landed with Aldershot stock.
Fremantle also started out as a gold smelter with results
already known.
Hitherto lead and refractory gold ores have
found their way to Australian smelters ; but the lead sup-
plies are now almost all collared by Europe, and the only
thing open to Australian smelters is to use copper as a
vehicle for collecting the gold and silver. The strong
point here is that Australia has now assured to it an
electrolytic copper refihery, where the precious metals
can be separated and the collector (the copper) refined ;
and in future we may look for the development of re-
fractory gold bodies in conjunction with copper, and
copper smelting. For some time past, Australia has been
beaten out of the game so far as lead-smelting is con-
cerned, but in copper it is doubtful if we can ever be
beaten. In vieV of this, it is up to N.S. W. to place every
facility in the way of the Mt. Morgan people in their
efforts to get the electrolytic refinery established at Port
Kembla as soon as possible. That refinery will have to
compete strongly against the rest of the world, and Aus-
tralia cannot afford to see its material passed on to the
American and German to finish for us. They have the
volume of trade now, and Australia has sufficient volume
available if it has the sense to take it. Volume is all that
is wanted.
* * * •
The recent fire at Block 14, Broken Hill, has
aroused managements to the fact that there is an ever-
present menace to surface works in the steel stacks with
which all the 1 mines along the line are equipped. At one
of the biggest mines the sparks belched out from a
steel smoke stack recently ignited the poppet-legs three
times., Only the other day a blaze was put out at the
South mill. As a consequence several managers are in-
stalling pumps that will throw jets of water over their
poppet-heads.
• * * *
Some devoted optimists are still exploring the
eastern ridge of the White Leads flat, outside Broken Hill,
and, in their enthusiasm, regard a speck of galena or a
handful of rotten quartz with the veneration an anti-
quarian shows for a relic. The Silver City Blocks and
the Horseshoe Blocks cover most of the ground to the
east of the Rising Sun and other White Leads mines, and
on both these properties pot-holes and a shallow shaft or
two have been sunk. All of any value that has been got
out would g'o in the silk hat of the hoped-for English
investor.
* » * *
The proposed new Cockburn to Broken Hill
syndicate railway led to a fine little gamble in Adelaide.
At first there were 30 shares of £25 each ; then buvers
were talked up to £7O; then the syndicate watered'the
stock into 1500 shares of £5 each, and got the first read-
ing of the Bill (purely formal, of course). But the gamble
was about played out by that time, and shares began to
sag down to below par. The Bill has precious little hope,
anyhow.
* ♦ * £
An odd copy or two of Burbank’s Birthday
Co.’s report for 1906 found their way out to the West by
a recent English mail. Amongst other things, this
belated document mentions in a casual way that the
accounts will be submitted at a meeting of shareholders
in Westralia, but where, and on what date, this meeting
is to take place is not stated. Directors mildly exult over
the fact that the tributors are still working at a profit to
the co. ; and they assert that “ the late rich find in Bay-
ley’s mine—in the near vicinity—will undoubtedly give
the tributing parties further encouragement.” But as
the two properties are over six miles apart, and are situ-
ated on different belts of country, this assertion is repre-
hensible and impudent. The only similarity about
Bayley’s and Burbank’s is that values become poor at a
comparatively shallow depth, and that for company pur-
poses the doom of both is sealed. The co. has about
£9OOO in hand, and the money now derived from public
crushing and tributors’ royalties just about pulls the two
ends together.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W. A.) has decided to instal
a vacuum filter plant to re-treat a big pile of mill residues,
300,000 tons or so. A profit of between 3s. and 4s. per
ton is expected ; and as provision is being made to treat
400 tons daily, the co.’s receipts should presently spring
to the extent of about £2OOO a month.
* * * *
Speaking at a recent mining-men’s dinner, at
Kalg'oorlie, Haig, of the Golden Link, cheerfully pre-
dieted that 20 years hence “ six or seven of the Golden
Mile mines would still be producing-.” Yes, but how
much ? The Boulder, Ivanhoe, and Horseshoe, which
contain ore that is less refractory and more persistent
than the neighboring properties, may be earning good
profits twenty years hence ; but before ten years hence
some of the others will have a struggle to keep going.
Mines whose ore has been ripped out at the Kalgoorlie
rate can’t have the life of the leisurely-worked Bendigo
mines, for instance.
* * * *
The Ore developed at the Great Fingall (W.A.)
during the past year was the lowest-grade yet exposed in
quantity ; so the yarn, lately circulated, that the mine
was “looking better than ever,” may be put aside and
forgotten.
* * * *
It looks as if the Cosmopolitan Proprietary
(W.A.) were about to throw seven. Recent developments at
depth have been so disappointing that even 8., M. and Co.,
who boss the show, have lost heart. Meantime, the mill
is fast eating up the reserves, and the exhaustion of these
in a few months will probably marie the end of profitable
mining in this property, except, perhaps, for tributing
parties.
* * * *
There seems to be something wrong about the
valuation of the ore in the Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.).
For a long time past boom assays have been regularly
cabled to London, yet the returns from the mill only
average about £1 per ton. Either the plant is a rank
failure as a g'old saver or the estimates of ore averages are
unwarranted ; and, anyhow, it is the gold that is saved
that counts, not the gold that is estimated.
* ♦ * •
The Lord Bobs Syndicate, Coolgardie (W.A.),
is still in clover. The last retui-p ran out at 4190 z. from
273 tons crushed, and a dividend of £BO per share has
been declared. This makes a total distribution of £865 per
share since the property was re-pegged in the middle of
1906. Some years ago the Lord Bobs bloomed for a time,
but the reef vanished from sight after several good
crushings had been obtained, and the lease was thrown
up. The present owners then came along, and have done
well ever since.
Windanya Consols (W.A.) was sold up the
other day, when the plant went for a song, and the pro-
perty found a buyer at next to nothing-. It is not so long
since there was an “ official opening ” at this mine, and as
late as a few weeks ago the local papers printed the usual
whoops. A “local’’paper may at times tell the truth
about a bad man, but never about a bad mine.
* * * *
Another “find” has been made in the nor’-
west of Westralia—wolfram this time, worth £l2O per
ton, and there are also tin, copper, silver-lead, etc., in the
same locality. Unfortunately, this part of the West has
fallen into the hands of boomsters, who have smudged
what little reputation it ever had.
* * * *
Mt. Remarkable (W.A.) is being given another
trial. Some years back this district was alleged to have
a future ; but as one co. which tried its luck found that
payable values snuffed out at a shallow depth, the field
was abandoned in a hurry.
* * * *
Those two London promoting and gambling
concerns, the Australian Commonwealth Trust and the
Consolidated Deep Leads present figures which show how
completely and utterly “busted” they are. Their pur-
pose was to plant Victorian deep leads high in J. Bull’s
mining firmament. Judging by the holdings, the directors
did one of three things—(l) Believed in the deep leads,
and loaded up to the Plimsoll mark with shares ; (2) tried
to force the market, and got “ left ” with a swag of scrip
by profit-takers; or (3) failed to unload. , According to
circulars now issued dealing with the proposed recon-
structions, the Commonwealth Trust holds 79,465 Con-
solidated Deep Leads shares (45.), 59,412 Berry Deep Leads
(£1), 70,879 Victorian Deep Leads (some £1 paid, the
others 155.), 46,380 Great Berry Consolidated, and others.
The Consolidated Deep Leads concern holds 63,863 Lod-
don Valley Goldfields (£1), over 90,000 Moolorts, 40,200
Commonwealth Trust shares, and others. So each
is a heavy holder of the other’s shares, which
is a case of the very drunk trying to prop
up the immoderately unsober. This looks as if
the public didn’t come in too well even at the start. A
lot of cash has been forthcoming, but it would be a dis-
tressing problem to try to figure out how it was got.
London financial press, with a crusade of lying, made
some sort of a market till Loddon Valleys shot the final
bolt. Since then it has been poverty and reconstruction,
first by the mining cos., then by the promoting cos. Now
the two promoting cos. are to be fused into one, with a
capital of £68,600.
* * » *
From Manager Whitfeld : Touching par (B.
21/11/’O7) on Oroya-Black Range and Sandstone Develop-
ment Co., the “Man on the Spot” may be “uninter-
ested ” (I might enlighten you on that point if I knew
who he was), but he certainly has not inspected both
properties, and is grossly ignorant of their relative work-
ings and positions. He says “ the shaft where the strike
was made (i.e. Juno ‘C’shaft) is several hundred feet
north of the Oroya-Black Range workings.” Doubly
wrong. The 0.8. R. No. 1 level (110 ft. vertical depth) has
now been driven oh pay ore over 1200 ft. north (of No. 1
shaft), and they are stoping about 1000 ft. north, near
Leach’s old workings, which yielded some of the richest
of the prospectors’ crushings. The Juno “C” shaft
(S. D. Co.) is 1000 ft. north (from same datum), and
therefore, approximately due west of some of the richest
workings on the line of reef. As to the alleged
southerly dip of the shoots, this is based on the
assertion of the same' or some other “uninter-
ested” individual (B. 20/6/’O7). After years’ inti-
mate acquaintance with the Sandstone reef, theS.D. Co.’s
management reckons that the gold is dipping due west,
i.e., with the reef, and in view of the recent strike of rich
ore in Juno “ O ” shaft aforesaid, this contention should
take a lot of disproving. Anyhow, as the reef itself is
dipping west, and theS.D. Co. extends along the whole
western boundary of the 0.8. R., it is difficult to see how
“ values will pass once more into the Black Range
ground.” The S.D. Co. is cheerfully prepared to prove its
assertions, and only asks that its critics should have some
first-hand knowledge of the property. It cordially in-
vites any mining engineer to come along and get that
knowledge.
« * « *
Ballarat is doing some work now that it is down
on its mining marrow-bones. Thus 6018 tons from the New
South Imperial gave a profit, though it was only 3dwt.
stuff. Mining was done from 430 ft., so that the work
was a fair test. New Imperial, next door, did better,
for, by putting through 10,800 tons, worth 15s. (nearly
4dwt.), it paid one div., and worked up a slight cash
balance. Both these cos. would have done well if they
could have realised that the one way in which to make
low-grade stone pay, is to treat it in bulk and with heavy
stamps. That means opening up the mine ahead, and,
consequent calls; but, under that system, the ratio of
expenses is subsequently so reduced that the calls soon
come back. This is. what Ballarat must do if it is to
revive.
* * * *
The tin-boom was worth not far short of
£70,000 this yearlto' the Briseis (Tas.). In 1904, the last
year when quotations were fairly normal, the output was
worth £39,529 gross. ‘ This year, to the end of September,
the profit was £95,000. Even between August and
November, when the market was well on the way down-
hill, the average price realised for metallic tin was £165,
according to a circular issued in London. On the day
the circular reached Melbourne the quotation was £ll9,
or £46 less. Lumping the output from Briseis and
Brothers No. 1, the output from January to the end of
September was 1069 tons ; and an average of £6O was
netted over and above what may be fairly considered the
normal price. No doubt it is hard to say what is a nor-
mal price for tin ; but, anyhow, prior to 1905 the highest
year’s average'for quarter of a century was £133 11s. 6d.,
and in 16 years out of the 25 the average had been under
£lOO. In 1896, the average was £59 9s. lid.— a price low
enough to make everybody with any interest in tin
shiver. Certainly there was a .steady improvement after
1896, and conditions are still favorable for good prices-
that is to say, .something over £loo. But it is a tricky
market at the best of times.
* - - * * f - *
New Ruby Flat is one of the few Tasmanian
tin shows that have stood the test of time ; but the
directors do not show up too well. They hugged to their
bosom about 13 tons of the total output of 581 tons of
tin, and have had the ,popr satisfaction of seeing metal
values fade while they were still holding on. Therefore
the cash return was 0n1y'£4939, whereas it should have
been £l2OO more. The co. hi the half-year treated 85 487
cubic yards, averaging tin ; and as costs are low it
pays dividends when other mines starve.
Gladstone (Tas.), which came along with the
small comfort of a 2s. div. in the past half-year, shows
nothing- in its accounts to be at all joyful about. The
div. only totalled £250, yet, in order to pay it, the profit
and loss balance was reduced from £3130 to £2983 during
the half-year. The profit was thus only £lO3 ; and even
then, though of course maintenance has been paid for,
nothing has been written off for the heavy wear and tear.
And this, too, in a booming tin market. The profit
amounted to less than £4 per ton of black tin, and the
fall in price has been nearer £4O. It is said that there is
better ground ahead ; but it will need to be so much
better that it really was a shame to revive hope ever so
little by means of the recent dividend.
* * * *
“M.C.” : Mount Lyell comes out of this de-
pression better than most. The November yield was
680 tons fine copper, 71,3470 z. silver, and 15320 z. gold.
Taking copper at £5O per ton, silver at 25., and gold at £4
per oz., the month’s production is worth £47,262, or,
roughly, 30s. a ton of ore ; and a co. that can do its
mining, smelting, and converting for about 15s. 6'd. a
ton, and yet run out nearly 30s. worth of metals per ton
of ore, has a decided pull over most other copper shows.
But the foreigner takes more than is generally
supposed for freight, refining and commission, and the
directors would clear up a mystery if they disclosed the
over-sea charges that have to be deducted from the in-
trinsic value of blister copper.
* * * *
“Platman ” : A par a few weeks ago mentioned
the “ guileless ” working men of Irvinebank. Yes ; jesso.
During the past few months the following cats have curled
their tails for ever : —Dead Finish, which on an expendi-
ture of over £2OOO produced £l2OO worth of tin ; Rose of
Tralee, floated in £l5 shares, and in debt the first half-
year ; Dorothy, an alluvial proposition, floated about a
year ago, now in process of reconstruction ; Woolaman
Creek, twin sister of the Dorothy, floated for £3600, pro-
duced £505 worth of tin, whereupon it was reported as
worked out.” There is still a wriggle in the Woolaman
tail, as they have a lease on the basalt. A tunnel has
been driven across the bed of an old creek a distance of
172 ft. ; it produced 60 tons of wash, worth on samples
71b. to the lode. The tunnel is Oft. x 4ft., so that
roughly 1537 yd. of dirt were shifted for a return of 4201 b.
of tin. Truly a guileless crowd whom outsiders should
think it a shame to take down.
* * * *
Queensland gold returns show no sign of atoning
for the fall in the value of the base-metal output. For
November the gold yield was down to £154,201, which is
only about 75 per cent, of the output for November, 1906,
and that was talked of at the time as rock-bottom.
Dividends now barely counterbalance calls, leaving Mt.
Morgan out of the reckoning.
* * * *
November output from Mills United, Charters
Towers, was the largest since the opening of the eastern
shoot of stone. It included £12,619 from the plates, and
totalled £28,217. About £20,000 of this was profit.
This year, £75,000 has been paid in dividends, and there
is a balance of over £40,000 to start 1908 with. Though
the shoot is being depleted at the rate of 50,000 tons a
year, there is a good reserve of stone, but only the
stampers can guarantee its quality, and they don’t give
any guarantees in advance. The deepest level (No. 13) is
out 415 ft. from the main underlay shaft, and has 3ft. of
no better than light mineral stone in the face ; still, levels
have previously been extended a long distance before
meeting the rich eastern shoot.
* * * *
Ruby P.C., Charters Towers, pays a sixpenny
div. : 395 tons were crushed for 8290 z., which is an im-
provement on the previous lot of 370 tons for 6400 z.,
worth £3 15s. 6d. per oz. The underlay has been sunk
from No. 5, and a new level (No. 6) has been driven about
30ft. east and west of the shaft; prospects so far are from
9in. to Ift. of good stone. The Ruby is some distance
outside of the‘’classical ” neighborhood favored by the
Brilliant and Day Dawn reefs. It has a narrow, patchy
reef, expensive to work, and that sort has to be ab-
normally rich to catch the popular fancy.
Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn, adjoining Mills United
on the west, has crushed 700 tons for £3OlB. It should
he able to pay a sixpenny dividend (£5000). The output
is now up to between 600 and 700 tons a month. This is
one of the shows that may give the Charters Towers
mining market the badly-needed lift.
* * * *
Carrington United, the outside-Charters Towers
gold-copper mine, has now got two furnaces at work, a
third is ready, a start has been made on a fourth, and a
fifth has been decided upon. A recent development
occurred at a depth of 365 ft., just away from No. 2 shaft,
a good copper lode, about sft. wide, being struck. This
is a big body, as lodes go in the Carrington.
* * * »
The break-up of the tin gamble, hurried along
by the depression in America, has pulled shares of over-
capitalised tin mines down with a run. Stannary Hills
(Q.) let its chance slip ; but it evidently thinks that
matters may yet grow worse, for, in spite of the set-back,
it proceeds to issue more 6 per cent, stock to pay off a
loan carrying high interest. Meantime, a large number
of hammer and drill men have been paid off, and the
plant is to get overhauled. The present manager has
shown the way in the matter of development work, but
it has not resulted in any very important discovery.
Some profit is made out of the railway, now that it is
connected with Irvinebank ; but this railway depends
upon mines which won’t be able to do much work if the
markets go much lower.
* * * «
Wolfram is practically unsaleable at present.
This is partly due to the fact that during the recent boom
tons of inferior rubbish, such as specular iron and iron
pyrites, were rung in bv the vendors to the buyers. An
identical result followed the boom of 1904, when the
same practice was followed.
* * * *
About six or eight months ago the S. Australian
Mines Department advertised for an inspector of mines,
at the princely screw of £4 per week—but he had to be
an expert, of course. Up to then Captain Matthews had
been the . solitary inspector of mines and chief
warden as well. During the first few months of
the new man’s appointment he had a hustling
time among the swarms of old and new copper
shows up north, so he didn’t have time to inspect any of
the old shows about Callington, in the south-eastern
hills. Yet that district looks as though it would be all
the better for a visit. Lately, a chain was being lowered,
hung on to the rope, at one mine. It caught in the
shaft, and, when freed, fell about 200 ft., and killed a
man. The jury said “Accidental death ” ; but, from all
appearances, no inspector of mines visited the scene of
the accident, and there was no one there to question
whether that was a safe way to lower a chain. S. Aus-
tralia is a big place, and its mines are scattered and
mostly poor, wherefore methods are often bad, and yet
inspection amounts to practically nothing. On the whole,
therefore, there are plenty of safer jobs than being a
miner in S. Australia.
* * * *
The West Mutooroo (S.A.) has come to a full
stop. The mine has simply lived on calls since it was re-
vived, and shareholders have at last got tired. Also, the
Mutooroo Consols has put up the shutters, and why they
were ever down remains a mystery. Then the Mutooroo
proper is in a bad way ; after twelve months’ work with-
out any production w’orth. mentioning, the capital has
gone, and only sufficient men are now employed to hold
the leases.
* * * *
The “ National Share Exchange ” begins to
blossom into big. advts. in Melbourne. People are ex-
horted to “improve their position by the judicious
employment of their spare capital.” The “judicious
employment ” is the old “margin” or bucket-shop
system, by which, you pay a deposit on a parcel of shares.
If the shares go up, you win ; if they go down, you lose.
It is one of the most insidious forms of gambling ; and the
new Victorian Anti-Gambling Act .should be wide enough
to close down upon this folly, which ropes in pious old
ladies and others who would faint at the sight of a race-
course.
What in S Africa is reckoned a new world’s
record in shaft-sinking- has been put up under C. B.
Jtsrodigan, who at a vertical deptli of nearly 2000 ft. belted
down a seven-compartment (Bft. x 39ft.) shaft 204 ft. in one


Hotel
Australia
KATES FROM
15s. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Carry a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy in your hand-
luggage when travelling. It cannot be procured
on board the train or steamship.*
ERE THE SANDS
OF 1907 RUNOUT
decide to improve your mental and finan-
cial position by entering upon a course of
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
under our skilled instructors. Our methods
ensure the speedy acquirement ol money-
earning knowledge, and .re not to he com-
pared with loretgn stereotyped m.thods
which are unauited to local conditions.
BUSINESS »k.rtk.n«.^ n Tri--ril'nv
EDUCATION c'o'DiloP«nn..n*h.p. etc.
TECHNICAL * A '^Mme»»l* l lM
EDUCATION Dr.mint. sic.
t.-t - HOME aTLiDV^^o^rc^^SPlirsdnj
STOTT & HOARDS
BUSINESS COLLEGE
t?XoRE S^SVDMHY,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Ossian” : Had “ Mularula” (B. 14/11/07)
been to Iluka, be would proclaim Grong-Grong
(N.S.W.) a cheery place by comparison. Iluka is
on the northern entrance of the Clarence River.
Long ago, the North Coast boats called there, but
they don’t any longer, for two breakwaters have
been constructed, completely separating the town
from the main river. To-day, one is only able to
reach the place by balloon or row-boat. The in-
habitants number about 40. There is one pub, one
store, no telegraph nor money-order office, no
police, and finally no Liquor Act. Iluka is cos-
mopolitan, derelicts from most every country
having anchored there, and they are the saddest
lot of derelicts I ever saw. When the utterly
mournful quality of its inhabitants is duly con-
sidered, Iluka must win in the Sad Town Stakes.
* * * *
“Flinderino”: Mackay, the coastal town
in Queensland, is the home of wandering cattle,
loose dogs, stray goats, and other noxious weeds.
Horses wander along the footpaths and flatten
their noses on the lolly-shop windows, cows lie
down under the verandahs and chew the cud of
contentment, and goats of all nationalities and
miscellaneous colors and odors meander about
the streets, eating the road-metal and dangling
their beards over the fences. Every house in
Mackay possesses a fierce dog, and for some unex-
plained reason, the dog is turned out every even-
ing and locked out all night. Consequently, it
is not safe for visitors to take a stroll after dark
unless accompanied by a big stick and a pocketful
of stones. Even then one trips over a sleeping
horse, or falls on a cow, or else gets tangled up
with a setting of goats. The peaceful inhabitants of
the sugar-town seem quite content with this state
of affairs, so the four-legged nuisances will con-
tinue to flourish and obstruct.
“ Mohatra ”: Be sleepiest town. I beg
to nominate Bogantungun, in Central Queensland.
It is probably the deadest aggregation of timber,
iron and sundries in the world. From a place of
sixteen pub-power it has fallen and fallen, till now
it boasts but one solitary lone old drinkery, the
which is bossed by an unashamed Dago. Indi-
cate me your pubs and I will tell you of what
sort your town is, every time. On pub-form
Bogantungun clamors for early interment.
* * * *
“ Pica ” on native names :—•
Have discovered, during a quest for native folk-lore,
etc., that Kurnell, Cook’s landing-place at Botany, is a
corrupted name. The native name is “ Kundull.” Coogee
should be “ Koojah ” (meaning “ bad smell,” the decom-
posed sea-weed being responsible for the odor). Wagga
Wagga is a corruption of “ Worgan Worgan,” and
“ worgan ” was the word for crow. The early bullockies
used to call the place “ Worga Worga.” Woolloomooloo
was aboriginally “ Wulla Mulla” (burial place), and
Wollongong was “ Wolyungah ” (denoting that fish were
to be caught by hook and line). Kiama was “ Kiari Mai”
(fertile district), and Ulladulla should be “ Wooloodorr ”
(harbor of refuge). Illawarra is derived from “ Elouera ”
(or fine country). The bay so well known to fishermen,
south of Coogee, was originally known as “ Maroobera,”
which was the name of the chief of the black clan out
that way. Parramatta means “ the place for eels ” (Parra,
“eel,” and “ Malta,” “this place”), Brewarrina also
means “ a fishery.” Writer has seen one of these Bat-
won “ fisheries ” near Walgett,—a complication of stone
“yards” built in the bed of the river, forming an intri-
cate maze from which no fish, once in, would ever escape.
Bullah Delah means “swinging rock,” Tooal, on the
Paterson, means “plenty,” having refert nee to the
number of ducks once found there. North Shore was
known as “ Caiumeray,” Pinehgnt was “ Mattinwunye,”
and Middle Head, “ Gubba Cubba.” The natives called
Sydney Cove “ Warrane.” “Memel” stood for Goat
Island, and “ Cannae ” for Manly Beach.
* # * *
“ : In the course of my experience
as manager of a rather large North Queensland
plantation, running to nearly 900 acres of cane
for the mill, I came to the fixed conclusion not
only that the Kanaka cannot understand the first
thing about machinery, but also that he is even
less to be trusted with horses. That is why, so
long as this type of labor is employed, only the
most primitive appliances are in vogue. In my
first year it cost a good deal more than the dif-
ference between white and black wages to replace
the horses the Kanakas ruined. This accounts,
too, for the prevalence of the mule in the Southern
U.S. and West Indies. No mule will allow
himself to he overdriven; the more generous
horse can be driven to death. In the same way
the Kanaka proved himself a bad ploughman
through impatience with his horses ; he could not
run a straight and even furrow. A white man
would do far more work in a day with less distress
to his team. As for machinery, a sugar mill uses
a great deal of steam apart from its engines, and
it must have several boilers ; but no Kanaka has
ever yet been made to understand and remember
the workings of a boiler gauge. The race might
possibly be educated up to the requisite sense of
responsibility in a dozen generations, but it will
probably be extinct first.
AN ABORIGINALITY.
“ Back in the big drought, my old dog fell down
a crack. There was cracks everywhere, like
as if the earth was gaspin' for breath. I
giv’ him up for lost, an ’ walked three miles
on an ’ camped. Thet night I was half asleep
when I heerd him bark ’way in the distance.
I sat up and whistled, and the bark came
closer an ’ closer, muffled like. I put my ear
to the ground. Yes, the poor unfortunate
creature had followed the cracks along after
me, and was way down underneath, barking
in the bowels of the earth."
There is a dog in Melbourne, a thorough-
bred collie, who knows his way about. He is as
well known as any fashionable Block habitue.
He is (or was) a waif ; he belongs to nobody, yet
he leads a languidly petted and fashionable life.
He does the round of the swagger tea rooms ;
haunts the Vienna and the Paris cafe for a week
or two, then roams off to another food haunt. If
one place more than another can be called his
home, it is the Mia Mia, with its daily garniture
of blue-gum leaves (he is quite an Australian,
despite his Scottish ancestry): he is great pals
with all the maidens there. If any of them
encounter him casually in his languid saunter
down Collins-street, they always receive a gracious
wag of the tail. He is a courteous gentleman.
A NEW BREED.
LITTLE BILL (down from the backblocks, tit his first pantomime): “Hey, dud! All the dcsile
wot's sin the books has horns. Them's poley devils .”
“ Two Seas ” : The latest fashion in rugs
appears to be dyed rabbit skins, with a tiny baby
bear skin let into the centre, and I wonder what
manner of brute it is who provides the little bears.
In my opinion, he’s a thing to be avoided by all
men with a spark of compassion in their natures.
I’m no city-bred sentimentalist, but one who has
roamed through the bush with a gun ever since he
could carry one; but I could never harden my
heart sufficiently to take pot shots at a native
bear—a creature that looks down confidingly
at the man with a gun without offering to
move an inch out of range. I once came
across a belated bear sitting on the fence by
the roadside in the early morn. Knowing
what would happen to it when the boys
came along to school (there was a heap of
road-metal handy) I tried to shoo it away,
but it wasn’t the least bit afraid of my panto-
mime. Then I took a light fence rail and
tried to prise it off its perch ; but as soon as
I had got its hinder end adrift after some
heavy straining, it tightened its grip for’ard,
and before I could get my lever to work
there it was all fast astern again. I got it
upside down, endways and all ways ; but,
in any position, there was still some part
of it fast to the rail. The brute never
lost its temper—it left that to me—but
its expression was one of intense sur-
prise at my energy. Finally, when
I had almost decided to leave it to
its fate, 1 was struck with the bright
idea of taking the rail it was on out of
the fence. So I carried it on the rail to
the tallest tree in the paddock, and set
it down against the same. It seemed
to recognise that, and crawled slowly up
the tree, and satin the first fork, where it
remained looking down at me with an air
of placid security. I thought then, and still
think,that the “sportsman” who would put
shot after shot into such a harmless creature,
until it falls to the ground sobbing like a child,
would shoot a baby in arms for its skin if it
were not for fear of the law.
* * * *
“ A. Zelwood ” : An Abo. writer says the
cocoon of the fin. green caterpillar (cup-moth
larva) is made of bark. But he is altogether at
sea, as the material is only the web and sticky
exudation from the caterpillar itself. The process
can easily be observed at this time of the year by
keeping a few caterpillars and feeding them on
gum leaves. The cocoon is made in one night.
The moths emerge during the following autumn.
« * * *
“J.G.”: Here, in some of the rich dis-
tricts round about Bendigo (Vic.), it is the usual
thing to see farm-houses in -all their nakedness
stuck in some corner of the crop paddocks, or
else out in the middle of the grass paddocks.
And not even a tree or shrub is planted round the
humpies to shelter them from sun and wind.
Even if the houses were originally built in a
timber patch, the cookies never rested till they
chopped down or killed every blessed tree about
the place. If anyone were to remonstrate with
them for this practice, the cookies would tell you
that trees take up too much room. As for grow-
ing fruit or vegetables, the cocky would think you
a madman to suggest such a thing, ’cause he has
no time, and can buy them off the Chinamen. If
any white man started a garden, the average
cocky wouldn’t purchase his fruit or vegetables,
but would sooner buy inferior stuff from the
Qhow—stuff that had been rejected from the
Bendigo and Melbourne markets. I have seen
European gardeners with first-class greengrocery
not sell a penn’orth at some farms, while next
half-hour a Chow came along and got rid of
about a pound’s-worth of doubtful-looking verdure.
These anti-Australian cockies follow the Argus,
and vote Anti-Sosh at election times, and are
advocates of cheap black and yellow labor.
“ Camp-oven ” : Be bush - hospitality
(“ F.H.R.,” B. 31/10/’O7). You cannot safely
measure the warmth of a traveller’s reception
by the number of horses he drives. “F.H.R.”
states that a man with four horses can dine with
the bank manager. Now, nearly every team of
four found in the bush tows the van of the
Assyrian hawker, at the sight of whom every cur
on the selection is loosed. Also “F.H.R.” can
hardly base his assertion, that hospitality was
buried in the last drought, on the fact that his
shearer friend was inhospitably treated. Who has
not heard of the epicurean tastes of the average
shearer ? He is more particular about his grub
than the big-gun squatter. As the cocky does not
believe in ham and eggs and cocoa, we can hardly
blame him for refusing to insult Bill Shears by
offering him corn-beef and tea with the cow-juice
missing.
“Pine Scrub”: To “Brad’s” par (B.
7/11/’O7) re “ triautelopes,” I simply remark,
Rodents ! (1) The “ tri. ” does not spin a web. He
is a frequenter of dark corners and dubious by-
ways (to wit, cracks between wall-plates and
skirting-boards) and relies for his crust on his
Squires-like rush, aided by the strategy of a
Jack O’Brien. (2) He does not appear except at
night. Now, the bee, contrariwise, is always in
camp before dark. If, by chance, a bee had hap-
pened on “Brad’s” mansion at an hour when
“ Mr. Tri.” would have been about, former would,
probably, have been rolling hiveward from the
pub and in no condition to put up a scrap.
Summed up, “Brad’s” par is a marvel of in-
accuracy, the disastrous result of an overworked
imagination.
“ Mundala ” : What a multitude of
loony citizens there are out back ! I was
escorting Matilda from “the Corner ” to Wil-
cannia, when I met a traveller with hair
all over his head and face, and no hat.
Said he never wore one, because the roof of the
sky was gradually sinking, and he couldn’t watch
it properly from under a hat. Changed my mind
about camping near him, and went on another
couple of miles. Just as I was thinking of a halt,
saw another traveller camped under a tree.
Hadn’t exchanged more than half-a-dozen words
with him when he said : “ Are you a parson or a
priest?” I said, “No. Why?” “Oh, it’s all
right then,” he answered. “I should have to kill
you if you were, you know.” Feeling that, with
my naturally holy expression and saintly cast of
countenance, my appearance was against me, I
went a bit further and camped on my own. Had
tucker, and was lying in the shade, smoking,
when I saw a third traveller approaching from
the direction I had come. I assumed he was
another lunatic, and thought he might like to
meet a fellow crank ; so when he came up. threw
down his swag, and said, “Good day, mate !” I
said, “No; it’s about five miles along the track,
but don’t you touch it! Don’t you touch it! ”
“ Strike me dead ! ” he yelled, picking up his
swag, “you’re the third mad swine I’ve struck in
three mile !”
RETIRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Bittern and Balnarring (Vic.) are the farms of many
old sea-dogs, whose ambition has been, like that of
Outcliffe Hyne’s Captain Kettle, to settle down to a
bucolic existence after the stress of a seafaring life.
From these pleasant uplands they can still feel them-
st'lves in touch with their old consort the sea ; for to east
and west lie the broad waters of Westernport and Port
Phillip., and southward the blue line of Bass Strait.
'The strenuous days are over,
He treads the deck no more ;
The weatherbeaten rover
Has settled down ashore.
From palm and mangrove beaches,
Prom atolls white with foam,
From lonely ocean reaches,
The skipper journeys home.
The seas have lost their glamor
For one that tramped the sea
In many an old wind-jammer
From ’Frisco to Fiji;
His sunburned visage hardens
At talk of alien lands ;
He dreams of kitchen gardens,
And crops, and fallowed lauds.
He leans to oats and clover,
To sheds, and barns, and sties }
The old sea-weary rover
In eattle-lore grows wise.
You’ll see him with his harrows,
Or clinking round his ploughs,
<Or setting traps for sparrows,
Or bedding down his cows.
No more the sea’s fierce banging
Breaks through his troubled sleep,
Nor his old tub goes clanging
Up waters green and steep.
No more his inner vision
Sees pictures in the night—
The iceberg, the collision,
The breakers roaring white.
Yet, though he’s ceased to wander,
At every day’s decline
Fondly his eyes turn yonder
To that familiar line ;
To watch far steamers trailing
Their smoke in Western skies,
And old three-masters sailing,
Bound out with merchandise.
No counterfeit presentment
Of hard-earned rest has he,
But unalloyed contentment—
A farm beside the sea !
The stormy days are over,
He treads the deck no more ;
The weather-beaten rover
Has settled down ashore 1
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


'LI
UN.
A DRINK TO BE
GRATEFUL FOR
!WoLFE3sciiNArrc
/A Medicine as veil as a Beverage.
MEN’S
PRESENTS
IN GOLD we specialise on.
Men wear so few adornments,
and so what they use
should be good.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Solid Gold Match Boxes, in all sizes
and shapes from 40/- to £lO/10/-
Solid Gold Cigarette Cases,
all sizes and styles, from
£B/8/- upwards.
We also have a splendid assortment of Solid Gold Cigar Cases,
and every other unusual requisite for Men.
“ Lumeah ” : There are medicinal virtues
in the mistletoe. When bush birds take poisoned
wheat, if they can get to a tree on which
mistletoe is growing and can pick a leaf or berry,
they recover quickly. Have boiled mistletoe
leaves for bait-afflicted dogs, and found the result
satisfactory.
SLOW SUICIDE.
GOOD SHEPHERD (to inebriate): “My man , do
you know that the cursed drink is slow death?"
INEBRIATE: “ That's all right then, boss. I’ve
been attempting suicide this last 15 years."
“ J.D.” (Waihara) : Be ants. Hang
things up by a bit of chain—one with round links
preferred. Always use hobble-chains myself.
The ants get as far as the second link, run wildly
round and round it, and then get dizzy and give
the problem up in despair.
HIS LOGIC.
STRANGER (to blackfellow); “ What are you working so hard for , Mick ?”
BLACKFELLOW : “Ole Brown only give me 10s. a week. Got to work like the devil to make it pay!"
This is a tale of Ondit, Gippsland. The
Wyall brothers had a bit of land at Ondit, and
had built a very comfortable paling hut on it, and
started an orchard, and were doing well on the
whole. 1 n e n
Crowther put
up his water-
power saw-mill
on the creek,
and the Wyalls
sold their tim-
ber rights to
him at so much
a thousand feet.
Crowther put
his men on the
land felling, and
one day, when
the Wyall bro-
thers went home
to lunch after
p 1 oug hing a
patch for pota-
toes, they found
a man at a stick
near their hut.
Assuming that
an experienced
timber-getter
was on the job,
they entered
their humble cot
and proceeded
to victual with-
out a tremor or
an apprehensive
thought. About
11 minutes later
they heard her
crack and
squeal, and the
next second
some tons of
solid timber
came down
across the end
of their hut, cut-
ting the erection
clean in half,
and pounding
one half to
smithereens.
The escape of
the Wyall bro-
thers was little
short of miracu-
lous. They made
one wild, simul-
taneous jump
for the door and
out into the day, feeling like killing the mis-
creant who didn’t know better than to drop a
tree on unoffending settlers at meals. The feller
was standing just outside, leaning on his axe,
gazing at the battered hut with an aggrieved
expression. When he saw the Wyalls he spoke
up : “A lurid lot o’ good your runnin’ out now l ”
he said, with scorching contempt.
« * *
“ Janor ” : “Look ’ere,” said Bill, the
other day, “I’m full up er this baker’s bread.
It’s no good to a bloke wot yakkers—no body in
it, don’t stick to yer like ’ome-made tack, so I’m
goin’ ter bake for the camp, if you blokes is agree-
able ” We were, so William made yeast, and
when it had matured wadedm oneemunj, after
tea to set his first batch. Me stood a bottle ot
yeast in the corner of the fireplace, and puiiea
from under the table the small cask in which the
flour is kept to protect it from bush-rats. Mow,
Bill is a methodical chap, and must have things
shin-shape so. when he found a camp seat on the
snot where’ he wished to place the flour he shoo’d
,t. dnwged it i;So a corner, and dumped
the cask in its place. This seat was a, section of a
gum log, stood on end, and upholstered in monkey
bear skin, and was about the size and shape of
the flour cask : also it was the cat’s favorite roost.
Then the dough-builder removed the lid of the
barrel, placed some flour in a bucket and stepped
over to the fireplace to inspect tne yeast, oust
then a dingo near the hut howled like a good
man in Hades, and the affrighted cat streaked
into the hut, and, mistaking the cask for its
into the flour ! There was a wnirl ot white dust,
and the cat emerged pale and choking. Williams
remarks were hair-raising 1 , but before he was hair-
way through them the bottle of yeast burst with a
bang So did Bill’s self-control. He rushed at
thAPat 1-rir.ned over the fire shovel, upset the
the cat tripped over tne tire snoveß
flour all over the caboose, cannoned on the end or
the table, wrecking our precious stock ot dell and
over-turning 1 the lamp, and vanished into the
night preceded by the cat. We had a lively few
minutes quenching the flaming oil, but the flour
<™e in dndy, and when
we strolled outside and watched a profane and
demented miner chivvying a pallid pussy over tne
moonlit flat until he was fairly exhausted. I hen
he returned, and cleaned up the wreckage amid a
silence vou could drive a gad into. Later he
couiu u 8 , turned in
declined to take a hand ,
without saying his prayers. We are still eating
baker s bread. And the cat returns not.
who is a broken-down corner-man, says she is
shedding the white flour of a blameless life.
* m
* . , T 4- l
“ Heapysee I Concerning snakes. .Lately
went down * 9ft. hole to try . prospect, and it
panned out one vicious-looking serpent to tne
dish. Bottom was covered over with a 6in. layer
of leaves. Clambered up with alacrity, filled the
shaft with dry scrub and set it alight. Usual
roaring fire followed. Fed the flames, and waited
for half-an-hour to leave the place safe (£lOO fine or
equivalent quod for “careless use of fire”). Ke-
turned nextV, bnt found the as lively an
ever under what was left of the damp leaves.
Another time chucked a shovel at a drowsy black
specimen, cut 3in. of the head end off, and threw it
into a race of clear water. Came back 40 minutes
afterwards to wash a dish of dirt, yanked out the
aller a if r,n the Lank • and the
severed bead and thre t . ’ ,
dismembered part continued for some time to poke
the forked tongue of defiance or derision or what
not at me—and I hadn’t been on a jamboree, mind
you.
TASMANIAN HALTING PLAGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When out in search of Saggy Flat
I came across some funny places,
Where old-time pioneers have sat,
And queer names left to mark their traces ;
For some are apt and some are harsh
Plain, mountain, river, hill and marsh.
On White Horse Plain, in Davey’s Port,
I’m certain that no horse has footed ;
No Cow and Calf of good report
To graze on Adamson’s have scooted ;
And Coffin Creek and Grave-yard Head
Sound reminiscent of the dead !
Of odd-named marshes what a lot!
Broad, Scrummy’s, Green’s, Long,Christian, Brushy,
Sykes, Judy’s, Beedy, and Tinpot,
Mike Howe’s, Dead Horse, Black Boy, and Bushy ;
Pat’s, Laughing Jack, White Kangaroo -
Of all the host I name but few.
Three sets of Hell’s Gates I have seen,
But only one sweet Land of Promise ;
Through Eden, Paradise I’ve been,
And tramped across the Plains of Thomas.
Who early rises at The Lawn
Will not find Nowhere Else at dawn.
The Badger Biver creeps along,
The Bapids roar—so does the Dasher ;
The Queen trills to the King a song—
The Princess is a smaller splasher.
The Savage joins the Pieman bold,
To flow with waters dark and cold.
To honor science mounts are crowned,
Their rugged peaks, star-gazing, dwindle ;
Jukes, Sedgwick, Owen group around
With Huxley, Lyell, Darwin, Tyndall;
And Murchison is of the band
Who scan the wealth ’midst which they stand.
The Parson’s Hood and Frenchman’s Cap
Lift crests apart from Collins’ Bonnet;
The Cradle beats Barn Bluff a lap—
Piled deep the virgin snow upon it.
Long-back, House-top, and Granite Tor,
Look-outs and Sugar Loaves galore.
From out the Lake Tiberias
We see the Holy Jordan flowing
Past Jericho —we leave it as
On to Jerusalem we’re going.
Who framed these names ?—we sight Bagdad-
Quaint Eastern notions Westerns had !
Plain, mountain, river, hill, and marsh,
Where e’er of old camp fires were burning,
In simple form—some apt, some harsh—
High-flown to plainer speech returning,
The pioneer has left a trace—
A name to mark each halting place.
I’AS.
J. E. PHILP.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Comet: No. Poet takes quite needlessly to
drink in the last verse. Keep all poets dry Motor:
Don’t see how beer saved the poet’s soul. It is quite
unlike what beer would d 0... .Bandicoot: “Stream”
lacks novelty Moss: Refuse to countenance your
attempt to rhyme “ idea ” with “not here, and “ fact
with “ black.”....H. A.H : Don’t know, but don’t think
80 Wager: There are two tunnels on the North Shore
(Sydney) "railway line, between Wilson’s Point and St-
Leonards F.E.K. : There is no hope for the poet who
would head an effusion, “A Budding Hog,” and then
write this: —
I’m bent on getting on. By taking care of Number one
I will get on. That’s how it’s done.
Keep grubbing in your little pen, advoid high-minded
thinking, 0 .
And if it’s any cheaper support Fish Party Stinking.
Moody : Sentiment, A 1; verse, about M 15... .Greetus
cVnicus : Don’t know.... Birribi: One may be spared..
Lillias G. : One is possible... .Dim Dim :We spell it with
an “a” Mallee : Please don’t write on purple paper
with puce ink. Also, be briefer Eva Glanville, Naval,
E.W.M., L. 0., Robert Lidjett, and others : Poems haven t
the remotest chance that begin
(1) “ A wee baby wind went roaming in a garden.”
(2) “ Crimson as a woman’s lips,
Poppies in the garden grow.”
(3) “ I watched the golden sunlight fade
Across the deep, blue sea.”
(4) “I am sitting beside the river,
Where a willow arches over.”
(5) “ Unheeded, I sit by the murmuring stream,
Where the shadows come and go.”
Facts • Shall be glad to consider it—can’t say more....
Wellington, and many more : What is the good of send-
ing us your first attempt at verse, and demanding our
derailed criticism? It’s about as good a test of merit as a
girl sending us the first potato she boiled, and asking us
if we really think she should go on boiling potatoes.
Send us your seventeenth, or seventy-seventh, poem, and
we might be able to advise you P. A. C.: “ Oivicking ”of
very little value... .R.J.O. : A very old sentiment hashed
up afresh John S. : Got a dark suspicion you invented
these two alleged slang words the origin of which you
want to know F. S. : Amazing and incredible poem....
Dion: But, of course, we can’t print it Jeff:
Pretty large contract now for a beginner to tackle
the philosophy of clothes. A rather thorough young
fellow named Carlyle went into the matter a few years
back Shadder : “ Kent ” and “ attempt,” “ weather ”
and “ seven,” “ luck ” and “ cup, and others, wouldn t
rhyme even in Spring time, when nearly any couple can
make a match of it...-Tahuna : Too bumpy... .Wanga :
Too obvious and ordinary a sharp Sphynx : The epoch
is past for exhaustive treatises on snakes. In an up-to-
date journal the Garden of Eden episode itself, if it
occurred anew, would not run into more than half a
column J.W.J.: Last verse of your Poem to Parsons
fairly reeks with horse-sense, viz.:
As for rain we will get it in Plenty
And see it all running to waste
When the creeks and the gullies are empty :
Then again Launch your Prayers into space.
Far better find means to conserve it
For Drought conies again and again
Prepare for the rain and deserve it
Your Praying’s but Labor in vain.
Brumby : Name and address of Sydney hotel where
the management supplies cockroaches in the coffee duly
noted R.S.R. : Your poem is far too mysterious and
obscurely sad. It is in the groves of Academe what the
Wilks fiscal attitude is in politics—viz., something inex-
plicable and dreary Baby Bunting: You have poetic
feeling, but you strive too much after fine writing. Be
simpler, and'drop apostrophes to Bacchus, Pan, Zeus, etc.,
none of whom cut any ice Damper : Your two poems
amount to so many indictable offences. Sell, pawn,
maim, or slay your Pegasus, and get a bike...
P.W. : (1) Sugar-cane cutting commences in Fiji in May
or June. (2) Crushing would begin shortly after—
Waitoru: No value J.P. : “Ginger” ditt0......
O.J.T.L. : Too stilted Orion :By no means hopeless.
Alpha: Trivial Gumsucker : The parable is a
played-out device—it takes 10 pages to tell what could be
told more effectively in plain language in two
C. Stafford: Mort’s Dock Co., Sydney, and the Victor
Motor Co., Stafford-street, Double Bay, Sydney, are two
firms that make them. Also there are Melbourne and
Ballarat firms F.V.P. : Verses, stating that you hope to
meet your old mate again, rejected.. . .Michael Hacoboy
(Bendigo): You send a batch of old printed jokes, cut out
of comic papers, and ask us to buy them. You want them
returned if not used, but send no stamps for return. And
your letter cost us 2d. by reason of your carelessness in
only putting on a penny stamp. You have a hide
Wilga: Thanks, but you haven’t got the hang of The
Bulletin’s attitude on the Danysz-rabbit subject. If
Danysz could wipe the rabbit out of Australia without
endangering other animals, The Bulletin would whoop
for Danysz, and hang the rabbit-export business 1 But if
Danysz can only kill off a few rabbits, what’s the good of
destroying a business worth over £500,000 a year (last
year’s exports)? If Danysz comes in, the rabbiter goes
out for certain ; and the question is whether the rabbiter
isn’t killing and turning into money as many of the pest
as the Danysz microbe would kill without turning them
into money The Nark : Language fails u 5.... .Meg :
Screed re the Barrier brand of parson serves simply to
convince that the parson there is the same old parson
that he is everywhere else.... San Dee: The “Sydney
nose ” is far from being unduly sensitive to smells.
Witness the stolid calm with which it endures the local
pony-racing Coalopolis : Note that you struck a Cam-
bridge graduate cooking in a shearer’s kitchen last
month. Our sympathies. These Cantabs are awful cooks
invariably.... Wilfred Mailler : After strenuous effort, we
must confess the failure to trace that prayer to
its source. Possibly it’s a fake. Anyhow, it’s the
sort of prayer that ought to have been prayed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
XXX : Not humorous ... A. Macintosh : Only moderate.
Carroli: Rather pointless W.J.R.: “Hitting the
Mark” doesn’t hit... Launce: Not good enough. Cant
remember the suggestion of 17th October, 1904. Its a
long way back....D. J. Mac: That episode may have
“ occurred here the other day,” but it’s a very old
Bulletin item, all the same, and has travelled round the
world since The Bulletin published it T. le B.:
“Mrs. Wallace” picture rather scratchy.... Jack L. :
Only a picture of a man and a woman both sitting dou n-
The gag explains that they are saying something to eaon
other, but so far as appearances go, they might be saying
anything or nothing. You might as well send a picture
of a building, and let it be understood that the people
making the remark are inside Unsuitable : R.l’.Me.,
Ray S.


THE THING HE DOESN’T RECOGNISE.
Keir Hardie, preaching the Gospel of Peace, urges Australia to ignore war and militarism.
THE BOY (just before it struck him): “HOW BEAUTIFUL IS PEACE!"


'S VeK y C- u %^Orrj
"Ityere i$ every report to telieVe
-Hf^t" got floyes
fVorvj coun+s t>y eye
We Gol ©of" o*ie
from Da\V|d !
fW/S
M P /i
■-^Hggggg^
l (Jonunp to our own tirne., we
\ | > or tjytt r>j <i<a£
\ Cot'several. J
/N- Brute." gaye /
Orje !
V\ present for you Let rvje
See you S*r)o><e one
Mor ifie loi’-'t'imej
Very rude to 2\sK price op
v jiff's —so tfiere (
9 -jr*. Tofnmy .'— I Only l|ofp<t youre
■* C - ySv ►jot' o«t bioren cobber
'Wy l>y it, cos ip y°« a!is
7 0iAre S°ld I
D Oe S ge»#en, A *,
A liUte
in Ha , ?
yt' 1 ifuajit
\ X \ s \' OhlC °ff (i
we r
■byoov,cs V
sror'af' -Aij festive jl
r
He - "
Xow
Vjew of- inyde of s' —\
Boy <>oYr><i.\<£j£? \-
e j oir sf> ec^
G 5
ltKe &, ftoy
|or CWse.iv'ej >
$C \ ©(- M<va.'*> aJI "t^e
CHRISTMAS BOXES.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYONEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming' Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
One bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy goes a long way towards
relieving suffering humanity.*
Make it a rule of your home to keep
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy as a safeguard against bowel complaint.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandohic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents.
THOSE AFFLICTED WITH SORE EVES,
Dimness of Sight,
Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids,
HAVE YOU TRIED
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
The great Australian Remedy. This
marvellous preparation is an absolute
specific for Sandy Blight, and is now in
general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a
postal note for 1/9 to the Sole Proprietors,
H. A. ROSE &> CO.,
531 George Street, Sydney.
Beware of the man who has something
just as good.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Old Professor Liversidge, just retired
from Sydney University, will be most remembered
by his trick in putting an “ N ” before each vowel
sound. Every Sydney undergrad, calls oxygen
“ noxygen,” and the professor’s assistant is never
called anything else than “ Nedward.”
FINANCE.
THE FAT ONE : “He failed for £45,000."
THE OTHER ONE : “ Weatty, At had no ideah
he was as wich as that.”
Bilarion Edwards —the lady who is Bill
or the gentleman who is Marion, whichever wav
you like to look at her-him —now runs a pub in
Napier-street, Fitzroy, Melbourne. He-she is
very popular there, and is said to be doing well.
Another injustice to Judaea ! The Argus
notifies that “ Mr. James Aaron, a Chinese, has
sent a six-guinea cheque to Warrnambool
Hospital.”
At Truro (S. Australia) a feeble man and
old (he was 84), Johann Christian Jaegar, lately
suicided by hanging. He might just as well have
waited and gone out by effluxion of time.
George Reid, at a Sydney school breaking-
up t’other day : “ Next year I will probably give a
prize to the boy who gets nearest to a prize with-
out getting one.” Thus does the elderly ’bus-loser
start to sow the seed of ’bus-missing in the minds
of the rising generation.
“ Bob ” Fitzsimmons has been picked by
an Italian authority as the most perfect modern
specimen of the Roman gladiator. Fitzsimmons
is accordingly to be sculptured in marble, and the
statue placed amongst those of the ancient fighters
as an essay on the physical development of this
century.
Again is Alfred Deakin’s name mentioned
as a possible High Commissioner, and again has
Deakin stated that he won’t leave Australia.
Those who know him best know him to be sincere.
And why all this fishing about among men who
are not available when an excellent man in B. R.
Wise is available?
C. C. Kingston, Australia’s great Demo-
crat, gets no better, and the chances are against
his taking any further active part in politics,
although he displays the greatest possible interest
in everything that goes on both in the State and
the Federal Legislatures. His wife is his con-
stant and devoted nurse.
Another score for Australia. A couple of
years back an Australian ex-coasting skipper,
named Forbes, invented and patented a log and
course-recording apparatus for the use of ships,
and, backed by a syndicate, submitted it to the
British Admiralty. After six months’ exhaustive
tests the Admiralty has decided to fit the inven-
tion to all British warships.
Jenkin Coles, who began to earn his ow n
crust by enrolling as a mounted policeman, has
now been continuously Speaker of the S.A.
Assembly since June 1890, and has sat for one
district without a break since LBBl. Jenkin was
once a Ministerial colleague of Kingston—it was
in the Six Fathom Ministry; every one of the
half-dozen members of it was a six-footer.
The Australian (the alleged-tired Aus-
tralian who wants to lean against a post, and
can’t do anything for himself, not even make a
clothes-peg) is in most places where pluck and
brains and adaptability are asked for. The latest
turn-up of the sort is from the Marconi wireless
station at Siasconset, Nantucket (U.S.A.). Ex-
Australian J. Cowden helped to instal and is now
working the new machines there.
James Ashton, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), has
become a “guinea pig.” He now holds the seat
on the Australian Widows’ Fund Board, rendered
vacant by the death of James Watson, M.L.C.
These Boards do not look for business capacity in
their directors—a title, a membership of either
House, the Upper for choice, or any other public
position likely to attract notice, are the qualifica-
tions desired. The manager does the work, while
the Board draws fees with surprising regularity.
Victoria’s Premier Bent is the man of
many has-beens. Judged out of his own mouth,
he has been everywhere, he has seen every-
thing, and he has been practically everything
that a man may be. He has not yet confessed
to having been to the South Pole, to having
earned his living as a grave-digger, or to
having been eaten by cannibals, but there
may still be time. The other day he told a
Brighton audience that he was a preacher
once, and preached in St. John’s Church.
Just before that he had told a lady in-
terviewer that no woman could
teach him anything about
cooking. “ I can cook cab-
bages with anyone,” he de-
clared. “I was cook onboard
ship once.” Bent is absolutely
accomplished in the matter of cab-
bages. We know him as a grower.
In England he said there was not a
better judge of cabbages in the world,
and now he stands forth as the un-
equalled cabbage cook. By the way,
Thomas talks about his family tree now-
a-days—presumably his cabbage tree.
People who wish to steal with
safety should study the career of
Frederick Watson of Victoria. Watson
was a trustee of a temperance “Tent.”
He took the key of a safe in which his
co-trustees kept their money, had a
duplicate made by a friend under the
pretence that it was for his (Watson’s)
back door, returned the original key to
its place in the bank, kept the dupli-
cate for months, and then when there
was a good haul in the safe quietly ex-
tracted £l5O. He was bowled out,
brought to trial after some difficulty,
and convicted of stealing the cash. A
number of leading temperance folk,
including Sam Mauger, Federal Post-
master-General, went along and told
a burning tale of the prisoner’s virtues
as a blue-ribboner, with the result that
Watson was released under the First
Offenders Act. It looks like a scandal,
but then Watson was “a worker in
the noble cause of temperance.”
Talk about sticking to a mate! Two
Maorilanders, Donnell an and Monkman, met at
Klondyke and agreed to battle for gold together.
They were doing all right when Donnellan
sickened and died. Monkman had the body em-
balmed and kept it in the hut for two solid years.
Then he returned to the M.L. Dominion, and
handed the remains over to relatives at Wellington.
A Taringa (Q.) man, one of these helpless
Australians named Jackson, has invented a
machine to dig potatoes. At a trial, the other
day, it turned out several rows two and a half
chains long at the rate of a row a minute. Subse-
quent digging with forks—the usual way of
breaking up Murphy’s happy home—showed that
not a potato had been left in the ground by the
machine.
Sydney University is losing Prof. Liver-
sidge, after having him for 32 years. When he
arrived, Science was scarcely hinted at in Sydney
IJni., and it wasn’t for nine years that he realised
his hopes and got a Faculty of Science estab-
lished. Gradually he moulted some of his sub-
jects, and stuck to Chemistry. Arts and Laws
courses were both in full blast when Liversidge
arrived, yet both the first Arts and the first Laws
graduates are still busy. Dr. Renwick is the one,
and Judge Rogers the other.
The name of the late Henry Rickefcson,
of N.S.W., came up in the High Court, the other
day, when barrister Canaway referred
to him as a champion litigant;
who had lost only one action
out of 80 he had brought.
The Law Reports, however,
record at least three cases
in which “Old Rick” was
badly beaten. He had a
mania for litigation, and
for over 20 years he carried
on ceaseless lawsuits
against the late Robert
Barbour (M.L.A. for the
old Murray electorate),
who, in the ’TO’s, selected
large portions of “Rick’s”
Barratta and Connalla
Stations, near .Denili-
quin. Upon one oc-
casion “ Rick ” induced
the local pastoralist or-
gan (which was under
the control of an ex-
Methodist parson) to
publish a flaming
article about Barbour.
An action for libel
followed, with a ver-
dict for £250 against
the paper. “Rick”
generously headed a
subscription list with
£lO, and left the
astonished Methodist
and the squatters of
the district to find the
balanceof the damages
and Costs. At the
time of his death,
which occurred about
10 years ago, “Rick”
was fighting the
N.S.W. Government
in the law courts over
the invasion of his
Billabong Station by
miners at the time of
the Wyalong rush.
The tin country
in and about Stan-
thorpe (Q.) has got its
magnate —Mrs. Alli-
son, of Sugar loaf. The
whole of her estate is
metalliferous, and is
mostlysublet toChinese,
who lately paid from £lO
to £l6 per ton royalty
for the tin won. Mrs.
Allison becomes the buyer,
and sends the stuff to her
mills at Stanthorpe; and she runs a store—
for the benefit, of course, of the tributors. At
Stanthorpe she has built a college, and three
miles away put up a sanatorium, so there are few
trade routes on which Mrs. Allison does not
collect the ’bus fares.
Dawe’s Point and Blue’s Point (Sydney),
which figured so largely in the Carruthers abortive
North Shore railway project, were once connected
by a rude, though efficient, ferry service. Billy
Blue, after whom one point was named, was the
ferryman of the service. Billy took out most of
the ferry profit in land in the form of Crown
grants, and with the rest he bought up job lots, so
that before he died he owned nearly all of the
North Shore. Dawe, who gave his name to the
other point, was a soldier, with a kink for
astronomy, and died poor.
John Browne, who recently died at the
alleged age of 119, in Liverpool(N.S.W.) Asylum,
may be turned to use in three ways. He smoked
till death, which is rough on the,anti-nicotine
brigade. He drank rum while he could buy or
otherwise obtain it. That should hit the Boyce
teetotal band pretty hard. Thirdly, when his
rum was cut off by hospital economies at one
period of his life, Carrington, then N.S.W.
Governor, interceded with Parkes, then Premier,
to order a breach of the common hospital rules,
and Parkes complying, the rules were broken, and
John received his rum. That shows what a
Governor can do with Premiers, officials, and a
public institution when he likes.
“ Vigilans ” about the Cattle Monarch and
his belongings
Kidman and the Georgina River (Q.) are synonymous.
Between Camooweal and Eurandangie the great cattle-
dealer owns Austral Downs and Heddingley. Between
Eurandangie and Boulia he has Carandotta. From
Boulia to Birdsville and Hergott he has Glengyle, Careon,
Rosebrook, St. Albans, Dubbo Downs, Annandale and
Kidgewarry. None of these runs is stocked with more
than 3000 or 4000 beasts, and each is in charge of a
manager or caretaker. Austral, Heddingley, and St.
Albans have been deserted, and the stock sold. Caran-
dotta, upon which the Carandotta Pastoral Co. (a Bull
concern) spent nearly £250,000 in houses, sheds, fences
and wells, was acquired by Kidman for £75,000, with
50 000 sheep and 5000 cattle. The sheep have been sold,
likewise 3000 cattle. The run is in charge of one man,
and the improvements are going fast to ruin. The home-
stead is large and commodious, built of stone and
imported woodwork. It is falling to pieces by reason of
pallid ants. Glengyle and Annandale are used as depots
for travelling stock. At one time they shore 120,000
sheep at Carandotta, but not for long ; it’s a droughty,
precarious stock-raising country.
“ S.” writes :
Mount Gambier (S.A.) boasts a female drum-major. The
lady’s name is Olive Hammer. She is a Miss, and she
leads the local brass band in an appropriate frock, with
epaulettes and military fittings, and swings ahead of the
drums whirling the usual long gaudy baton with a gold
nob and white whiskers on it. She brings her men along
in a quick-step with a spring and dash not excelled by any
band in the Commonwealth. Miss Hammer claims to be
a pioneer in a new field of woman’s work, and the papers
declare that she has “ a soldierly bearing ” and a “ dash-
ing, masterful manner.” The Mount Gambier band under
her command won a prize for marching at the South-
street (Ballarat) competitions.
“ CHIC AND CHICKER."
Arthur Henry, for nearly 36 years N.S.W.'a
Registrar in Bankruptcy, has retired at the
mature age of 69 —at least a Public Service List
fixes his birth-year as 1838—and now makes a fresh
start as a cocky-farmer. His first official employ-
ment in New South Wales was as private secretary
to Governor Belmore. When that very ordinary
potentate left and was hidden from view by the
curvature of the earth it was considered the
rectangular thing that his secretary should be
provided for, and James Martin gave him the
billet of Registrar of the Insolvency Court, as it
was then called, amid the rage of the junior Bar
and the bitter anger of Gentleman One. Mr.
Henry has outlived all the other officials who were
attached to the court when he joined it.
“ 10-2-4 ” writes :
A German Egyptologist, writing in the Berliner
Tagdische Rundschau, has made some discoveries that
are absorbing to the religious side of my nature. At the
beginning of the year this scientist unearthed Meneph-
toh’s mummy. Menephtoh was the Pharaoh who held
the fort of his ancestors what time thfe Children of
Israel were delivered from bondage. The trouble
mentioned in the Book of Exodus arose largely,
it transpires, from Pharaoh’s deplorable teeth. They
were full of cavities, and were essentially the grinders
of one who had a bad time. There is a Menephtoh eye-
tooth which was obviously for long in a very horrible
state. A black, jagged, honeycombed mass of bone
it is—the fang, in a word, to make a sovereign “harden
his heart,” as the Bible writer hath it, and treat his
subjects scurvily and with much callousness. Other facts
established re the deceased Menephtoh are that he was,
at the time of his death, plain and very fat.
He was sft. Bin. in height, bald (only a few
paltry wisps of white hair encircled his poll),
and the possessor of immense fiat feet. His nose was
long and thin, and of the extreme Semitic type. Further-
more, the wretched monarch’s blood-vessels and ribs
show unmistakable signs of chalky degeneration, from
w'hich it is deduced he suffered from uric acid. A
lamentable story, and it makes one feel quite ashamed of
the harsh words one said in one’s uninformed and prig-
gish childhood re this maligned royalty. Given gout,
rheumatism, decayed teeth, baldness, huge feet, and
revolting ugliness, and there is many an esteemed citizen
in our midst who is capable of setting all Potts Point to
work building pyramids.
GENTLEMEN, THE KING!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I fain would sing about a King who lives near London
town,
And humbly raise my song of praise unto his great re-
nown ;
And countless millions join with me, and strain their
loyal necks
In protests loud of loyalty to Albert Edward Kex,
For Edward by the grace of God (and also by descent)
Is King of England, and Chief Boss of this great continent*
He’s Suzerain and High Serang of peoples far and wide —
Their overlord and landlord and the Lord knows what
beside.
He owns the ships that float upon the ocean’s mighty
girth,
And owns or has a mortgage on a quarter of the earth.
His flag flies on a| hundred seas ; his watchful war-dogs
keep
An open space for him to pace the highways of the deep.
“ The sun is always shining o.) some part of his domains ” ;
But as it’s also setting, it is doubtful what he gains.
Throughout his vast dominions every day his praise is
sung v
By happy, faithful subjects—and there’s also someone
hung.
There’s no one discontented where he rules by Grace
Divine —
Save a few odd hungry millions, who’ve forgotten where
they dine.
The sword of battle is unsheathed, or sheathed at his
behest,
And Parliament assembles at his Majesty’s request.
With pious zeal his satraps deal with problems deep and
great,
And all agree that they should be his Ministers of State.
To them each nigger is a man, they love him as a brother,
And put their trust in everyone—excepting one another.
Throughout the greatest empire ’neath the canopy of
Heaven,
The land and all that therein is belong to Edward Seven ;
His calm, grey-whiskered countenance on every coin we
see —
For they are owned, of course, by his Most Gracious
Majesty.
In fact, there’s One thing—only One —’tis strange he
should forget
To put his “ monniker ” upon—and that’s our Public
Debt.
WESTRALIA.
TOM BEASLEY.


a
Q
%
I
%
X
V .s
mL
yj i
‘i
i«:fi
X,-- :
* i i
/
' ' ’’. v .l -.
m
■
•; vJ
x.
EH
’V-*
/
4; r i { X;t H
x-i
' ■ •
fell
KiKW
/ ■??.;'
m
....
■I i; ;
ABOVE ALL THINGS smoKe CAPSTAN
CIGARETTES.


THE
LIQUEUR
FOR
CHRISTMAS
TIME
Peter
Heering
k
i?
A
&
y
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
When a woman is young she has a right
to stay young—and look young. No woman,
whatever her age, is older than she looks.
Valaze will keep her looking young—then why
not Yalaze ? Idle question—Yalaze is and has
been these five years the boon companion of good
looks —Yalaze the means and Beauty the end.
Are you a stranger to Yalaze ? Have you not
found the wonders of this dainty Russian Skin
Food works on your complexion—how it smooths
away the ugly, creeping wrinkles, bids crowsfeet
fly, and wards off the sunburn and freckles our
hot Australian sun is so prodigal of ? Then be
wise in time. Take Valaze by the forelock—use
it now—to-day. Your chemist has it—the gifb
of a beautiful complexion within your reach !* 2
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN'S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCE PS SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 21, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
Melba’s song interludes, at her Sydney matinee,
were filled with the signing of her name in
birthday books. The books were in piles,
and Melba signed for all she was worth,
and sighed at the damp heat that, curiously
enough, gave her vocal chords, as she herself
confessed, an added brilliancy. The white tulle
hat, with ostrich and osprey piumes, that she wore
with cream chiffon didn’t “go” well with her
black hair. No black-haired party looks her best
in dead white. I once knew an unfamous soprano
who used to sing with one foot in evidence, and
posed on a footstool. Her pretence was that
“ that ankle was weak.” It was a small No. 3
foot and beautifully formed (so, of course, was
its fellow), and it always ensured her as
many auditors as her singing kept away.
The object of this discursion is to intimate that
Melba’s feet are the smallest ever! If she
would wear shortish gowns she’d have all the old
Union Club gentlemen in the front seats every
time. She wears a size two shoe, which, for an
eleven stone or.'so lady, puts Cinderella’s slipper out
in the back yard to be eaten by the dog. Ola Jane
Humphrey is another Goody Two (sized) Shoes.
But the American women are recognised as being
able to wear what the boot shopmen call unsale-
able sizes.
There is yet a later hat-shriek than the one
mentioned by me last week. The ultimate
Parisian outcry in this,line, is not necessarily a
huge-brimmed lid after all. On the contrary, it
is one which produces a Botticelli effect. French
fashion journals unite in a mad paean of enthusiasm
concerning a female headpiece which is repro-
duced in a recent issue of La Vie Parisienne. It
is of the height, rotundity and general appearance
of a battered belltopper or chimney-pot or plug
headgear. The framework is swathed in green
velvet. Thus the owner seems to be wearing
a flat-brimmed, green velvet topper which has
been recently kicked to death. Attached to
the front portion of the contrivance are two
gigantic black bird’s wings. London Daily Mail
mentions this creation with awed approval; also
another, whereof an illustration is given, which
consists simply of the body—with tail, wings,
feet and head complete—of an enormous wild-
fowl bashed on to the purchaser’s head and left
there. One could fashion as chic a hat locally
from a dead emu or buzzard. However, the
essence of all these fashion-contracts is that the
deceased bird should have met its end in Paris,
or should have been taken there after death.
Science is a horrid leveller. It has no appre-
ciation of the pageantry of life, and is a ruthless
buster-up of Romance. A year ago we read awe-
somely of the King of Spain’s “ Hapsburg
mouth.” The phrase was effective. We took,
most of us, a mental retrospect adown the ages,
and pictured the youth’s mighty line of forbears
all with this sort of mouth, and grew quite
worked up on the subject. It transpires that the
“Hapsburg mouth ’’—which is, to speak sooth, a
loose, gaping and purposeless sort of cavity—
comes solely from adenoids. The mouth is
not hereditary at all-only the adenoids.
Alphonso is what is known as a “ mouth-
breather,” and will be operated on in Paris
early next year. He doesn't mind his ade-
noids himself; for one thing, they have been
so extremely long in the family that thev have
grown like old friends. But they make him
snore, and so his fair young wife has issued her
ukase, and the growth of ages must go.
Miss Victoria Lyne, daughter of the great tariff
maker, is back from rambles amongst the seats of
the mighty. She tarried long after the Great Jag
known as the Conference of Premiers had been
full stopped, and report engaged her matrimonially
to someone who had a coronet on his bluey.
Talking of engagements, Miss Bramah, one of
Edwin Geach’s new importations in the Thornton
co., became engaged on her voyage here by
the India to the commander of that vessel.
He carries the uncommon name of Vibert
and an unusual amount of popularity, and is a
vigorous, crushed-strawberry-faced gentleman.
His million or so friends say that he has re-
mained unlassoed all these years solely because he
was too kind-hearted to marry. He could please
only one woman by taking up the white man’s
burden, but he would grieve hundreds. All the
same, it is a cold job for the wife—this marrying
the Light of a Liner. She must not travel on his
craft—at least, that is the regulation on most big
steamers, I understand—and she must know 11. 1 c
all the lady moths under 40 are blinding tin-
selves circling around him, and thinking a.i i.. 0
time that they are dazzling him. Miss Bramah is
an artistic-looking young party. At least that is
the phrase used by those who know, and, there-
fore, like her. For the five-hundredth time : the
husband is a marine product.
“Steady, men, prepare to receive infantry—
and doggery too,” says Robert Chambers, ex-
military hero, in his last (charming but too yanked-
out) book, “The Younger Set.” And at the
word he is overwhelmed by an onset of
seven children, ranging in age from thirteen
to three years, and their seven dogs. Well,
for the last month Sydney has been preparing
to receive infantry. Sydney’s weapons and barri-
cades are toys, and before the infantile rush, now
at its hottest, Sydney is yielding like dry grass
before the bush fire. Nothing very new has shown
up in the toy line. There’s a revival of the Golly-
wog doll, and in David Jones’ may be found the
whole Zoo —in upholstery materials. The Teddy
Bear is still a great favorite with the young
battlers; so are velvet cats with a mouse or a
cricket ball between their front paws, and
waggish dogs. The dachshund devotes itself
to waggishness, and the young inquiring mind
is always asking why its legs are crooked,
and striving to straighten them. Mechanical
birds andreptiles, that run or walk for aspace, have
a good sale and a short life—cut short by general
paralysis of the machinery or the inquiring mind
that pulls the toy to bits to see what makes it go.
Motor-cars and steam engines are in great demand
by boys, and the mothers of the demanders say,
“ He is such a man already, and I’m sure he’ll be
Edison over again—he’s always wanting to know
about wheels and puffing and other scientific
things.” The new game is Manorama, or Hearts’
Delight—a melange of tennis, ping-pong, and
basket ball.
The day of the mother-in-law is here. A dis-
tinguished American lawyer has begun an action
in his State’s law courts to enforce his mother-in-
law’s return to his home. Since she left he is
lonely and the house mismanaged.
The red (or otherwise) slayer again! Mrs.
Melton Prior, wife of the war artist, has been
killed by a motor car. Artist Prior was in Aus-
tralia what time Coolgardie was the Mecca of gold
seekers. His clothing and arming, when he did
the coach journey from Perth to Coolgardie, sent
the teamsters en route mad with joy. Revolver
and ammunition and a knife were in evidence in
his Bond-street tailoring.
A wad of newspaper cuttings, thick enough
for a small bolster, to hand, discloses, layer
by layer, what a glorious artist is Miss Ada
Crossley, and how successful has been her just-
concluded English provincial concert tour. She
has sung at festivals and on her own, and
one of the critics mentions that the Austra-
lian has now been long enough in the
Mother Country to entitle her to the desig-
nation, “English contralto.” Percy Grainger,
who was of the party, is also pelted with the
appreciative adjective, and tenor John Harrison,
who was a pupil of Amy Sherwin, shares the
fusillade that artists love. Harrison likes to give
his audience Beethoven’s “ Adelaide.” Scarcely
anyone sings “ Adelaide ” these days. Our grand-
mothers, so one tells me, would not consider the
concert or home-circle musical evening anything
but a hard frost if “Adelaide” were not pro-
grammed.
The Right Hon. James Fran\9s Harry St.
Clair-Erskine, Earl of Rosslyn-j to give him
his full style and title—seems lb be one of
the deftest and pleasantest co-res now extant,
ihis hereditary British legislator w )s successfully
proceeded against last month by one Captain
Saunders, D.S.O.—who is the outr'alkl husband of
the frolicsome Earl’s most recent .Vfinity. Pro-
bably there never has been a case pf the kind
wherein things movedmoresmoothly. i\ r o damages
were asked. The Earl’s feelings would have been
hurt—besides he mightn’t have paid anyhow.
The most amiable letters were put in evidence.
The first Saunders knew of any awkwardness
was on October 12, 1906, when he got the follow-
ing, signed by the co-re., and dated from the Carl-
ton Club :
Dear Captain Saunders,—l have not the honor of
your acquaintance, so beg you to excuse my address-
ing you so, but I have been served with a petition for
divorce by my wife, in which your wife’s name is
mentioned It is an accusation for which, it is
■eedless to say, there is absolutely no foundation.
Yours very affectionately, Rosslyn.
Best he might annoy Captain Saunders, or cause
undue expense, Lord Rosslyn refused to defend
the suit. Anyhow, he is bored with the divorce-
court entourage, and is not socially acquainted
with Mr. Justice Bargrave Deane, who pre-
sides there (and moreover absolutely refuses
to know him). But he has taken all the
onus of everything on his shoulders, and has
promised he will pay the Costs—some day;
and he doesn’t complain an atom. Truly the man
is a preux chevalier, not to say a Bayard.
The Shackleton-David party of South Polar
explorers will need to continue the dash with
which they have begun to keep ahead of rivals.
Already three other expeditions to the South Pole
are being fitted up—one French, one Belgian, and
one American. Dr. Charcot, Dr. Cook, and
Mr. Arctowski, the leaders, are men of
repute, each greedy for polar bears and honors,
and if the expeditions come together on an ice-
floe in the vicinity of Mount Erebus, no one can
tell which will come back. Professor David has,
however, been experimenting lately with a new
chemical explosive, which is easily carried, and is
said to be capable of shifting mountains out of the
way. If he has taken a supply of this with him
the Shackleton-David party should be able to
climb over all rivals.
Mrs. O’Doherty, widow of the late Kevin Izod,
of Brisbane, was not alone a poetical revolution-
ary in her early Irish days. She was an actual
aider and abettor of rebels, as the law defined
matters at that period. When John Dillon,
fn fher of the Dillon who visited Australia a few
v trs ago, was proscribed with a price on his head,
>! O’Doherty, then Miss O’Kelly, clad him in
( .urical broadcloth and the murky hat of a celi-
bate life, and escorted him, as Father O’Kelly,
through a cordon of watching police. Dillon
played the part becomingly, and got off to
America, where he remained until the British
Government issued a general pardon.
The late Dr. Neild, of Melbourne, used to label
all women under two headings as “ the kissable”
and “the unkissable.” Miss Donaldson, of the
Thornton company, which opens to-night in “When
Knights Were Bold ” (or should it be Bowled ?)
looks like an eminently kissable girl. She’s tall
and good-figured, with light blue eyes, flaxen hair,
blush rose complexion (when she’s fatter and older
it will be cabbage rose), and the kind of
underlip that poet Suckling has immortalised
“as if a bee had stung it newly.”
She is a Manchester girl, and her first engagement
was as the ingenue, Lady Mary Carlyle’s cousin,
in “Monsieur Beaucaire.” Since then she has
been playing good young r6les and understudying
distinguished actresses. She is very fond of bread
and butter and housework and outdoor games,
and when she left London the long sleeves were
coming in. Yes, the voyage out on the India
was very pleasant, and the Australian women are
not even six weeks behind in the matter of
fashions. That’s all. Perhaps the city maid will
prove more versatile on the boards. Most actresses
are difficult under the interviewer’s stump-extrac-
tor, and facts are grubbed out of them with diffi-
culty, though many Americans and some Austra-
lians are exceptions to this rule. Anyhow, Miss
Donaldson will certainly give the Sydney young
man heart disease, just as Miss Bramah (doesn’t
that name remind of the Light of Asia and the
Brahmapootra hen?) gave it to the captain of the
India. His vessel went out to-day. Too bad that
he couldn’t wait to see his lady’s first appearance
here.
Mrs. Waldron, who as Miss May King took
“ Squaw Man ” Waldron as a mate, has cabled her
friends here that in future when they make kind
inquiries they may include a small May.
The Dearman divorce case, which has created a
mild sensation in Sydney for some weeks, ended
in a way which seems calculated to make the
petitioner-husband go and bite the corners off the
furniture. It isn’t the loss of the case which is
the trouble —that might happen to any man ;
the grief lies in the unconscious humor
of his Honor in giving judgment. Mel-
bourne Nathan Dearman—not Ballarat Abraham
Dearman; don’t make any mistake about
the name—asked for a divorce on the alleged
ground that his wife had frisked with a third
party. His Honor said, first, that he half sus-
pected that the lady had frisked, but he wasn’t
sure. He then said that the husband would
doubtless feel glad that it wasn’t positive that she
had frisked. He dismissed the case for in-
sufficiency of proof of frisk. And he ordered the
husband to pay his own Costs and his wife’s. So
these are the gentleman’s grievances: (1) He
has failed to get his freedom; (2) he has
had all the publicity for nothing ; (3) he
has to pay his own Costs ; (4) he has to pay his
wife’s Costs ; (5) he has still to support the lady ;
(6) he is told that he ought to feel comparatively
glad, not that his suspicions have, in the
Judge’s opinion, been wholly disproved, but
because the Judge has dark suspicions
himself, yet can’t make up his mind.
If the Judge had simply dismissed the case, it
mightn’t have been so bad ; but that sort of sug-
gestion that the petitioner should hasten home
with his mind full of gloomy doubts, and a huge
bill in each hand, and the lady he wanted to get
rid of on his back (metaphorically speaking), and
there skip for joy like the young lamb on the
gable of the precipice—well, why shouldn’t he
bite the furniture? Some men would bite the
ceiling.
Australia would seem to produce great new
voices with even more remarkable regularity than
it does great new bowlers, scullers, and other
phenomenaof themoment. Thusat Amy Sherwin’s
pupils’ concert at the Town Hall last Wednesday
night, one Mr. Henry Campbell, hitherto unknown
to fame, sang in a mighty tuneful tenor voice,
whose golden notes, were they but trained, would
be worth much gold, not to apeak-of-.' .rubies and
such-like portable pttipb'Pfy'—to quote the burning
words of Mr. Wemmick. Also, Miss Ruby Adams
appeared and established a sensation. She was
as a professional among amateurs. Curiously
piquant was the contrast between the tall
(very tall) and slender (extremely slender)
ingenue- faced girl and the big, passionate
voice with its under-hint of all life’s knowledge
and experience. She trilled flawlessly
on the high nightingale note at the
end of Herschel’s beautiful old “ Spring
Song ” and in the Lucia Sestet sang D
in alt. with electrifying ease. This was a
concert of home-grown voices, and it wasn’t
the less interesting on that account. The
choir, trained and conducted by Mrs. Sherwin,
gave a fresh and sweet account of itself. Mrs.
Sherwin herself put some silver point on the
programme with her own voice, and there was
a (to her unexpected) jewel scene when two pupils
presented her on behalf of the others with some-
thing gemmed and glittering and rainbowy.
After Gabriel has blown about three notes, it
is pretty certain that some calm woman will ask
him to hold on a bit while she goes and gets a cup
of tea. And it is quite possible that it will be a
woman who turned up at Rangiora (M.L.) lately.
A very busy railway porter at that station was
driven to the verge of distraction when he dis-
covered a sleeping infant in a carriage that was
being shunted off the line into a shed. In vain
he tramped the platform seeking the owner of the
luggage; nobody owned it, or wanted it. At last
he ducked into the tea-room, and found the
mother. Oh, no, she hadn’t forgotten it ; she
knew it would sleep soundly until she returned,
and she was glad the porter hadn’t wakened the
darling. The porter, of course, never said a word.
He couldn’t think of a word. He just went
behind a heap of luggage, and asked the universe
if there was a word.
A lady who signs herself “ Boh ” sends this:—
As a useless female person, I rise to denounce the
“ Come-and-bring-your-work ” afternoon tea party, which
is the only social caper possible to the lorn suburban
female, as she waits for the returning steps of her men-
folk. Was bidden to an afternoon riot of this kind lately.
Arriving late, found the room thick with scandal and the
flashing of needles. They talked not of the drama, of
art, or letters, but always of “ the other woman ” —who
wasn’t there. Their methods reminded me of the smart
man in the problem play, who gets the nasty things off
his chest as he scratches the stage business match to light
the ditto cigar. The busy ladies said their smart things
as they bent over their precious cross-stitch. I did not
bring my work, as it happened just then to be the white-
washing of the back kitchen. After an hour or so we had
tea, and the reputation-ripping commenced again. Some
day I will arise and call a pretty lady in a nice frock a
liar. Then there will be a scene, and perhaps I shall have
a paragraph in the paper. In the meantime I’ll go on
whitewashing the back kitchen. God knows it wants it 1
A Sydneyside man, who recently dropped in
upon Wellington, in M.L., found his way into
the Tourist Department, and was presently sur-
rounded by and introduced to nine of the girl
employees. To them he recounted his perils by
land and sea on the Milford Sound track. All
the brunette, mezzo and blonde she-civil ser-
vants were so sympathetic that the visitor
suggested to General Manager Donne that a team
of girls from the head office should act as guides
on the Milford track each year. “Yes,” replied
the chief, “ and have all the old sinners in Sydney
coming over here every summer.” Well, why
shouldn’t they ? Old sinners have money to spend,
as a rule.
One of “Our Own Correspondents” from
London mentions that Miss Violet Clarke,
daughter of a former Governor of Victoria, “has
decided to give up the lyric stage as a profession,
and confine herself to her literary work.” Now,
is this good for the art she has forsaken, or bad
for the art to which she has taken ? Once upon a
short while ago I mentioned to an Australian
theatrical manager that a certain Sydney girl had
evidently given up the stage, as she was bombard-
ing the editor with stories. With a sniff of
disgust, he replied: “Writing’s all she’s fit for.
She’d never be an actress.” With such contempt
do some view the poor story-spinner.
Consideration of various divorce cases reminds
one that there are many things capable of shatter-
ing Love’s young lunacy in its very first spasm, and
so staving off much subsequent misery and ex-
pense. Thus the current Yankee papers tell us
that at Windfall (Ind.) young Jarvis Scherer de-
cided to take Miss Minnie Landsade, his “fiance”
(U.S.A. French for best girl), for a drive. He
did. Two miles from home Jarvis Scherer drove
over a sleeping polecat. Without delving into
any Zolaesque details, it suffices to say that the
vehicle and horse had to be abandoned
while Jarvis and Minnie became pariahs on
the face of the earth till they got home,
fumigated themselves, burned their clothes, and
had 2f hours apiece in a Turkish bath. That
done, Minnie returned Jarvis his ring, announced
firmly that the alliance was off, and urged him
not to address her again while he lived.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Sandforcl goes out of the Lithgow (N.S.W.)
ironworks after 20 years’ struggling, and the
Hoskins firm comes in. The works will still go
on, and the ex-proprietor recovers at least part of
his money. All the same, it is very rough on
Sandford, who has toiled for half a lifetime in
pursuit of an honest ambition to establish the iron
industry of Australia on a sound footing, and has
to drop it when within a yard of the goal.
“ Queer Things About Persia ” is the title
of a recently-published book by Eustache de
Lorey and Douglas Sladen. Among other things,,
it states that the Persians are excellent horsemen,
and have a huge contempt for those who ride
badly. The authors tell a story of a faithful
servant who saved his European master’s reputa-
tion by explaining to the crowd, when he (the
master) fell from his saddle, that it was not due
to bad horsemanship, but that he was drunk.
Bernard Hall, Director of Melbourne
National Gallery and Art Schools, can consider
himself an exploded Art potentate. His picture
of the year—probably the picture of his life—is
“Sleep,” exhibited for the first time in Sydney a
few months ago, and since then recognised as one
of the brightest features of Melbourne’s annual
exhibition. But Smithtown, which issomewhereon
the Macleay River (N. S. W.). where they keep cows,
has a “ School of Arts,” and when the December
Lone Hand arrived the committee of the School
of Arts—mind the Arts !—solemnly met, and
resolved that “ Sleep,” therein reproduced, is an
improper picture ; wherefore “Sleep ” was cut out
before the volume was allowed to go into local
circulation. It was liable to divert the local mind
from lofty thoughts of Cow, so it was Accursed.
The long-drawn-out story of a tobacco rob-
bery was concluded in the Melbourne press reports
last week, when a shady Oollingwood storekeeper
was found guilty of having been implicated in the
theft of 12gcwt. of ’bacca from a city warehouse.
The prisoner owned up to one or two previous
convictions, but declared that the police had sworn
falsely against him in this case. Anyhow, the affair
presented an aspect suggestive of “fizgigism.” The
police were, presumably, waiting near the pre-
mises of the alleged receiver for a waggon that
duly arrived, with the tobacco and three or four
men aboard of it. One man, seemingly, escaped.
This escapee is alleged to have been the “fizgig”
who planned the robbery, and inveigled his mates
into it, and put the police in the way to effect a
capture. Two unquestionable mates were con-
victed, and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment,
a while ago, and they now gave evidence for the
defence. They both swore that the storekeeper
aforesaid was not with them on the night
of the robbery, and was not in the right-
of-way at the back of his shop when
the waggon arrived and the police made
a rush for it. With several years of imprison-
ment confronting them, these two men can
hardly have had a strong incentive to perjury—
conspiracy of perjury against the police—on
behalf of an alleged colleague in the robbery,
unless, indeed, they were smarting under a sense
of having been “fizgigged.” They explained
that they drove the waggon to the right-of-way
in order to get a cart from the storekeeper’s yard,
and transfer the tobacco to the lighter vehicle
before resuming their journey. The police story
was convincing in only one respect. It proved
that four detectives were grouped after midnight
in the neighborhood of the place where they
presently found a job; as to whether they or any
of them were legitimately informed of the job, or
were working in conjunction with a “ putter-up”
of felonies, there is their Word in one scale, and
the allegation of angry criminals in the other.
The jury, after deliberating for two hours on the
story of the four detectives who were keeping
one another company at midnight, decided that
it was half true. The prisoner was found guilty
of receiving the goods.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant
Apropos the father of that old theatrical, Ben Leveson
(B. 19/11/’O7), we hear of Phil Solomon in the early
’thirties as a dealer in Lower George-street, in 1844 as
keeping the Elephant and Castle on the S.E. corner of
King and Pitt streets, and in 1847 as landlord of Solo-
mon’s Temple Inn on the S.W. corner of Erskine and
Clarence streets, where had stood the Crispin Arms. He
did not keep the house long, as in 1850 it was occupied by
another of the Chosen people, Abraham Joseph Levy, who
occupied it all through the ’fifties. When the house got
out of the hands of the Hebrew's it was christened the
Wynyard. It was demolished a couple of years ago
and an up-to-date building erected. This paragraph is
still another proof of the fact that it is hardly possible to
write of ancient inhabitants without also writing about
public-houses.


Trade
r^WTINt
s*:
IK
IS3
1
an
Dll
1M
>IAK&/'
itte roop
69 * - THE Kai>X CrROW - * «
• F>y * The-.- LArse&T*“-aND
TAE-*riE:DICAL- FACDLTY- ••
We • lr\vi Te. Xvy C>Anpi_e-
Tin • ext • c» or • - •——~ •
3c-hP • P<?OTCAnD F?D • PpQKLE't
"E>ab>\ to r\9w-To • rtw * Tntn"-
'&M r f , V .
JOUBERT & JOUBERT, Flinders Street, Me'bf'urnr.
CLAUDE MEALY & CO., 63 Pitt Street, Syd.iev.
L. E. JOUBERT, Perth, W.A.
- **■»! Trait
'WIWiNf
‘VIldMg
4*** 1
Orf*.ief*UL
THE SECRET
= of a=s=
GRACEFUE
FIGURE.
'-O'.
myff'mwr-
i ' $
£
1
CORSETS
Tarrant Motor Co.
104=112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
Victorian Three Days’
Reliability Contests.
Under the auspices of
The Automobile Club.
A CLEAN SWEEP FOR DE DIONS.
DE DIONS
SCOOP THE POOL.
A Magnificent Performance.
Hill Climbing... Ist, 8-b.p. De Dion
Speed Test
(against all !-
comers) J
lst, B“h.p. De Dion
2nd, 8-h.p. De Dion
3rd, 8-h.p. De Dion
Best
Performance
Ist, 8-h.p. De Dion
In Every Class of the Contest DE
DIONS SCORED FIRST PLACE, and
carried off all the honors.
We are landing New Models of DE
DIONS every week.
We are SOLE AGENTS in Victoria.
TARRANT MOTOR GO.,
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 23, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
There will never be an end of the Tea Folks
memories of that Exhibition. They had a lively
time with some of the Sassiety dames. One
would carefully order a special and swagger lunch
for ten, say, in the cosy Dutch room. She
would roll up chiffonly and distractingly chatter-
ing with about 30 in tow, and oysters and turtle
soup and truffles would be expected in swift and
magic serving, with the “extra chairs ” to match.
One of these episodes ended by a Westralian lady,
of forcible tongue, invading the kitchens. There
was much fur flying, because the “ lady ” was
ordered out of the Dominion of Food by the
triumphant and dauntless manager girl. The
manager girl has departed for a well-earned rest
in some cool, ferny spot, and the lady retreats to a
land of loving slaves.
A little lady who had scored points in connec-
tion with the Woman’s Work Exhibition and who,
as a result of a few adulatory pars in the papers,
was beginning to think that the eye of the world
was focussed upon her, experienced a distressing
set-back the other day. She observed a marked
public interest as she passed down the street, and
when she entered a music-shop the curious ones
assembled at the door, and peered in with every
manifestation of excitement. When she came
forth there was quite, an assemblage. The crowd
opened before her, and necks were craned
curiously. There was a little jostling too, and
people made comments on the lady’s appearance.
Then a voice said: “Yah! That ain’t Mrs.
Wallace ! It ain’t a bit like ’er ! ” And the
crowd fell away in disappointment, while the
deserted one took up her shattered illusions and
went home.
It’s curious that until now no political wife has
attempted to turn her drawing-room into a Salon,
or the Australian equivalent of one. The differ-
ence is created easily enough—by entertaining
wise men instead of fools. But probably wise
men would abjure such attractions as Sassiety
offers them for the nonce—rich food and poor con-
versation. The political missus hasn’t tried to
remedy the discrepancies to date, however. Once
hubby has secured his seat, she eagerly
exchanges national interests for parochial
ones. For instance, what time the astute
Isaacs was a Cabinet Minister, Mrs. Isaac Isaacs
contented herself with being cultured, and taking
cookery lessons. Dame Forrest occasionally gave
a luncheon party at her hotel to a motley gather-
ing of actors and their smartest patrons, and
organised a series of subscription dances. Mrs.
Deakin lives in her quiet circle, only emerg-
ing from it to burden herself with some
official duties, or secretly do some gracious
deed of kindness or charity. Mrs. Groom’s
specialty is erudition, with side-lines in the
way of smart entertaining and tasteful frock-
ing. Mrs. Sammy Mauger once accompanied
66 Bourke-street when he drove round the
suburbs, judging a shop-window competition.
Yet the opportunities of a pleasant woman with
an intelligent interest in politics are un-
bounded. No one is more amenable to
feminine influence than the blithe politician.
And then a ringed, dimpled hand has such
an adroit and inconspicuous way of pulling
strings, and wields other people’s power so advan-
tageously. Presently some lady with a definite
ambition and a mediocre husband will inaugurate
a Salon, which will pretend to be a symposium,
and really be a show ground for big-little men’s
vanities. ' She’ll get all she wants! It’s a pity
that she isn’t anticipated by some gifted female
who lacks an ulterior motive.
It’s delightful to note the frantic endeavors of
local matrons with ordinary surnames, to disavow
the “ case.” One afternoon during the hearing of
the Wallace trouble, Mrs. Brownjohn will be casu-
ally mentioned. Within 24 hours, every Mrs.
Brownjohn for miles around will have rushed into
newspaper print with an unctuous denial that she
is even related to the Mrs. Brownjohn, now
under the eye of the Law. She usually adds,
with an inky air of virtue, that she is entirely un-
acquainted with anyone associated with the case.
Then the indignant matron makes her bow and
retires from a public gaze that otherwise might
never have seen her.
Saw the badgered “ Doctor Bob ” at the cricket
match, with his usual man clique. Strong’s a
youthful looking man, but worry forces out the
middle-aged aspect —the grey in the hair is grim-
mer, a nd there is a “ thin ” look at the back of the
neck. Melbourne medicoes keep their age well
on the whole. As an instance, consider Strong’s
double, Dr. M‘Gee. He has owned that same
sprightly youngster look for so long that the
memory of man can’t recall when he looked other-
wise. Auto-racing Davenport has no calendar
to thank for his youthfulness; mebbe he manages
it by the devil-may-care way he drops patients,
work and worry in his sporting holidays. In his
work-a-dav time there’s not a cooler, keener hand
at an operation.
Folk watching the exciting haul of names daily
dragged into the Wallace case marvel at the dead
silence about the plump tenor and the warm-
haired Algy of chiffon-counter fame. The duo
used to hang to the lady’s train like adoring
puppies. Concerts, theatres, suppers, balls—
always the Fat One or the Warm-Haired wedged
snugly between the fair lady and chum “Mrs.
Mac.” Algy keeps meekly to his counter nowa-
days. The tenor is in London.
Another yachtsman, ’tis said, contemplates a
visit to the Court of Liberation. But it may not
come off. He and his wife have been long prone
to regretful re-cooings after angry separations.
Little Mrs. Lee, drawn into the maelstrom of
the Great Divorce Case, might bleat a lesson to
young wives about obeying the wishes of their lords
and masters. Her particular owner tried many
methods to draw his wife from the atmosphere of
Novar. Mrs. Lee is the daughter of politician
Allan McLean. Hubby was Government expert
of some “culture” or other in N.S.W., and was
put in charge of the beet-sugar experiments at
Maffra. For the future, seemingly, the matron
will be a missionary with one text: “Wives,
hearken to the wise man who payeth the rent.”
How annoying is the spectacle of other people’s
enjoyments. And how vapid it seems ! I know
nothing more intolerable, when one is in a serious
strenuous mood, than watching others slaughter
common-sense, and their reputations for “ naice-
ness ” to make themselves a holiday. Even
the prospect of a holiday is demoralising.
In anticipation, and with regard to their
probable locations, lads and lasses re-arrange
their own flirtations, and disorganise those
of other folks, with the most callous dis-
regard for any buds of romance that may be
opening. In holiday time girls let their
souls go on the “ bust ” with creatures
they wouldn’t even bow to at any_ other
season. And men make vows which include
eternity, and aren’t fulfilled even for an hour.
Yet, I dare say, environment is more to blame
than the individual. It’s very difficult for a maid
to preserve an afternoon-tea attitude when
she’s sitting hand-in-hand with a brown, blithe
chum, hidden by a bosky curtain from all observ-
ant eyes. And it’s practically impossible
to be flippant when she and he stroll
through the moonlight, uninterrupted save by
the chirp of some belated bird (though it’s
quite easy to be frivolous under such circum-
stances !). It must be environment that makes
Cupid work so hard while his accomplices are on
furlough. For, after all, a woman always appears
less alluring in holiday season than at any other
time. She doesn’t mind looking for whole days
through as dishevelled as she appears only in the
early morning hours of other periods. She
becomes careless of her toilette, and wears the
shape that Fate inflicted on her as an original
punishment, and puts the improvements that have
been made thereon in the bottom of her dress-
basket. She offers little encouragement for
admiration —gives no reason for rhapsodies ; and
really doesn’t seem to desire sentimentality. Yet
she’s inundated with all these. Yes, indeed, it
must be environment!
Miladi Northcote paid a gracious attention to
some Wimmen’s Exhibition supernumeraries at
the last executive meeting. She had the firemen
who had done duty there called in, and gave them
a silver matchbox apiece in memory of the fact
that there hadn’t been any big fire.
Mrs. Percy Chirnside gave a children’s fancy-
dress party at Menzies’ this week, and most of
the youngsters made a joyful reappearance in the
charming frocks they had worn previously at the
Northcote spreelet. Mrs. MacDonald’s cherubs
were about the daintiest episode of the afternoon.
The most amusing aspect of these bibbed and
socked festivities is the embryo dignity and
sturdy self-possession of the babes-in-clover. The
attitude is very stolid and wonderfully consistent.
Yet the humor and good-temper of the brat
who has never owned a pair of whole boots except
by accident are really a lot more pleasing and
more natural.
King O’Malley, the airy legislator who once
wanted a permit to camp out and lead the Simple
Life in the Parliament House Reserve, is reputed
to be building a terrace of eight houses, A terrace
is a terribly ordinary thing. A wild original legis-
lator with a wild original hat, who wants to cook
his own buffalo steak in a tent, should build
pyramids, or something out of the common.
Mrs. F. S. Grim wade and her daughters and
husband go to the Respectable Country for a long
spell. They depart on Christmas Eve. What an
awful essay—to eat Christmas fare during the first
days of a tempestuous sea-voyage. But pro-
bably the medicine-chest of the chemical family
is capable of overcoming both horrors. More pro-
bably the family knows too much about dyspepsia
to eat any pudding.
Miss Beatrice Day, looking wonderfully well,
and more mondaine than ever, says with a wide
smile that it’s just delightful to be back again in
sunshine and clear air. She reveals frocks that
are indicative of what less audacious people
will be trying to wear next Cup-time. She’s
going to air them within the month. And she
says one pleasant thing worth noting—that
any woman can be as well dressed as she need
wish to be by local Madams, provided she doesn’t
permit herself to be gowned like anyone else.
Otherwise she tells of a holiday spent in working
hard at play-getting, frock-buying, Society and
study—and says that she’s relieved to start real
labor again, it’s so much less exhausting.
On Friday there was a function at the Catholic
Ladies’ College, when her Federal Excellency
visited the school to invest some students of honor
with the college badge. The Lady, having been
duly received by the Archbishop, Rev. Mother
Lawrence, and Prime Minister Deakin, was taken
off to the students’ hall. It was a delightful
scene—the big room filled with girls and flowers,
all virginal and white, with here and there a silent
nun with sombre gown and smiling face. The
star pupils were presented with jewelled, golden
badges emblematic of their virtues. Miladi
was quite tender in her kindly speech to the
honored ones, and the eloquent Alfred affected
them deeply, or seemed to.
The second Arral concert showed the lady in
her best vocal style, and her least becoming dress.
As usual, she sang like a bird, and, owing
to her curious coiffure, looked rather like an
unclassified one. But oh, how she sang !
It made one sigh for sentimental zephyrs,
and the sobs of a love-stricken nightingale,
and several other things unobtainable in Mel-
bourne Town Hall. It even made one forget
that influenza would surely be the penalty of ven-
turing to that infamously draughty place. The
other soloists were not enlivening—nor even
deadening. They were neither good nor bad
enough to distract a half-dressed woman from her
grievances against the Town Hall authorities.
The audience was undistinguished for the most
part. There were a lot of people in shirt-blouses,
and a large number in ball-dresses, but few were
notable. Mrs. MacGillicuddy was there in white
silk, looking rather haggard after her afternoon’s
appearance in the witness-box. Mrs. Gaston
Mervale, also in white with a head dress that
made her look like a tinted Greek statue, was
under the wing of a theatrical young man. And
Mr. John Wren and his missus, in a blue confec-
tion, came in late. Mr. Wren’s demeanor —full
of modest pride and unobtrusive self-content —
was most edifying. He might have been one of
the humble public, instead of the director of what
the programme described as a “ concert de luxe”
—whatever that may mean.
The old “ floral offering ” or vegetable tribute
practice was tolerable as long as it was confined
to the stage or platform, where the recipient or
recipients earned or didn’t earn the obtrusive
compliment. In its latest development of out-
door demonstration for the purpose of special
newspaper report it is a blatantly boomsome prac-
tice, that amounts to a public nuisance. The Age
published a postscript to the musical critic’s
notice of Mrs. Arral’s reappearance at Melbourne
Town Hall, under the clap-trap direction of John
Wren: —“A great proportion of the audience
waited around the main entrance, and as Mrs.
Arral emerged, wreathed in smiles and flowers,
she was ruthlessly set upon, and unceremoniously
robbed of her flowers and covered with fresh ones.
Many of those who could not get near enough to
present their floral offerings hung them on the
harness of the horses. A way out was cleared by
the police, and Mrs. Arral finally got away,
followed by & dropping fire of floral bunches.”
Funny little tales are told of the Conserva-
torium students’ performance at the Princess’s.
For instance, there was the ballet of children in
the “Faust” scene—eight dainty damsels, pro-
vided by the Green Dancing Academy. The
kiddies, accustomed to distinction in their Green
sphere of entertainment, naturally regarded them-
selves as the salt of the show. But in the “Faust”
scene, of course, they found that they amounted
to a mere passing incident. Having danced their
little bit, they were de trop. The chorus —coached
by Miss Maud Harrington—wanted all the avail-
able stage room, so the youthful ballerinas were
quite rudely hustled out of the way by the
grown-ups. Whereupon, one or two of them
burst into weeps, and behind the scenes the whole
ballet held an indignation meeting. If this was
real life on the stage they wanted no more of it.
They wished they were dead, and they were quite
sure their mammas wouldn’t let them appear in
opera any more. By the way, the top-scorer in the
amateur show was undoubtedly the fine chesty
tenor, Sydney Monk, who has a fortune in his
voice if he chooses to work for it. To the surprise
of everybody who saw him sidle on to the platform
a while ago, when he was singing between the
acts of a Taits’ biograph, the melodious Sydney
has already developed a good stage presence and
a graceful bearing—in repose, at any rate.
One of the week’s sprees had a formidable label
—“The Annual Dinner of the Prelectors of
Trinity College Dialectic Society.’’ But the feed
itself was a joyous episode in a “Savoy” private
room, to which all the wise men who have pre-
lected from year to year, were bidden by Trinity
Warden Beeper. One who was there confides to
me that Mitchell, K. 0., and Ernest Hughes sat
side by side, and, instead of talking science,
almost"fought over the exact number of runs
made in a long-forgotten match by some mutual
chum who, perhaps, at this moment may be
knocking solar systems around space in dim
meadows desolate, where his soul dwelleth. And
all the other prelectors chatted and giggled over
undergraduate memories of “shop” misdemeanors,
and no one was either wise or particularly witty.
Which suggests that a good many academic
gatherings impress us under false pretences.
On Thursday,- at Cliveden, a performance of
“ The Tyranny of Tears,” was given. The mere
acting was unexceptionable—but the audience was
funny. It was quite a large one, and every soul
wore an evening frock of some old sort, or some
new sort. There were very few men to be seen ;
but women just crowded in—coming on foot, in
cabs, in trams, and by the cheap train service that
stops in the Cliveden vicinity. In the car which
conveyed my humble self, there were 37 women.
Some were dressed in tulle and diamonds, some
were in nun’s-veiling with cheap beads. One or two
looked like unclassified articles of drawing-room
furniture in steaming plush and best Genoa—
and all were on their way to the house where the
Dowager holds her suburban court. And many
more cars came laden with the same motley
burden. The acquaintances of Janet Missus sat
as close as they could to her, and some were asked
to supper afterwards. And at last the show was
over, and the crowd in its respective gala gar-
ments faded out of the distinguished portals into
the very cold night.
In connection with the Waitara (N.S.W.)
Foundling Home appeal, there is one pleasing
feature. A man interested in the welfare of the
accidental infant sent along an invitation to
local men and women to contribute speci-
mens of their arts and crafts, if they
felt inclined, to be included in the pro-
posed exhibition and auction. Already he
has received promises, pictures, poems, and other
encouraging indications that Melbourne folk are
possessed of a fine spirit of charity, and some idea
of an all-Australian spirit. It’s about the first
time that a charity in one State has received so
much support from another. It’s to be hoped
that it will establish a happy precedent.
“ Bosna ” sends news of the mad frivolities of
Adelaide: —
Before leaving this crow-haunted State, the Butt-Rum-
fords persuaded their Adelaide friend, Mrs. Jack Fox
(whose engagement to singer Frank Robertson was lately
announced), to fix the date of the surrender of her liberty
for April so that they can be present to assist at the
sacrifice. Mr. Rumford will give the bride away, and Joy
is to be bridesmaid or train-bearer or something pic-
turesque like that.
Singer Ethel Hantke arrived from Britain by the Mon-
golia after four years of study and the gathering of many
laurels under the shadow of the throne of Edward VII.
She was formerly star pupil at our little Conservatoire,
and was chosen to warble before the Yorks at the State
concert, and upon other jewelled occasions. Then she
fled to Britain to have her voice soled and heeled at the
Roval College of Music. She will stay with us till some-
where about September, when sordid considerations of
engagements and money again called her Bull wards.
Bv persuasion, or by being smitten with a club, or by
having the dog started after them, or something, the
’Varsitv undergraduates were induced to come down oft
their indignant perch and decorate the Commemoration
this year, as of old. Last year, owing to the Counci
making certain remarks about their hilarities, they
staved away in a haughty body, had their larks else-
where, and took most of the usual audience with them.
This time, although they were present to hear the Chan-
cellor make the usual touching observations about the
authority committed to him, there were none of the
aforetime revels. The students sat in a nicely-behaved
little Sunday-school row, and preserved an ominous
silence. They looked too good to be real, and there is a
feeling that they have done something elaborate, which
hasn’t yet transpired, or are going to do something
which will break all records.
Great are the preparations going forward for the
annual Commemoration Day luncheon at Glenelg, on the
Patawalonga Creek, beside Holdfast Bay. The thing
happens every year, on December 28, the day South
Oss was proclaimed a province, somewhere hack in the
dark ages, when Hannibal still rang furiously at the front
door bell of Rome. Don’t forget that I said “ province,
please. If you attempt to call us a colony we shall get
up and have an uncivil war with you. This time, the old
women who arrived here before 1840 are to be included,
and his Ex. will come out of his summer haunt to help in
the speech-making:, and deliver a special message from
Edward VII. to the pioneers and pioneeresses.
Mr. Harry Dalton of the shekels, whose desire to slay
time has sene him on a wild motor chase across the con-
tinent from Adelaide to Port Darwin, has been heard of
beyond Alice Springs, fleeing into the wilds where white
men are not. The most sportive obstacles he has en-
countered so far are the sandhills, about 59 of which
sprang up in a distance of two miles or so. The motor
had to be towed up them by donkeys. What Mr.
Dalton is going to do with Port Darwin, if he gets it, no-
body seems to know. But the chances are that he won’t
get it, and that we’ll see him walking into Adelaide with
the remains of the motor in a carpet bag before very long.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


The most eminent physicians cannot pre-
scribe a better preparation than Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantssd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M«n.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
TEL. 47.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
swr*
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
pis
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
A bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy in the house will save
doctors’ bills.*
This Elastic Truss
ill
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judging by the cable reports the Russian
Imperial Government has just discovered that it
has lost Port Arthur and Moukden. Stoessel is
to be tried for surrendering the former, and
Baron Kaulbars is invited to attend at St. Peters-
burg and explain what he did with Moukden, and
where it is now, anyhow.
“ Snakebite ” writes from the spot :
I saw in a recent
Bulletin (17/10/’O7) a
paragraph re the
Kilmore (Vic.) railway-
accident, which stated
that the guard of the
train was killed. This
is incorrect, He was
uninjured. Anyone
seeing the train smash-
ed to matchwood in
the creek, and only the
guard’s van standing
on the rails would
come to the conclusion
that that officer was
meant to die of old age.
Took a walk last week
from Pvalong to Too-
borac along the rail-
way line, and it is
really in a shocking
condition. Some of
the sleepers are so old
and brittle that you
could smash them with
a blunt hammer into
splinters, and in a
couple of places I found
a sleeper broken where
the rail passed over it,
so that the end was
tilted up in the air.
Also, many of the fish-
plates are quite loose,
with a bolt missing in
some instances. Three
men are supposed to
keep nearly eight miles
of line in good repair.
By the majority this
long length is con-
sidered too much, even
when it is a new line
that is to be kept in
order, but when the
line is old and rotten
the idea is absurd, and
the public is only in-
viting sudden death
by putting up with it.
Meanwhile, Tait shows
a surplus.
The Tory Adelaide Register, which has
been squealing for financial honesty for a long
time, had its own honesty tried the other day, anj|
the result was only moderate. Labor Premier-
Price, though he isn’t too strenuous a no-borrower,
did put down £92,000 in the last Appropriation
Bill for works usually paid for with loan money ;
whereupon the Register howled that it was a
most improper proceeding, that taxation was
something terrible, and that the Register’s
friends, Fat and the Landlord, who own the
Legislative Council, ought to have a chance of
throwing the item out on its nose. As the
Government had tacked it on to an Appro-
priation Bill, Fat couldn’t very well get at it,
wherefore the Register cried in great pain that
the whole thing was “ unconstitooshnal.”
Arthur Morgan, a son of ex-Premier
Morgan, is opposing Grayson for Cunningham
(Q.). Grayson jumped from Philp’s vessel to
Kidston’s; but now he is back on the old derelict.
He represents a farming constituency, and is a
hard man to shift: but all over that district
Morgan is a name to conjure with.
Compulsory arbitration will soon be the
means of settling labor disputes all over the
civilised world. If Lloyd-George had not been
able to avert the threatened English railway strike
by inducing both parties to submit to an arbi-
tration court, the Brit’ f C-vernment intended
to force them into miission by Act of
Parliament.
The Victorian Bible n-schools crowd is
left again. It almost persuaded Premier Bent to
let it have another referendum on the subject,
but when it came to deciding on the form of the
question to be put to the people, Bent was almost
torn in six pieces by conflicting religionists, and
he dropped the Bill to save his life and what re-
mained of his clothes.
A Broken Hill storekeeper the other day
opened a case of imported condensed milk, and
found this note inside:—
X wish the finder of this would remember an old Aus-
tralian and send me a copy of Tiib Bulletin.
If Australia had had high enough Protection that
Australian wouldn’t be putting up foreign milk in
foreign packages to send back to his own country.
With enough Protection Australia would have
supplied itself with its own milk, and the Aus-
tralian would have been able to buy his Bulletin
as he went to work on Thursday morning. The
Broken Hill storekeeper sent on a paper to the
name and address given.
The “ Manufacturers’ Protective Asso-
ciation” at Adelaide and its employees have
held meetings to claim that the duty on agricul-
tural machinery passed by the House of Reps,
under the new tariff is inadequate to allow the
wages ordered by the New Protection to be paid.
If the manufacturers can make out that case,
Parliament should promptly remedy the defect.
Australia wants fair-wage industries. It wants
them alive, not dead, and an industry can’t keep
alive on an unprofitable basis. Some of the agri-
cultural machinery people have in the past rather
spoilt their case by blundering tactics, but that
provides no reason why they shouldn’t have a fair
deal now.
The wiping-out of the duty on kerosene in
tins means a dead loss to Australian workmen of
some £85,000 per annum, that sum representing
the wages that would have to be paid yearly if the
packing and tinning were done in Australia.
Now, £85,000 means the support of over 400
workmen at £4 a week each. With their families
and dependents they would represent, probably,
1200 people. They would support more than
another 1200 in subsidiary trades ; and these 2400
people would supply something like £24,000 a
year to the revenue. And all this population,
wages, and revenue are sacrificed for the fetich of
Cobden and the glory and profit of the bald-headed
Rockefeller.
HER UNFAIR SHARE.
MR. G. SQUID: “I see, my dear , that the men
still preponderate in Australia. There is one
man and a spare portion over for every
woman.”
MRS. S. : “ Yes. Wasn’t it just my wretched
luck to get the spare portion? ”
How Parliamentary methods change !
Nowadays, in S. Aus. especially, the under-secre-
taries and other permanent officials compile most
of the Ministers’ set speeches; the Ministers
merely bring in the typewritten screeds and
stumble through them anyhow. A few years ago
a dozen members would have jumped up to call
the Speaker’s attention to the horrible fact that
the shameless person was reading his speech ; now
nobody takes the smallest notice.
1ST SMALL BOY : “ Bet you a boh I do it.” 2ND SMALL BOY : “Bet you a bob you don’t.”
1ST SMALL BOY : “ But you ain’t got a bob.” 2ND SMALL BOY : “ And you ain’t going to do it.”
The maddest man at the meeting of Philp’s
party in Brisbane, after it was known that there
would have to be a general election, was old John
McMaster. He only just crawled in last time
through the Labor-Kidston split, and now, fearing
there will be no Labor-Kidston split in his
electorate, the ancient feels cold already. All the
warmth he had left he used up in telling Bhilp
what he thought of him for not resigning when
Parliament gave him its emphatic boot.
N.S.W. Arbitration Court award in the
boot trade is a powerful argument for the
Federal control of labor conditions. The Court
considered £2 14s. a fair minimum wage, but
could not award it, as the Victorian rate was
only £2 Bs.; and under inter-State Freetrade con-
ditions the Victorian manufacturer, with cheaper
labor, would be able to unfairly compete with the
N.S. Wales man. So £2 8s was decreed, though
confessedly not an adequate wage.
The Commonwealth Auditor-General has
no proper regard for the feelings of the defrauded,
insulted Ma State. At the tail of his report,
handed to Parliament at the close of the session,
he callously gave particulars of the defaulting
public servants-; but, alas ! instead of those “Vic-
torian wolves ” showing up as the rascals and
robbers that Ma knows they are, it seems that
dear old Ma herself is the worst offender of the
lot. She managed to raise 16 defaulters, who
annexed £lBlB os. 7d. altogether, while the wolf
only provided four, who collared a beggarly £62
17s. Bd.
A new naval power is on its way to the
Pacific. The great Yankee Armada of 18 first-
class battleships and 35 smaller vessels, with 850
big guns and 16,000 men, has left Hampton Roads
to struggle round the Horn and give a broad
hint to Japan. It is a very different Armada from
the weary herd of ships under Rozhdestvensky
which plodded miserably into the same ocean a
while ago; but both Armadas teach Australia the
same lesson—that its isolation is ended, and the
once illimitable distances are no longer a defence.
The doom of N.S.W.’s Great Zig-zag
approaches. It figures in all the pamphlets of
the N.S.W. Tourist Department as one of the
State’s “ great natural resources,” and it is also a
“permanent and reproductive work.” But it is
a costly stumbling block to traffic, and £lOO,OOO of
N.S.W.’s hard-borrowed money is to be spent on
a deviation. The Zig-zag itself was built with
borrowed money, and when it is abandoned, the
loan will still survive. It is a habit that loans
have. The oldest inhabitant isn’t a patch on the
loan for survival.
British War Minister Haldane spoke with
common-sense—and yet, considering the ostrich
policy of Great Britain in this matter, with con-
siderable audacity—when, the other day, he
warned his country that the “ two-Power standard
of naval strength could not be always main-
tained.” That is obvious to the poorest in-
telligence ; 60,000,000 Germans and 80,000,000
Americans (140,000,000 in all), when they are once
roused to a fury of naval ambition, can build a lot
more ships than 44,000,000 British folk can afford
to do. The alternative is the abandonment of
Freetrade and the breaking up of the great
estates, so that Britain can grow its own food and
won’t require a navy twice as big as that of
its next rival to protect its imported food
supplies; and universal military training, so'that
the defeat of the fleet won’t necessarily mean
the end of England. But the Campbell-Banner-
man Government isn’t the crowd to face either
emergency.
“ McClosky ” : And another thing about
the King’s head on the new Australian stamps.
The Southern Cross never dies, nor will the out-
line of our matchless Australia; and the kangaroo
and emu would be good for a hundred years. I’m
Scotch, and I want something that will last—not
a perishable king.
Westralia seems to grow madder as the
years progress, The proposed loan expenditure
this year is well Over £2,000,000 —a trifle of
about £8 for every man, woman, and infant in the
State. And already they owe about £7O each. Yet
the Treasurer says that “ the finances are quite
sound.”
Five times lately has William Wilks,
M.H.R., the infuriated Sydney Freetrader, voted
and hollered for High Protection, and each time
it has been for some industry that has its head-
quarters in his own electorate out Balmain way.
Wilks has an ideal. He would like a tariff wall
100 miles high round his own electorate, and Free-
trade for all the rest of the world. Then the
wealth of the globe would gradually concentrate
in Balmain and Annandale, and their houses
would be malachite, and their streets would be
marble, and in the centre of all this glory would
be a statue of Wilks, 100 ft. high, with the tariff in
one hand and a thunderbolt in the other.
The N.S.W. Assembly, late in the session,
passed almost unanimously a Bill providing for
the construction of a railway from Cooma to
Bombala. But the Upper House had an idea in
its aged and infirm noddle that the railway might
be a convenience to the proposed Australian
capital at Dalgety, and it was all in vain that the
Government representative explained that the
line had been carefully fixed so as to avoid
Dalgety, and that it would do no good to that
hated spot at all, and that the Ministry had been
just as nasty to the Australian Government in
this matter as it knew how. The Cooma-Bombala
Railway Bill went out on its ear by 17 votes to
eight.
“ Vulcan ” : Looks as if a “ Black Thurs-
day” is ahead of N.S.W. Education Department.
The school attendance invariably coincides with
the birth-rate six years previously. Beginning
in ’97, the birth-rate fell steadily and regularly
until ’O3, when the school attendances, reflecting
the beginning of the drop in ’97, began to fall.
This decrease has continued since, and will cul-
minate in ’O9, when, reflecting the birth-rate
minimum of ’O2, the Department expects an at-
tendance of 12,000 less than in ’O4! Just what
will happen the present teachers of the 12,000
who won’t be there in ’O9 is a matter for anxious
speculation.
“ Copper ” : I have stood on the jetty at
a S. Aus. seaport watching copper ingots (pro-
duced at the local smelting works) being shipped
to Europe, India, China, and other countries.
The ingots have been going into one hatch, whilst
sheet copper, telegraph wire, electric cable, and
general copper goods, made in America and
Europe, have been coming out of another. And
this useless dragging of things on and off a ship,
so that foreign shipowners may get the freight
money, and foreign workmen may get the wages,
and foreign manufacturers may get the profit, is
the commerce disease which our Foreign-traders
regard as the source of all true greatness.
THE BUGLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"What are the bugles calling for?” said Someone on
Parade.
“To turn you out; to make you men ! ” —’twas Alfred
Deakin said.
“ Why are these folks a-turnin’ white ? ” said Someone on
Parade.
“ Because they want to shirk a fight ” a passing soldier
said;
"Because they seem to scent at last a deadly day has
come
When ev’ry man, from gilded toff to poorest city scum,
Must hear the call and heed the call of yonder rolling
drum
That tells us we’re a nation in the mornin’.”
“Why is the flag a-wavin’ there?” said Someone on
Parade.
"To show you you must do and dare!” ’twas Alfred
Deakin said.
“ And who are they who murmur low ? ” said Someone on
Parade.
" The men who never face a foe ” a voice in answer said ;
“ The men who think another man should guard them
with a gun ;
The men who raise a cheap ‘Hooray!’ and think their
duty’s done;
The men who only qualify to lift a leg and run
Whene’er the bugle calls them in the mornin’.”
•‘What means this pile of warlike gear?’’said Someone
on Parade.
“It means ‘we’ve got a nation here!”’ a crowd in
answer said.
“Of that what is your guarantee?” said Someone on
Parade.
“Our sons in arms on land and sea” the noble answer
said.
"The fact we’ve dropped our baby talk of help from
other land;
The fact we’ve put our boys afloat to guard their mother
strand ;
The fact we put our single trust in native grit and sand
When the bugles call to battle in the mornin’.”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING'S.
We stock
only* the
Best
Makes,
Italian & American.
The prices
of these popular
instruments are
. iust rig Ht.
yf Free Catalogues yf
Paling^s,
338 George St.
Sydney
71
Bandsmen
*
PALING’S
can supply any instrument
required from a
CORNET
| to a DRUM I
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
****
Paling'*s,
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
Victor
Pianos*
* We
guarantee
the Victor
Pianos to
stand all
climates <&.
to give the
greatest
wear.
You can-
not wish
for a better
guarantee.
Can you?
Sold in 3 Models.
Catalogues Free.
Old Pianos taken
in exchange.
Paling's
338 George St.
Sydney
67
Wear the...
Well-known
PERFECTS SHIRT
Ready to Wear.
In Oxford Materials.
5/6
j . For Everyday Wear it
(Kegd*) cannot be beaten.
Fifty Patterns to
Select from.
!•»*•«•. ((Hir.nn
MELBOURNE
$m F®
m
n.
c®
/r
ft
0\
i m
uumuL
Also the
Celebrated
CESTUS
SHIRT
(Regd.)
For Country Wear. Ready to
Wear, in Ceylon Materials,
5/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
300-310 BOURKE STREET, fIELBOURNE.
We will put £l4/10/0 in the
pocßet of any man
who intends purchasing
a T ypewriter.
We will do this by selling him a machine which has all the features of
the standard makes at less than one-half their price.
See the point ?
HigH-priced machines
Universal keyboard . . .
Prints from moving ribbon
Type-bar machine . .
Adapted for rapid work ........
Various degrees of complicated mechanism .
High quality of work
Carriage action —on some light, on others
cumbersome.
Portability— next to impossible where con-
venience is considered.
Durability—varied ..........
THeir price you Know
THe Briton
So has the Briton.
So does the Briton.
So is the Briton.
Speed unlimited on the Briton.
1200 less parts on the Briton.
Perfectly aligned, clear cut impressions
from the Briton.
Extremely light ball-bearing carriage on
the Briton.
Fewer parts, less weight —Briton can be
carried easily.
One-piece type-bar, fewer parts, longer
life —Briton “ always goes."
Our Price £l2/10/0
You save £l4/10/0
Type.
Key.
A single steel bar for key and type. This simple
device of the key and type is the greatest invention
in Typewriter history, and saves 1200 parts, 15 pounds weight, and about £l4/10/0 cash.
Can you afford to continue writing in the slow, old, tedious way, when you
can write so easily and rapidly with this machine ?
Remember— we carry a stock in each State, and guarantee the
machine to reach you in good order. We pay all freights, and you do not pay
us a penny, unless the machine is fully up to your expectations in every way —
after you have used it free for ten days.
Investigate tHis offer,
Southern Sales, Limited
284 George Street, -Sydney (Box 1700)
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.


The Test match cost the Wolfe’s Schnapps Co.
£ll 18s. 6d., yet the firm, as a firm, does not bet. Simply
the Wolfe’s people decided to give 6d. to each Australian
batsman for every run over 50 scored by him ; also £5 to
the bowler who got the first five wickets, and 10s. to who-
ever caught an Englishman out. Thus Noble scored
catches to the tune of 30s. ; Hazlitt and Armstrong snared
a sovereign’s worth apiece, and Trumper, Carter and
McAlister caught 10s. each—one catch per man. Hill hit
up £llBs. 6d. worth of runs, and Cotter pocketed five
wickets—at one golden quid per wicket. Wolfe’s scheme
mayn’t be cricket, but it’s an excellent one for cricketers,
all the same.*
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
purely vegetable preparation, compounded on a
scientific principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines of children and adults.
They contain specific properties which destroy the
worms, but cause no injury to the stomach or
bowels, and do not weaken the system. The
Pellets are prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell, but on
the contrary inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary lozenge. The symptoms of
the presence of worms are fully explained, and
directions for use in every box. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores, or from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney. Price Is. 6d.
per box (six boxes, Bs.).
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhh & Co. on. each Bottle.
ESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. PESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to Efis Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHEBCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Breweby and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFEKN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Trumper is the champagne of cricket”
(Limerick): —
But a great wine can go flat,
And the keenest eye grow dull-edged.
Trumper fizz is mostly good ;
Last week’s lot was badly ullaged.
N.S.W. 10-2-4.
* * * *
The rain which compelled adjournment during
the afternoon of the fourth day of the Austral-English
test cricket match, was even more pronounced during
the forenoon of Wednesday. Umpires and rival captains
several times walked gravely over the sloppy turf to the
oval’s centre, looked serious, and pondered heavily, and
came back. Then word passed round that a resumption
could not be yet, and Association members lubricated
still further and told of mighty things they had seen and
done in cricket. The 77th test was continued on Thurs-
day, and a big majority of 3500 spectators paid £l2O
just to see the finish, as success for England was
as near certain as anything could be. Cricket-
ing cranks who stayed at home have been kick-
ing themselves hard ever since. Test cricket never
knew a closer finish as far as wickets in hand were
concerned, excepting in London five years ago, when
England won. The question whether the sun would
come out strong and “cake” the wicket, and thus give
the home side completely over to the enemy, worried a
considerable section of Sydney ; but the sun 'kept accom-
modatingly hidden, and the pitch dried slowly and picked
up remarkably. It was either side’s game right to the
moment the winning runs were notched, for anything
might have happened at the eleventh hour. Cotter and
Hazlitt —the last two together—carried all the responsi-
bility, and never staggered under the load once. Cotter’s
tight rein on himself was a revelation, and colt Hazlitt
shaped like a veteran.
Noble’s was an unlucky “out.” At 27 he let.
Barnes’ first delivery just shave the outer edge of the
wicket and the bail’s fall was a second-thought act, as the
ball had gone a noticeable time before. Armstrong’s dis-
missal came when he had 44, huilt up in two hours.
Though there were five fours in the compilation, the bats-
man lacked force. Half the side had gone, leaving the
tail to cope with the situation. Ransford ran up 13, and
then scooped the easiest of catches into Blythe’s hands.
The “ off theory ” was to McAlister as the light
to the moth, despite forcible urgings from the crowd
to “ let ’em alone,” and Crawford’s second ball
displaced the off stump. There were six fours and three
threesin his 41, accumulated in 1 hour 26min. It came
at a ticklish time, through really good play. Little of a
genuinely sticking-up nature could be detected in the
bowling; on the contrary, it was soft, though the
wicket’s condition allowed of possibilities. Trundlers
Blythe, Barnes, and Rhodes failed to do anything near
what might reasonably have been looked for, and what
they did bag was easily gathered. Six had strutted
and fretted for 124, and a seventh saw 185 as he
retraced his steps. Carter supplied the champagne
of the match as far as his innings went; he tacked fours
to the score immediately, and played magnificent cricket
all through. Two hundred appeared in 2hrs. 56min.
Carter had run up 40 in an hour, and had added another
thirteen eleven minutes later. Six minutes further on
he was with the majority of the side—caught by Young,
standing back from Fielder. Carter’s contribution
reached £>l, inclusive of eight fours, and the crowd felt
better. Hazlitt and Cotter had to face the stupendous
(in the circumstances) task of making 56, and proved
equal to it. Each had 26 when, at the tea adjournment,
the total was 260. For long spasms of excitement were fre-
quent, and thousands swayed involuntarily with every
move of the batsmen, and vented roars of relief as each
extra tricky one failed in its mission. The winning hit was
Hazhtt’s. He sent Fielder to leg fence for four ; and the
match, which will be food for pavilion talk and newspaper
reference for many years, ended. Australia’s advantage
was two wickets and two runs. Evidence of the thorough-
ness of Cotter’s stonewalling is that he was there lhr. 6m.
for 33 runs, and only one four appeared in the list. In
39 minutes Hazlitt made 34 runs, of which six were fours.
* * * *
Hazlitt, who, with Cotter, was the hero of Aus-
tralia’s cricket victory last week—-the first time for many
years that Australia has won an opening test match in
Sydney—is only 19 years of age, and yet he is not the
youngest Australian player that has figured in a similar
engagement. When T. W. Garrett fought for his country
against the invading Lilywhite combination, 30 years
ago, he was just ISJ.
* * * *
George Gunn, who figured so prominently in
recent test match, must not be confused with William
Gunn, one of a British team in Australia years ago. The
Gunn that played such havoc with Australia’s forces last
week is a nephew of the obsolete Gunn.
* * « *
“Ancient”: Old-time cricket team manager
Charlie Beale says the finish of last week’s test recalled
that in England in 1882, when Australia won by seven
runs.. The struggle was so intensely exciting that a man
dropped dead, scoring card and pencil in hand, and a bet
of £lOO to 1 was laid against Australia. The Britishers
were at the wickets, and seven of them had to get 19, but
they only made 12.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” : The batting of poor Gunn, the
invalid, in the First Test, suggests that the next
Australian Eleven to go to the country that
lends us money should be selected by a com-
mittee of medical men on account of their delicate
health. The English team included 14 robust members
and Gunn, who came out for the voyage and the rest, and
was understood to be chiefly interested in taking care of
himself. As soon as they got to Australia the able-
bodied men started to play themselves into “form,”
whilst Gunn seemingly continued to play for safety, with
brilliant success. By the time the Test match came due,
the English captain was lying in the hospital at Brisbane,
and two professionals—Hobbes and Hayes—were so
obviously out of “ form ” that the deputy-captain brought
the sick Gunn into action. His batting average for the
two innings was 96, the second best average being
Hardstaff’s 37. If Gunn retains his weak state of health
until the next Test, and Captain Jones crawls out of
hospital to take part in it, and the others put themselves
in the doctors’ hands, the Englishmen should be favorites
at 6 to 4 on.
* * * *
Fane, the acting captain for the Englishmen,
was unlucky in his selection of amateur Young in prefer-
ence to professional Humphries for the wicket-keeping
billet. According to the English averages for last season,
Young is a vastly better batsman than Humphries, but in
the Test he failed very badly. The other three amateurs
failed less badly.
Judged by the figures to their credit in the Cold
Country, the most dangerous men in the visiting team
are Hobbes and Hayes with the bat, and Blythe and
Rhodes with the hall. Australian facts have belied Eng-
lish figures thus far. Figures, in fact, are not “ form.”
* * * *
After all the talk about the fine influence of
athletic sport in knocking out the stupid tuft-hunting
business, note how we grovel to anything that can be
even remotely suspected of owning a title. First there
was “Prince” Ranji, who was no more “prince ” than
Joe Darling is—he was merely the adopted heir of a petty
Indian rajah, who is again merely a big landowner, like
Joe Darling’s father was. Now there come the Fijians,
and it is “ Prince liadavu will be captain,” and “Prince”
Somebody did something at silly point; and, after all,
they are at most “ Ratu,” which means chief of a tribe,
all the same as our own “ King ” Billy of Bungaroo.
Frjis braves encountered N.S.W.’s military-
cricket champions last week on their own battle ground
at Victoria Barracks, and completely routed the enemy
in short order (140 to 72). The result was mainly
through Ratu Pope’s bowling ; eight wickets fell to him
for 24, and he also topped all scores of the match with 47
—including a remarkable “sixer.” At Wollongong, a
day or two previously, Ratu accounted for a ' similar
number of batsmen.
* * * *
“Stumps”: Apropos bowling averages. How’s
this for a record? In the Western Suburbs (Sydney)
Church Association matches, left-handed Duncan Middle-
ton. for St. Peter’s, opposed to Lewisham, the other day,
scattered nine wickets, all for “ducks,” in the initial
innings, and got five down in the next innings for 14. As
neither of the first two in the second innings produced a
run, Middleton had. 11 consecutive wickets to his credit
for nil. How is that for muscular Christianity?
***■*'
The decision of the Victorian State school cricket
premierships, last week, saw some remarkable bowling.
For St, Hilda against Prahran, Annisch bagged seven
wickets for nine and five for four. Eicke got two for two
and five for three, and Prahran trundler Turner got five
for 19. North v. South Williamstown match witnessed
something almost as remarkable. For North, Box’s record
was six for seven and three for six ; and Mitchell’s four
for five and five for three. In South’s interests Glad-
stone secured five for 11 and three for three, and Arnold
five for nine and six for 15. South Yarra’s defeat of
Elsternwick by an innings and 14 runs was brought about
mainly through Bishop’s nine for 12 and Sloggett’s eight
for nine. Sloggett is a good namefor the fellow who puts
up such a performance.
* * * *
Sydney Prince Alfred Hospital match last
week supplied something extra in bowling. Dr. C. V.
Bowker, opposed to a good batting combination, gathered
six wickets for 13.
Sydney Grammar School boys defeated Mel-
bourne 0. of E. Grammar School in the annual inter-
state schools’ match, after a vigorous game. The Sydney’
boy’s scored only 148 in the fii'st innings, to which Mel-
bourne answered with 225 (Lowers 106). Then the Sydney
boys waded in, and piled up 464 (Gregg 180, and Green
75), and Melbourne, with 388 to win, put up a big effort
with 359. Melbourne’s crack schoolboy’ (Lewers) scored
106 and 98 ; and the Sydney boy’s are principally thankful
to Barbour for a fine bowling performance of six wickets
for 42 runs.
W. Whittv, chosen in the second-rate N.S.W.
team v. Queensland, is a left-hand bowler of good style
and promise, and seems likely to make a mark in bigger
cricket. It is stated that he is in a list of promising
Australian players who are likely to be offered a trip with
the returning Englishmen to qualify for an English
county team.
* * * •
The A. J.C. meeting at Kandwick on Saturday
supplied no great contribution to the gaiety of nations.
The Trial Handicap was won by the favorite Rose Linnet,
on whom the lavish Christian Moses laid 3 to 1
-—and there were 14 starters. This lavishness on
the part of Moses will yet be his undoing. About
here the luck of the punters left off." In the
Villiers Stakes 14 also started, and the public planked its
scanty winnings on Garches. Patrick Aarons, broken-
hearted at his paying out, only offered 6 to 4
against Garches. All the public got for its money
was an enquiry into the running of the animal,
and even that was explained satisfactorily.
The reason why the 6 to 4 beast wasn’t placed, and
perished miserably away at the back part of events, was
simply, it seems, that the other horses ran faster than
it did. Kyeadgerie, a friendless moke on which
12 or 15 or 20 to 1 was going begging, came in
first; the 10 to 1 Luciana was second, and
Banzai (8 to 1) was third. For the Nursery Handicap (14
starters again) two animals (Safrano and Vervain) went
out at 3 to I—any honest tote would probably have made
them 10 to I—and the fact that Safrano was an indifferent
third was the only reward the punters got. Little Lad, a 10
to 1 show, after running well all the way, gathered in the
prize with comparative ease. For the Grand Stand
Stakes things were a shade better. Gaby (5 to 2)
only got third place; but Artful, the winner, had at
least the credit of being second favorite at 3 to
1. For the Holiday Handicap there were once
more 14 starters, and Alexander Solomons, the bookie,
had the front to reckon 5 to 4 against Royal Star a fair
thing. That constellation came in a poor second, and
the 6 to 1 Electron won easily. Finally there were a
dozen starters in the High-Weight Handicap, and
Karanaud, which didn’t even get a place, went out at 2
to 1.. Goldlock, which made a worse attempt than
Karanaud at getting a place, left the post on a 3 to 1
basis.' Neith, asto 1 show, took the prize. As an essay
on the folly of trying to pick winners it was a great day.
* * * *
There is some trouble between Victorian and
N.S.W. bowlers over the length of a bowling green. In
N.S.W. the turf is 120 ft. long, while in Victoria it runs
to 165 ft. N.S.W. says: “Make your greens shorter.”
Victoria says : “ Get a little more muscle and plug your
bowls a bit further.” N.S.W. says there is no scientific
play in long heads, and Victoria says there is too much
fireworks in short heads. Once before, on a very hot
night, delegates from N.S.W. met delegates from Victoria
to discuss this question, but one of the Victorian repre-
sentatives talked so long and rang the bell so often that
after an hour or two nobod}’ knew whether it was long
sleevers or long greens or short heads or short whiskies
and sodas they were discussing.
* * *
The latest billiard foolishness in London is an
eight-sided table. Weiss, who seems to pick up any new
idea quicker than his rivals, promptly beat Peall on it,
easily and twice, as he beat Roberts on the oval table.
After an interval for rest and reflection, pro-
moters of the slogging game pulled off another match in
Melbourne last week, when Ruenalf, the Maori showman,
and Alf Russell, the Sydneyside heavyweight, faced each
other in the Athletic Club’s room. It was little more
than a stoushing match, in which Ruenalf was the un-
grateful recipient or beneficiary. The Maori used to
look something like a fighter, but on this oc-
casion he resembled the has-been who never was,
and showed up very poorly indeed against Russell,
who, although a big, strong, hefty lad, is as
slow as a god with feet of clay, and couldn’t get
out after a ton of lard on a cold day. The scrap went
eight rounds ; then the much-damaged Ruenalf knocked
off suddenly, having recollected something to say.
Ruenalf, with the true showman’s instinct, would stop in
the middle of a burning house to make a speech. His
oration was something to the effect that Russell had
beaten him fairly, but it wouldn’t have happened so if
things had been entirely different, or if something had
been otherwise.
* * * *
N.S.W.’s quest for a pug heavyweight to fill
the space left by the passing of Peter Jackson, Bob Fitz-
simmons, Paddy Slavin, and Joe Goddard has attracted
considerable good material, but there’s no one—no Peter
Jackson or Larry Foley (the latter is apparently out of the
teaching business)—to mould it into shape. At least
eight men, physically and in other essentials thoroughly
equipped but lamentably short of skill, are offering-, and
will be tried out by promoters, and the fun enjoyed by
their patrons. Nothing excites or amuses so much as a
mill between grimly determined big ’prentice men.
• * * *
Manilla (N.S.W.) plate-layer, Jack Ross, and
Cobar (N.S.W.) shearer, George Stirling, figured in a wild
whirl at Sydney Gaiety A.O. Tuesday last week. More
clash and bump occurred during their three rounds than
is seen in some allegedly stirring 20-rounds battles. Each
of two strong gritty men did all he could to out-thump the
other. Blows, fiercely hurled, made big holes in the
atmosphere, and frequently brought the deliverer into
collision with posts and ropes, when great entangle-
ments occurred. While cool, Stirling had a decided
advantage ; but when something extra vimful from the
other side fired him up, one was as good as the other, and
the affair then became a mad skurry. By-and-bye Stirling
completely outforced the man from Manilla, and a couple
blows placed him beyond rising (try how he
mi Sht;, till too late. Stirling- now aspires to fight Felix
or Sid Russell, a jump to the top—though it is a poor
top—that caterers do not approve. They want Stirling
to step over the bodies of the other novice heavies first—
if he can.
* * * *
Bill bquires is being patched up in an American
hospital through an attack of rheumatism, and generally
his luck is out.
* * * •*
Curl’ : Disagree with “Billy” Jordan, who
says there are only four punches any real good to a fight-
ing-man (B. 5/12/’O7). Of course the straight left is not an
actual knock-out blow, but a well-delivered one of that
sort has helped to settle many an argument, professional
and amateur. I should put it second on the list.
* * * *
A dreadful, dreary thing is to begin to happen
at Sydney on December 30. On that date, at Sydney
Tivoli, Tom Burrows, the champion club-swinger of the
world, commences an attempt to wave two pieces of
wood, without stopping, for 61 hours and 20 minutes.
And when he leaves off he won’t have even torn the
atmosphere ; the places where he split it with his imple-
ments will have healed up.
* * * *
A one-legged cycle championship figures on the
programme of the Christchurch (M.L.) cycling club’s
Anniversary Day meeting. Somehow the one-legged
seem to take particular delight in riding the wobbly
wheel. For two years past a Sydney High School boy
of this variety has shone in the wheel-races at the annual
school sports. At an Adelaide meeting, too, a while ago,
three one-leg riders foregathered, and Broken Hill has a
seasoned one-legged cycling competitor.
* * * *
The latest development of the Dunlop Pneu-
matic Co. is the detachable motor rim, which will do away
with a whole sea of trouble for the wandering motorist.
The new perfected detachable rim is simplicity itself,
and is so easily manipulated that a complete cover tube
and rim have been taken off and put on seven times in
one minute. This means that the spare tyres will be
carried ready inflated on their rims, and when the
puncture occurs, the tyre in use can be replaced by a
spare one in much less than half a minute. The device is
so simple as to be almost fool-proof, and so perfectly
secure under all conditions that it is practically safe
to hazard the prophecy that in 12 months’ time there
won’t be a car running without it.
* * * *
The saucer cycling track at Prince’s Court
(Melb.) has smashed all records thereabouts in quick
construction ; three weeks from the beginning of the
work saw wheelists taking the side-of-a-house-like bank.
As a saucer it has been misnamed; in the way of
crockery it resembles a gigantic pie-dish with the long
sides depressed. The real saucer was presented by the
Lottos, whom Geo. Musgrove imported years ago. The
pie-disb is a sample of what the Australian workman can
do, and is voted by the knowing ones as ahead of any-
thing else on earth. If the dish doesn’t knock ’em—well,
novelties are a drug in the Australian market, or the
smell of cycling schemes has overpowered the public.
* * * *
“0.K.”: After long years I renewed my old
acquaintance with Melbourne Cricket Club ground as a
show place for bike-racing— i.e., a “pitch” for the
Austral Meeting. Came to the conclusion that the place
is all right, and the show is even weaker than the times
when Bill Martin and Co. had something of the bloom of
novelty upon them. The stage management Was ama-
teurish then. It is amateurish now. One pays 6d. for a
racebook to get an idea of what is going on, but the
book is of little assistance to a casual reader, for the reason
that the riders, or rather their bikes, are not numbered on
a reasonable plan. You find that, peril ips, the scratch
man in the first heat of a handicap race ' - numbered 999,
and the limit man is No. 3, and when t o final heat is
arrived at the scoring, which is the only source of infor-
mation re the identity of the starters, presents a jumbled
array of numbers something like thi5—9925617893420, the
punctuation being fitful and bewildering. The village
idiot at an English rural cricket match could
rig up a better scoring board. Moreover, the
board is not even readable, as a rule, by the
people in the M.C.G. members’ stand. The members
are “deadheads,” and the M.B.C. naturally orders the
board’s broadsides to be turned almost always towards
the paying public in the grand stand ; but this arrange-
ment comes rough upon a number of shilling people who
face the smokers’ pavilion from (he opposite side of the
ground. Apart from the crudity and two-sided policy of
the “revolving” scoring board, the old conservative
system of numbering the competitors before the heats
are drawn is a positive grievance. Competitors for each
handicap should be numbered in rotation. If 100 riders
are portioned off into 10 heats of 10, the scratch
man of the first heat should be No. 1, and the
limit man of the 10th heat should carry No. 100
at the rear of his machine. And in the case
of the Austral where all the heats are run
off on the first day, and only the final is left for the last
day, the competitors should be numbered from 1 to 14 on
the programme, so that the audience could tell at a
glance how the men were going, according to their han-
dicap terms. In short, a bicycle race card should be as
intelligible as a horse-race card, and the cards fastened to
the riders or their vehicles should be given to them
before every race, as numbered saddle-cloths are given to
jockeys. After 15 years’ experience of the show business,
the biking managers have not yet learned the simplest
method of numbering the competitors! And in the
matter of engaging a number of little girls to release a
lot of little pigeons from hampers, the M.B.C. has a lot
to learn.
* * * *
Sculler Dick Arnst has left for his home in
Maoriland in a very bad mood. Less than 12 months ago
Arnst was a raw sculler, with a stout heart and big inten-
tions of some day becoming a world’s champion. The
Maorilander has beaten the best Australians in handicaps,
and thereby completely scared away all chances of a side-
wager contest, and is about the most respected and the
most unemployed athlete in the country. However, Arnst
intends to be on hand to challenge the winner of the race
between Webb and Tresidder, and he deserves a match
for his persistency.
* * * *
When woman’s back is up she gives no quarter.
The recently-formed N.S.W. Ladies’ Amateur Swimming
Association came down heavily on four of its members and
disqualified them for twelve months because, though
completely costumed, they showed before men. Said
men were the bath-keeper, a journalist, and a photo-
grapher—the last engaged in taking pictures for a Syd-
ney weekly. Sinful as this “ offence ” was rated, Thf.
Bulletin is curious to know how much more heinous
is that of the large number of the disqualified ones’ sister-
members, who go down to beaches and bathe among
and before hundreds of the other sex. The woman,
surf swimmer is often far more scantily clad than thP
bath performer, whose upper attire covers all that the
theatre lady leaves exposed without a blush.
*** * -
The 220 yd. breast swimming championship
of N.S.W., at Pyrmont Club Carnival Wednesday night
last week, provided a high-strung finish. Ten yards from
the end the young South Sea Islander, Alick Wickham,
seemed to own the title, but there G. Snell (Mosman) and
1. Cantor (East Sydney) brought every ounce into service.
Keck and neck the trio travelled, and, just as Cantor was
stretching to touch, Wickham and Snell made the
necessary contact. The judges placed Snell 1, Wickham
2, and Cantor 3. As the winner's time was 3min.
44 2-ssec. possibly all three got within standard—3.4s.
* * * *
The surprise of N.S.W. swimming so far this
season was Dick Cavill’s successful cut at the world’s
hundred” professional record (61 l-ssec.) in Pyrmont
(Sydney) baths Wednesday night last. Curiosity as to
how much of his once high-class form Dick had retained
after years of compulsory (through becoming a pro-
fessional) abstention from racing, prompted consider-
able interest; but only those who knew were prepared
for what happened. Swimming strongly all the way,
Cavill accomplished his task, beating the figures assailed
by J sec *» and, but for faulty turning, he would un-
doubtedly have broken the minute, which no other swim-
mer knovn to the world—bar record-holder E. M. Daniels
(America and his great rival Cecil Healy (N.S.W.)—
be relied upon to do to-day. Amateurism deplores
Dick Cavill s “ going over ” ; so fine an all-round swimmer
is badly needed in Australia just now.
* * ■* *
“ Hootan,” writing with the last sniff of the de-
parting motor in his nostrils: Motorists Dutton and
Aunger, who are trying to get through to Port Darwin
from Adelaide, will have a pretty easy go as far as Ma-
cumba (one of Kidman’s stations, 35 miles out from
Oodnadatta), but just there they will strike their first pint
of trouble. They will have five miles of sand to go on
with. Then almost to Old Grown Point station, 35
miles north of Charlotte Waters, the going is pretty
good, except for gibbers. The worst patch is
between Plamilton borejon the Stevenson) and Blood’s
Creek, with a further bad three miles on the Adminga
River. To get off the beaten track would be to court
disaster, as the surface is gibber-strewn for miles, while
to stick to the track, which consists of two parallel gut-
ters, spoke-deep, may mean wrecking the under gear.
Nearing Old Crown Point station the motor will have to
face a mile of sand in the Finke River. At Horse Shoe
Bend the Finke has to be re-crossed. There is a mile of
sand again, and an awful mile it is. Then, after two miles,
the Depbt Sand-hills are reached, and they furnish 12
miles of the worst track in Australia. The sand is of the
hour-glass variety, and the wheels of coach or waggon
sink nearly nave-deep into it. The undergear
will plough this and, I believe, it will effectually
bog the chariot. The northern face of these ridges
is invariably precipitous, and so sudden is the
dip that the gear must bog itself in the crest. This
sand on a still day floats buggy-high. Leaving Depot
Well, the road crosses the Hugh River six times in 12
miles—moresand. Then, after a few mixed patches, comes
a villainous stretch; from the crest of each successive ridge
of sand (the ridges are about a mile and a half apart)
the heart-sick traveller can sight another crest,
and over these hills of horror the line of telegraph
poles stretches without a turn for more than 40 miles.
Then comes a good run of 12 miles to near Heavitree Gap
(Todd River), and you can rest in Alice Springs gaol, two
miles south of the township (Stuart); two miles further
north again is Alice Springs Telegraph Station. The sand
here is as fine as flour, and lies knee deep at most times.
The Mac Donnell Ranges follow—gibberv, but not im-
passable ; and after that—if there is any after that—a
comparatively easy task is before the motormen.
* » * *
Died t’other day the once famous Maoriland
footballer, Alf Bayley, who skippered a team in Australia
during the late ’nineties. ’Twas said that poor Baylev
never really recovered from the shock of Barney Armit’s
death, the result of a palpably unfortunate accident
caused through Bayley tackling. Bayley was one of a
M. family rich in brilliant exponents of Rugby. He
had seen 41 years.
* * * *
Died, last week, aged only 21, John L. Ground-
water, one of the best Rugby footballers N.S.W. has
turned out for many years. Groundwater, who was a
medical student at Sydney University, represented
N. against the Maoriland team, and also against
Queensland, last season.


n ARE
YOU
DEAF
OR
GOING
rc qc
OR IS IT HEAD HOISES OR RINGING IN THE EARS ?
When pondering’ over the presents you are going to buy, and while thinking and wondering how
much money you are going to spend on perishable Christmas presents, stop and realise NATURE’S
GREATEST GIFT OF ALL—“ THE SENSE OF SOUND ’’—the sense that binds us with hooks of steel
to our fellows —the sense that means EVERYTHING to us.
In many instances the loss of hearing is a gradual and painless process. No pronounced warning of
the awful affliction is given you. At other times the evidences are extremely acute. Shooting pains,
dizziness, buzzing, ringing, and noises or discharge in the ears all testify to the dangerous condition of
your ears. Do you suffer this way ?
Think what it means to be deaf. To live for ever in a tomb of silence is an awful affliction. The
voices of friends, the melody, the intercourse of life will be yours no longer. Why not accept our offer
to be cured—permanently cured right at your own home without any interference to daily work ?
It makes no difference what stage you are in or the cause of your affliction. There is a sure hope
for every unfortunate sufferer.
READ THESE UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS,
and please note that we could easily fill the whole of this paper with others equally strong in their
recommendation of the Earoscope.
REV. H. GAINFORD, of Adelaide, writes: —“ The ‘ EAROSCOPE ’ wrought a marvellous change in
my hearing. I feel it my duty to recommend it to anyone suffering from deafness in whatever stage it
may be.”
NURSE STUART, of 62 Bondi-road, Waverley, N.S.W., writes : —“I am happy to tell you that I am
completely cured from my deafness and distressing head noises. I hope all unfortunate victims will be
fortunate enough to hear of your wonderful treatment.”
W. P. J. MOONEY, Esq., of Gympie (Q.), writes :—“ Your treatment is a God-send to poor suffer-
ing humanity.”
( MRS. JAS. ORAM, “ Maudville,” Blandford, N.S.W., writes:—“We shall certainly recommend your
‘EAROSCOPE.’ It is the most wonderful invention we ever saw. It did Mr. Oram so much good n
such a short time.”
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER, writes: —“ For the last twenty-five years I have been paying heavy
doctors’bills until they proclaimed my Deafness and Head Noises entirely incurable. I have now used
your treatment for three weeks, and am simply delighted with it.”
JAMES THOMAS, Esq., Yeulba (Q.), writes :—“ After three weeks’ application of the ‘EAROSCOPE,’
the noises in my head have nearly all stopped.”
H. E. GARLAND, Esq., Craven Creek, N.S.W., writes :—“I am highly pleased with the treatment,
lor twelve months before I got the ‘ EAROSCOPE’ I never had one night’s rest.”
W. J. JACOBS, Esq., Stanthorpe (Q.), writes: —•“I herewith gratefully wish to inform you that I
have regained my hearing with the ‘EAROSCOPE.’ I may state the right ear was totally deaf.
Two weeks ago my hearing came as a glad surprise to me.”
E. 0. ROESLER, Esq., Mt. Molloy (Q.), writes :—“ I wish to inform you that after a few treatments
of your EAROSCOPE ’I am relieved of the noises in my head, and can hear much better.”
If you are afflicted with Deafness, Head-Noises, Ringing in the Ears, Discharging Ears, or anv other
Aural Complication and desire a complete and permanent cure, write to the EAROSCOPE
LtwTLT.y,T E ,f Dept - 26), 90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W., for the “EAROSCOPE
REVIEW, fully describing-an entirely new self-applied method, which will be sent to you GRATIS
on mentioning this paper. ———
NEW YEAR GIFTS" 1
For DISCRIMINATING BUYERS
Let the Gift be useful, then it’s
goiod. ’ The Selections at W. E.
Smith’s are the kind of articles
you would be pleased to receive,
and satisfied to give your best
friend. Considering the quali-
ties, the prices are exceedingly
moderate. Your inspection is
invited.
Newest Shapes and Colors in
Ladies’ Leather Bags and Purses*
Travelling Sets, Desks, Leather
Writing Cases, Fountain Pens, and
Office Accessories.
Headquarters for Unique New
Year Gifts, Cards, Art Calendars,
Post Cards, and Greeting Cards.
W. E. SMITH,
SBESR Wholesale Manufacturing- Stationer, is^iagj
Printer and Account Book Maker, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY, and at Newcastle and London.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
A REMARKABLE) OFFER
COMPLEXION GLOVE
GIVEN AWAY
23
«=>•
'T'HE Complexion Glove i«the
most effective means ever
devised for clearing the skin
from Blackheads, Pimples,
Discolorations, and other blem-
ishes: it smoothes out Wrinkles
and restores the Softness and
Freshness of Youth. Easy and
pleasant of application and
certain in its results.
It is the common-sense way
of improving the complexion.
The benefit is clearly apparent
the very first time it is used. SPECIAL
OFFER.— To make our Liquid Face
Powder generally known, we have
decided to give one of these
Complexion Gloves to every new customer.
The summer is here, and ladies who are careful of their ap-
pearance should use our Complexene. It preserves the
skin, and removes all traces of sunburn and any roughness
.caused by the heat or wind. It keeps the face delicate and
produces that velvety softness and
beauty so generally admired. One trial will satisfy you
that this Toilet Preparation is the very article
you have long desired. It is made in three
tints—Pearl, Pink and Cream. Please mention which you
desire. The price is only 2s. 6d., including postage (securely
packed from observation) to any address in the world, with
full printed directions for use.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
SALISBURY. —If Edward John Swanwick
Salisbury who was last heard of at Blackall
(Q.) in 1888 will communicate with Messrs.
MORRIS & FLETCHER, Solicitors, Brisbane, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
Prismatic
Binoculars.
Dollond’s Patent Pris-
matic Binoculars are the
finest possible examples
of the British Optical
Industry, and although
they embody many im-
provements, they are
less costly than Conti-
nental makes.
They are damp and dust
proof, and can be
cleaned inside in the
quickest and easiest
manner imaginable.
S
They possess great
depth of focus, and a
surprisingly clear defi-
nition—are very rigid,
and are made of the
finest possible materials.
PRICE £7.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FREE.
OSBORN & JERDAN LTD.,
Agents for Dollond’s, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
Consulting Opticians and Apertacle Makers,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Makes you look manly
CAPILLARINE Never Fails.
If you have not used Capillarine you cannot know how
sure it is in the production of a Moustache.
It was the first preparation of its kind in Australia more
than 20 years ago, and is still the best.
If you want to grow a Moustache—there’s ONE thing
that will do it for you, and that is CAPILLARINE.
POBT FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKENt 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established
25 Years.
*iUGELMANN\S
%
m
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid*"
ZT FREE
j SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Fore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. Ci KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Pkinces Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d, EACH.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
When the Harvest Days Are Over—Stop
Yer Tickling Jock —Blue Bell—Walking
Home With Angeline—Little Boy Called Taps—In the Shade
of the Old Apple Tree—Keep a Little Cosy Corner—Hear the
Pipers Calling—Singer Was Irish—Waiting at the Church-
Starlight—We Parted on the Shore—Somebody’s Sweetheart—
Teasing—I was Shaving Myself at the Time—For Old Time’s
Sake—I Wouldn’t Leave My Little Wooden Hut—Just a Little
Rocking Chair—Miner’s Dream—My Irish Molly—Navaho—
Cheyenne—What a Mouth—We All Walked into the Shop—
Etc. Our big lists and Illustrated Novelty Catalogue ported free.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
“Wusslean”: Isn’t it ever the 24th of
December —and Christmas Eve—anywhere but in
England ? That exiled child of the Family
Hebald, the Austbalian Jouenal, publishes a
Christmas number, and almost all its fearsome
yarns begin with the eve of Christmas, and the
bitter north wind beats its load of sleet and snow
mercilessly down upon the brave old manor, while
inside the Yule log burns merrily, etc. Can’t it
be for once in an Australian Journal the “eve
of Christmas” or at least the 24th December
somewhere else, and can’t it be 104° in the shade,
and very little shade; and can’t the north wind
pile its dust mercilessly against the brave old
wire-fence on the road to God-forgotten which
lies near the Devil on the by-way to Dry-bones
and Insolvency ?
It is seriously proposed to disturb the
bones of long-dead Governor Phillip, and bring
them to Australia to be planted under his statue
in Sydney Botanic Gardens. If there were any
hope of the proceedings involving the utter de-
struction of the statue, the otherwise senseless
proposal would deserve support. The Phillip
monument was among Henry Parkes’ jobs; it
was perpetrated by the late Simonetti, and is one
of the ugliest bits of statuary planted on one of
the fairest spots in Australia.
m
9
<8
*st
s
$5
&
£
y*
JTS
«
$
i,»"
DUNLOPS
Again Triumphant
Victorian “ Sealed Bonnet ”
Reliability Contest.
“ DUNLOP ” TYRES WIN ALL THE PRIZES.
Hill Climb Won on “ DUNLOPS.”
Speed Test Won on “ DUNLOPS.”
Most Meritorious Performance
Won on “ DUNLOPS.”
FASTEST SPEED on “ DUNLOPS.”
(At Rate of 68 Miles per hour)
And all Contestants who used these reliable
and speedy tyres are loud in their praise
of their great wearing qualities; in fact,
most of the
DUNLOP
Motor Tyres
CAME THROUGH WITHOUT A SCRATCH.
Full particulars of these wonderful tyres in our
artistic booklet, “All About Dunlop Motor Tyres.
Posted on Application to
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
108 FLINDERS ST., MELB.
ALL STATES and N.Z.


OPEN
PACE.
15/.
higher
grade.
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High-grade Black Open-
face Keyless WATCHES, short wind,
jewelled movement.
15/.
Higher grade, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
All guaranteed.
YULE-TIDE SOUVENIRS
Everyone at Xmas time is anxious to give their loved ones Handsome Xmas Presents.
Below we illustrate some Helpful Gift Suggestions.
A. SAUNDERS!
9-ct. Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS,
127 6
15-ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold
Forget-me-not
Spray Heart
CHARM,
10A
a
MW
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Crescent BROOCH, set Fine White
Pearls,
£5/10/-
Size larger, £7/10/.
«5T
m
1
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Half-round BRACELET, handsomely
Chased, 35/•
Larger 40/, Smaller 25/, 30/,
A. SAUNDERt
N.Z. Grenstone PENDANT,
9-et. Gold Mounted,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Korg'et-me-Not Heart
and Spray BROOCH,
10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
32/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Spray and Cluster
BROOCH.
Set Fine White Pearls, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold SCARIIPIN,
Pure Pearls and Diamond,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Dress RING,
set Pearls and Rabies or
Sapphires.
15-ct. Gold, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-et. Gold Set Five
Fine Opals,
£2/10/.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies
Sapphires, *-
£4/10/.
Three Diamonds, £5/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
20 1.
HIGHER
GRADE.
as/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES non-
magnetic, fully jewelled, dust and \vatei
proof cases,
207.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/.
Cheaper Grades, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapnhires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold. Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO-
- Centre, £l2/10/.
SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set Garnet, Opal,
or Amethyst,
25/-
15-ct. Gold, i 2.
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/.
OUR XMAS
CATALOGUE
We send Post Free to any address.
Write for a Copy. All Goods sent
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Bar and Heart
BROOCH,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
set Red or Blue Stones,
8/6.
IS
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Bird and Floral Spray Bar
BROOCH,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
Set fine Pearls and Amethysts,
£4.
>-ct. Gold, £5/10/; Pearls and Tourmalines,
£6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires.
£2/10/-
3 Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Bird and Floral Spray BROOI 11,
Set Fine White Pearls,
£2/13/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Fine Opal,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” BROOCH,
Set Fine White Pearls,
£4.
. SAUNDERS.
?-ct. Gold
Dinna Forget
CHARM.
10/.
Larger, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield LINKS.
21/.
15-ct. Gold, £2;
Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/.
SOLID
GOLD.
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting: Key-
less WATCHES, fully jewelled,
richly-chased cases, \&SJ.
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/; Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4,10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/, to £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-mounted GlaSs
HATPIN,
Red, Blue, or Green
2/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BKOOCII, set line Wuite
Pearls, £J>-
Diamond Centre, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, £li/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. 3-Bar Scroll and Buckle
BROOCH,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Geld 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Ruby or Sapphire,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Pearls,
22/0.
3"V
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar i BROOCH,
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-et. Gold, Diamonds and
Set Fine White Pearls,
Opals,
£4/10-
A. SAUNDERS.
18-et. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
*B/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£»•
15-ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PIN and
CHARM,
5/6-
Laxger, 7/6. Silver, 2/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Set Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£3O-
- SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Nugget RING,
35/.
15-ct. Gold £2.
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
£3.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10A
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Itevless
WATCHES, f-plate, fully jewelled, compen-
sation balance, £2-
Higher grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/.
Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £4O.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station. Svdnev. N.S.W.


h
C
X
)/1
mi
} i-
I
i
:
■
■I
W»
'".Vi
■« ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii B 8 ii nsa ii n h Si IS h
is ii linn ii ii
if <@ «* • » mu mm mm mm mm
ii ii iiiiii nil
IS IS SSSSiiii Si
laiimißiiiiiiii
SliiiiiSSiiiiiiii
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
si ii ii ii n ii ii ii ig n H gun n it M ii H
G
to
O
o
o
H
Melbourne,
Sydney, ®
All States.


Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
GREAT SUCCESS of MR. JULIUS KNIGHT, supported
by MISS OLA* HUMPHREY, and J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY, in the Famous Romantic Play,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL.
MATINEE PERFORMANCES ONLY Every Afternoon
at 2 of the Musical Dream Play,
BLUE BELL IN FAIRYLAND.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of the ever-welcome and
popular organisation,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In their Latest and Greatest Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Edwin Geach.
EVERY EVENING. PRONOUNCED SUCCESS of
FRANK THORNTON
AND HIS NEW LONDON COMPANY
IN
WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD.
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
BOXING NIGHT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26,
PANTOMIMuf CINDERELLA.'
WILLIAM ANDERSON and JOHN F. SHERIDAN have
combined to give Sydney playgoers a Mammoth Organisa-
tion, comprising 161 Capable Artists, Comedians, Vocalists
and Dancers, presenting the Favorite of all Fairy Legends.
POPULAR PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, and ONE SHILLING.
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Booking Fee, Is.
A R
U M, SYDNEY.
Mr. T. J. WEST.
*T H E G L AC
■ Lessee
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30
Re-opening of the Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ’’)
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises ii
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d, to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
MARTIN HENDERSON, the Blind Musician, the
World’s Leading Concertina Soloist.
THE FOUR EUGENES, The Incomparable and Perfect
Aerial Gymnasts.
Last NIGHTS of PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
LA SYLPIIE, London’s Greatest Lady Dancer.
CLARENCE TISDALE. ; ERNEST PITCHER.
URBAN BIOSCOPE, showing Weiss v. Roberts
Billiard Match.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicial Artists.
LA MARTINE, Eccentric Dancer, Baton Spinner, Vocalist.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
MADAME RHODESIA, Society Lady Juggler.
LOTTIE KAY. Yorkshire Soprano.
TERRY and BENTLY, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
|.|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. j. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTT DUMPTI.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHYDORA, FLORENCE VOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
N
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
STILL DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES.
Messrs. Mevnell and Gunn's New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH, in
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 28,
HER LOVE AGAINST THE WORLD.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee : Mr. Aldan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
In the latest London Success,
THE MUMMY and the HUMMING BIRD
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
Amusements.
lA/ IRTH’S OLYMPIA
® ■ Lessee and Manager: Mr. T. J. West.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY GREET
THE WORLD-RENOWNED and FAMOUS
WEST’S PICTURES ™ E B O E F^LL .
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW.
The LATEST & Most UP-TO-DATE CINEMATOGRAMS,
introducing Extraordinary Novelties and Surprises in
ANIMATED PHOTOGRAPHY.
Full Military Band. Popular Prices.
DIvJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : Mr. Wm. Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
COMPANY in the Great Dramatic Success,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s.
THE MEW EXCELSIOR
SOLAR TELESCOPE
and Microscope Combined
A 42/- Telescope for only 0/6
s to 10 MILE '
SIGHT RANGE -
POWERFUL
LENSES.
With Adjustable
Solar Eye Piece.
GUARANTEED scientifi-
cally PERFECT BY THE
MAKERS.
Over 2/4 feet long, nearly
6 inches around.
Valuable P'ree Book on
Telescopy sent with each
instrument.
THE New Excelsior Telescope is a
A large powerful and serviceable
instrument, very well made and
accurately fitted, and marvellously
cheap. A Telescope with an ad-
justable Solar Eye Piece, with
which you can observe Eclipses of
the Sun and examine the very
interesting and mysterious Sun
Snots, has never before been obtain-
able for less than a couple of
guineas ; in fact, such an eye-piece
alone usually costs more than the
price charged for this complete
Telescope. The lenses are well
ground and adjusted, and the five
sections are perfectly fitted. There
is a metallic cap to protect the
object glass from injury and to
exclude dust. The section with the
eye-piece can be withdrawn and
used separately as a powerful mag-
nifier or microscope. The Tele-
scope when fully extended is over
3 feet 6 inches in length, and when
closed it measures about a foot. A
very useful book of instructions
and hints on the employment of
the Telescope for systematic Solar,
Lunar and Astronomical Observa-
tions and for ordinary purposes is
given with each instrument.
Tourists, residents at the seaside
and others able to enjoy wide and
extended views should have this
excellent and wonderfully cheap
Telescope.
Price, complete with book of in-
structions, only Bs. 6d., packed in
a neat box and carriage paid to auy
address.
Mr. a. Gould, of Boggabilla,
N.S.W., writes:-—“I found the
Telescope simply perfect. A friend
took such a fancy to it I
was obliged to let him have
it. I miss it already. Please
send another. If you have
not got that one, don’t send
any other sort.”
The Union Go.
299 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
(which lead to the ears,
' throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICAI OR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with foul-
months’ treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
£1
One
Pound
A Genuine COLUMBIA
GRAPH - o-phone
... AND ...
O Gold-Moulded
Records.
£1
m
a
■; /
• • •
This
GRAPH-o=phon©
is Not a Toy,
but a Complete
and Perfect
Talking Machine
using any make
of Cylinder
Records, and
gives Splendid |
Results.
Fitted with proper FEED SCREW and all the
essential features of the Higher Priced Machines.
Send for Leaflet “ A.Q.” which fully describes this splendid machine
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. GEN’L, 255 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of Surplus,
as at 31st DECEMBER, 1907.
Every Participating- Policy taken out previous
to the CLOSE OF THIS YEAR will share in
the profits to be then divided.
Over £664,000 distributed in Cash Bonuses for the year 1906, representing considerably
more than a third of the total premiums received during the year. Bonusks Declared by This Society Larger than
those of any other Life Office. TOTAL CASH BONUSES divided to end of 1906, £12,888,262. T
Now is the time to effect an assurance, or a further assurance, on your life in order to reap the benefit of this year’s
Bonus. Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or any District.. Office or Agent.of the Society.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman: Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon, R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; James Burns, Esq. : James O.
bairfax, Esq. Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary.
Sydney, 21st November, 1907. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
IT MAKES YOU GROWL
Haven’t you “ growled " at the time it takes you to Shave?
Try a PLUM RAZOR and you’ll be surprised how quickly you will get
over it. There is no pulling and no scraping with a PLUM—nothing but
satisfaction, and you get over the “ ground ” in marvellously quick time.
THE PLUM RAZOR, PRICE 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 *
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d
• 99
Extra Chimneys - - 2d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
'k
83
3
/
*93
/
X
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part' of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
C. BRAND AUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals..
Works e Birminslnamt England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


I BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ]
R
r [
■
wag**-
Tts:
P«“
«**!■*».
>
,*»a
am
■■■ t.-',:
issSW*
miwM
wm?.
■
.
H6tr ■ —^^gyxc-
f~# «M**.
JC •:*:>>«'
«*»«»
st»
CSSfi
!©»>-
13
'
»%
, *t»
HP
.
.w
~::/ ■ - :
'
4P
■ ***~-*!S& :
w&***
-?5
...
rry’&si
■
FULL CONCERT GRAND, recently exhibited at Federal Parliament House. Price 275 Guineas.
THis Piano was. like all BEALE PIANOS, made ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF ONLY ONE PART.
'HE whole CABINET WORK, every detail of it, was made in our own factories in
Australia.
The whole of the IRON FRAME and all other IRON CASTINGS were made
from Australian (Lithgow) iron in our own factories in Australia.
The SCALE was calculated and drawn out on plan entirely in our own factories in Aus-
tralia. This is the most difficult and technical item in piano manufacture.
The whole SOUNDING-BOARD was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the BRONZE, GUN-METAL, BRASS and ALUMINIUM CASTINGS were
made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The SCREW STUDS, ACTION BOLTS and NUTS were made entirely in our own
factories in Australia.
The PEDALS were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The BALL-BEARING CASTORS were made entirely in our own factories in Aus-
tralia out of Australian metals.
The KEYBOARD was made, according to the SCALE, entirely in our own factories in
Australia. ...
The CARVINGS were designed and executed in our own factories in Australia.
The SOLID IRON WREST-PLANK was invented by us in Australia, and patented
throughout the world.
The patented WREST-PINS for the patent tuning-system were made on an automatic
machine entirely in oar own factories in Australia.
The AUTOMATIC MACHINES for turning, squaring and drilling the patented wrest-
pins were designed and made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The SPINNING MACHINES, for winding the bass strings with copper and iron wire,
were designed and made by us in our own factories in Australia.
The AGRAFFE STUDS (which in horizontal pianos take the place of the pressure-bars
in uprights) were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The AUTOMATIC MACHINE, which made the agraffe studs, was designed and made
in our own factories in Australia. This machine can also be adapted to a variety of
other work.
The PRESSES used in % making of the TOP and SIDES, including the bending of the
sides, were designed and made entirely in our own factories.
The Improved HINGES for the top (whereby a moulding may be had on all four sides,
an impossibility with imported horizontal pianos) were made entirely in our own factories in
Australia. .;
Even the LOCK AND KEY for the piano were made entirely in our own factories in
Australia.
The only part of this instrument which was not made entirely in our own factories is the Action (the mechanism which causes the hammers
to strike the strings when the keys are played on). The action was made by the action-maker admitted to be the best in the world, whose
actions are used throughout the world only in the most expensive instruments. The style used by us is the very latest double-repetition.
No other Piano Manufacturer in the World accomplishes such a wide range of work.
INASMUCH as wood-screws and steel and copper-wire are not made in Australia,
Nettlefold’s screws were used by us, and the wire was imported; but even then the
copper-wire, as above stated, was wound on to the steel in our own factories, on
machines designed and made by us.
This instrument is of the highest possible grade, unequalled in respect of the tuning-
system —whereby the durability of the instrument is greatly extended —and it is not surpassed
in any other direction by any instrument in the world.
A remarkable evenness of tone is obtained by the unique construction of the frame. We
have retained the usual resistance-bars (the trusses which are intended to give rigidity to the
frame under strain of the wires), but they are so constructed as to obviate the necessity of
cutting the fibres of the wood in the sounding-board bridge. This interference with the
bridge has been the cause of the dulness of some nates observable in many
pianos, both upright and horizontal. The result ob our improvement, coupled with a scale
which has been calculated cowling to the ascertained laws of harmoni'cs, is that our piano
has a magnificent tone which has been greatly admired.
Placed sidg by side in Parliament House with a foreign-made horizontal grand, the latter
was so hopelessly outclassed, although of a leading Germaji make, that the importers
removed it next day. The construction, finish and tone of the foreign instrument were
plainly inferior. To place our pianos side by side with those of any good maker is the
opportunity we always desire.
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE
BEALE COMPANY LIMITED
Australian Piano
M anufacflur ers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W.;
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic.; 127 Bundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A,; 291 Queen Street, Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland). BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


i
-
■
ip @| • * ■
I
ggp /
V
wmw
$
wxs /
mm . •
"■ V
3
sf
e
LV>
m
:
■*^r
. r
mt
9m.
: ■
Si
safe
S'V’?
'
m.
K
K
\
",
K
v >*•*•*»
-' ■ *3hS&*^
X**«
r\.
-
sr
%
,-y
:; -y-
M «fe
£
£*2 *j!LjL
pßi
UJ
S*
K\o
<
r*
D
X
Z 2
N
WAm
.5?
-
*■#
o
m
%
■ s
" •
JS.
.J t
. • .
%
.
m a
pi
C
4:
%A
0*
V>
m
*JU
, o J<jsKn\
I f /n //» ftj
3*
Interstate Mail
% Steamshin Lines
HEN the tourist on
any of the liners of
the Five Companies
approaches Sydney
Heads his first view
is a gigantic gate-
way of grey, worn rock. The passage is not
much more than half a mile across, and from
the ocean side all that is visible is the towering
lighthouse, high on the cliffs overhead, a flagstaff
set in the midst of a patch of green, a yellow-roofed
house or two, and—Desolation.
Inside the Heads the scene is vastly different.
On the right lies the pleasant watering village of
Manly ; on the left the suburb of Watson’s Bay.
The Harbor widens out, and the liner glides past a
red lightship, and on the right in the distance can be
seen a long stretch of white sand known as Balmoral
Beach, beyond which lies the entrance to one of the
most picturesque pieces of water in the world, the
Middle Harbor, where the water winds in and out
between the ridges of the hills that dip down sheer
hundreds of feet into the mirror-like water. But of
Middle Harbor more anon. Port Jackson has a coast
line of 225 miles, and flowing into it are the Parra-
matta and Lane Cove Rivers, one of which is a scrap
of Elysium and the other a fragment of Paradise.
But they lie off the track of our liner. Although we
have practically entered the oldest city in Australasia,
the long succession of heads and capes are all verdure
clad. Great masses of red-tiled houses surmount the
heights, and it is not till Cremorne is passed that the
houses begin to abut on to the foreshores. And
then there arises from the water a forest of masts
and a wilderness of funnels. The Imperial Naval
Station at Garden Island, the beautiful wilderness
around Lady Macquarie’s Chair, and the castle known
as Commonwealth Government House, with its
square keep of grey old stone. Then the liner glides
round Dawes Point, and finds a berth at one of the
many wharves belonging to the Five Companies.
<52?
Once in Sydney the question is not what to do,
but how to get through the programme of sight-seeing
in the time. A man or party might spend six months
wandering round the beauty spots of this lovely
place and then go away without having seen them
all. However, we will start the excursion by a
motor trip round the Harbor. Motors are
here in hundreds, and the keenness of the
competition makes it possible for a
party to secure one for either the day
or the week very
reasonably. Leav-
ing Fort Mac-
quarie Steps
the launch
will run
round Farm
Cove where
the warships
lie anchored
“ like paint-
ed ships up-
on a painted
sea,” with
the magnifi-
cent Palace
and Botanic
Gardens and Government House Demesne all
in view. Past Lady Macquarie’s Chair, across
the entrance of Woolloomooloo Bay, full of
great cargo liners, gigantic unwieldly looking
monsters, to Potts Point. Here the scene changes
immediately. The Homes of the Mighty look down
from terraced gardens—great castle-like structures,
till Elizabath Bay, where even more palatial estab-
lishments overlook the water. Rushcutters Bay is
seen full of dancing yachts and rocking motor boats,
whose owners are toiling in the city. Up on the
ridge above there, in the dark days of the p.ast, a
party of convict rush-cutters mutinied, overcame the
soldiers, and captured their overseer, who was a par-
ticularly unlovable gentleman. The soldiers they tied to
trees, knowing they would be released before long,
and did them no further injury. The overseer they
took off into the bush with them. He was never seen
again, but 40 years afterwards some boys, exploring
what was still bush, found a skeleton pegged out on
an abandoned anthill. His buttons suggested the
skeleton had held a position of some authority.
The mutineers rowed out to a schooner in the
Harbor, boarded her, and bolted. A corvette
went after the runaway, but it was hull-down
at nightfall, and was never seen again. Leaving
the scene of this rather grisly romance, the launch
will pass a succession of bays without any
special interest. All of them are overlooked by beau-
tiful homes, and everywhere the inevitable motor
launch, canvased over, rocks on the wavelets. Bay
and cape follow in rapid succession till the launch
strikes across the Harbor and he ids for the white sand
of Balmoral Beach, but leaves it well on the left, and
glides away to what looks like the head of a cul de
sac. But there’s a channel, across which a punt
takes passengers and vehicle's. That is The Spit, and
when we round it we are in Middle Harbor. There
the bell bird calls, the jackass laughs, and the
blue hills float dreamily in the sleepy sunlit
water. But Middle Harbor is beyond description.
Then a day can be put in exploring the Parramatta
and Lane Cove Rivers. Cook and Sons send out
Touring Motor Cars, which make splendid runs over
50 miles of Sydney environment for a modest ss. per
head. Eighteen miles away on the South Coast line lies
National Park, on Port Hacking River, where more
motor boats can be obtained and visits made to the
hatcheries at Worumbla, where the art and
practice of breeding fish can be seen in full
blast, and is a most interesting sight. The Port
Hacking River is dammed, and above the weir one
can only travel in a rowing-boat, and a couple of de-
lightful days can be spent paddling up and down.
All birds and animals are protected in the Park, and
are fairlv tame. Kangaroos, wallabies, and emus
make friendly advances, and in the evenings’possums
stare in a half-timid half-Pd-like-to-trust-you-way
from the branches. An Accommodation House in
the Park provides hampers and accommodation.
The other National Park, known as Kuringai
Chase, lies on the Northern coast. It is on
the sea coast, and there are great caves and
mighty rock arches through which the rising
tide booms magnificently. And among the hills and
valleys of Kuringai Chase are to be found the
finest samples of the beautiful Australian wild
flowers. While exploring Kuringai, the best plan is
to stay at Hornsby, a suburb eight miles north of
Sydney, a place which is inordinately proud of
having an extinct volcano. Then there are well-
known places like Pittwater, Narrabeen, Rocklily
outside of Manly ; Lady Robinson’s Beach, Kurnell,
La Perouse, and others along the shores of Botany
Bay, and a score of others too numerous to mention
in a brief sketch like this.
The finest sight of all is, of course, the far-fanied
Jenolan Caves at Mt. Victoria. A delightful trip in
a motor-car service will land the tourist at Cave
House in the evening, and he will wake, curiously
braced by the exhilarating mountain air, for the ex-
ploration of these wonderful caves —admittedly the
most wonderful and diversified in the world. Of
course a guide is necessary. The tourist is
taken from cave to cave. Some represent
vast cathedrals all in glistening white, in
others the lights are flashed back with an infernal
glory. Over winding staircases, and through wilder-
nesses of stalagmite and stalactite the wanderer
gropes on till he comes to the Infernal River, which
will scald his hands, and Bom which the guide will
net a few of the fish with which it teems. They are
just like other fish, excepting that they have no eyes
—they are useless in the awful darkness of that
boiling flood.
(SS?
Having exhausted the wonders of the caves, there
remains the panorama of the Blue Mountains—pic-
tures of vast distances seen from dizzy heights;
awful precipices dipping down sheer thousands of
feet; tumbling waterfalls, where the water sprays
out to the thin and beautiful texture of a veil waving
in the wind ; deep, cool recesses where ferns luxuriate
in everlasting moisture. Weeks can Vie spent in the
Blue Mountains entertainingly and inexpensively.
Less than 24 hours’ journey (12 of which can be
spent in the sleeping car) will take the tourist to
Mt. Kosciusko, the highest mountain in Australia,
and the oldest in the world. The next oldest is Mt.
Ruwenzori, in British Imperial East Africa. This
towering mass of grey granite is quite inaccessible, to
ordinary tourists in the winter, although huge
crowds go there to take part in the skiing carnivals
around its base. There is also a Government Accom-
modation House there, under the same excellent
management as that of the House at National Park,
Sydney. In summer time the air is wonderfully
bracing.
These are but a few of the pleasant places in which
the tourist to Sydney may have a delight-
ful time. The whole of the steamers of
the Five Companies concentrate on
Sydney, and to the man in Tas-
mania, North Queensland,
Westralia, South Australia,
and Victoria, there is no
better place than Syd-
ney in which to spend
a holiday. And in
the most part it is
cheapness itself,
and the fares by
any of the Five
Companies are
fixed at suchalevel
that one really
pays only for first-
class hotel accom-
modation, and gets
his travelling
thrown in for
nothing.


CARRY
DISEASE
The COMMON
HOUSE ELY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
n
, / ' /
/ ■'■
•\)
/
©
M&jv Killer
”
IT'S hairy body carries botb disease
and deatb. Having' its origin in
filth, it brings witb it tbe bacteria
wbicb breeds in filtb. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over tbe food of tbe table, flying from tbe lips of tbe sicK to
tbe lips of tbe bealtby, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society tban were tbe wild beasts to primitive man.
Tbe bigb mortality among children in tbe congested
districts of a city, wbere families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, wbere food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
tbe fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when tbe
flies ahnund.
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES other Inserts.
Be careful to observe the spelling off the name IN SECTIB ANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious*
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale s
ELLIOTT 1 BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy.
SYDNEY.


Speedily Cured by Warm
Baths With
And Gentle Anointings Of
The Great Skin Cure,
when all other remedies
andevenphysiciansfail.
Guaranteed absolutely
pure, sweet, and whole-,
some, and may be used
from the hour of birth. 1
Sold throughout the world. Depots In all Cities.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston;
Book on Torturing. Disfiguring Humours.
The Bushman.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA-
Lever
14/6.
Watch
14/6.
Mi
\
/
MELBOURNE.
W
J
| r HIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVEE Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
ean have the case either NrCKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. ;The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ill No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry 18.
CONSTIPATION
is the most common and fruitful cause of suffering, especially
among women. It may arise from a variety of causes, but is
most frequently due to a torpid liver. When the liver becomes
torpid and inactive the bowels become sluggish and constipated,
foul and noxiops gases are absorbed into the system, poisoning
the blood a.nd nerve centres, and producing headaches, languor,
difficulty in breathing, sleeplessness, and general disorder of
the system. Drastic purgatives don’t cure constipation
may give temporary relief, but do not remove the cause*-
TORPID LIVER
The remedy is Mother Seigel’s Syrup. Read this:—"l used to
get very bad turns of biliousness, with violent headaches, which
made life a misery for me. I tried many remedies without
benefit, and also dieted myself; but as for that I could hardly
eat anything, and whatever I ate made me suffer. But with the
first bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup I began to mend and after
a course of that great medicine I was quite cured." —From
Mrs. M. Anderson, 74, Warry Street, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane.
MOTHER
EIGELS
¥RUP
IS THE SURE CERE
FOR ALL LIVER AND
STOMACH TROUBLES
Lady’s Smart Glace
Oxford Kid Shoe,
One of the finest shoes at present on the
market. For comfort in walking it is un-
equalled, and in appearance extremely
stylish. Fitted with the up-to-date Cuban
heel, and three-quarters goloshed, its price
is only 18/6. Postage in Victoria 9d. extra ;
to any other State 1/-
T EEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
,109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 1 and 3 Errol Street, North
Melbourne ; 303 Ohapel Street, Prahran.
Bootmaker to His Excellency the Governor-General.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin” Office
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address* where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder :
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. It doesn’t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ”
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and, as for the feeling in my eyes
—well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and I think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote?”
“ They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted —as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die—yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“ And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you?”
“No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clements Tonic it was, and
the best remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of everything
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, I must
state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
happen. Trouble whs always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head —not until
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me in other ways. I used to get
pains down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of
my heart, which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it tb all
sufferers. Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound
and peaceful the same remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it
months before, for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any wa&'tw statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declarati&ftf conscientiously belieying the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900. ■' (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, H. EVANS, J.P.
The Inky Way.
Even Brisbane Sun has now been “ enticed ” over to
Philp, and poet-politician Kenna has wiped his feet on the
mat and left the office in disgust.
* * * *
Adelaide Critic has again changed hands. Its new
editor and proprietor is Alexis Holtze, whose father is
Director of the Adelaide Botanical Gardens, while his
brother runs the Port Darwin Gardens and does other
odd jobs in the Northern Territory. The paper has
hitherto been an echo of the bray of the National Ass,.
but it is understood that the Ass will now have its echo
amputated.
» * * *
A bright new weekly gleams forth in Melbourne on
February 2 next. Comments it will b« called, and it pro-
poses to raise ructions wherever it permeates. As a pre-
liminary, it will refuse absolutely to make the general
error of mistaking Tummas Bent for Cincinnatus, Caligula,
J. Carruthers, or any other bygone notoriety of the sort.
In fact, the journal intends to treat the Yic. Premier as
just plain Bent when he gets into his anti-Federal and
parish-minded mood. Comments will be strongly Federal-
ist, and will denounce State Frighters and all their works,
which is a sufficient reason why good Australians should
support it.
* * * *
“ Philo ” : A novel little publication is the organ of the
Fort-street (Sydney) Public School— The Fortian. The
paper was established eight years ago by myself and a
few other pupils, who set up and printed the six small
pages of pica type at the school, stoutly refusing assist-
ance from anyone but the schoolboys themselves. It has
since increased to about three times its original size, and
has now a consistent circulation of 900 copies per month.
The uncontrollable tendency on the part of the boys to
accelerate the disposal of “ pie” by depositing it by the
handful in the cases, in preference to the slower method
of “ dissing,” has forced the editor to get the setting
done away from the school, but the boys still do the
printing. The pupils are encouraged to write stories and
articles for the paper, and are paid for accepted matter.
Altogether our baby-reptile contemporary, The Fortian,
is a highly creditable sheet.
* * * *
“C.”: “Plain English” par. (B. 28/11/’O7) says that
£2OO a year as the wage of a senior reporter is rapidly
coming into sight. Coming? Why, I know a metro-
politan daily, largely owned by a very wealthy absentee,
which has been paying its “gallery” writer 10s. a day
for an original column summarising the Parlia-
mentary proceedings. He takes his seat in the gallery at
3.30 p.m. and remains to the close of each sitting—which
sometimes means ior 5 a.m. He chucked it when they
asked him to fill in his “ spare ” time in the mornings
“ doing ” the police courts.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : Talking of the great expectation of adver-
tisers, how is this? I was part owner and section editor
of The Ant, also assistant publisher, head stapler, and
supernumerary gas engine and canvasser. One day an
angry man came in and wanted his money back. He
said he was broke, and must have the pecuniary con-
sideration. He was prepared to break the office if he
didn’t get it. The staff did not recollect him. (I was
the staff.) He explained. Thirty years earlier in
Ireland he lost a brother, with red hair and a notch in
his left eyelid. He had paid ten shillings for four inch
advertisements in The Ant, calling upon that brother to
return and all would be forgiven. Being adjacent, and
short, he had dropped in to recover his ten shillings.
The staff explained that money was never returned.
“What?” yelled the advertiser, “not give me me
money ? I don’t get me money back ? Why, ye dirty
imposthor, the man I got wasn’t me brother at all l”
* * * *
“Isla ” : Brisbane Daily Mail, which was established
some five years ago for the purpose of lifting Philp, Leahy
and party back to power, isn’t feeling too well, and orders
have been issued to cut down expenses—which means
that the reporting staff is to consist mainly of youngsters
at about £1 per week. The paper’s first editor was the
ancient Buzacott. He lasted two years ; then they made
him consulting editor and leader writer, and sub-editor
Stumm stepped up. Stumm worried through with the
directors until early this year, when Asher, of the S.M.
Herald’s Parliamentary staff, was hurried north. Asher,
however, quickly found himself up against the directorate,
and promptly stepped out. Now F. O. Woosley, previously
leader of the reporting staff, goes to the chair, on which
he has long kept an eye. If he can’t “ hit it” with the
directors, they will probably call up the boy who pastes
the wrappers. The Waily Tale is a depressed, grave-
digging sort of paper to work for.
THE LAND OF OAN’T-BE-DONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most unnecessarily the maker of pianos has to pay duty
on his raw material. ... No one would suggest for a
moment that Australia can produce sxich materials.
Why, then, handicap the industry by making them duti-
able ?—Argus (3/12/’O7).
Pore' gran’ma’s bones are brittle, and her back is bowed,
and she
Sees nothing: now beyond her nose—and, Lor’ 1 what
does she see?
Yes, though the world roars in her ear
The message of the age,
She’s gone stone-deaf—she’ll never hear,
But, in her crazy rage,
Though blind and deaf, she mumbles shreds of sour and
mildewed speech,
Nor ceases, day by day, her tattered gospel-truths to
preach.
The voice of young Australia says, “ We can do this, and
will 1
And it is done, or will be soon, while, all unknowing, still
Pore gran’ma, cackling, shakes her head,
Her agfed mouth a-grin,
And mutters how she’s always said
Sech doin’s was a sin !
And, maudlin-mad, she quakes and moans in imitation
fear :
“ Grow things to make things from ? O, no, it can’t be
done—not ’ere ! ”
With starving strangers hanging round our tinkered-up
back fence,
Here is a voice that’s crowded with uncommon common-
sense :
Pore gran’ma lifts her voice to speak
Her mind. Just hark to this,
In quavering tones that pipe and squeak
With senile emphasis :
“ We must ’ave population, but imported food’s too dear
For white kids ! Let the Hindu in—we can’t grow people
’ere! ”
Pore gran’ma’s bones are turned to chalk with utter age,
and they
Creak as she moves—her false, blonde hair is braided
Over grey ;
But still her voice-box, unimpaired
By years of preaching woe,
Turns out the sounds with which she scared
The foolish, long
Ah, since pore gran’ma’s blind and deaf, as all her mum-
blings tell,
Great pity is she hasn’t yet been stricken dumb as well!
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
LIMERICKITIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the tram and the train, on the ’bus and the boat,
You will hear it, both going’ and coming ;
In the pub and the club and ashore and afloat—
A perpetual humming and strumming !.
From the ponderous personage, proud in his prime,
To the little kids grouped in the gutter,
They are muttering over a doggerel rhyme,
And this is the matter they mutter:
“ There was a young man of Junee,
Who went, in a basin, to sea ;
The basin was broken,
And, by the same token ...
Ta-rumtiddy, dumtiddy, dee !
N.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Prism Field Glasses
with enhanced stereoscopic effect.
NCW Models * or Army- Marine-Travel—Sport—Stalking,
X 6, £6. XB, £6 10s. Xl2, £9 ss. X 6, Stalking, £7 10s.
Ocular distance.
Jfe
Enlarged objective distance.
tftHLZEis^
JENA
Brilliant Definition
Extensive Field
The recognised Features of the Zeiss Prism Field Glasses:
Great Light Intensity
Mechanical Precision
embodied in the new models in a higher degree.
Stability
Tropics-proof
gAfZEisjjh
Special prospectus gratis and post free.
CARL ZEISS, LONDON W.
JENA.
Obtainable from all Opticians* and from
29 Margaret Street, Regent Street.
OSTRICH PLUiTES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Thk Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
g
»
0
* Unrivalled for the Complexion. *
Gold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Grand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
F.. WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF'S.
GIFTS
WE have gone all through our stock and compiled a List of about a hundred suggestions for gifts.
Counting the full range of prices for each article mentioned, the number would be multiplied many
times. Of course there are hundreds of things in our stock which we do not mention here at all,
but they are, in most cases, akin to those named, and as you read you will think of them. Read this List
for suggestions, and then come to STEWART DAWSON'S, where quality is assured, and where
price is always moderate.
Gifts for Women
Gold-mounted Hair Combs, 21s.
Gold Bangles, 18s 6d to £25.
Gold Brooches, say 6s 6d to £5O.
Gold Neck Chains, 6s 6d to 50s.
Drop Necklets, £7 to £l4 10s.
Paste Back Combs, 7s 6d up.
Peggy Bags, from 7s 6d to 50s.
Diamond Rings, £5 5s to £2O.
Powder Jars, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, to 40s.
Waist Belts in Silver, £2.
Silver Mirrors, 25s to 50s.
Manicure Sets, 21s to £6 6s.
Silver Plated Calendars, 30s.
Jewel Boxes, from 13s 6d to £3 10s.
Silver Photo Frames, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Cable Bangles, £2 to £2l.
Gold Crosses, 2s 6d, all the way up to £6 10s.
Pearl Necklets, 90s to £25.
Gold Muff Chains, £3 to £lO 10s.
Gold Snake Bangles, £6 6s.
Silver Dorothy Bags, £3 to £7 10s.
Shoe Lift and Button Hook, in case, 6s 6d to 10s 6d.
All Silver Salts Bottles, 17s 6d.
Silver and Glass Pin Boxes, 14s 6d.
Silver Hat Pin Stands, 4s 6d.
Hair Tidies, Silver-mounted, 17s 6d.
Sets of Silver Blouse Buttons. 6s to 12s 6d.
Evening-wear Handkerchief Ring, 10s 6d.
Gifts for Men
Tobacco Boxes, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 255, 30s.
Tobacco Pouches, 4s 6d, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
If Gold-mounted, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d.
Hair Brushes, 9s 6d, 11s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
Shaving Brushes, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d.
Shaving Tidies, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Silver Note Books, 8s 6d.
Plated Ash Trays, 2s 6d.
Gold Tie Clips, 21s, 22s 6d.
Silver Cigarette Cases, 255, 27s 6d, 355.
Silver Match Boxes, 7s 6d to 255.
Gold Links, 12s 6d to £lO or more.
Silver Card Cases, 18s 6d.
Gold Watch Chains, £3 up.
Shaving Strops, 11s 6d, 14s 6d, 27s 6d.
Shaving Mugs and Brushes, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d.
Stud Boxes, 8s 6d, Satin-lined.
Clothes Brushes, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 355.
Letter Cases, Silver Shields, 12s 6d to 21s.
Silver Cigarette Tube Cases, 14s 6d.
Silver Swan Fountain Pens, 355, 455.
Gold Filled Fountain Pens, 40s, 50s.
Silver Sovereign Purses, 10s 6d, 13s 6d.
Gold Scarf Pins, 13s 6d to £lO.
Gold Collar Studs, 6s 6d to 17s 6d.
Gold-mounted Pendants, 9s 6d to 50s.
Gold Lockets, 20s to £8 10s.
THE POCKET MANICURE.
Every man and boy who values the appearance of their nails should carry one of these. To be had in this quality
from STEWART DAWSON & CO. only. The Pocket Manicure—Nail Cutter, Nail File, and Nail Cleaner
combined. Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, and good for 20 years’ use. Price, 2s 6d.
48 Page
Catalogue of Presents
free on request.
Gifts for Girls
Silver Jap. Bangles, 2s 6d.
Silver Geisha Bangles, 6s 6d.
Gold Lace Pins, 5s 6d to 10s 6d.
Silver Pin Trays, 6s 6d to 10s 6d.
Glass and Silver Smelling Salts, 3s 6d.
Dainty Trinket Boxes, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
Silver Hair Brushes, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Silver Combs, 3s 6d, 4s to 10s 6d.
Gold Safety Pins, 3s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
Purses as low as 3s, as high as 40s.
Hat Pins, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, all in Silver.
Plated Waist Belts, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d.
Leather Belts, choice colors, 9s 6d.
Manicure Sets, 11s 6d, 21s, 255, 32s 6d.
Chatelaine Note-Books, 2s.
Silver-plated Trinket Trays, 3s.
Serviette Rings, Is 6d, 3s, 4s 6d, up to 12s 6d.
Gold Scarf Pins, 2s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Gold Medal Pendants, 10s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Silver Bangles, plain and heavy, 4s 6d to 5s 6d.
Silver Glove Hooks, Is 6d to 2s 6d.
Silver Book Markers, 3s.
Hymn and Prayer'Books in Silver Case, 10s 6d.
Catholic Prayer Book, Silver Mounted, 6s 6d.
Gifts for Boys
Silver Watch Chains, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Silver Pencils, 2s 6d, 3s, 4s 6d, ss.
Silver Tie Clips, 2s 6d, 3s.
Serviette Clips, Is, 2s, 3s 6d.
Stud Boxes, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
Strong Silver-plated Serviette Ring, Is 6d.
Pocket Knives, Is 6d to 5s 6d.
Silver Pen-holders, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Silver Links, 3s to ss.
Silver Collar Studs, Is, Is 6d.
Leather and Silver Fob Chains, ss.
Gold and Leather Fob Chains, 14s 6d.
Silver Fruit Knives, 3s to 6s 6d.
Leather “ Tram Fare ” Purse, Is.
Ebony Hair Brushes, 9s 6d.
Silver-plated Pocket Manicure, 2s 6d.
Silver Medals, 3s 6d to 7s 6d.
Good Watches, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s and 255.
Gold Links, 12s 6d, in 15ct. Gold, £1 ss.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS AI STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Iceland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
&
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST.S. "W.
(I|ontdepieteO.»j|.Co.,Ct<J.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The -Trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne. /
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esa.. C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J M Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
‘ ' JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
». TiIACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson,
jj “ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Sbipplng.
nxr. d. H-.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 10th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve Fund(lii vested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TH€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown . Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY : __
♦MILTIADES TTa. Douglas, R.N.R. 1 Noon. Jan. i
MORAVIAN .. |A. Simpson ..(Noon. Jan. 31
♦MARATHON .. |N. Allan .. ~ I Noon, Feb. 28
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Rine.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 22nd January.
AFRIC, to sail about 21st February.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban it 15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
r HO LI PAY
TO
N« QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
3po
m
•m:
k' .
W
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking.
The Sank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)ew S° ut h UJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ... ... .. .. 1.530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . . .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors:
0 0
London Office—64- Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Business Announcements.
ii iiiiili!l!li->SI!
II !llllnltt33iiig>
ii niiiiiiiiisiiii!
I’&nmKKKM9>m
PAGE FENCE
is made in a
variety of styles
—from the attractive lawn fence shown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
years ago, are still giving good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence be a
good one to have the agency for?
Write to-day for special offer.
CHAS. DOBSON, FRANKS & Co., Sydney
WANTED TO BUY.
THE TOBACCO COY. of S.A. LTD., Adelaide,
South Australia, are ...
Buyers of Cigar and Tobacco Leaf.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
The Magnificent New Twin-Screw Steamer
M ARAM A
leaves Sydney, March 16; Brisbane, March 18.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Closer Settlement
In Country Lands.
OUR Printed Register, with Map enclosed,
giving particulars of Properties for Sale,
and information as to Population of different
Districts, Rainfall, Means of Transit, Suit-
ability of Soil, etc,, is now ready for
FREE Distribution.
Call or send for Copy.
HARDIE & GORMAN’S
Country Lands Department Office,
133 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
fpHfi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, I-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, %
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN. W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Grantala. Saturday,
January 4.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, Dec. 28.
S.S. Wollowra, Jan. 4.
Rest, null (yliennest Route to Hold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjAß/TIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
* P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F.—H. —S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“DORSET”
11,000 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 28th January.
„ „ „ Melbourne „ Ist February.
)> ~ ~ Adelaide „ 4th February.
FOR
London, Manchester
and Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON, 1
MANCHESTER \ £49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
and LIVERPOOL j
To be followed by other similar twin-screw steamers
every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, December 28.
BURRCTMBEET, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, December 31.
BOMBALA, 12 noon, SATURDAY,
January 4.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking- passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, December 31.
BRISBANE 't
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 28.
ALUNGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
December 31.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 4.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
■
Mm
i'll
m
EORGE HOTEL,
G
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


\L
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building', Perth.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
lohn Sands Ltd*, 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with,each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in Completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE. —The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
‘V.
%
ge*
O*'
'rt
A Gift of an
Oil Engine
Is one that would be appreciated by
anyone requiring power.
An “1.H.C.” Gasoline Engine will
—as compared to a keros.ene engine—
save in fuel cost alone, and In less than
four years use, enough to cover its
entire purchase price
It will thus return to its owner in
daily installments its entire first cost,
and make itself literally “a gift.”
After It has paid for itself by Its
saving In fuel it will go on for years
paying dividends on a capital that has
long since been returned to the investor
It is literally true that were you to be offered a kerosene engine GRATIS, and
on the one condition that you use it for four years, YOU COULD ACTUALLY SAVE
MONEY BY DECLINING THE GIFT AND PAYING FULL PRICE FOR AN “1.H.C.”
GASOLINE.
A kerosene engine requires 10 to 20 minutes to start. Allow 2 starts
per day for 300 days and the time wasted is 150 hours, or over 3 solid working
weeks of 48 hours.
An “1.H.C,” engine STARTS IN 20 SECONDS.
An “ 1.H.C.” once started literally requires no attention for at feast four hours.
Owing to its burning a cleaner fuel, and “1.H.C.” requires much less time
to keep clean than does a kerosene engine.
We are PREPARED TO PROVE to you every word of the foregoing if granted
an opportunity.
We make far more explosive engines than any other concern in the
WORLD.
The price of the “1.H.C.” is no greater than the price of a kerosene engine,
and the terms are the most favorable ever offered.
We have these engines coming forward literally “by the hundred,” yet
nearly all are sold prior to their arrival.
Persons likely to require during 1908 explosive engines in units from 2
to 20 Brake Horse Power should place orders now and avoid disappointment.
New Catalogue ready December lOth, 1907 —yours for the asking.
Remember that “The Man behind
the Gun” is important principally
because he CONTROLS ROWER.
Qet an “ 1.H.C.” Gasoline engine,
control power and add to your
importance and profits.
International Harvester
Company of America
(inoortorated)
Roma Street, Brisbane ; 37 Broadway, Sydney;
345 Bourke St. Melbourne; Bank St. Adelaide;
York St. Launceston.
And at Christchurch and Dunedin, IN.Z.
AWMtt FEEOVHG
“■ Wo Hotter steiMte'mtteutrt \' sent FRtt on revest.
fprogress/ve d/etary adapted to cde grow/tg d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food N°l I Milk Food N»2 | Malted Food m 3
from A/rd to 3months I from 3to 6 mootts I from 6 moods op wards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
n
m
It aets like a eharm in
DIARRHCEA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles , Is. 1 \d. ; 20z., 2s. 9 d. ; 40z., 4s. 6 d. each.
CAUTION.— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.


u
R*
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
J.DIXONiO
“0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical'man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious—a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, 1 wine,
spirits; lemonade -or soda
it lias no equal as a summer
beverage.
All Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists and General
Stores stock “ 0.T.,” but it
is necessary to look for the
Red Chillie label.
2
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine "MONTSERRAT,”
w
GUARAIf^ 5
BRIARS do Not
BURNorCRACK
| Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia *
23ICIarei\ce5t.Sydr\ey
BEST
HORN
SHAPE
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester. Eng.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
DON’T PAY YOUR DOCTOR
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
%
w-
•r
&
v
3
m
THE' first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No. pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Fife; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worhs while you sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regujator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms; shoulders,
head or any other part of your bodyf’ It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to 'be .Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire' you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALI, for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co„
D&p. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The McLaughlin go.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
TOOtTOIBS
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They/have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit'of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he, took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yieiima, Victoria.
t
“ For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sale by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. IF your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them For you. IF not obtainable locally
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOTOIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist,
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a far BETTER result is
obtained than from an ordinary aperient.


a
<L
THE FAMOUS REMEDY fop
o • •
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT SUFFERED FOR OVER SIXTY YEARS.
SO BAD HE DARED NOT STIR.
RELIEVED IN A FEW MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
WOULD GIVE £5O FOR THE SAME BENEFIT RATHER THAN. SUFFER.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear B’riend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and lam now 66 years old. Sometime
back I contracted Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy that had previously relieved smothering 1
was of no use to me. X was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the worst nig*ht I ever had. When in a conversa-
tion, Mr. March, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a friend of his was using: your Bronchitis Cure, and
that it was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in a few minutes after taking the first dose I could
breathe a little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better every day. To-day I am better than I have
been for the last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would
give £5O for the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make what use of this letter you think fit, if by so
doing it would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM, 108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURB.
ITS EFFICACY IN CHEST COMPLAINTS TESTIFIED TO BY A GRATEFUL VICTORIAN.
, . Mr. W. G-. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
ehitis pure. I have used it for the last three or four years, and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest complaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure with
a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative pro-
perties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medicine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to anyone,
trusting its present popularity and sales will be doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES, Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY STOCK AND SHARE BROKER EXPRESSES GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT PROVED A MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY FOR A SEVERE ATTACK OF BRONCHITIS.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—-I lately had a severe attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
Success you so well deserve. I place this communication at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
HENRY FRENCH, Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
AT TIMES VERY BAD INDEED.
QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
t Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—For five or six years I was troubled with asthma, at times very bad, indeed. I was very
ill just after Christinas, so sent to the local chemist for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took the
first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a touch of
the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY, Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A SEVERE ATTACK RELIEVED IN TEN MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE EFFECT WAS WONDERFUL.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—About three weeks ago, while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt a
difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bronchitis
or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was wonderful. In
less than ten minutes I was all right again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me. This is no exaggeration, I
am pleased to say.—Yours truly,
S. H. MAYO, J.P., Meredith, Victoria.
NINE MONTHS' SUFFERING.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY TWO BOTTLES.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered
for nine months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had
medical advice, and tried other remedies without avail. I tried yours, and never had a (it of coughing after taking
the first dose, and though I have had but two bottles, I feel lam a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted. —Yours
faithfully, JAMES ASTBURY, Dergholm, Victoria.
ASTHMA 25 YEARS.
IMMEDIATELY RELIEVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have been a martyr to Asthma for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under the treatment of leading physicians throughout the
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let Nature take its course. T.wo years ago I was asked to try
your Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However, by the persuasion of a very old friend, three weeks ago I
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost immediately I found that 1 had made a mistake by not
taking it before. lam now about half-Way through the second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved that I
take this opportunity of sending this testimonial along for you to make whatever use you may think fit. I
intend continuing your treatment, and I trust that -before I have finished the third bottle I shall be able to
write to you that I am perfectly cured. lam pleased to say the effect has been wonderful. Yours very grate-
f uUy. PHIL HANN, 33 Camden Street, Balaclava, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
PATIENT RECOVERING.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We purchased some time ago 12 bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and can
unhesitatingly say that it has given great relief from the intolerable throat irritation that my daughter experi-
enced. Previous to using the Bronchitis Cure she would have two or three attacks nightly, but now she can
sleep throughout the night and, on wakening, simply clears her throat from phlegm. She had a slight attack
of Consumption, but seems to be recovering, though of course slowly. Yours gratefully,
G. MACKIE, Kiamata, Taranaki, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
AN ENGLISH LADY SO ILL THAT THE DOCTOR HELD OUT NO HOPE.
WAS GIVEN HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND IT EFFECTED A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Not long since I had occasion to visit the Old Country, and before leaving Melbourne
purchased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which l took with me. When I arrived at Leeds, I found that my
niece, Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe at,tack of Bronchitis; in fact, she was so bad that the
family doctor held out no hope for her recovery. She was then given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the
directions on the label, and I am very glad to say that it effected a complete cure.
R. J. MATTHEWS, c/o Allan and Co., Collins Street, Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist. Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent me for A,sthma has had a won-
derful effect. I have not taken all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it; therefore I send you my hearty good
wishes for your future success. I, myself, will, for the benefit of others, make it known to all I know. lam 73 years
of age.—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY, Alliance Street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHOPNEUMONIA.
TWO SEVERE CASES CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Kindly forward without delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also
recommended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three years of age, from Influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia.
I really believe that if I had had your medicine my child would not have died, for the other two, a boy five years
old, and a baby eight months old, were suffering exactly in the same way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact,
a small bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward it without delay, I am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D. WARD, Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUBE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEABNE’S BRONCHITIS CUKE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally
NOTICE m —Heariie’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N-S.W. Branch No. 5, First Floor, Greeks Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
#
#
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food
Senger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
The Review, a quaint Sydney paper,
came out lately with an article stating
that “New Zealand” is a clumsy, inconvenient
name and should be replaced with something
better and handier. Then it offered a series of
suggestions that were dreadful in their banality.
They included Zealandia, which is just the foolish
old name with a slight variation; Nelsonia
(presumably after Nelson—and there are already
22 Nelsons in the office gazetteer); Hobsonia (after
Hobson’s Choice or Hobson’s Bay or something);
Alberta (a plain steal.from Canada); and Egmont
(there are four places bearing this Dutch name
already and the Review would fain make
five). And all the time the country has
already been re-named, though the belated Review
perhaps doesn’t know it. The Bulletin re-
christened it more than 15 years ago by the
musical name of Maoriland, which is its own
name—not a,left-off, worn-out, used-up, irrelevant
Dutch cognomen whereof the repetition would
make confusion more dizzy and confounded than
it is already. And so well has the name caught
on that you could address a letter to Maoriland
and post it in England, and it would reach its
destination, whereas that same letter wouldn’t
find Hobsonia between now and the general
resurrection of the dead. . Could anything be
more bathetic than Hobsonia—the capital of which
would naturally be Jqbsonville on the Dobbs
River? Why not call the place Hobnail right off?
“ J.A.C.” : Seven is a remarkable number.
There are the Seven Champions of Christendom,
the Seven Wise Men of Greece, the Seven
Wonders of the World, the Seven Ages of Man,
the Seven Mortal Sins, the Seven Sleepers, the
Seven Sorrows of the Virgin, the Seven Stars, the
Seven Years’ War, and the Seven Years’
“stretch.” Now a Dr. Williams, recently called
as a witness at Marylebone (London) Police
Court, insists that there are seven stages of
drunkenness. He defines them as follows: (1)
The communicative; (2) the irritable; (3) the
beatific ; (4) the bellicose; (5) the affectionate;
(6) the lachrymose; and (7) the comatose. You
can have the course for about Is. 9d.
A powerful religionist, or a wild humorist,
wrote recently to Melbourne Herald, signing
himself “ Atnen ”
As a Christiiin of the old school, I believe in the old
methods of dealing- with heretics like spiritualists and
their mediums. I say enforce not only the penal laws
against them, but burn, hang, flog, dragonade, and use
every conceivable form of torture against them.
I would also use the thumb-screw, pull out their nails,
and rub pepper on their eyelids, or any other of the good
old methods likely to prove efficacious.
As a Christian man, it is pleasing to me to know that even
death will not release them of their tortures, for they are
doomed to Hell fire for ever more.
Good old Hell! How would the world get on
without, it?


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
XShQ LEADING
HOUSE "»
i
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to tiie value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
12 or 16-gauge, t op lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
of 12-gauge, 6f to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6|lb. Post Free l^S
CANT
B
BEAT
OOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 eng ravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Cd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. Ilow to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage,' which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score <&
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Poet Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
EEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsh Songs, Is 3d nost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS Ai. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to al> Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. ChevassE’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
r Parting
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion of youth
through the hot Australian summers.
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favorite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it, too, after shaving, for it
soothes and heals the skin. Price 1/9 a
dainty jar, or 3/6 larger size, holding four
times as much.
At all chemists, stores, etc., through-
out Australia. Get a jar to-day.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining-room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
nruggists.
Groce, s and
Hardware
Dealers,
among whom are:—
Svdney— Anthony Hordern & Sons: Elliott Bros., Ltd..
O’Connell St.; P. H. Fauldin" & Co., O’Connell St.
Washine. H Soul Pattenson & Co., 208, Pitt St. j
Australian Drue Co., O’Connel' St,.; Savers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St.; S. Hoffnunff & Co.. Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co., Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., D .S.A‘
I)
YSON’S “ Eact’ry ’Ands,”
lightful and wickedly true.
4s. 6d.
iJ*
“De-
,22 s
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. malic ONL Y.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
Ofa.ll Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Go. Lada j The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Si Biitisb-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
wmm
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Sole Agents inN.S.W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


I
-
£
I
S 3?
1
ft
*o^
M .'•'. /
! JWr• */
TO
Ift . :,
V>a
V'*'j->‘*i
:•. '•. % .
:• % •.
1%. • ~
IWv
V$?&; V
i-W
g$
California
Syrtip of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
&
«
Q
V
o
a:
S'
o
&
ASK YOUR CHEMIST
for
Mrs. M&clurcan’s
COUGH CURE.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
m
i
3s#-,
: !$/j?orr}f,onc
m
o
n~
thf
We don’t believe any Accord eon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, etc., 2 to Queen St., Brisbane
25 C?
V\
CORPULENCY
PERMANENTLY CURED !
Corpulency and Obesity are extremely ugly conditions.
Excess Fat is uncomfortable, inconvenient, unsightly, and
a source of constant danger to its victim. Science has dis-
covered a harmless, NON-poisonous, and permanent cure.
"FATCURE”
enhances the general health, while at the same time,
it reduces the weight from five pounds a w r eek to over
two stone a month in some cases. Once reduced there
is no possibility of a return to the old condition.
IMPROVES THE GENERAL HEALTH.
“Fatcure” has no direct action upon the heart. It re-
moves the fatty tissue surrounding the heart and
intestines, to the great benefit of all the internal organs.
SEND 2d. POSTAGE FOR FREE SAMPLE.
Enclose 2d. in stamps to us and let us send you—under closed cover
without marks—a Free Sample of ‘Fatcure’ and our book giving par-
ticulars. All communications treated with strict privacy. Treatment
forwarded in plain wrapper. All publicity is avoided.
A GRATEFUL LADY WRITES:—
mwhlct What worth Co. You are at liberty to refer any sceptics to me. “Fatcure” reduced my weight
forme^l™h^ a h nderthree mon , th ?’ and “proved my general health. I now feel splendid and my-work
formerlyahardship, is now a real pleasure. Mrs. W. J. PERRETT, Frogmore Park, Gunnedah. ’
CALL IF CONVENIENT. WE WILL WEIGH YOU PRIVATELY. DO NOT DELAY.
Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Daily.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also prom Market Street.
The Monk and the Faun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT ceased, the urgent matin bell.
Fra Angelo, with downward glance,
Thrice crossed himself, then left his cell
(It happened at the Renaissance)
To grub the garden round the well.
His girdle hempen, sandals thin,
And tonsured pate, alas, entangled
With thoughts of death and mortal sin ;
A mattock through his arm, where dangled,
Down past his knees, a discipline.
Birds warbled in the trembling air
That blessed the land with lilac breath ;
Ah God ! this world was wondrous fair.
But brooding deep on sin and death
Not God’s joy moved him unaware.
Telling black beads he paced the lawn
Till, near the holy well, ’mid herbs,
Mint, thyme, and stocks, there lurked, withdrawn
From shovelled soil his foot disturbs
With sly grimace, a marble faun.
A wee wood fay half-turned aside,
Greek, flawless—by an artist carved—
Whose eyes and rude lips opened wide
To see and taste life, nor soul starved,
Nor healthy body mortified.
For once he danced with brows rose-crowned
In that old wicked world where Pan
Piped in the wild wood, limbs embrowned,
Naked, with wave and wind—and man
Rejoiced with satyrs gathered round.
Why should he fast—he mused—askance
At joy, stew Latin, bark weak shins
With clumsy mattock ? Song and dance,
Flutes, nymphs and roses, pricked wine skins —
That faun’s religion meant romance.
But muttering Aves, head bent low,
Perturbed to face Temptation’s tricks,
To save his soul Fra Angelo
Clasped tight his wooden crucifix ;
Yet one doubt gnawed him, even so.
Nymphs yet might lurk in stream or tree;
From sculptured fountain faun or Pan
Look out, tell Bacchus’ rosary
Petal by petal, luring man
To love earth, life, flesh, vanity.
For grace and strength he prayed to God,
His jealous Hebrew God, whose ire
Was not appeased till, like some clod,
That brown faun, which was earth’s desire,
He buried safe beneath the sod.
Yet, oft at dusk, day’s duty done,
He capers, faun like, hails the worth
Of fleshly things, remembering one
Who loved the earth, the ripe, sweet earth,
And loved the sun, the laughing sun.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
The Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury.
THE ROUT OF THE KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY the irony of fate the rout of the Kings
fell most heavily upon the best family of
the caste, the Leighs of Rangihape. In
the early days the family had made much money
by the simple process of removing wool from
where Nature had placed it into bales, which
were shipped to England. But when the hustling
Roland returned home from a trip round the
world, he began to exploit the forest which, till
then, had remained practically unexplored, be-
cause the only time the old man tried to penetrate
it, it took him two hours to get into it and two
days to get out again. Being a wise man, he
reckoned that, where his superior intelligence got
bushed for two days, anyone else would remain till
the morning of tfye Resurrection. With the return
of the heir a new era began. He pierced the
depths of the forest with roads, and made wooden
tramways through its gloomy recesses, and erected
a sawmill. A township sprang up on the out-
skirts of the bush, and the roads that radiated
from it north, south, and east were covered with
waggons of timber and carts piled high with fire-
wood.
One day foreman Raikes, spying out the land
for new supplies of timber, blundered through a
belt of ribbonwood, and found himself standing
on the edge of a rolling expanse of beautiful land,
covered with the short green native grass, with
never a sign of a tussock in it. Through the
midst of this plain of Beulah flowed a stream that
rippled over shingle bars, through miniature
forests of golden-blossomed kowai, and wilder-
nesses of lovely giant moss. Beyond the creek
the grass land swept away to the line of a second
forest, four miles off, the dark purple tint showing
it to be mostly of black pine. Through it gleamed
thin veins of red, due to the presence of the rata
blossoms ; and the red-lined expanse swept over
the first slope of the Southern Alps, and surged
right away to where the snow gleamed like silver
in the, sunlight.
As it was all in the Leigh grant, Roland Leigh
rewarded Raikes with a cheque for a year’s wages.
The grass land was very valuable, but the explora-
tion of the new forest could stand over till
the old one showed signs of being worked
out. The only people interested in it were the
twins, Arthur and Harold. They decided to
explore it thoroughly at midsummer vacation.
* * * *
At the end of an exciting three weeks they
returned home with tattered clothing, bronzed
skins, and several inches of increased chest girth.
It was twilight when they clattered into the
kitchen and put out of sight an amazing meal, and
then burst into their father’s den.
“Oh, we had a great time, sir,” said Arthur,
who always acted as spokesman. “Plenty of
shooting j but we never looked at anything but
pigs, and bagged over a dozen of them. Murray
has the tusks. We cut tracks all over the place ;
there’s millions of black pines, heaps of totara- —a
lot of white pine too. The second week we
found a big clearing about three miles across.
And in the middle there was a cone about
90 feet high, looking for all the world like a
model of Vesuvius. We scrambled to the top of
it and found it was an extinct volcano right
enough, for the chimney was still open. And we
brought back some samples of clay—Harold
swears the brown one is hematite.”
“ So it is ! ” said Harold, fiercely.
“We’ve made our fortunes right enough,” con-
tinued Arthur. “Just look at these; rubies,
sapphires, and nuggets. Got the stones in the
black shingle, and Harold jabbed the gold out
from between some rocks with his jack-knife. ”
He emptied out of a small bag on to the writing
table four thin water-worn nuggets, half-a-dozen
small red stones, and a few others that showed a
deep blue tinge. Roland picked them up and
examined them carefully. He seemed interested,
and told Arthur to hand him down a book on
“ Precious Stones, and How to Recognise Them,”
from the bookcase. The Twins and his father
watched him making elementary tests.
“The rubies are indisputable, but I don’t know
about these blue fellows, though I think they will
polish beautifully, and look something like aqua-
marines.”
As Arthur swept them back into the bag,
Harold pulled out of his inside pockets a handful
of curious white stones, which he laid before
bis brother reverently.
“Do you think these would polish, Rol ? I
thought they’d make a nice necklace for the
mater. Being off her own estate they’d be a
curio, you know,” he said apologetically.
Arthur scoffed.
“He thinks they’re diamonds—as though
diamonds were ever that size,” he laughed scorn-
fully, picking up a stone about the size of a
pigeon’s egg.
Harold blushed, but waited doggedly.
“No, Harold; this isn’t a diamondiferous
country, my boy. If you’d brought home that
number of rubies, now ! ”
“ But will they polish—if they will I’ll get ’em
made into a necklace for mother out of my own
money.”
‘ ‘ Of course they will—almost any stone of that
density and hardness will polish,” said Roland,
after testing one.
“He went fairly mad on those,” laughed
Arthur. “And I was dotty on the rubies and
blue ones. We went down the flue of the volcano
to see if we could get any more, but ”
“ Went down the chimney!” said Roland in
amazement.
“ Yes,” continued Arthur. “We tossed up a
shilling to see who’d go, and, of course, with his
beastly luck, Harold won. So I lowered him
down with a rata vine that we had brought from
the bush to measure the width of the chimney.”
The squatter shivered.
“ Do you mean to say you lowered your brother
down the chimney on a rotten rata and had him
dangliag over eternity ? ” he gasped.
“ Oh no, sir ; we could see the bottom, or what
we thought was the bottom. But it turned out to
be only a ledge about eight feet wide, and he
chucked stones over it to see how far the next step
was, for there was nothing there but basalt and
obsidian. He lay on his stummick, counting the
seconds on his watch till he should hear them
flop ; but they didn’t. So I threw him down
some brush, and, after tying it into a bundle with
his braces, he lit it and chucked it over. Lord
knows how deep it is, as it went on burning till it
seemed to strike the wall and disappear round a
corner or something ; and then ”
“My Creator ! ” gasped the squatter, rising
suddenly and, with savage energy, reaching down
his wife’s riding whip.
“That’s the sort of capers you get up to, is it ?
Take that—and that —and that, you young devils.
Stop them, Roland ! ”
But Roland was too slow, and the howling
youngsters vanished into the passage and roused
the house in their agony.
Had there been only half-a-dozen of the white
pebbles, Roland, who had spent a few months on
some diamond workings in Brazil, might have
examined them carefully. But that startling heap,
which would have declared a handsome dividend
on a capital of a quarter of a million, he did not
regard seriously. Still, after the Twins had gone
howling down the passage he found himself
strangely attracted by them. He examined them
carefully, referred to the book repeatedly, then
applied a number of tests.
“ They’re diamonds right enough, sir.”
“ Diamonds, eh ! ” said the old gentleman,
pushing his spectacles back on his forehead and
regarding his son fixedly.
“Yes, sir, diamonds. If there are any more,
we’re made. This lot alone is worth almost as
much as the station. By Jove, we’ll make this
country yet, sir ! I can see Rangihape diamond
mine in full blast; swarms of men working in the
open cuts, hear the machinery whirring. I can
see a Leigh ”
“Not so fast, Roland. They may be dia-
monds —I believe they are when you say so ; but
there may be no more there, or there may be
millions, as Arthur says, and you unable to strike
the spot. Ring for supper, my son. I’m getting
too old for that sort of thing, and I don’t think I
want to see any sort of a mine on my property.
It would disturb the sheep.”
All the same, Roland went straight to his
brothers’ room, and, informing them they had
really struck a diamond mine, promised to send a
parcel off the very next day to Amsterdam to be
cut, polished, and set in a necklace.
* * * *
The scattered squatters rallied their forces at
Rangihape ' homestead. Down in the ravine of
the Rangitata the triumphant Hori Grey waited to
gather the dead and wounded before pressing on
to deliver the final blow. As troop after troop
galloped up the wide carriage drive the first query
was as to the whereabouts of Roland Leigh.
“He’s dead,” said Colonel Mortimer. “I
saw him fall. ,He swore he wouldn’t retreat
before even Grey himself, and, damme, he didn’t.
I stayed till they prepared to give us the steel.
Their sharpshooters picked us off like rabbits.
(Continued on next paye.J


XMAS
BILIOUSNESS
FESTIVE SEASON HEALTH HINTS.
EATING richer food and eating more freely than usual is the cause
of many people being out of sorts to-day. Nothing more easily
causes Stomach and Liver disorders than an excess of rich foods.
Headache, coated tongue, “ wind,” bad breath, vomiting, dizziness,
jaundice, and pains near the left
shoulder-blade and across the
stomach, always yield to a few
doses of Bile Beans after the
mid-day meal and upon
retiring. Bile Beans
dispel these wretched
symptoms ; they restore
the vivacity and bright-
ness of renewed health.
They differ from all
ordinary pills and medi-
cines in that they are
composed of certain
valuable extracts from
roots and herbs, and
can be relied upon to
cure. Attention to your
health at this season
is important, and a dose
r
h
(y< Q
n
A
VO?
‘A\
of Bile Beans taken upon retiring will keep your system in
proper order.
As a Summer Medicine Bile Beans are singularly suitable. By toning- up the liver and stomach,
and gently opening the bowels, they promptly dispel Summer Fag, Languor, Lassitude, Fatigue,
Headache, Debility, Loss of Appetite, Aniemia, and ensure sleep by restoring Nature’s healthy
functions. Bile Beans are the most efficacious of modern family medicines, and promptly cure Head-
ache, Indigestion, Constipation, Female Ailments, Bad Blood, Anaemia, and all common ailments. They
are obtainable everywhere at Is. or 2s. 9d. large family box (containing three times the quantity).
ile Beans
9
A
/’/ww d'
j/M'jfo/l'.
Qds) tl /jdadd
and /add dnaaM d
■d da dda/ad.
The line broke. I begged him to come away and
make another stand in the forest ; but he
wouldn’t. And then a bullet took him in the
throat and broke his neck. I saw' he was dead,
and left. Now, what are W'e going to do ?”
“ Whatever it is, it must be done quickly, for
unless we look for Grey he’ll seek us damned
suddenly. He doesn’t let the grass grow,” said
the master of Magnolia Grange.
“ What does Rangihape say ? ” inquired several,
referring to old Mr. Leigh.
They gathered in the billiard-room, and the
bent form of old Mr. Leigh w'as carried in and
placed in an easy chair at the end of the room.
Pie tried to speak, but could not. His son was
dead—a rebel and an outlaw, slain by the
Queen’s troops. (And he had cut his beard to a
point because the Prince of Wales wore his like
that.) His daughter, his favorite Helen, was in the
hands of the victorious Grey to be tried for slaying
her husband. He was crushed. He whispered
that they were to consider themselves and not
him. He was beyond even the terrible Hori
Grey—he was going to the Head Station. And
he spoke truly. It was a thousand times worse
than having his sheep disturbed, and that night
the old Shepherd King gave up the ghost amidst
the general ruin.
The squatters fired the tussock to hold Grey in
check while they decided what to do. The nor’-
west wind came down and drove the fire straight for
the Pro-Consul’s force, and that hardy fighter had
something else than the squatters to think of for
the rest of the morning.
Meanwhile the squatters wrangled fiercely. Old
Mortimer, who, in spite of Grey’s withering con-
tempt, really did possess some horse-sense, pro-
posed to retire into the forest and invite Grey ‘ ‘ to
poke them out.”
The master of Magnolia Grange was aggres-
sive. Why not follow' up the tussock fire and
treat Grey to a taste of his own medicine ! Pie
had surprised them that morning ; why not sur-
prise him that afternoon ? He had bluffed them
out of Christchurch a year ago ; why not see now
what his hand amounted to? They were on
their own plains, amidst their own shingle ridges,
and it would be easy enough to slip past him and
fall on his rear. If Grey was defeated Parlia-
ment would give good terms.
Burning with the memory of their former
humiliation and their rout in the Rangitata gorge,
the squatters cheered the idea lustily.
“Be damned !” snorted Mortimer. “He’s a
better soldier than all of us rolled into one, and
if you think you can surprise him, I don’t. I
think we ought to retire into the bush—he can’t
burn it, and he’d lose every man he has if he tried
to poke us out. Just keep him hung up, and
then w'e can make terms. Damme ! you don’t
suppose you can fight him, do you ?”
“ Why not ? ” chorussed a dozen voices.
“ Well, —just because he has the whole force
of the Empire behind him. That’s all—but it’s
enough. What we have to do is fight for the
best terms now. If we tackle him again, there’s
no hope of mercy. Confound it, I can feel the
rope round my neck already.”
“ How many sheep are there on Raikes’ Flat?”
asked Greville of The Wilderness, turning to the
Twins.
“Twelve thousand !” said Arthur.
“ That’s our commissariat,” said Greville, de-
cisively. “I vote with Mortimer. Tackling
him means a fight to the death, and I’ve seen
enough of that this morning. Leigh’s dead, his
sister’s captured, our old friend here is at the last
gasp —what the Hell more do you want ! There’s
nothing but our lives and property left to fight
for ; and we can put up a better fight in the bush
than outside.”
“ What do you say to that, Magnolia ? ” asked
somebody.
“ It’s safer than my plan, which depends upon
surprising him fighting a tussock fire. What
would happen if we wiped him out, or captured
him ? ”
“Aye, that’s it ! What would happen ? Why,
every man in the colony would be called out
against us, and, if necessary, Imperial troops
brought out. We’d be smashed first by sheer
force of numbers, and hung by dozens after-
wards,” howled Mortimer. “Are you going to
talk all day ? Let’s take a vote whether we retire
into the bush or attack Grey ; strikes me he will
attack us while we’re arguing ! ”
“ Which is exactly what he has done,” said
Mort, of Ocean Caves, as through the roar of the
wind came the rattle of rifle fire.
“ Keep cool,” said Mortimer. “ Hands up in
favor of attacking the man who’s tackling us out-
side now ? ”
None were lifted.
“ Hands up in favor of retiring into the bush,
and sticking out for the best terms ? ”
The room was filled with hands.
Mortimer dashed out, and in five minutes the
retreat into the bush had begun.
So fast did Grey advance through the smoke of
miles of burning tussock that the retreat be-
came a flight. He had advanced his men in two
lines, and they were enfilading the squatters’ men.
The raging wind made marksmanship impossible,
and although there was much noise there was
little damage. The last of the yeomanry entered
the forest in safety. Grey rushed the house
expecting to find it defended, but it was not. The
Twins, who had stayed to secrete their stock of
diamonds, escaped with difficulty.
* * * *
When he. had wasted a week trying to “ poke
them out,” Grey’s opinion of Mortimer rose some-
what. The old fellow did know something about
defending a position, if he knew nothing about
other branches of military business. Grey had
hauled out, and spent a day gazing yearningly at
the mountains, but there was no hope that way.
His one success w'as that he had captured the poor
little Twins, who had been trying to gain informa-
tion of their father.
Strangely enough this depressed Mortimer very
much. He asked for an armistice and a con-
ference. The Governor consented, and under safe
conduct pledges, Mortimer, Greville and Monk
entered the house.
Mortimer gazed interestedly at the long aristo-
cratic face, the picture of which he had carried in
his memory since that night in Christchurch when
he and his force were stampeded out of the city by
the smiling, cynical Pro-Consul.
He sat at the end of the dining table with his
secretary.
“ I think we have met before,” he said to
Mortimer, with an affable smile. “ Please intro-
duce me to your friends.”
Mortimer growled that they would sooner not
have their names mentioned till after the amnesty
was declared, at any rate. He opined that his
Excellency understood the position they were in.
His Excellency did, but he doubted very much
if the gentlemen themselves did. Did they repre-
sent the whole force outside ?
They did—they had stuck together so far ; they
would stick together to the end.
“ What are your grievances—why are you in
arms ? ” asked the Pro-Consul severely.
“We have no grievances, your Excellency ; we
are in auras solely out of loyalty to Roland
Leigh ! ”
“And his sister!” added Greville.
“ But Mr. Roland Leigh is dead. So is his
father. The lady is in Christchurch waiting her
trial. The other two sons are prisoners in this
house. Why are you still in arms ? ”
“ For the best terms, your Excellency. We
want to save our lives, but they are useless to us
without our property. Grant us these and we
march out and surrender. If we’re to be beggared
we might as well die ; and if we’re to die—-well,
better in the forest than in poverty. ”
And Mortimer stuck his hands into his pockets,
leaned back, and stared at the ceiling. Hori
Grey looked at Greville.
“I can only add, your Excellency, that we are
still a force in being, and are determined to play
expediency for all it is worth. We recognise that
the cause of the Leigh family is lost. All we ask
is to be allowed our lives and properties. We are
suing for mercy, sir.”
The Pro-Consul smiled, and turned his keen
but pleasant eye on Monk. Monk was a man of
telegraphic brevity, and he addressed the Pro-
Consul as “ Yer Ex.”
“That’s it, yer Ex. Cost £i oo,ooo and half
yer force to smash us right up. Cost yer nothing
to be merciful. Why not ? Can’t hang us all.
Can’t gaol us all. Not worth fighting to gaol a
score, hang a dozen, and beggar the whole
damned lot. Now, you tell us what you want us
to do, an’ we’ll do it, yer Ex. ! ”
“ Yer Ex. ” was equally brief. He was glad
to have met them, the leading spirits of the
most remarkable insurrection he had ever had to
deal with or had read of. He presumed that they
called it chivalry to litter the countryside with
innocent dead to prevent an aristocratic lady
standing her trial. He disagreed with that view',
and regarded it as treason and murder. However,
the question was what were they going to do. It
was impossible for the Crown to make terms with
them. He w'as there to smash them, and if they
remained in arms would do it. As he once before
remarked to his friend Colonel Mortimer—and he
was sure that Mr. Greville, of The Wilderness, and
Mr. Monk, ofßangitata, would agree with him —it
was a good general who knew when to get out.
They had a strong position, but with another 200
men he would undertake to capture or kill every
one of them. As time was valuable he did not
propose to bring up any more men, and would
assault their position with what troops he had the
following day, when everyone caught in arms
would be arraigned in accordance with the terms
of his proclamation. He had noticed the roads
to the north were better than those to the south,
and opined that it was due to the more regular
traffic to the north. He was glad to have met
Colonel Mortimer —as that gentleman had a good
grasp of one branch of warfare, and, ifhe remem-
bered rightly, he had promised him another audi-
ence. He W'ished them good afternoon. When
they had dined the guard would conduct them to
their own outpost.
Finding that the squatter force had taken the
hint and dispersed in haste along these good roads
that led to the north, Hori Grey hurried av*.y.
There w’as trouble with the Maoris in the other
island, and for the time he left the Shepherd
Kings to lie low and hide as they pleased. Before
he left, the Pro-Consul promised the Twins to use
his influence on their behalf, but warned them
that his“reign was nearing its end. It terminated
almost immediately, and the Twins found them-
selves at the mercy of a General Assembly that
was not in a generous mood. It had its hands
too full of native problems to be vindictive to the
squatters of Canterbury, but it was merciless to
the family that had caused the trouble. Rangihape
was confiscated, and sold piecemeal. Burning
with rage, and scared to death, the squatters
placed a sum of money at the disposal of the
Twins to repurchase at least a portion of it. The
boys insisted that the purchase should consist of
the homestead and that patch of barren land on
which the diamond mine was situated. Then
they waited anxiously for the arrival of the cut
gems from Amsterdam, and the news of illimit-
able wealth. That was the hope on which they
had gambled. They filled in the time gathering
as many of the diamonds as they could.
At last the package arrived. The stones had
been set as a necklace for the mother, who had
died at sea, and the Twins regarded the glorious
thing with tear-laden eyes. Their sister was in
Christchurch awaiting her third trial, and they sat
in their father’s office watching the scintillating
fire with the blue tinge in it that was to them the
dawning light of fresh fortune. Both fell into a
reverie, dreaming of the house of Leigh restored
to wealth and power. Through Arthur’s imagina-
tive brain rushed visions of the homecoming of
the scattered hands. He saw the long line of
carts w'inding between the sycamores and pines to
the cottages that had been done up and re-painted
for the occasion, and saw himself and brother
riding round to welcome them back, the old men
taking off their hats, the children cheering. He
saw his sister presiding over the feast in the home-
stead to celebrate a new era. Then the methodical
Harold broke the spell by opening a letter that
accompanied the necklace.
The letter was brief. Its burden was that the
Amsterdam firm had never met with zircons just
like these before.
And the possessions of the once great family of
the Leighs were a patch of shingle that had once
been called a diamond mine, an extinct volcano,
and a mansion so great that all the other assets of
the Twins would hardly buy it one coat of paint.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


'
“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYERS Sarsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitationsthat will only disappoint you. Get AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. i-Lyer «& Go., Lowell, !Mass., IT. S. A..
m
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you packets each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us at per packet Vheny
WetakeaH 1 Youcan retiirn the cards 1 f not, sold. We have no connection with any other firm
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, whereier seen.
'l* ' « :
CARD
8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
All good Australians (by either birth
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to
JOHN B. STEEL, 102 Castlerkaoh Street, SYDNEY.
1
Are You
low spirited
and suffering
from the ex-
cesses of
youth? If so,
Sulphur Bit-
ters will cure
you.
Is your Urine thick,
ropy, cloudy, or high-
colored? Don’t wait I
Your KIDNEYS are
being ruined. Use
Sulphur Bitters.
One bottle of Sul-
phur Bitters will do
you more good than
all the Latin pres-
criptions of drugs and mineral poi-
sons which will remain in your sys-
tem, destroy your bones, and make
you a poor, weak, and broken down
invalid. No person can remain long
sick who uses Sulphur Bitters. If
YOUR DAUGHTER’S FACE
is covered with ugly sores, and fest-
ering Pimples, give her Sulphur
Bitters. Ladies in delicate health,
who are all run down, should use
Sulphur Bitters. None better.
Try Sulphur Bit-
ters TO-NIGHT,
and you will sleep
well and feel better
for it.
Sulphur Bitters
will make your blood
pure, rich and strong
and your flesh hard.
Get a bottle now.
Are You
nervous and
fretty, or in
DELICATE
health? Sul-
phur Bitters
will make a
new person
of you.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 '/ 2 , 2/9, & 4/6
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
JJIU.II
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/ij & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
GOUT
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street, Sydney.
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted,
£l,OOO.
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prize*, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Namo and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you —the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Harlsis’ Seen Sappla Ca. 52
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are unique in this; that they suit you, and everybody; and cannot hurt
anybody. It is important to have that perfect sense of security. They are
Nature’s remedy, innocent of harmful drugs, and compounded only of pure
herbs. You are not always well; few are. This is a remedy you may take
and feel safe. The weight of evidence is proof of this. Proof is what we
have to go by. If we prove a thing to be incomparably good we know it is
good. Several generations of other people have proved that when the
system is jaded, the faculties clouded, and unpleasant symptoms persistent,
BEECHAM’S PILLS do just what it is hoped they will do, assist Nature to
recover herself. That will give you confidence in, proving the fact for
yourself. Where you have a great body of opinion, each person saying
practically that BEECHAM’S PILLS are the
Best for Me
N you must accept the universal verdict. The interested testimony of one
here and there in a multitude, and no more, is inconclusive ; it is what the
multitude does. Actions speak louder than words. Note particularly
whether the multitude keeps a remedy on a near shelf, if ills come, to be
ready for them. That is the real evidence. In many thousands of homes,
in Australia and across the seas, BEECHAM’S PILLS are esteemed
as the one family medicine for those common ills, almost periodic in these
days arising from defective action of the liver, kidneys, and stomach. That
is a habit which speaks very loud. You muse judge on the facts, and test
others’ experience by your own. Therefore take BEECHAM’S PILLS
yourself on this example of others, and you will prove them to be the
Best for You.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price (36 pills),
1/I>£ (56 pills), and 2/9 (168 pills).
V
Out this out
and send it
to us and we
will send
you free,
postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition of
our splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated
Medical Work, which acknowledged medical treatise
should be read by every adult.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
is an up-to-date appliance, whereby electricity in a
gentle and continuous current saturates every nerve,
muscle, fibre and organ of the human system. It
absolutely cures all cases of Nervous Disorders,
Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and
that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on our invention. If we fail the loss
is ours, all you lose is your time ; all we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and
you can have our appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to vou fairly, and carry it out fairly. You don’t have to pay
till you are cure'd. We could not do this if our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that
it gives a strong current, and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from grateful
patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no longer.
Write at once. We can help you.
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
HO
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
r.
MEN
ANO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &>.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”'
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or ff you apply to
jj t . now a copy win De rusi£D FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 509 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Jfo similar book has ever been published.
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
Ip-i vinva verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER " and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of is 6d (stamps). Note Address
OR . MARTIN. M.D., ««m/ey House/' 151 Elizabeth-st.,
mention this paper when writing. m HYDE PARK, SYDNEY-
FREE


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hoze than ours.
Send for
Price
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
Our Hose has a reputation
»hind it, and every hose we sell
'll do that reputation good.
Perdriau RubherCo * Ltd „
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOTOR CARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, to Halsey Street, Cadcgan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference —F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.VV.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. , FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and ,'and.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET*
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
W. & J. LEMPRIERE, 506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And a.t 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
&
m
0
V
T*n,
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
MOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers :M. beetham & son, Cheltenham, England.
Agvnts
-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Orimwadc & Co.
.. .. . r _j
Melbourne.
SOLD BY
ALL FIR
CLASS SI
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“ PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
1-
- 1/6
- - 16
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
\ SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
)CKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Froo, te.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.O.s SYDNEY.
'
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
\ Celebrated
) PLATE and
) CUTLERY
MARK'
C23E3SIC3Q
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Mb
WOLF
1307
max
S t-j
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
aiso SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
l & Js Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
B*|*
ONCE upon a time there was a contractor who had a good job, but do what he could he found at the week’s end he was only just making expenses, with nothing for him-
self. He cudgelled his brains many times, trying to think out the cause of the trouble, but without success. All his men were good workers, for he paid good
wages, and so far as he could see there was nothing wrong with the work. An old friend who was also a contractor came along and stopped to have a chat one day
when he was feeling very despondent and miserable, as with all his care he had. been unable to give his wife any money for housekeeping for some weeks past. Or
course, the question of cost, etc., came up, and the friend said, “ Well, Bill, I can’t see what is wrong, you have a good job at a good price, and there is not mg wrong wi h
your men or the way in which you are doing your work. In mining and contracting the two chief items of expense are wages and explosives now, your wages aie a> rig it,
you have good men, and good men always earn their money ; what explosives are you using ? ” The contractor told him, and his friend immediately.clapped him on the shoulder
and said, “ Why, Bill, there’s where your trouble is, old man ; you go right away and tell your storekeeper to send you some ‘ Hervey s Rackarock, as in tins kind or rock you
will find it will do double the work. Well, old man, I must be going, but I expect you will have more cheerful news next time lam around. By the way, lie said, le
sure that ‘ Hervey’s Rackarock ’is stamped on every plug.” The contractor bid his friend good day, and, with a smile on his face, he hitched up his pants, whistled lor Ins
dog, and off to the store went he. Next day a supply of “ Hervey’s Rackarock ” was on the job. Some time after the contract was finished, the contiactoi met Ins friend
again, and Said, “ You solved my trouble, Tom, when you recommended ‘ Hervey’s Rackarock,’ as everything went Well after I started using it. At the week-end 1 found
I could give my wife all the money she wanted, and, after the job was finished, I was able to buy a terrace of houses. Come on, old man, it smy turn.
The moral of this little story may be obtained at any time at the corner of Clarence and King Streets, Sydney, N.S.W*
(Est. 1884. Tel. 618).
mm
mm
Mi&*.
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents in N.S.W, for
“ATLAS” ENGINES AND BOILERS.
Engines carried in Stock.
The “Atlas” manufactures represent the highest develop-
ment of their several types; while the prices are strictly
reasonable. References given to local users. Please write
for prices and particulars.
“MABOFT ASSAY MATERIAL
* , ' . • 1 " ’ ' ■ ■. V . f*« .
' ' " *'■ . /;; t . ■ ■ ; ? ‘ ./_ , . > ■ ( ' . \ • , ,. t >,* , " • .
ACCORDING TO TESTIMONIALS' THE ADVANTAGES OF “MABOR” ARE—
No change required in the methods of making or using.
Much shorter time to dry Cupels when made.
Absence of Variations due to atmospheric conditions.
Much greater regularity in the Cupels produced.
Absence of cracking in the muffle.
Accuracy in results of assays.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., AGENTS, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
