

T
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney.
—FOB— ' ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
' EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART.
m
eys Orient Jjotel
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
J. & H. McLaren have made a careful study of the requirements of the AUSTRALIAN MARKET,
And now
produce a
TRACTION ENGINE
specially adapted for use on Station
Farm for Ploughing, Clearing
Send for illustrated Descriptive Lists to Sole Agents- Land, Driving Pumps, Saws, Chaff Cutters, and other Machinery.
GIBSON , BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
\
Take it back,
I must have -
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
HUMS SAFES
THE ROYAL
DISWAN LAMP.
f M
1
t\\fm i
wm\x
167 A
St?
k
9^
Economy in Current.,
Equality op Lioht.
THE
mm & swam
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
CbU , OXJOyCdJ u "tU '&€&£'.
PnMQIPkI RABBIT skins & MARSUPIAL skins wool,
UUllulull HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, L.C., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent.
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS .
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
IMPLEX
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
an
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
9 out of Every 10 Men are Asking for if.
Agents : LOHMANN AND CO.
EASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
the
ANNUAL SALE
OF
Crockery, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
&0., is now in Full Swing.
'ncludiiijj Several Bankrupt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
" ns on hl9 recent World’s Tour for Bargains.
I
k
(Wholesale antl Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Watch Melbourne Dally Papers for Detailed Prices at this
Sale, which will astound the Public and the Trade.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
to , m ■■■« r • —'qr l ■■■’»’ — ■» "^ r ,.-^ r ... —^r—^r —«*■ —■*> —•»■ <>»—nr"-««
helidon spa water
Prevents a vitiated state
of Gastric functions.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.28.—N0. 1434.]
[Thursday, August 8, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACN ST.,
SYDNEY. *
Elinor Glyn, Three Weeks, 2s 6d &. 3s 6d, post 6d.
Morgan, W. de, Joseph Vance, 2s 6d <fe 3s (id, post (Id.
Gilbert, W. S., by M. Browu : Stage Celebrities, 3s, p. 4d.
Welsford, Strength o( Nations, 6s, postage 6d.
Wheeler, Old English Furniture, 9s, post Bd.
Richards, Metallurgical Calculations, 10s, post Sd.
M'Carthy, Needle and Pins ; a Novel, cloth 3sod, post 6d.
Wiggin, New Chronicles of Rebecca, 2s o>d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Aveliag, Philosophers of the Smoking Room, 4s, post (id.
Savage, South Seas, colored pictures by Hardy, 245, p. 10d.
Peary, Nearest the Pole, illustrated, 255, post Is
George Morland, Makers of British Art, 4s, posted
Rhoscomyl, Sweet Rogues ; a Novel, 3s 6d, postaire'fid
Brown, Humor of Bulls and Blunders, Is 3d, post 3d ‘
Hall, Heredity and Solution in Sociology, )5« post rh
Upton Sinclair, The Industrial Republic, Cs, post ed
Alfred Brimeau, Masters of Music, 3s, post 4d.
Bade, Modern Mining Practice, 5 vols., fully ili UB ,
Nat Gould, Chance of a Lifetime, picture boards
cloth 2s (id, postage 4d. ’ ils ’
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young*
Thk Lancbt: “Proved to be as effective, bactericidall/i
as is Creosote.’' \
Thb Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great servic
in affections of the voice and throat.” .J&m
Thr Practitioner: “Useful in Tonsilltis, Pharyntf 11
and similar ailments."
G.HUDSOIV.
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland .
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at S2O Regent Street, London.
P-
THE TED PAGE
THE NOVELS OF GALSWORTHY
FOR the novelist England has one
advantage over the newer countries ;
by long isolation and inbreeding her
civilisation has crystallised out into
stable types. The English novelist can
always depend upon his stock characters,
such as the working man, the commercial
man, and the country gentleman. These
types once evolved are preserved and fixed
by that caste which is the still feebly wagging
tail-end of England’s feudal system. Each
type is carefully isolated in its own parti-
cular pigeon-hole; in so well-regulated a
society as England a person who has in-
stalled himself in the wrong pigeon-hole
usually feels so uncomfortable that he is
glad to vacate it. With us there are as yet
no pigeon-holes. Society is a heap that is con-
tinually being resifted; in England society is
a series of superimposed fossil strata. Here
all is flux, the flux of life. There all is frozen
solid, fossilised in death. The Australian
national type is merely in process of evolu-
tion; but in England, not only is the
national type easily recognisable, but sub-
sidiary types like the man of property, the
club man, the manufacturer, the yokel, the
army officer, the Oxford man, the ’bus-
driver, the landed proprietor, are already
safe within their little pigeon-holes. So the
English novelist has to his hand a series of
character studies already labelled.
A striking instance of this definiteness of
type lies in the coincidence that two recent
novels by different authors depict what is
practically the same family. The Country
Gentleman by John Galsworthy (Heine-
mann, per Dymock’s Library) is the country
gentleman called by Snaith Broke of Coven-
den. The English county family has be-
come stereotyped : in both novels we are
introduced to the same set of characters.
J*
Galsworthy is a novelist whose future is
worth speculation. He is undeniably clever,
he has much constructive power, and though
lacking the originality and the breadth of
treatment observable in Snaith’s work, he
means business in the literary world. While
Snaith, however, in his latest novel shows a
masterful disdain for formulae, Galsworthy’s
second work is in style but a variant
of his first. The forthcoming books of
these two should enable us to “ place ” one
as the coming English novelist. That one
will probably be Snaith. Yet The Man of
Property (Heinemann, per Dymock’s Lib-,
rary), Galsworthy’s first considerable novel,
is a remarkable achievement. Galsworthy
has in both his books dispensed with the
traditional hero and heroine. He is con-
cerned not with any individual souls ;■ he is
concerned with the soul of a family. In
England, where the cold winters make the
hearth still the symbol of the national life,
the family still survives as the social unit.
In Australia, as in the Latin races, the pro-
duct of less rigorous climes, the influence of
the sun is swiftly breaking down the domi-
nance of the hearth ; there is no longer with
us the centripetal force of a home fire ; the
God of Light is dissipating the family : home
is not the sole place of warmth.
In The Man of Property Galsworthy de-
picts in all its ramifications through three
generations the development of the soul of
the Forsyte family—or rather its resistance
to development, for the type is static. His
characters number at least two dozen, each
palpably a Forsyte, yet each a distinct
characterisation. Nothing much happens
within this family except eating and drink-
ing, and nothing at all happens outside it,
except the nominal hero and heroine. Of
Philip Bosinney, architect, who called on
the family in a grey hat, and of Irene, the
wife of Somes Forsyte,’ who loves him, we
learn little except as their characters are re-
flected through the Forsyte mind. And
even the opinions of the Forsyte family
are almost inarticulate. Of one member
of the family the author remarks that
his mind was a place where very little
took place from morning to night. This
inarticulateness is a mark of the modern
Englishman. It is the first thing that strikes
a visitor to England ; the Englishman is not
morose nor stupid ; he is either unable to say
what he thinks, or he does not think
it worth while saying—or, more probably,
he does not think it worth while think-
ing. Of the expression of emotion in
any articulate form, the Englishman of
modern novels and modern dramas is horribly
afraid. When a mother wishes to express
her love for her son in his trouble, she usually
talks of the weather, and the son grows
restive. He watches her covertly, lest she
should shed tears or kiss him.
In the prosperous, smug Forsyte family,
buttressed by family pride and almost im-
pervious to assult, Galsworthy has, we
suspect, written a parable of England. The
spectacle of a family festival of the For-
sytes, Galsworthy writes, would bring before
the psychological analyst evidence of that
mysterious concrete tenacity which renders
a family so formidable a unit in society, so
clear a reproduction of society in miniature.
Such an observer
Has been admitted to a vision of the dim roads
of social progress, has understood something of
patriarchal life, of the swarmings of savage
hordes, of the rise and fall of nations. He is like
one who, having watched a tree grow from its
planting—a paragon of tenacity, insulation, and
success, amidst the deaths of a hundred other
plants less fibrous, sappy, and persistent—one
day .will see it flourishing with bland, full foliage,
in a,n almost repugnant prosperity, at the summit
of its efflorescence.
And the Forsytes cannot be underestimated
in our conception of England. In Gals-
worthy’s opinion they are half-England. As
one of them, the only one who had “ made
a mistake ” by deserting his wife for another
woman, genially puts it:
They are half-England, and the better half,
too, the safe half, the three per cent, half, the
half that counts. It’s their wealth and security
that makes everything possible ; makes your art
possible, makes literature, science, even religion,
possible. Without Forsytes, who believe in none
of these things, but turn them all to use, where
we • My dear air, the Forsytes are the
middlemen, the commercials, the pillars of society,
the corner-stones of convention ; everything that
is admirable. . . . Art, literature, religion, survive
by virtue of the few cranks who really believe in
such things, and the many Forsytes who make a
commercial use of them. At a low estimate,
three-fourths of our Royal Academicians are
Forsytes, seven-eighths of our novelists, a large
proportion of the press. Of science I can’t speak;
they are magnificently represented in religion :
in the House of Commons perhaps more numerous
than anywhere ; the aristocracy speaks for itself.
But I’m not laughing. It is dangerous to go
against the majority—and what a majority !. „ .
My people are not very extreme, . , . but they
possess in a remarkable degree those two qualities
which are the real tests of a Forsyte—the power
of never being able to give yourself up to any-
thing soul and body, and the “ sense of property.*
Jt
Into this compact family group, most of
whom hated each other with a hate that
was so alike that it kept them together, in-
truded the hero with a grey hat.
“So extraordinary, my dear—so odd !” Aunt
Hester, passing through the little, dark hall (she
was rather short-sighted) had tried to ‘ shoo’ it off
a chair, taking it for a strange, disreputable cat —
tommy had such disgraceful friends 1 She was
disturbed when it did not move.
The action of the story begins with the
rumor, whispered among the horror-stricken
Forsyte aunts, that the wife of Somes
Forsyte “ was asking for a separate room ” ;
and ends abruptly in a tragedy that seems
as if it must shatter the centripetal force
that holds the Forsyte clan together; but
nothing happens. Nothing canf happen—
to a Forsyte. The wound in /the family
honor is forcibly closed, the door slammed
on the world outside. Somes Forsyte can
manage his own affairs. We are left to im-
agine the horror of that prosperous house-
hold where the husband and wife know all—
and can do nothing.
je
By such a tour de force, The Country House,
excellent work as it is, is necessarily over-
shadowed. Galsworthy has a subtle humor,
and his observation is always exact. His
Pendyces are as characteristic a type as his
Forsytes ; and in both books he walls round
his family from the world. The Pendyces
exist in their country house as isolated from
the world as if on Kosciusco.
What, indeed, could be more delightful than
this country-house life of Mr. Pendyce; its per-
fect cleanliness, its busy leisure, its combination
of fresh air and scented warmth, its complete
intellectual repose, its essential and professional
aloofness from suffering of any kind, and its soup
—emphatically and above all, its soup—made
from the rich remains of pampered beasts ?
Mr. Pendyce thought this life the one right
life; those who lived it the only right people
He considered it a duty to live this life, with its
simple, healthy, yet luxurious curriculum, sur-
rounded by creatures bred for his own devouring
surrounded, as it were, by a sea of soup ! And
that people should go on existing by the million
in the towns, preying on each other, and getting
continually out of work, with all those other
depressing concomitants of an awkward state
distressed him. ’
Galsworthy puts into words the inarticu-
late creed of the country gentleman.
I believe in my father, and his father, and
his father s father, the makers and keepers of my
estate ; and I believe in myself, and my son, and
my son s son. And I believe that we have made
the country, and shall keep the country what, it
is. And I believe in the Public Schools, and
especially the Public School that I was at. And I
believe in my social equals, and the country house
and in things as they are, for ever and ever'
Amen.
&
But the eldest son, educated upon these
sterling principles, falls in love with Helen
Bellew, a woman separated from her hus-
band. Helen, as a lady delicately puts
it, is “one of those women you never
can look at without seeing that she has
a—a—body.” The discarded husband “turns
nasty,” and the Pendyces see their im-
maculate country house threatened with
divorce proceedings. And suddenly the
squire sees that, after all, this house of
his is but a house of cards. The romance is
the tragedy of a pair who think their social
world well lost for love; but one of the
pair—the beautiful Mrs. Bellew who has a
body—gets tired of George Pendyce even
before the divorce proceedings start. So
the solution is unconventional, brought
about by the delightful revolt of Mrs.
Pendyce, the patient, faded English aristo-
cratic mother, who “has never known the
luxury of breaking down.” Mrs. Broke, in
Snaith’s novel, also revolts, and also for the
sake of her son : it has evidently become a
habit among the English gentry. If Gals-
worthy had not written The Man of Pro-
perty, this novel would have been regarded
as a strikingly clever production, but both
novels may be placed in the class, F 1.
AUSTRALASIA, AND A BUTTONHOOK
A lot of loose and scrappy journalistic refuse
has recently been raked together and deposited
by tidy publishers in a couple of garbage-tins.
The tins are respectively labelled, The Real Aus-
tralian (by Alfred Buchanan, Unwin), and Ad-
vance Australasia (by Frank T. Bullen, Hodder
and Stoughton, both per Roycroft Library). Occa-
sionally quite valuable things are found in garbage-
tins, and in Bullen’s garbage-tin we discovered a
nice button-hook. We have no use for button-
hooks ; but we mean to frame it as a memento of
Frank T. Bullen. Buchanan claims to know the
real Australia because he has lived here—may be
living here now. He prattles of many things,
most of which we knew before. His value as a
national critic may be gauged by his chapter
headed “Pseudo-Literary,” wherein he divides
our alleged literature into three schools : —the
humorous-descriptive style, the flippant, and the
erotic.
“Td be a successful writer of the descriptively
humorous kind it is merely necessary to attend to
a few simple rules. It is necessary to get to-
gether as many adjectives as you can, and
always to apply them in a context unlike that
to which they have grown accustomed. Thus, if
if you are describing something tragic and awful
—say, a murder —it is a good plan to make use of
such adjectives as commonly do duty for an
artistic criticism or a musical performance. . . .
String together all the unlikely and dissimilar
phrases you can invent or remember ; make a
liberal and generous use of ‘and’s’ and ‘also’s’;
be prodigal of semicolons and sparing of full
stops; above all, cultivate an appearance of
abruptness and of brevity.”
Buchanan has much to say, most of it qualified
out of recognition, of the Australian girl, of the
Little Australian, of politics and journalism.
He devotes a chapter to Steele Rudd; and of
George Reid he makes these remarkable observa-
tions : —“ If he followed out his own inclinations,
he would either be a transcendental philosopher
or a poet of the mystic school. He would never
speak a word about politios, and he would never
make a joke. . . . But he has never got quite free
from the idea that success is a desirable thing to
obtain. It is the one infirmity that sticks to him.
. . . He knows that for a clever man the best and
surest way to success is to play the fool. That is
why he has talked on such a commonplace subject
as polities to tens of thousands of people; that is
why he has so successfully, so brilliantly, played
the fool. ... If he has one political leaning over
another, it is in favor of Protection. ... It is
possible to look forward to the time when circum-
stances, and his own desire to be impartial, will
bring him out as the champion of Protection in
Australia. This is necessary to the complete and
artistic balancing of his career. . . . We are bound
to admit that he touched nothing he does not
adorn.”
Buchanan notes that there is so much talent
running to waste in the daily press that the con-
tinent should be able to support two or three
magazines of its own. And, finally, “The re-
turned Australian—the man who has battled hard
for a living in London, and has more or less
failed—comes back with the conviction that
racial sentiment is a vain and foolish thing. For
him it is dead ; its embers lie strewn about the
pavement that runs past London newspaper
offices, and are trampled under foot by the in-
different millions on their passage to and fro.
The thoughtful and clever Australian... begins
to pin his faith to a future that is not the future
of the old world, but of the new.”
Buchanan has not succeeded in visualising the
real Australia, but among the sweepings are to be
found occasional shrewd pronouncements; and
the book will do no harm. Bullen’s book, the
work of the somewhat tired and overworked
author of The Cruise of the “ Cachelot," is frankly
a picture glimpsed by a hurrying and preoccupied
tourist. The articles in this garbage-tin were
written for the London Standard, and were pre-
sumably dashed off in the intervals between his
lectures. Bullen has dropped a lot of butter into
his book : Australasia is yellow with it. But
beneath the butter we came upon the button-hook.
Overstimulated by the fact that he bought a lob-
ster in Australia for Is. 6 d. that would have cost
him ss.—think of it, Englishmen !—in London,
our seaman-lecturer adventured rashly out and
purchased a button-hook. And the button-hook
purveyor charged him sixpence for it! In Eng-
land, where the male inhabitants presumably still
have a use for this archaic instrument, it appears
that button-hooks are six a penny—even cheaper
than Gilbert’s dukes. But Bullen bore up bravely
under the extortion. “ I gasped, and then
laughed heartily.” The situation was saved.
In addition to the button-hook, Bullen dis-
covered several other things in Australasia. He
enthuses over the excellence of the surface and
care of the streets in all the Australasian cities ;
except, of course, Sydney, the splendor of tk 1
public buildings, and the comfort and cheapness 5
of the hotels. This Englishman never seems t
be able to accept without comment the facts that
our food is good and cheap, and that baths are
free. Of Maoriland he remarks that with all his
admiration for her institutions, “as far as growtl j
is concerned, she appears to be about at a stand,
still, especially when compared with provincial I
towns at Home which might be named by the
score.” And everywhere he is struck with the
abject defencelessness of our cities. “I do not
care whether they acquire a purely Australasian
Navy or subsidise a sufficiently powerful squadron
of the Imperial Navy for Australasian defence
The thing is to prepare for the defence of this
wonderful group of cities set on the borders of
the Southern Seas, reared by men of our own
race, Anglo-Saxon to the core, without more than 1
a trace of that extraordinary mixture of breeds
which is seen in the United States.”
Bullen notes the clear line of demarcation
between English Socialism and the Australasian
brand. He defines our Socialism as “the inalien-
able, incontrovertible right of every man to live
and enjoy life, providing that he can justify his
claim to be fit to live” ; while his definition of
English Socialism is that “every human being
born has a right to live whether he will
work or n0t.... In consequence of this
difference, Labor Legislation, or even Socialism,
does not strike me out here as presenting any
dangerous features.” But it is about Food that
Bullen becomes most enthusiastic. The English-
man reverences Food, and it is gratifying to find
that our Food agreed with Bullen. In this
important matter “ the Antipodes can challenge
the world. As far as food is concerned, it is like
travelling from one home to another.” One feels
that our Food almost made up for the Button-
Hook.
*
Some cheering news from John P. The
wild wail of “T. D. Mutch ” (Red Page,
27/6/’O7) is really too D mutch. I have had
seven solid years’ experience in the literary
line, and I know that bis sneers are un-
called for. During these seven years I’ve been
metaphorically kicked out of every magazine
editorial room in the English printing world;
but I’ve sold a lot of stuff nevertheless. If any-
one can offer me advice about the selling of fiction j
I want to hear from him right away. I’ve sold I
work in America, England, and a little in Aus-
tralia. (By the way, I never sold sixpenn’orth of
fiction in my native country—Maoriland.) But
I’ve sold to the first-flight magazines of America.
I’ve sent dozens of manuscripts through the post,
and never lost one, nor have I ever had an
important MS. marked in any way. The Bulletin
man is the only editor I’ve ever known tco
offend in this manner. H@ has scrawWed
“D” on small things of mine (probably mefant
it for D -), and has scratched the At ago
of the cross on the back of nearly ajHW’
verse I’ve ever sent him. Have invariably® farad
editors, especially American ones, promp®*, con-
siderate and gentle to your offerings. If V'Jfeuwat
attention, courtesy, first-rate pay, and editor
hungry for good work by unknown writelm try
America. That’s been 'my experience every i|time,
and I’ve bumped against every big ew&or
worth his salt in the States, from S
McClure to Norman Hapgood. I’ve had personal
letters from several of them asking me to subnlrit
fiction. Of e»urae, T. D. Mutch may never haw
heard of me, for I’m still “unknown,”
God ! Only my intimate friends know me as an'
author. When I got 18s. 6d. per 1000 words for a!
story from Geo. Newnes, or Arthur Pearson, I
didn’t rush round to the local “ rag” and beg. for
a two-inch “personal” to the effect that “Mr.
Scrawlem Scribble, the rising young Maoriland
author, has just received advice of the sale of a
powerful story from his pen to ‘ Scragg’s Maga-
zine’ for the satisfactory sum of 50 guineas.”
I’ve always been after cheques, and not news-
paper gush. T. D. Mutch’s closing advice,
“get an axe and go to work,” has been given
many times before, but it only applies to
the incompetent. If writing stories isn’t
work, well tell me! You go about always
with your eye cocked to observe the elusive plot,
you draft out your ideas, you write your stories,
you re-write them, you boil them down, you
patch them up, and then finally you typewrite the
MS. And then you’re told to “go to work.
The insinuation that literary work doesn’t pay is
also incorrect and misleading. I know that there
is big money in it, and that there is no more need
to pack your bag and flee to England than there
is necessity to rush round madly, and then dash
off to Siam. A man with the ability to write
well can sit down in Australia and make a good
living. Stay at home and use the mails. They re
frequent and sure. Some day I contemplate
writing an article to demonstrate that a man can
stay in Australia and have the whole world as a
market for the products of his pen. I’ll also prove
from my own experience that a man can sit
here and make a comfortable living at the ganie.
Just now, however, I’m too busy. Got 9870
stories, 167 articles, two novels, and one play to
write.
[The joyous John P. will please note that The
Bulletin has reformed. It no longer—if it ever
did —disfigures copy returned. It may think
D and say D , but it doesn’t write it.]
x _
A. and C. Black’s charming color-books reaches
another issue in The Savage South Seas, painted
by Norman H. Hardy, recently of Sydney,
and written by E. Way Elkington, author
of a recent book upon Maoriland. The p>°‘
tures are, as usual, well produced, but the
artist fails to realise the brilliant glow ot
color that floods our tropics. But for this un-
accountable sombreness, the work is admirable,
and for the leisure hour the book makes a delight-
ful companion.
Owing to the fact that this page goes to pr® B ?
so early the instalments of our Sausage SehJ*
will necessarily be published in succeeding f° rt '
nightly, and not weekly, instalments. So if o°r
enthralled readers will only have patience >


a®
Finishes SATURDAY, AUGUST 17.
MEN’S
SUITS.
The Latest
Cut.
TAILOR MADE, ROUND
or SQUARE CUT, with
PADDED SHOULDERf,
VEST HICH CUT, and
TROUSERS CROSS OR
SIDE POCKETS.
Materials
Thoroughly
Shrunk.
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d.
136 Dark Fancy Tweed; sizes 4to 7 27 G ... 20 0
357 Light and Dirk Tweed, sizes 3,5, 6, 7 ... 27 6 ... 22 G
I-SO Strong Yorkshire Tweed, sizes 3to 7 ... 28 G ... 22 G
12G Strong Yorkshire Tweed, sizes 41 to 7|> 5J
to " ... 28 6 ... 22 G
897 Dark Fancy Tweed, sizes 4| to 7J, 5§ to 2B 6 ... 22 G
249 Fancy Check Tweed, sizes 4to 7 ... ... 28 G ... 22 6
26 West of England Venetian, sizes 3to 6 only 35 0 ... 25 0
72 Fancy Mixed Tweed, sizes 3to 7 30 0 ... 25 0
56 Fancy Worsted, sizes 3to 7 ... ... ... 30 0 ... 25 0
60 Fancy Striped Yorkshire Tweed, sizes 41
to 91 30 0 ... 25 0
170 Fancy Cheviot Tweed, sizes 3to 7 32 6 ... 27 6
47 Sergerette, sizes 3to 7 32 6 ... 27 6
208 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3to 7 32 6 27 G
31 Fancy Worsted, sizes 3to 6 ... ... 40 0 45 0 ... ’ 35 0
29 Heavy West of England Tweed, 4 to 7
only, 61 to 91 50 0 52 6 ... 40 0
187 Blue Diagonal Serges, sizes 3to 7 28 6 ... 22 G
86 Indigo Worsted Serges, sizes 4,5, 6 0n1y... 30 0 ... 25 0
191 Fox’s Diagonal Serges, sizes 3to 7... ... 32 6 ... 26 0
121 Indigo Blue Serge, Fast Dye, sizes 3to 7... 32 6 ... 26 0
110 Fox’s Worsted Serge, Soft Finish, sizes 3
to 7 35 0 ... 27 6
MEN’S TROUSERS .
Tailor- Made—This Season’s Patterns—Side or
Cross Pockets.
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d.
410 Fancy Tweed, neat patterns, sizes 3to 7 ... 6 6 ... 4 9
338 Fancy Tweed, neat patterns, sizes 3to 7 ... 6 9 ... 5 0
465 Fancy Yorkshire Tweed, sizes 3to 7 ... 7 6 ... 5 6
122 Hair Line Tweed, sizes 3,4, 5 0n1y... ... 7 6 ... 6 0
91 Dark Fancy Tweed, sizes 3to 7 7 6... 60
281 Navy Serge, sizes 3to 7 8 6... 60
106 Striped Worsteds, sizes 3to 7 8 6 ... 6 0
729 Fancy Worsteds, sizes 3to 7 ... 8 6 ... 6 0
634 West of England Tweed, sizes 3to 7 ... 8 6 ... 6 0
674 Fancy West of England Striped Tweeds,
sizes 3to 7 8 0... 60
594 Dark Fancy Tweed, sizes 4t07, 51 and 61... 9 0 ... 6 6
616 Light and Dark Check Tweed, sizes 3to 7... 8 6 ... 6 6
214 Fancy and Striped Worsted, sizes sto 7 ... 10 6 ... 8 0
207 Heavy West of England Tweed, sizes 3to 7| 11 6 ... 8 6
MEN’S TROUSERS AND VESTS.
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d.
94 Navy Serges, sizes 3to 7 ... 14 6 ... 10 6
107 Dark Fancy Tweeds, sizes 3to 7 14 6 ... 10 6
291 Striped and Checked Huddersfield Worsted,
sizes 3 to 7 15 6 ... 12 6
181 Striped Worsted, sizes 3to 7 15 6 ... 12 6
128 Fancy Tweed, sizes 3to 7 16 0 ... 12 6
124 Dark Fancy Striped Tweeds, sizes 3to 7... 16 G ... 12 6
249 Fancy West of England Tweed, sizes 3to 7 1G 0 ... 12 6
REMNANTS! REMNANTS!!
Serges, Tweeds, Sergerettes, Worsteds and Twills.
Men’s Suit Lengths, Trousers and Vest Lengths, Trousers
Lengths, Boys’ Knicker Suit Lengths—all at HALF-PRICE.
BOYS and YOUTHS’ TROUSERS.
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d. s. d.
287 Fancy Striped Worsted, sizes 10 to 7 6 8 0 .. 5 6
189 West of England Checks and Stripes
sizes 12 to 2| 8 0... GO
263 Fancy Striped Worsted, sizes 10 to 7 0 8 6 ... 6 0
A Pag'e of
Barg'ains.
Mostly
For Men.
Boys and
Youths’
Suits.
Stylish Cut &
Well Made .
COAT Single - breasted,
round or square cut,
stitched edges, padded
shou!ders, and flaps
on pockets.
VEST Single - breasted,
with or without collar.
TROUSERS Side or cross
pockets, raised seams.
147 Navy Diagonal Serge, sizes
10 to ...
105 Fox’s Indigo Serge, sizes
10 to 2 ...
8!) Fox’s Worsted Serge, sizes
10 to ...
90 Navy Serge, medium
weight, sizes 12 to ...
133 Fox’s Diagonal Serge, soft
finish; sizes 10 to 2^
36 Dark Fancy Tweed, sizes
10. 11, 2,2 J only
127 Sergerette, sizes 12 to ...
37 Hair Line Tweeds, sizes
12 to 2| ...
56 Fawn Check Tweeds, sizes
10 to 2j
84 Dark Fancy Yorkshire
Tweed, sizes 10 to ...
47 Fawn Worsted, sizes 12
to 2| ....
97 Fancy Cheviot Tweed,
sizes 12 to 2g
160 Fancy Mixed Tweeds,
sizes 12 to ... ...
97 Fancy Mixed Tweed, sizes
12 to 2|
87 Light Check Worsted,
sizes 11 to
/
I* iSP
IL.
Knock - Outs
—IN—
Knicker
Suits.
Boys’ Norfolk and
Knicker Suits.
BOYS’
NORFOLK SUITS.
47 Light Tweed, sizes 8 to
11, usual price Bs. 6d. ;
reduced to os. 6d.
216 Striped and Mixed
Tweed, sizes 4 to 13, usual
price 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d. ;
reduced to Bs. 6d.
349 Light and Dark Striped
Tweed, sizes 4 to 13, usual
price 11s. 6d., 12s. 6d. ;
reduced to 10s.
97 Sergerette and Tweed,
sizes 6 to 13, usual price
12s. 6d., 14s. 6d.; reduced
to 10s. 6d.
91 Navy Serge, sizes 4 to 12,
usual price 14s. 6d., 16s.
6d.; reduced to 12s. 6d.
BOYS' COSSACK SUITS .
Usual Price Reduced to
s. d. s. d.
12& Navy Serge, sizes Bto 13 20/-, 21 0 ... 16 0
42 Sergerette, sizes Bto 13 21 0 ... 16 0
BOYS' CONWAY SUITS .
122 Navy Serge, sizes oto 8 9/6,10 6 ... 711
139 Light and Lark Striped Tweeds,
sizes 2to 10 .. 12/6,13 6 ... 10 0
Buy NOW.
Delays are Dangerous.
Wintry
Wants a t
Welcome
Prices.
Men's
Overcoats.
Padded Shoulders
and Raised Shoulder
Points, Vertical
Pockets, Stitched
Back, Cuff and Yoke
Shoulders, Lined or
Half-lined, Cut in the
Latest Style.
47 Fancy Rainproof
Tweeds, sizes 3 to
7, usual price 205.;
reduced to 16s. Od.
137 Fancy Striped
Rain proof T weeds,
sizes 3 to 7, usual
price 255. ; re-
duced to 20s.
853 Fawn and Brown
Macintosh Ches-
ters, sizes 3 to 7,
usual price 255. ;
reduced to 20s.
123 Fancy Striped
Rainproof Tweed,
sizes 3 to 7, usual
price 265. 6d. ; re-
duced to 20s.
16 Grey Striped
Rainproof Tweed,
sizes 3,6, 7 only,
usual price 275. 6d.;
reduced to 21s.
27 Grey Striped
Rainproof Tweed,
sizes 5,6, 7 only,
usual price 30s. ;
reduced to 225. Od.
Also a Splendid Lot of Sample Coats, Various Qualities,
At Greatly Eeduce:! F Fr
For the
Rising
Australian
“Just for
the age,
when
thought is
speech an:)
speech is
truth.’’
* %
BOYS’ NAUTICAL SUITS .
Usual Price lied ue cl t-
s. d.
249 Mixed Tweed Sailor Suits, sizes oto 12 5 11
238 Navy Serge Sailor Suits, sizes oto 12 6 (>
159 Navy Serge Sailor Suits, sizes oto 12 8 6
243 Melton Chesters, sizes 2 to 1
63 Striped Rainproof Tweeds, sizes
2 to 12
395 Navy Serge, sizes 0 to 6
493 Navy Serge, sizes 7 to 12
534 Fancy Tweed, sizes 0 to 6
696 Fancy Tweed, sizes 7to 12 ...
183 Fancy Mixed Tweed, sizes 0 to 6
237 Fancy Mixed Tweed, sizes 7 to 12
374 Navy Serge, sizes 1 to 6
476 Navy Serge, sizes 7 to 12
s. d.
ANTHONY HORDERN (& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MAKE MON
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SY DNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient ESFERTa, who pay sp
carefully attended to by our suau ui mgiuj — ----- • r -'
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. _A^cr-'t'ail l .Sales rent P P jp
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for 1 s ‘fe
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER-
0
5-ijl
to
M
0
V
ILUARD
TABLES.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
Icomplete catalogue, which will be
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOT J
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
POST CARDS ON CREDIT
THE BEST PENNY POST CARDS IN AUSTRALIA.
Send No Money. This is Your Oppprtunity
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, etc., varying in Price and Quality, given
as a PRESENT when you Return the for Cards.
PENNY POST CARDS are our GREAT SPECIALITY, and we will send you any Quantity,
from One to Ten Dozen at Is. per doz. on Credit, to prove the SUPERIORITY of our Cards.
After you receive the Cards and our Free Prize List, send us the amount due for the Cards, and we
will send vou your choice from our Prize List (sent with the Cards) without Any further Payment
Of course "if you choose to sell the cards we have no objection. The value of your reward depends on
the number of Cards you order. You may rely on our TREATING YOU FAIRLY, as it is to our
interest to do so. a TRIAL. SOLICITED.
A Penny Stamp should be sent for each doz. cards ordered —the actual cost of Postage.
POST CARDS SUPPLY CO., 19 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W,
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
Art the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proo
supports
-- &
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-f. onted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P 0
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MFETITIOKT.
WINES Byands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDEIIS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made East, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
ok Roccaccio, 2/(1. Hkptamkron. 2/b. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Iruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto M ike Love. Is Dream Book, Is. Morgan s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; post 1/8. Krkut.
zkr Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery's Secrets of
ttik Romisii Priests, 2s. Tiie Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love
2s6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Gd posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, is. ; post is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, 1 s. Scientific Wrestling, ls.3d. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweeps, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
i® r 'AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address
Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
£3T.
mi
WMoMl-
mmm
m
AV.i
Z?
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols.
Winchester cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50, shoot
where you aim when the trigger
is pulled. They are always
accurate, reliable and uniform.
Shoot Them and YouTl Shoot Well.
Always Buy Winchester Make.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with t his machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulas printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a. box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
mm
Free
&ioo
a WeeK
Given
Away
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ' on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—-See Capsule mark'd ENt’S 'FRUIT «ALT;' Without It you huro $
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
• Pnparod only by J. O. UNO, Ltd.. • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, XNQ.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Stc., everywhere.
ARTERS
no WILE
mm
pony
puts
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and
PILLS, and above all LIVER PILES, Live*
once with CARTER'S resist the wonderful
Complaints never have and never e*
efficacy of these gentle little pms.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter* s Little Liver Pilla Must Bear Signature oi


A cough is a danger signal. You
should heed its warning promptly.
Begin at once, and take regular
doses of
lifer's
'Cherni federal
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in the
throat easily passes to
the bronchial tubes,
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
sibly to pneu-
monia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
the chest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs. |
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, MaBs.,U. S. A.
&
WARRANTED TEH YEARS.
We despatch direct from oar Coventry factory
higher grad O e n ME n AD ay8 ’ * PptOYAI -
Coventry Flyers
at losa than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
wanted in each dis-
,, . tiict. Lar e i roflti
easily made. Write a. once, ÜBing efficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
wi sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., »».200 LIVERPOOL
ACTIVE AGENTS
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
APktareol
BEALTB
The Evidence
from 250, Edgware Road, Newtown,
N.S.W. , May Ist, 1906 :
“Without success I tried many pre-
parations for .my daughter Lillian,
who suffered at various times from
measles, rheumatism, eczema, and
consumption of the bowels; in fact,
she was so ill that I thought she would
die. Then I tried Scott’s Emulsion
with such good results that she has
gained considerably in weight, her
flesh is firm and solid, and she is a
picture of health and vigour.”
(Mrs.) V. FILEWOOD.
The Reason WHY
She Grew Strong
c Scott’s Emulsion suited her
because of its sweet, pleasant taste,
and its digestibility. This is the
result of the Scott process of manu-
facture (the outcome of 30 years’
experience in making cod liver oil
emulsion) of which you get the ad-
vantage in Scott’s, and no other.
Then, again, the cod liver
oil used in Scott’s is the
purest, finest, most in-
vigorating in the world.
C “ The fishman with the
fish” on the package
assures to you results
every bit as good as Mrs.
Filewood got.
TRADE MARK
scorn
EMULSION
Prom all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
II
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
•e
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
&A *
m
o
&
fl« 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Ghelteniiam, England.
Agents -Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations'
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOI/I\” 11,0012 STAIAS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Wood work and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“ SAPOI.UV ” AIAJMIIVUM KVAAI El. gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnisliable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE COLB PAIAT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
His Majesty tub
Kino and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other.. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND CENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for j
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
Ift is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
| That is obvious at once from its J
> pleasant flavour and the feeling of j
freshness left in the mouth, and of <
course you will soon see how j
splendidly, how easily, and how <
thoroughly it cleans. (
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.<
I
NATURE’S
r
' PERFECT FOOD
Plasmoiv
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER,
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc-Mange
DELICIOUS & DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
Milk Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mercy.
They say my boy lies dead and cold
And by the churchside buried deep,
And long I wept who now am bold
To seek him while they lie asleep.
Asleep they lie; and, waking, lie,
Who point me out that heavy stone ;
Cold earth to hide him from the sky,
Who danced with laughter in the sun !
For he is lost, who loved to seek
The red sun’s death place in the hills ;
There must I find him, by some peak,
And swiftly, for the night wind chills.
Long have I sought him, till the moon
Swung brilliant from her shadowed shroud,
And now the sun burns fierce, and soon
Comes sombre even, cloudy-browed.
I called him through the silent gums
That silver gleam and stand so drear,
So still that not a wind’s breath comes
To witness if he wandered here.
I sought him through the tangled scrub,
Where twisted branches mock and leer,
And shadows slide, and dry boughs rub
And groan, “ He has not wandered here.”
I toiled through all the forest broad,
And by the moss-rimmed streamlet clear,
Waist-deep in fern-tips, cried to God —
He might, he might have wandered here.
I sought him o’el the barren plain,
Sun-baked to stone, and down the steep
Cold gullies, where he might have lain,
Soothed with soft shadows, deep asleep.
I called him where the curlew cried
Out of the valley eerily,
I called him o’er the bare cliff-side,
And my thin voice returned to me.
O, here he played, and there he stayed,
And chuckled, when I sought before;
See there the little house he made,
Shall he not build it any more?
O Christ, that wast a little child,
O Mary mother, by your pain—
My arms are empty, that were filled.
O give him, give him back again !
Now here they come who tell me oft
His little limbs lie cold as stone ;
Where bushes cluster. Soft—step soft—
There must I hide till they be gone.
His little limbs so rosy red,
His little voice that crowed and cried —
O Christ, dear Christ, if I were dead
My heart had comfort by his side !
What’s this warm shadow dancing free
In the light air that laughs aloft?
My little one’s come back to me !
Come back ! I hear his whisper soft.
Come back, come back ! Now sleep thee well,
Safe rocked, safe cradled. ... See, he’s found !
No thanks to foolish folks that tell .
Of cold, still silence underground 1
HARRY SULLIVAN.
The World’s Delight.
A flight of swallows across the sky,
A burst of sudden song,
And my heart goes out to the starlings’ cry
And the fields where they belong.
For now is summer upon the way,
With sun-drenched skies above,
And I shall go out in the fields to-day
A-searching for my love.
Winter has gone, with the unleashed storms
And wild, revolting waves ;
Now the haggard cliff in sunlight warms
Its harsh and pallid caves.
A passing cloud and a frail, faint shower
Have starred the bush with gems,
And the wild, wet wings of the passion flower
Float up the red gum stems.
O, lush and green are the far-off hills
That, curve on soft curve, lie ;
And an echo sweet in the valley spills
From a bird in the nether sky.
’Tis there, where the uplands burst to flame
In a riotous, golden sea,
Shall I stand and whisper my love’s dear name,
And my love will come to me.
And w.e shall follow the roadway red
That winds across the downs,
Where soft-splashed pools of iris spread
And golden wort-weed drowns.
Our feet shall be fleet through the gleaming wheat
That hides the stubble scars,
And our hearts as high as the lark’s note sweet
That seeks the day-hid stars.
O, clear is the East from wind and rain,
And drenched are the vales in bloom ;
The world has come into its own again
Across the starved months’ tomb.
My feet are ready and swift for flight,
As hot the warm blood thrills ;
Now we shall go seeking the world’s delight
Across the crescent hills.
N.S.W.
CARO.


s>
n
&
A
Si
li
N
.S'm.NDsFOBL
(WUNDERLICH
J />v
METAL
Cei lings
Your Horae and Your Business Premises should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting. May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and buildings.
Send for Catalogue “ D.”
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co*, Ltd*,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 PITT STREET. N.S.W. Postal Address:
Victorian Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne. BOX 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
the: tie that binds.
Cahrurys cocoa can be obtained in every corner of the British Empire
VHfU'UW . P/iwaiik;. Frnnnmv if i« linpflimllprf
& everybody agrees that for strength.Purity. FJ.MUrMM9M4y&“J|s uall€d -
'• 2 't nSSSIIIip iiiiiili I §
“is** 'eASUlwHaik Ci British i llfeJEairoVKrm. A.ttat 'w:?! y /i?
in''
ISLES*
. Vl' >
'• / 1 rffffffnr
BRITISH }
exnnxMli*. Nigeria^UliVHUnßKKuf
'SSiVf
ERCOUNTRY
ONI
r $
\ ZEALAND
j"
THE GIFT
TOHER COLONIES
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
For the preservation of your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavorand tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not be without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE &
which, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only 4 h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick Ice Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of 2001 b. of
Ice; if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion, BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save you money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 * 9 Market St., Sydney.
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see out* PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
V.BO/,
'68 8
e>e<?
0~0
*e*'
1892
S»
ROTHES HAH S
m
:
Estab'
1750.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßecgs.
SHC'U UQIIIOR
Scotch whisky
T
4*
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Bkakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereaph Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*! TRANSFORMATIONS! made, on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUI ETS, !• RINLES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessaries in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tiilkpiiiink,
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOCR.
c.
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
I
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and 7"iv 3 Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manageb.
a
r mi
m
:
m
-
■
iihu


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1434.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 8, 1907.
Price 6».
NO ROOM FOR THE FUTURE CHILDREN OF AUSTRALIA.
Merivale, chairman of Sydney Chamber of Commerce, urges that because the infant nation of Australia hasn’t yet fully occupied the Northern
Territory it should be handed over to niggers. This picture represents Merivale’s own house. When he was newly married, and the children
hadn’t yet begun to arrive, he really only required about four rooms of his mansion. So, on his own principle, he doubtless invited Chinese and
Hindus to permanently occupy the rest of the premises. According to Merivale's theory it is foolish and unpatriotic to keen any space for
the children who are to come.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the A ustratinns,"
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address hotters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with, regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inntvurx in. "tnafr. mul ” Lite. •
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted fur direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i. e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Aiding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A aunts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
S&'alleZztfi.
THURSDAY. AUGUST 8, 1907.
THE VOICE OF COMMERCE.
In Australia a very large proportion of the
artisan classes take a profound and intelligent
interest in politics, and in history, political
economy, statistics, and the other subjects which
are the concomitants of politics. Probably there
is no country in the world, save Switzerland, where
this is more conspicuously the case. But there
are always compensations, and in Australia the
amazing ignorance, narrowness, arrogance, and
lack of patriotism of top-hatted commercialism
go far to counterbalance the unusual mental
brightness of the masses. To get 50 commercial
men together is generally equivalent to being in
the company of 49 men who never read a work
on political economy in their lives, to whom his-
tory is either a haze or a blank, and whose politics
are a mass of antiquated class prejudice, tem-
pered by the wildly inaccurate leading article
in that morning’s Aegus or Telegeaph. Of
this kind of commercialism Sydney Chamber of
Commerce is a fair example, and Mr. G. M.
Meeivale, the Chairman thereof, seems to be the
pinnacle of its ignorance, and the top note
of its arrogance, just as the Chairman of
such a body should be. Last week the Chamber
gathered itself together in all its glory, and G. M.
Meeivale spoke a piece upon Australian politics,
which should get him disfranchised along with
the lower animals by special Act of Parliament,
on the ground that he is unique. Here is the
condensed report:—
Mr. G. M. Merivale . . . made a suggestion that the
Northern Territory might be handed over to Great
Britain, to be populated by blacks from India.
Without population, or even police outposts connected
by telegraph, he said, it offered an irresistible temptation
to any foreign nation who might be able to take advantage
of England’s absence or distraction. Never in the world’s
HISTORY HAD A VIGOROUS WHITE POPULATION BEEN REARED IN
the tropics. If the Northern Territory was to be kept for
white men only, it must be kept empty for ever. The
danger of a black population was only real if that popula-
tion'was not under proper control, and a solution of the
difficulty might be found if England would resume the
government of the Territory, as provided when the grant
was made to South Australia. This might easily be done
hv arrangement with the Commonwealth Government
under conditions which need not be onerous-to England,
OR TOO LIBERAL FOR US. .
“ I believe,” he continued, that the country is quite
able to support a large black population, and that the
Indian Government might find it most useful as an over-
flow for the teeming millions of Britishlndia, welldisci-
nlined and accustom, d to the rule of men such as those
who have built up the Indian Empire and now govern it
with conspicuous ability and success. Australia would
have the great advantage of having a large tract of coun-
try, now lying- dangerously idle, peopled and governed,
not only by friends, but by her own kin, and the certainty
that once England adopted such a scheme and undertook
such a duty, our northern coast would be adequately pro-
tected against any attack. No greater interference with,
trade need happen than we now experience from India.”
Now, in the first place, G. M. Merivale in-
trudes into the province of God, and prophesies
and prophecy, especially when it runs counter to
history and evidence, is a rash and impious thing
for any commercial person to undertake. Accord-
ing to Merivale “if the Territory is to be kept
for white men only it must be kept empty for
ever.” Why? And Merivale also says that
“Never in the world’s history has a vigorous
white population been reared in the tropics.” If
he believes that he is one of the most astoundingly
unlettered persons in Australia, for his own
country is proof to the contrary. A vigorous
white population has grown up before Merlvale’s
eyes at Rockhampton, Townsville, Charters
Towers, and over a huge proportion of the
Queensland interior, and in these regions
the death-rate among people of British descent
is far less than the death-rate in England
itself. A vigorous white population is growing up
before his eyes in tropical Westralia. A vigorous
and healthy white population has lived in the
Territory itself for 40 years; it is a very small
population, but, save for the awful inaccessibility
of the place —the drawback which the Common-
wealth proposes to remove—it might be already
as large as that of Queensland itself. And out-
side Australia, as Mr. Merivale probably doesn’t
know, the Boer, who is about as sturdy a fighting-
man as even the Chamber of Commerce need
desire to meet, is, as regards a good part of his
territory, a child of the tropics. Rhodesia is
wholly tropical, and the white man is building
towns and railways there, and hustling in a white
population of which some 13,000 are already
settled. All the fairly well-populated parts of
Mexico lie in the tropics; Mexico has some
3,000,000 of white inhabitants along with some
6,000,000 of half-breeds, and the white race has
been doing reasonably well there, so far as its health
is concerned, for nearly 400 years, while, politically
and commercially, it is doing as well as its
Spanish brethren in Europe. It may not be all it
might be in the way of education, but as regards
vigor the men who crumpled up the French line at
Puebla showed no lack of energy. The white race
does well enough, too —except that it has unfortu-
nately adulterated itself with colored peoples—in
Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombiaandßrazil. Even
Argentina, where the amazing growth of the
white population has been pointed to by Fat 1000
times as an example to Australia, lies to some
extent in the tropics. The partly-tropical republic
of Argentina added 1,700,000 to its population in
the ten years between 1895 and 1905, and the only
explanation of that progress is that its people have
more grit than Mr. G. M. Merivale.
* » * »
If it is to be accepted as a fact that the
Territory, because it lies partly in the tropics, must
remain empty for ever, so far as white population is
concerned, then Mr. Merivale, of the Chamber of
Commerce, must be prepared to prove that Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Bowen, Cairns, Cooktown,
Charters Towers, and dozens of other places don’t
exist. If he can’t do that, then he brands him-
self as about the last possibility in the way
of unreliability and incapacity. And if the same
amazing gentleman holds that the Territory can
never be settled, because it hasn’t been settled
yet, then he is a still more incredible sample of
absurdity and folly. European occupation began
in Australia about i2O years ago, and the
Territory—the spot that was left to the last—
contains now only about 4000 white settlers.
In the same way what is now the United States
had been formally annexed and in occupation by
white races for 260 years before its farthest out-
post, the State of Washington, contained
11,000 people. Then in 40 years that same State
accumulated another 507,000 people. All the
Pacific coast of the U.S. was still empty 240
years after the white man annexed it; if
Merivale had been there, and had had his
way, the whole area would probably have
been ceded to China, and there would never have
been any United States as we know it. Australia’s
Northern Territory, if it receives fair treatment
at the hands of the Australian Government, will
probably do as well as Washington and
California have done. The present Sydney
Chamber of Commerce may be dead b'y that time,
but the world will be alive and busy falsifying
its lugubrious prophecies.
Then having wiped out with a wave of his hand
a thousand prosperous tropical white-man towns,
and declared them, in the vastness of his ignorance,
quite impossible, Merivale comes forward with a
remedy. This is one of the very few countries on
earth where an unpatriotic Tory capitalist could
propose to give away one-sixth of the nation’s
territory out of mere cussedness, and not be
stoned by the populace in the streets. Appar-
ently the pride of race is not in Merivale. His
soul isn’t uplifted from the muck-rake of commerce
by the marvel, never before recorded in the world’s
history, of a whole continent peopled by one race,
ruled by one Government, and speaking one
language—a continent at peace internally, with
no race problem in all the length and breadth of
its vast extent. God gave to Australia a blessing
and an ideal such as no other continent possesses,
and Merivale cheerfully proposes to throw them
away as if they were a bone and a rag. His pro-
posal is that the Territory—more than 500,000
square miles of it—should be voluntarily severed
from the Commonwealth on condition that
Britain fills it with people of an Asiatic race. He
proposes to do this for purposes of defence
—yet the Asiatic in question couldn’t defend him-
self, otherwise he would never be the conquered
person he is. But Merivale thinks that for some
inscrutable reason Britain would defend Northern
Australia with more energy if it were full of
niggers than if it were left in the hands of people
of British descent. Heaven only knows how he
works out the idea, but he seems to believe that
Britain, which has to keep nearly half its regular
army in India to defend one nigger country, is
yearning to keep the other half in Australia to
defend another nigger country. Britain could
make no special profit out of a Northern Territory
which had its own niggers to support, and
Heaven only knows why it should feel thankful,
just when its voluntary military system is almost
breaking down for lack of recruits, to have the
defence and permanent garrisoning of another
500,000 square miles of country left on its
hands. The Territory would be just as much
a part of the Empire without niggers as
with niggers, and the supposition that Britain
would protect Australia if one-sixth of it
were full of niggers, and wouldn’t defend any
of it if it were merely occupied by people of
British race and British speech, reads like the
theory of a madman. Britain will certainly
lend its aid to defend any and every part of the
empire when necessary if its hands are not too
full, though it will be a disgrace to Australia if
British aid is necessary except against a very big
enemy. If a big enemy comes along, and
Britain’s hands are full, and Australia has
to look out for itself —well, how much better
would Australia be for having the chance of
another Indian Mutiny and another massacre of
Cawnpore within its own borders ? Also Meri-
Vale makes the usual parrot remark about the
“ teeming millions ” of the India empire, which,
after all, only teem per square mile, to the same
extent as the inhabitants of thinly-peopled
Switzerland. There is superabundance of room
for the Hindu person in his own country, and
there is no need whatever for him to come and
teem here.
» * * *
There is no record in the daily paper report
that the Chamber of Commerce cried shame on
Merivale, that it howled him down, that it threw
anything at him. The monstrous assertions with
which he bolstered up his case didn’t rouse its
anger. The monstrous cowardice of asking the
overloaded Mother Country to undertake our
defence didn’t arouse its contempt. The gigantic
treason embodied in the idea of bringing racial
wars, hatreds, prejudices and dissensions into the
one continent that has escaped these horrors
didn’t move the Chamber to declare its loathing
of the whole accursed and infamous project. The
trading community seems to be to-day just what
it was when it jobbed in slaves on the Guinea
coast and sold odd lines of flesh and blood in
Savannah or New Orleans. Its soul is all trade.
The cordial assurance of the chairman of the
Chamber of Commerce that, if we gave away one-
sixth of the Commonwealth to be made into a
nigger province, it wouldn’t cause any serious
interference with our trade, showed the com-
mercial soul in its best state of development.
The sale of the bale of calico wouldn’t
be interfered with. And if the sale of the
bale of calico won’t be interfered with, then, to the
commercial mind, all doubts are removed.
EXIT MR. JOHN FORREST.
It cannot be said of John Forrest that “ nothing
beseemed his Cabinet life better than the going
out of it.” Though most are agreed that John
Forrest had no proper place in the ranks of the
present Ministry, and should have resigned im-
mediately after the last general elections, there will
be an even more complete agreement that the pro-
per time to force a Cabinet crisis is not when
one’s chief is ill and already harassed with
over-much care. Mr. Forrest’s conscience
enabled him to continue in office for seven
or more months under singulaily undignified
conditions ; it might, with an effort, have
tolerated a few more days or weeks of im-
propriety. Even a virtuous resolution may
be ill-timed, as the Judge remarked to the lady,
who, having lived with a protector, under condi-
tions not strictly honorable, took advantage of his
illness to abandon him. However, that aspect of
the case is unimportant. John Forrest has at
last torn himself from the Treasury benches and
has gone over to the Opposition. With his
passion for being a prominent personage, he will
probably soon be heard of as a candidate for the
leadership of that motley gathering, and possibly
it may be his fate to settle the pretensions of G.
Bkid, J. Cook, W. Irvine, and Knox."
* * * *
With John Forrest in Opposition, the Aus-
tralian Parliament has advanced a step nearer to
a natural settlement of issues and parties. He
was always an element of weakness in the Pro-
tectionist camp, because, whilst possessing
enough pliancy to remain in office with a party
with which he was in vital disagreement, he yet
had enough strength of character to make him
seek to turn his colleagues to his views, and to
succeed at least in exercising a kind of negative
influence. He was able often to prevent progress,
though never actually to secure retrogression. To
the John Forrest influence was due the fact that
the Liberal Protectionist Government insisted,
in its declaration of Australianism as a policy, in
standing on one leg only, and not on two.
Prime Minister Deakin, Lyne, Chapman, and
Groom are all understood to favor land reform
by the taxation of vast estates into profitable
use; indeed Deakin, at one Sydney meeting,
practically committed the Cabinet to some action
to throw open to the people the lands now held
by monopolists. But John Forrest was able
to paralyse that good intention, and to keep the
Australian Government in the illogical position of
clamoring for more population, and yet refusing to
adopt one sternly necessary step towards getting
and keeping that population. To him mainly was
due the fact that whilst the Prime Minister spoke
at immigration meetings and subscribed on behalf
of the Commonwealth to immigration societies,
the chief agricultural State of Australia (Victoria)
was actually losing its farmer population. In
many other matters of government the sinister in-
fluence of John Forrest blocked progress. A
High Commissioner for Australia would have
been appointed five years ago were it not that the
Forrest influence was strong enough to prevent
the appointment of anyone but Forrest, and the
Australian section of Parliament was reso-
lute that there should not be sent to
London a man whose sympathies were altogether
anti-Australian. It did not improve the posi-
tion —rather otherwise —that John Forrest was
both liked and respected. His personal influ-
ence was great with members, and they condoned
even his curious and undignified greed for office
out of liking for the big burly man with the small-
minded w r ay of looking at most things, and
tolerated this survival of the Crown Colony and
convict days floundering hopelessly among the
men of the new era.
* * * *
But that now is of the past. John Forrest is
not likely ever again to have a place in a
Democratic administration in Australia. The
danger that, to get rid of him as a Cabinet
Minister, a complaisant Prime Minister might
send him to London seems also to be past. Mr.
Forrest will now go into his natural place among
the Anti-Australian opposition, and the chances
that that combination will ever again climb to office
are very, very slight. But the issues arising out of
the incident do not end there. The Cabinet which
Forrest deserted has had to be reconstructed.
In doing that the simple method has been
followed of moving some Ministers up a
step. William Lyne becomes Treasurer,
Austin Chapman Minister for Customs, and
Samuel Mauger, formerly honorary Minister,
is now Postmaster-General. And probably a new
honorary Minister will be sought for among
those who are wholly unfit and those who are
only partly unfit. There is not much other
choice. The Cabinet represents about one-half
of the Progressive forces; the personal standard
of the Parliament is steadily degenerating. It is
difficult enough to get a satisfactorily strong
Cabinet from a half of the House, practically
impossible from a quarter or a third.
* * * »
Of course, the obvious remedy is a reform of
the system to do away with the methods of party
government, and allow all the talents to group
together in one elected Cabinet. That, with a
sufficient increase of salaries (say to members
£lOOO a year and Ministers £5OOO a year), would
allow of a business-like utilisation of the best
governing talent of the community. But for the
present, taking the party system as it is, the
defection of John Forrest accentuates again the
absurdity of a Labor party which shares the
power without sharing the responsibility of
government. A Deakin-Watson combination
would command the support of two-thirds of the
House of Representatives, and would allow of a
really strong Cabinet —strong in personnel and
strong in policy, since it could command a sufficient
majority to give it a soul of its own. The Deakin
Government, as things are, can hardly have more
than half a soul, and half-souls are not satisfac-
tory. What stands in the way of such a combina-
tion is not the portfolio-greed of the Protectionist
wing of the Progressives. It is the intransigean t
attitude forced on the Labor wing by the outside
organisations. When the Deakin Government
was formed, the Labor party might have had half
the portfolios. Before and after the general elec-
tions that share of responsibility was available to
them. At a sign now it would doubtless be
made available again. It is probably a fact that
a majority of the Labor party—and that majority
embracing all the best of the party—recognise
that for them to share in the task of Govern-
ment is the only stable solution of the present
absurd position. But the outside organisations
object, and their objection is fatal. For the pre-
sent, things can remain as they are, for the
urgency of the tariff issue unites enough con-
flicting elements to make a majority until that
business is disposed of. When the tariff is settled
for a while, a readjustment seems inevitable.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Curious Discovery about an Australian
Capital.
At the annual meeting of Sydney Chamber of
Commerce an excited member named Rogers
moved an excited motion about the Ausf/alian
capital and the “ wrongs” of N.S.W. ; ar.d much
discussion ensued. In the course of that dis-
cussion Australia, so far as the printed report
shows, wasn’t even mentioned onco by anybody.
N.S.W. was spoken about; Sydney was wept
about; but the narrow-minded boss bagmen—the
last class in the community to 'earn the meaning
of patriotism or national spirit apparently
haven’t heard of Australia wen yet. And they
put up some extraordinary records in other ways
—witness this for instance :
Mr. G. S. Littlejohn considered the Federal capital should
be in Sydney. That was the Federal compact (Daily
Telegraph report).
Mr. G. S. Littlejohn thought the motion should be
altered to provide that the Federal capital should be in
Sydney. That was r/ally the Federal compact (S.M.
Herald report).
So, apparently the very newest lie is that the
Federal bargain fixed the Australian capital in
Sydney, arid that Ma State is wronged again
by not having /t there. It sets one wondering
whether there is any other State on earth which
is so disgraced by having reckless slanderers and
Anti-Australians to represent it in high places as
is unfortunate N.S.W. The Chamber of Com-
merce, by tolerating Littlejohn, more or less
identified itself with him, and its attitude in the
matter raises the question whether the com-
mercial class was born without a conscience in
political matters ? If anyone falsely accused
Littlejohn of not meeting his business obliga-
tions, and of issuing P.N.s which he didn’t pay,
he would probably be an infuriated man, and
would take wild and whirling proceedings for
slander. Yet he is himself reported by two
friendly papers as standing up before a crowd of
business men, and falsely accusing Australia, of
having made a solemn obligation to place
the capital in Sydney, which alleged obligation
everybody knows hasn’t been met —he is reported
to have put forward this charge as deliberately
as any common Hindu perjurer might do, or any
false witness who is now serving a spell in Dar-
linghurst. If there is any “ Federal compact” to
place the Australian capital in Sydney, then
Australia, by completely ignoring it, is a false and
perjured country, untrue to its obligations and in-
capable of keeping faith. Littlejohn, unless
there was an amazing combination to misrepre-
sent him, threw that charge at his country, just
as any dirty little boy might throw a clod of mud
at a cathedral. It is now up to Littlejohn to
produce the “compact”—which no one else has
ever heard of—to place the capital in Sydney, and
it is also up to him to explain away that clause
in the Constitution which, in the clearest words,
fixes the capital outside Sydney. If he can’t pro-
duce the one, or explain away the other, then
there seem to be two possible explanations of his
language (unless, of course, Mr. Littlejohn
denies having used the language, despite the
Telegraph and Herald reports): One is that,
though the Chamber of Commerce man fully
recognises that it is a most serious offence
to falsely allege that a petty trader tias
dishonored his written promise to pay £2l
3s. Bd., he doesn’t see any harm at all in falsely
accusing his country of having dishonored a great
national obligation. If that is so, then it is useless
to say more. Any person who considers it a matter
of no importance to throw the mud of falsehood
at the good name of his country, is so dead to all
patriotic sentiment, and so oblivious of the ninth
commandment, that it would be just as serviceable
to reason with an ourang-outang. The other
possible explanation is that the statement was
made with a full knowledge that it was a shame-
less and low-down proceeding to falsely accuse
Australia of breach of faith—even to do so
indirectly or by implication; and that doesn’t
seem to make things any better. This one ques
tion of the Australian capital has enabled a smail
section of Sydney Tories and parochialists
to reveal a depth of political degradation
hitherto unsuspected. In speeches, printed
correspondence and newspaper articles it has
shown itself a reckless manufacturer of false
evidence, and revealed itself as a crowd
which seems to consider any fiction, slander or
misrepresentation justifiable and commendable
so long as it heaped discredit upon Australia.
The man who considers it justifiable to lie on
behalf of his country is to be found in most places.
The man who only thinks lying justifiable when
it is against his country and when it tends to drag
the good name of Australia in the mire seems to
be a special product of Sydney parochialism.
And he is a most discreditable product.
*
The Bounties Bill.
Ip the half-apologetic fashion in which the Boun-
ties Bill is being taken through the Reps, is a
sample of how the tariff is to be dealt with, there
is going to be a lot of trouble for Australians who
believe in their country and want it to go ahead.
As item after item came up, “ Dr. Wilson moved


the omission,” or “Mr. Johnson moved that the
item be omitted.” Mostly it was Wilson, and
when it wasn’t Wilson it was Johnson, and when
Johnson was too busy—thinking of the alligator
that wouldn’t eat him—it was Little Willie or
Liddell. Periodically Greid arrived to pass some
elephantine jokes or work otf a couple of tons of
heavy sarcasm. Attorney-General Groom made
little effort; directly he saw an apparent majority
against him he bowed to it, and this naturally en-
couraged the Foreign-traders to propose some more
omissions. So the proposed bonuses for the pro-
duction of olive oil, palm oil, and several other pro-
ducts were dropped; yet on their election pledges,
there must have been a majority of the Reps, in
favor of encouraging these “ natural industries.
Some of the industries would have been com-
paratively small, doubtless, and in that case
wouldn’t have called for much bonus. Yet they
would have provided a little more much-needed
employment; they would have kept in the aggre-
gate many thousands of pounds in the country,
which thousands now go elsewhere, and they
might have led on to much bigger things. But
the barrackers for the foreign grower and manu-
facturer were blatant and persistent, and for want
of a determined advocate on the other side the
industrial advancement of Australia gets a further
set-back. If the Tariff Bill isn’t to be fought for
better than that, the result will be very sorrowful.
Johnson’s Aunt.
Johnson, M.H.R., and the rest of the party
which holds the creed that Australia can do
nothing and should attempt nothing, had a
roaring time over the proposed bonus in aid
of the coffee industry in this country. Johnson
started on the theory that coffee can only be
grown on the rim of Hell, and that, for some
reason or other, if it is cultivated in Aus-
tralia it must be cultivated by women because
women work in the coffee plantations of certain
other countries. (There was a time when women
and children worked naked in the English coal
mines, and then British Johnsons talked in
exactly the same fashion about the coal-mining
industry as a woman’s job.) “ Would any man,”
shouted Johnson, “like to see his female rela-
tions working all day under a vertical sun,” etc. ?
Probably nobody wants to see Johnson’s vertical
relations fainting beneath the sun, but as a matter
of fact there is no special reason why women
should do the work in the coffee fields; and
even if they do it, it isn’t half so hard as cow
work. Moreover, a great deal of the coffee crop is
picked in cool weather, and a great deal of it is
grown in a temperature lower than that of Bris-
bane. It grows best where the climate is cooler
than that of Brisbane, and that is why it is mostly
planted at great elevation. Also, if women in-
sisted on doing the work, they could possibly carry
umbrellas, or wear big shady hats, and also have
a spell in the heat of the day. And just here it is
worth pointing out that any silly cackler like
Johnson can laugh one industry out of court just
as well as another by the Johnson mode of argu-
ment. Johnson holds that there should be no
coffee industry in Australia because the members
of the House wouldn’t like to see their own women
folk working in the coffee fields. And by the
same logic there should also be no clothes in Aus-
tralia because Johnson probably wouldn’t like to
see his mother toiling in a shirt factory, and there
should be no cooking because Johnson wouldn’t
like to see his wife going out to be a “ cook and
general,” and no pickles because Johnson wouldn’t
like to see his daughter toiling as a “factory rat ”
in a pickle workshop. In fact, there shouldn’t be
any work done unless it is of such a kind that
Johnson would like to see his sister or grand-
mother doing it. Even ploughing might have
to be abandoned because Johnson couldn’t bear
to see his maiden aunt harnessed to the plough.
There are countries where women drag the agri-
cultural implement, just as there are countries
where women pick coffee; consequently the blight
of Johnson’s relatives is as liable to fall on one
variety of agriculture as on the other. It is hardly
possible to find one single industry except whale-
fishing that isn’t, in some part of the world, a
woman’s industry; even nail-making, chain-
making, and carrying heavy luggage at railway
stations constitute, here and there, woman’s share
of the world’s burden. But man can’t always
carry his own goods because Johnson wouldn’t
like to see his sister-in-law toiling as a railway
porter, nor can strips of bark be used in place of
chains because Johnson wouldn’t like his niece to
toil, stripped to the waist in a smithy, as girls and
women do in the Black Country of England. The
country can’t measure its industries by the likes
and dislikes of Johnson’s feminine belongings.
—♦
A Fire Insurance Bill.
Frazer, the Westralian M.H.R., knows a little,
but not enough to keep him from making himself
ridiculous. His latest is a Fire Insurance Bill.
The idea is that if a man insures his property for
£5OO, and it is all burned, the insurance co. ought
to pay up the whole £5OO. Now, that looks all
right.if you look at it quickly, and Frazer knows
enough to know what it looks like if you look at a
thing in that way. But if he knew a little more and
looked a little longer he would see that what he
proposes is quite unworkable. Supposing a
man insures his stock. He takes out a
policy for £lOOO because that is about as
much as his store ever holds. Next week,
however, he holds a great winter clearing sale,
and the stock is reduced to £5OO. If he has a
fire then, why should he recover £1000? Why
should he be paid twice the value of his stock ? A
fire insurance policy is a guarantee against loss,
and an honest man can’t want more than that.
If he could get an insurance co. to pay for his
stock at double its value—well, fires would be
pretty frequent, and the worst of fires is that they
have a habit of spreading. Either that, or the
man wouldn’t be able to get a policy to cover
more than his minimum holding, so if he had a
fire while his stock was high he would lose heavily.
There , would be less difficulty, no doubt, with
regard to risks whose value doesn’t vary like that
of merchandise stock. A suburban cottage, for
instance, isn’t very liable to shrink in value from
£5OO to £3OO in the course of a few months. Still,
if the insurance co. has to pay over the
full amount of the policy in the event
of total loss, it will have to make a
thorough valuation at least once a year to see that
the property is worth what the owner wants to
insure it for. The average suburban policy at
present costs about 10s.; if a valuation had to be
made no oftener than once a year it would cost at
least twice as much —in many cases three times as
much. Frazer’s bill wouldn’t seriously affect
the big risk; it would cost very little moi-e to
value the big £5OOO premises in the city than the
small, remote £2OO cottage, and a good deal less
than to value the farmer’s stacks or other property,
which may be miles from anywhere. Frazer’s
extraordinary production may therefore be called
“A Bill to Encourage Incendiarism, and to Make
the Rates for Insuring Workmen’s Cottages and
Farmer’s Property Prohibitive.” And the irony
of it is that Frazer is a country Labor member.
Defence.
Theke should be some move in the matter of
defence during this session of the Australian
Parliament. The present Defence Minister
shows that he recognises the true requirements of
the defence problem by attaching himself to the
National Defence League, which advocates the
compulsory military or naval training of all males
in the community. The Prime Minister has
just returned from London, where he spoke
strongly in advocacy of that same defence
programme, and forecasted its early adoption
in Australia. W. M. Hughes, who in this matter
represents the Australian Labor Party, has
also just returned from London where he spoke,
with a force and eloquence that moved the
Englishmen to enthusiasm, in favor of universal
compulsory service. Everybody who is worth
considering (the little knot of Foreign-trade anti-
Australians, who wish to make defence also a
matter of Foreign-trade and to import the
guardians of our shores, really do not count) seems
to be agreed. With all this agreement some-
thing should be done. Since the Deakin
party, speaking through the Prime Minister
and the Defence Minister is agreed; since,
also, the Labor party, speaking through J. C.
Watson and W. M. Hughes is agreed, what
remains except to make a beginning ? A beginning
must be made, or these men stand convicted of a
cynical insincerity on this most important of
national issues. There is not even the excuse to
be urged that some doubt exists as to how a
beginning should be made. That is clear as any
axiom of Euclid. The first step is to establish at
once an arms and ammunition factory capable of
making, within a reasonable time, a rifle for every
Australian citizen, and keeping him supplied
with practice cartridges ; and fitted also to pro-
duce big guns of every description that can
be wanted. The second step is the compulsory
enrolment, for military training, of the
youths now growing to manhood ; if a com-
mencement were made with those between
18 and 21, in a very few years all the best man-
hood of the country would be trained to arms,
and after our citizens had passed the age of 21 a
few days annually in a military camp would keep
them in training. The cost, in the aggre-
gate, would be large, but it would be very, very
small compared with the wealth and tax-paying
powers of the community, and very, very small
compared with the losses such a policy would
almost certainly avert later on. The fact that so
far Australia has been a cadging blackfellow
in the matter of defence gives no shadow of a
reason why it should remain so for another year, or
another month. The habit of relying on a cheap
cadged defence is the only real difficulty in the
way of vigorous action, and surely that can be got
over.
Wages and Widows.
The judgment of the N.S.W. Arbitration Court
in the Shop Assistants’ matter was the signal for
loud lamentation, and the air was filled with the
strong cry of a stout person in his agony. Sydney
Telegraph made a few masterly remarks on the
matter. It admitted that, on the evidence, a
good many owners of so-called “emporiums”
were disgraceful sweaters, and it was necessary
that something should be done. It didn’t say
what should be done, although it mildly suggested
that the matter might have been allowed to stand
over till Mr. Cauruthers brought along his
Wages Board Bill. It felt almost certain that,
no matter what was done, the shop assistants
would suffer in some indirect way unspecified, and
it seemed half inclined to think that the low
wages should be left low lest an increase of pay
should, in some unaccountable way, make the
remuneration really less while it appeared more.
It was ever thus. The Tory always admits that
something should be done, but, if anyone pro-
poses to do something tangible, the Tory shakes
his cranium till his top-hat falls off, and
declares that the proposed reform will do
more harm than good, and that the worker
is bound to suffer. Far back in the years the
British House of Commons appointed a com-
mission to inquire into the conditions of the
coal-mining industry. The commission came back
from South Wales with an appalling story of how
British men and women worked naked in the
mines—tales of a subterranean inferno where
children were reared to be beasts of burden, totally
uneducated, knowing hardly anything of sunlight,
and nothing of religion or morality—of a dreadful
place where a vast population hardly came to the
surface except for burial. It even brought back
legends of children born in the mines. And the
hardy coal-mining member stood up and said it
was shocking, but if Parliament interfered the
mines would have to close down, and the unfortu-
nate slaves below would be worse off than ever.
Under the existing system they at least got food—
when the mines closed they would die of starva-
tion. Then he sat down with a rent in his face
that he mistook for a smile of triumph. That sort
of individual is with us still, and when the Shop
Assistants’ award was made public, one of the
species, reported to be Crossman, of Arnold and
Co. (Sydney), arose in sorrow and told a grief-
stricken reporter from the Telegraph how the re-
ward had dried up the firm’ssprings of benevolence.
Crossman’s great grief was that the firm would no
longer be able to employ widows, and this is how
he delivered himself on the subject of the pore
widdy : “A lady comes to us whose husband has
died ” (he meant that a lady whose husband has
died sometimes goes to him). “She has all the
necessary educational qualifications, but she lacks
the practical experience. We give her an oppor-
tunity of gaining that experience, but under the
award she has to be paid full wages at the end of
12 months, or we pass her out, and get someone
else, although she lias given every satisfaction.
It is necessary that a woman should have
four years’ training before she can take
charge of a department, and then she
would have an opportunity of earning up
to £4 or £5 per week.” All this is very sad,
but the situation seems to be just this : Either the
firm employs the widow because it requires an-
other employee, or it sacks someone to make room
for her because she is cheaper. In the - former
case it will probably have to go on employing her,
only at better wages; in the latter case, it will
possibly leave off a very dubious species of philan-
thropy. Anyhow, this habit of dragging in alleged
widows as an excuse for low wages, or long hours,
or insanitary conditions, is becoming stale. Even
the proposed graduated land-tax caused some-
body to weep over the imaginary poor starving
widow with £lO,OOO worth of land who was going
to be taxed £lO Bs. 4d. a year. By way of compari-
son, Colonel Lassetter spoke like a soldier and a
man and an upstanding draper. He said he was
glad of the award all round ; that he was
especially glad because of the proposed increase
in women’s wages; and that he considered the
employers would benefit because, with better
conditions, a superior class of men and women
would go into the business. And it is pleasant to
relate that Lassetter didn’t conceal himself be-
hind any widow.
Maoriland’s Loan Madness.
Maoriland closed its financial year on 31st
March, and had the usual superficial stock-taking.
And, as usual, the country seemed fairly well
content with itself, though the dry-rot in its
public finances sticks out so conspicuously that
even the most fatuous islander should be able to
see that something is amiss. Maoriland closed
its year with a splendid paper surplus of £704,030,
of which £700,000 goes into the Public Works
Fund. Maoriland surpluses, nowadays, are
apparently created by charging about £1,000,000
a year of absolutely necessary expenses to the
Public Works Fund instead of to ordinary ex-
penditure. That makes the ordinary expendi-
ture £1,000,000 less, and causes a £700,000
surplus to appear when there is really
a £300,000 shortage. Then the £700,000 sur-
plus is proudly paid over to the Public Works
Fund to show that Maoriland isn’t wholly de-
pendent on loans for its new undertakings, and
with it and £300,000 of loan money, the £1,000,000
or so which should have been paid as ordinary ex-
penditure is liquidated. It is just the same as if
a man with an income of £2 a week spent only
15s. a week, and so had a clear surplus of 255. a
week, and bought his food out of it. Then the
extraordinary soundness of the finances, as shown
by the £700,000 surplus paid into the Public
Works Fund, is held to justify Maoriland in bor-
rowing another £1,700,000 or so to keep things
going. Last year this little State, despite the
gorgeous surplus and all the rest of the shiny
magnificence, added £1,988,000 to its debt, and it
now owes £64,179,040 in all. This is the largest
debt in Australasia bar that of N.S.W., and
Maoriland is doing its best to overtake N.S.W.
At the earliest possible date Premier Ward pro-
poses to borrow another million, and probably a
second one will happen later on in the financial
year. And for its debt Maoriland has less to show
in the way of reproductive works than any other
State. It builds shoddy wooden structures out
of loans, and when they wear out it replaces them
out of loans, and when they wear out again it
replaces them some more out of loans. Railways
and tramways, which are the great reproductive
assets, represent over 12s. in the £ of the Aus-
tralian and Tasmanian public debt; in Maori-
land there is about 7s. worth of railway and
tramway to show for every £1 of debt. On the
great unproductive item of “ Public Buildings,”
in which are included schools, offices, gaols, court
houses, lunatic asylums, and the like, all properly
chargeable to revenue, the Federated States Lave
wasted Is. 6d. in the £of their loan money ; this
same unproductive item stands for nearly 6s. in
the £of Maoriland’s loans. And where the Com-
monwealth has mostly bricks and mortar to show
for its Is. 6d. of debt, Maoriland has to a great
extent only frail and temporary timber to show
for its 6s. of liabilities. Yet Premier Ward
deliberately proposes to do worse in the future
instead of better. He has come back from Eng-
land in an alarming state of complaisance.
He threatens to vastly increase the naval
subsidy for one thing. Then, just at a time when
Maoriland manufacturers, who have to carry the
burden of high wages, short hours, and the ob-
servance of rigid factory laws, begin to find that
the tariff wall is too low, and that the products of
foreign cheap labor are climbing over in an
alarming fashion—just when higher Protection is
urgently needed to prevent Maoriland losing the
ground it has gained and starting on a period of
industrial decay—a yearning to show his “loyalty”
to England by giving large preferences to British
goods has seized upon Joseph Ward. In a few
lines he proposes to increase duties; but the
general effect of his proposals is to encourage im-
ports from Britain at the expense of the local
manufacturer, and in doing so he expects to re-
duce the tariff revenue very seriously. This
year’s sham surplus, after all Mr. Ward’s new
British enthusiasms are provided for, is expected
to be only £212,000 instead of the £717,000, which
was last year's figure. That necessarily means
that the loan accounts, which are shamefully
dishonest now, are expected to become much
worse ; and that Maoriland anticipates charging
still more of the repairs, patches, replacements,
wooden buildings, and utterly unproductive
works, such as “preservation of scenery,” to
loans. Then there are extensive proposals in Mr.
Ward’s programme for the further reduction of
postal rates, but there is not a word about a public
debt sinking fund; and though cheap postage
is good enough when it is provided out of revenue,
there isn’t much to be said for cheap postage that
is. indirectly paid for with borrowed money*
Maoriland is still highly prosperous, thanks to its
graduated land-tax, its policy of breaking up big
estates, its small settlement system, and the tariff
which has, in the past, done so much to build up
its manufactures. And, on top of that, there is
an extra and sham and diseased prosperity or
boom, caused by an utterly reckless and con-
scienceless throwing about of loan moneys. Now
Joseph Ward, with his yearning to manifest his
“loyalty” and devotion to England, begins to
hack at one of the roots of the real prosperity.
♦
Buncoing Australia.
Those who gloat over the fact that Australia has
a big export trade in wheat will do well to draw
in their horns and think a while. From investi-
gations made by an expert Board which recently
inquired into a lot of things for the Australian
Government, it appears that Australia is being
buncoed to the extent of £5OOO on every mil-
lion bushels exported. That is an estimate,
but as the money goes in the shape of some-
thing which it is very difficult to replace,
the loss may be much more than £5OOO. Where-
fore, ye wheat exporters, listen ! One of the
chief constituents absorbed by wheat from the
soil is phosphoric acid, most of which is located
in the husk of the wheat. Therefore, when wheat
is exported there is being exported as well the
phosphoric acid which has been taken from the
soil. The loss to Australia is put down at
£125,000 a year for the last four years. All this
loss can be avoided and more money made if no
wheat is exported at all. Wheat is sent away
merely to be ground into flour. The offal—bran
and pollard—is used to fatten stock in other
countries, and that valuable phosphoric acid of
ours goes to enrich somebody else’s soil. That
somebody else uses it to grow butter or apples or
something which will compete with Australia’s
other produce. The remedy is for Australia to
grind all its wheat into flour, and export the
flour. Then we could keep our bran and pollard
in the country, fatten our own stock with
them, and enrich our own soil. Australian
wheat is looked on as, if not the best, yet
among the best in the world. When bought
by millers abroad it is not ground up into “ Aus-
tralian flour.” It is used to strengthen inferior
wheats from other parts of the world. There
is no reason under Heaven why Australia
should not get all the profit out of its
own wheat, and all the benefits of the mill-
ing industry. There is no reason why we
should not have our own mills and our own
millers on a big scale. They would give a shove
along to the industrial development of this coun-
try that would make people like Bruce Smtth
wild-eyed with astonishment. Of course Australian
flour, being of a superior quality, would have to
command a superior price. How to start the
industry is the question; but the experts
mentioned above have suggested a way. All that
is needed in their opinion is an export bonus of
4s. per ton for a few years. Large quantities of
flour would then be shipped to England, and
would soon make for itself a name and a market.
This would cost a good deal—perhaps £50,000 to
£lOO,OOO a year for four years. But we are losing
that much in the phosphoric acid. So the bonus
"White.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pure blood is more than gain,
Of luscious sugar or rich ripened grain,
Of wool or gold.
Hate none, oh men of this new Southern race !
But hold your kindred in the foremost place,
And guard the fold.
Great lovely continent,
Prom whose wide lap the native nation, spent,
Degenerate,
Slips to the gulf that takes all outworn things,
The tale unwrit of its poor wanderings,
Except by Fate.
Unto their little end
Their crude wants fill, their failing bodies tend —
They were the first—
Tend till the aborigine’s last bone
Be under gravel mound or sacred stone,
All Nature-nurst.
And if so be, limbs black
And ebon frames, ’mid every grace’s lack,
A soul contain,
A Something destined to survive,
Help it, the deathless seed vet primitive
The flower to gain.
Bring no new Yellow race,
Or Black, or Brown, to spot Australia’s face,
The White man’s field ;
Won for the generations long,
Of White man’s children, unto whom belong
The future’s yield.
Old Northern stem and root,
And young strong-fibred branch, and vigorous
shoot,
From English tree,
Awake and see if greedy menace loom,
That the brave flower of noble courage bloom
Here oversea.
For they, the grasping few,
Who keen for Self, to all would be untrue ;
They would prepare
A thorny cradle for our children’s sleep,
A bitter stubble where they wandering weep
Who drink despair.
Pure blood were greater loss
Than barn or bank beneath the Southern Cross ;
And land unploughed
Were lesser waste than Austral’s whiteness
stained
By alien blood of robbers ebon-veined,
And heavy-browed.
Oh, planter, strong and rich,
And you for whom the poor and pale girls stitch,
Be warned in time,
Ere “ Traitor” ’s writ in blood upon your brow,
Ere fools and knaves who pander to you now
Abhor your crime.
Ere private lust for gold
Fill our dear land with faces fierce and bold,
Of dusky slave
(Filled with their old-time master’s savage lust),
To rain rude war alike on false and just,
The weak, the brave.
Ere come that awful day
Forget your watchword, “ Toil for little pay,”
The selfish lie,
That weak and feeble is the White Man’s hand
To till the garden of his own wide land,
Beneath blue sky.
Oh, rich man, know you not
Th’ Eternal Difference shall not be forgot
By sleepless Fate,
’Twixt Race and Race. For when one race has
rule
And makes the other man a human mule,
There gathers Hate.
Oh, rich man, know as well
In the slave’s Hour, upleaps the slumbering Hell,
And kind helps kind ;
His brother from the over-ocean land,
Would in that desperate time beside him stand
With Hate behind.
What then the false pretence?
Your barn and purse, swelled with their opulence,
Can these protect ?
Shield from the wages of your sin
Your children in the Revolution’s din
In horror wrecked ?
Nay, in the screed of God
(On which for long the men of Greed have trod),
These words are writ:—
Kind keep to kind , and race keep unto race —
Enslave nor wed those of a foreign place,
It is not fit.
Lest our last day be born,
And all our after tale be night forlorn,
Awake and see,
Oh rich, and poor, indifferent, and wise ;
The selfishness of Greed, the cruelty of Lies,
Their tyranny.
For pure blood’s more than gain,
Of luscious sugar, or of ripened grain,
Of wool or gold.
Hate none, but know that Breed.and Blood
Dictate the limits of man’s Brotherhood
And bound each fold.
VICTORIA
M.E.F.


About a good public servant:—
The death of the Rev. W. N. Wollaston, at the age of
85, serves to draw attention to his remarkable son, Dr.
Wollaston, Controller-General of Customs, and probably
the most important civil servant in the Commonwealth.
Years ago the doctor occupied a subordinate position in
the Victorian Customs. He had spare time on his hands,
and utilised it by close study of Customs and other law,
with the result that he became a lawyer, Controller-
General of the Department, and the greatest authority on
Customs procedure and practice in the Commonwealth.
To him belongs the credit of arranging that mass of
details incidental to the inauguration of the Federal
Customs laws. During those troublous times others may
have been in the limelight, but it was the ordinary-look-
ing man who prepared the plan of campaign, and arranged
the defence when the infuriated, swindling importers
rushed to assault the Department. The Commerce Act,
for which lie is largely responsible, will be a splendid
monument to Wollaston’s memory w’hen he goes. The
success of Lyne and Hughes at the Navigation Conference
in London was also partly due to him ; he was beside
them all the time, and Wollaston couldn’t be beside
Dagon’s image for a week without Dagon getting some
points from him. The doctor is without pomp, ceremony,
or swelled head. He is extremely deaf, and has the quiet,
soft voice and manner frequently noticed in those who
have long ceased to hear the tramcar pass. It is rumored
that he will rest from his labors after the Navigation Laws
are passed and regulations framed. Australia will miss
him, although he has some apt pupils amongst his subor-
dinates.
According to the Sydney dailies— the S.M.
Herald and Daily Telegraph—the results of recent
public experiments held in that city with the Tyree
automatic sprayer, the invention of a Sydney business
gentleman whose name it bears, amply demonstrate
that the machine is destined to prove a boon to the
farmer and pastoralist for destroying prickly pear, lan-
tana, and other noxious weeds, and likewise to city cor-
porations in the matter of dust-laying and tar-sprinkling.
As evidencing its utility as a noxious weed destroyer, a
demonstration was given at the Paddington tip on
Tuesday of last week before a number of Queensland
gentlemen and others owning country over-run with the
prickly pear and lantana w'eed pests. A clump of pear
(treated with a special chemical liquid, applied by
the Tyree sprayer, the force-power of which is generated at
a small cost by carbide of calcium) was first shown to the
onlookers. It had been sprayed some eight days pre-
viously, and, notwithstanding the fact that rain had
fallen almost continuously since the experiment, the
plant was quite dead, and in a few days would be ready
for burning off. A patch of lantana alongside, which had
also been sprayed, was likewise dead, and ready for
burning off.*
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everythin" for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
would come back to the same thing in the end, and
we would have a great industry, returning large
profits, firmly established. This value of phos-
phoric acid is no fancy estimate. It has to be:
replaced in the soil in the form of superphos-
phates, and these have to be bought and paid for..
The Unsatisfactory Situation in Queensland..
The political crisis that recently came and went,
in Queensland dug a little deeper the grave in
which Party Government must needs be buried
one of these days, unless the whole Parliamentary
system is to break down. The new Assembly
mustered three nearly equal bodies. No party
could govern unless with the aid of another,
and no party wanted to aid another.
The system of government which we inherited
from England—and which was perfectly suitable
for English conditions at the time England in-
vented it—says that the man with the majority
must rule, and in face of the fact that no leader
had anything dimly resembling a majority it was
quite useless. The extreme Labor party, appa-
rently out of sheer cussedness, had wandered into
Opposition, and sat beside Philp, whose policy is
wholly Tory, and was apparently prepared
to vote with Philp, the Tory, in order
to oust Kidston. the advanced Demo-
crat. Of course, if Kidston had resigned,
being thus left in a hopeless minority, and Philp
had come in, then Kidston and the extreme
Laborists would have sat side by side in Opposi-
tion, and Philp would have gone out. And if
Bowman had then got a turn at the Premiership,
he also would have gone out from the same causes
as the other two. The situation was saved
simply because Kidston didn’t play the orthodox
game. Instead of resigning, he procured a few
days’ adjournment, and sat down heavily to
wait while things turned up, and while he
waited it dawned on the extreme Laborists that
it was a fool of a business to play Philp’s game
for him. So a temporary working agreement was
fixed up with Kidston, and for the time the
Government machine lumbers along. The aggra-
vating feature of the case, however, is the utter
needlessness of this kind of crisis. There
might not be a majority for either Kidston,
Philp or Bowman ; but for every measure
that any one of them or anybody else could
propose, and for any act of administration
that any one of them or anyone else could do,
there was and is and must be a definite majority
for or against. Therefore the machine of State,
except for the unworkable system of creating
Ministries, was in as good order as ever. If
the House elected its Ministry for a fixed
term of three years, then the one element of
discord—the question whether this man should
combine with that man to keep in or to throw out
the other man—would be removed, and business
would go on exactly the same, no matter how parties
multiplied. The remedy is so simple, and the
need of it so great, that it is a marvel how the
obsolete old method still keeps tottering above
ground.
“Vigil” writes: —
Melbourne patent attorneys have fallen in badly over
their allegations of incapacity and negligence against the
Commonwealth Patents Commissioner. At any rate, the
report of the Secretary of the Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment practically exonerates the Commissioner from the
charges. What would be much more to the purpose,
and to the advantage of Australian inventors and indus-
tries, would be an inquiry into the doings of the said
patent attorneys. Not a few of these gentry extract
incomes of over £lOOO per annum out of the inventor, but
since the introduction of the Commonwealth Patents Act
they have been squealing continuously that their oppor-
tunities for private enterprise are hampered. As the
Government fee for a complete patent only amounts to a
few pounds, the agent can only shove on a mere matter
of about £l2 for his more or less valuable services. When
a separate application (with a separate fee) had to be
made in each State, the opportunities for the agent were
more enticing-. Added to this, the present Commissioner
heaps insult on injury by casting a kindly, sympathetic
eye on the inventor who desires to lodge an application
without the intervention of the learned agent. Hence
the discontent. In theory the agent is the guide,
philosopher, and friend of the inventor, hut in prac-
tice his mission is to demonstrate the truth of
the ancient axiom regarding the unwise person and his
money. Not long since an unsophisticated youth, who
thought the mantle of Edison just fitted his shoulders,
was cajoled by a plausible agent into spending about
£l5O, the savings of ten years’ toil, in patenting an idea
that is utterly worthless for commercial purposes.
“ There’s a fortune in it,” said the guileless agent, and he
counselled secrecy and haste lest some unscrupulous
capitalist got wind of the affair. Out of the spoils the
pushful patent agent roped in over half for his assistance,
and the misguided inventor has some imposing documents
announcing that he has the sole right and privilege to
manufacture and sell his invention in various countries,
none of which has any use for it. To save budding
Edi Sons from the snares of the artful agent, the Govern-
ment should go further than a mere reduction of fees,
and should appoint an officer to assist the man with an
idea in drawing up a specification in accordance with the
requirements of the Act.
♦
The Rand Daily Mail tells in an interesting
fashion of how Premier Botha rang down the
curtain on the Chinese Labor curse in the Trans-
vaal. The big man isn’t much of a success as an
orator. He read his policy speech on the opening
of Parliament, and the speech started with plati-
tudes. It went on to mention, through the
rather dreary and wooden voice of the General,
a multitude of items about company law, pen-
sions, civil service reform—all manner of things
for which the Chow Labor party, then sitting
miserably on the spike of apprehension, cared not
one straw. It went on and on as if it would
never stop. And just about the end the wooden
voice stated casually, as if it were blowing away
a wooden fly, that the three years’ indentures of
the first batch of Chinese expired that month,
and that Ah Sin would start for home as his
agreement ran out. There would be no renewal
of indentures, said the wooden voice. And the
curse being thus lifted the voice went on its unim-
passioned way to mention something about
stamps or the like, while frantic and dishevelled
Toryism rushed out to state that mining on the
Rand was doomed —and wrapped itself in denunci-
ation as in a garment.
Every other day or thereabouts the Tory papers
throw their most offensive brick at the Vic.
Immigration League’s recent pamphlet, in which
barrister Marshall Lyle and his party point
out that the first thing to be done is to make land
available for immigrants. The S.M. Herald
last week printed one of these Tory jeers under
three headings—“ Encouraging Immigrants. An
Extraordinary Way. Victorian Deficiencies.”
Yet, on the same page, the Herald had big, black
headings on top of a sensational article—“ Civic
Disruption. Two Departments Embroiled. Sen-
sational Disclosures Probable,” etc. ; also its first
leader was on “Re-making Sydney,” and the
second was on “Trouble at the Town Hall.”
The Herald, in short, has started out on a cam-
paign to get Sydney put in order, and it proceeds
in the very same “extraordinary way” that the
Vic. Immigration League adopts. It remarks
Until there is a very definite clearing up in this way,
the city will not be properly cleansed, nor will the streets
he effectively maintained.
S ill, as the Herald could tell you in her beauty-
sleep, there’s all the difference in the world
between the two cases. The “ very definite
clearing up ” which the Hkrald advocates as a
preliminary consists of emptying out officers and
workmen who stand in the road :
If it should become apparent that certain officials have
outlived their usefulness . . . there is but one course
open. They must go or stand down. The interests of
the city must come first.
But if the big landlord blocks the road, the
attempt to shift him is “extraordinary,” and not
to be thought of—it is the country that must
.stand down in that case.
♦
If the coming of these “contract” Britishers were
not such a vital matter, and if Australia’s need of
white population were not so urgent, one might
laugh at the fuss made whenever a hundred or so
arrive in a batch. The interviewer comes along,
and asks these Cold Country farm hands such
questions as—“Do you think you’ll be strong
enough ? ” “ Have you got a stout heart ? ” “ Are
you going to stay here when your contract is
finished ? ” “ How did they treat you on the way
out?” and so forth. The men who crowded into
Victoria in the ’fifties, like those who left that
.State and rushed “ the West ” in the ’nineties,
had a far tougher time and much more dubious
prospects; but nobody bothered to ask them
had they pluck enough for what was before them.
The fact is that the foreign immigrant has become
such a rare bird that, when he does arrive, we are
quite sure there must be something extra about
him. A country with the vast natural re-
sources that everybody says Australia has, must
have had something extra bad in the way of tariffs
and land laws when it stares at an immigrant as
though he were an early Christian martyr going
to fight the lion by hand.
«.
Carruthers’ latest pose is as the giver of work.
Helping his supporter, W. Anderson, who .is
likely to have rather a bad time at the coming
N.S.W. election, he “recalled the manner in
which additional employment had been provided
for the people, by giving the Clyde Engineering
Co. a contract for the construction of locomo-
tives.” Then: —
He regretted that it had been found necessary to invite
tenders in Europe for additional locomotives. The con-
tract was offered to the Clyde Engineering Co., but it
replied that the price of the original contract was too
low. On the advice of the Chief Railway Commissioner,
he had offered the contract at an advance of £'2so per
engine, but the company still declined, on the ground
that the works were so fully occupied it could not buiid
the engines.
If the Clyde works were full, the Railway De-
partment might have taken the job on at its own
Eveleigh works; but the Giver of Work doesn’t
mention that he fought and schemed against the
manufacture of locomotives there. He offered
the job to a co. that couldn’t take it, and then.he
was so desperately anxious that it should be done
in the State that he sent the order to foreign
workshops; and now he reckons that the local
workman ought to be very grateful because the
foreigner has got the job and the local workman
will get the bill.
*
Some more curious remarks from the Federal
Capital debate in Sydney Chamber of Commerce:
The suggestion that the area should be 900 square
miles was simply made to delay the question.—-E. H.
Rogers.
No member of Parliament could be sincere in recom-
mending a place like Dalgety.— A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.
No suggestion had ever emanated from N.S.W. to build
a capital in the backblocks.— E. H. Rogers.
Wonderful is the large and god-like way these
traders have of throwing things about. As a
matter of easily prqvable fact, it was from
N.S.W., and from Sydney itself, that there came
the first suggestion that Monaro was the best place
for a Federal capital. As regards the gigantic find
reckless announcement to the effect that every-
body who voted for the 900-square-mile area was
a hypocrite, who voted as he did from hidden
motives, and a kind of fraud or swindler who
was actuated by a desire to do N.S.W;,
for the time at least, out of its rights—
that wholesale sort of Domain or Yarra Bank
denunciation is too ridiculous. Quite a number
of members laboriously figured out the area re-
quired for a city and suburbs built on the best
principles, with a park, a water catchment area
and reservoir, an outlet for drainage, and
room to keep noxious trades, should such
arise, at a reasonable distance from the
residential quarters; and decided that an
area of 30 miles by 30 was the minimum. As
for the large statement that every member
who said he regarded the site by the ever-flowing
Snowy River as the best for the purposes of a
capital was telling falsehoods, a short way to get
level would be to state in reply that every mem-
ber of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce is a
drunkard and a wife-beater. Then one slander
would about balance the other.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “La Mascotte.”
Royal “ The Great Awakening.”
Criterion “ Mr. Hopkinson.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Glaciarium lee Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Lady Madcap.”
Her Majesty's “ The Ragged Earl.”
Royal “ The Bondman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Bal Masque (Bth).
Memories of “La Mascotte ” come floating
up from the valley where the dead years are
buried, misty yet fragrant as those of the stolen
quinces we ate in school-time. But after the
resurrection of the piece at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Saturday night, one begins to doubt
whether “Mascotte” is much worthier of the
memories than the quinces were. There is some
coherence, certainly, in the plot, comparing it
with the multitude of comic operas and musical
comedies that have crowded in since ; but there is
no sparkle in the dialogue—even George Lauri’s
gags improved it.
* * * *
Florence roving is the luck-bringer, pro-
moted from the care of the farmyard geese to be
countess in Lauri’s Imperial palace; and Reginald
Roberts is the shepherd, turned troubadour and
then soldier, who makes love to her. The whole
story hangs on the legend of the Mascotte, that
should she wed whom she loves, then she won’t
be a Mascotte any more; wherefore everybody
to whom she brings luck is interested in dropping
snags into the stream of her affections. There
should be great possibilities in this idea, but “ La
Mascotte ” doesn’t make nearly so much of the
possibilities as it might do, though the author
produced some delightful results—especially in
the “ Glou Glou ” duet. Yet even that item has
to be very well done to escape being ridiculous.
And it is well done ; on Saturday it seemed hardly
the same Roberts who sang through his nose to
the distress of the audience’s ears in “Dorothy,”
a fortnight before. Arthur Crane, too, though
still but a poor actor, was in fine voice on that same
date; and Bantock, taking Howard Vernon’s old
part of “ Rocky,” was responsible for some almost
gay fooling. Lauri was the Duke, or Emperor,
or Sultan —anything that so supreme a monarch
pleased—and he did very well; and so did Miss
Evelyn Scott, as Fiametta, the ducal daughter.
There wasn’t any fault to be found with the prin-
cipals then ; and there never is—or hardly ever
—with a Williamson comic-opera chorus. “ Mas-
cotte,” by the way, shows more of the charms of
the chorus than usual; a considerate librettist
keeps the ladies in tights throughout the three
acts. Our fathers wanted a good deal for their
money.
*# * *
The action is among the Smart Set in
London. There is a Duchess who sees her hus-
band occasionally and her cavalier servente with
irreligious regularity ; a Duke who is enslaved to
somebody else’s wife; a Lord who is a co-re. by
habit, and only runs away with a single woman
in the end as a desperate relief from ennui ;
an Earl who, having exhausted his capacity as a
co-re., cants and grows fat in a way that is posi-
tively disgusting; a titled young woman who
rushes the Lord of many divorce suits into
running, or rather feebly sauntering, away with
her; some servants to match, and—“Hoppy.”
Hoppy is a cheesemonger, with the soul of a
cheese-mite, who has come into money, and wishes
to crawl into “society,” and is plucked by the
harpies of the Smart Set. That’s the story of ‘“Mr.
Hopkinson,” produced by the Willoughby-Ward
co. at Sydney Criterion on Saturday. It’s a
savage, rnordantly humorous satire upon Lon-
don society ; and if such accounts as the
divorce courts, the society papers, and current
gossip provide are true, it is not one whit too
severe. Very cleverly written is “Mr. Hopkin-
son.” Some of the dialogue might be by Wilde,
and the situations are sufficiently strong and novel
to give freshness to the old theme of the ambitious
parvenu. As played by the Willoughby-Ward
co., it is notably the best of that crowd’s pro-
ductions, and proves the capacity of these players
for far higher things than farce flavored with
songandance. In places the comedy is broadened
out towards farce—probably a little more so than
the author intended. But that adds to the fun,
and brings a hearty laugh to relieve the half-
wicked chuckle that most of the humor calls for.
• * *
Hugh Ward impersonates Hopkinson, the
boundless little cad who aspires to high and fancy
society, with adroitness. His make-up is perfect,
and his growth from the timid bounder of the
first act, with apology in his soul, to the soaring
bounder of the third act, when he has learnt
enough to be a vulgar rogue among a set of
polished scoundrels, is most natural. Miss Grace
Palotta, as the Duchess of Braceborough, makes
a most undesirable character into a pleasing cir-
cumstance. “Her Grace” is all grace, and
she seems to put a little human sympathy
into the schemes and sins of the smart
lady. Her delightfully clear enunciation
gives full value to her clever lines. Not
quite the same can be said of Reginald Wykdham,
who slurs over some points by too rapid speaking!
But otherwise he is a handsome and impressive
Duke, with hair grown beautifully grey in the
service of Satan. A character sketch of the Earl
of Addleton—a fatted child of Baal, the sins of
whose youth have taught him censoriousness in
his old age, and who suffers from gout, sea-sick-
ness and pomposity—adds much to the joy of the
play. The Earl of Addleton’s groans appeal to
some people whose sense of humor doesn’t respond
to the Duchess’s epigrams. A smart sketch of
what a Smart Set maid ought to be if she isn’t
is given by Miss Lillian Scaife, and half a dozen
minor parts are well enough portrayed. Al-
together “Mr. Hopkinson” is a clever play,
cleverly acted.
#* * *
Perhaps the fact is that Miss Maud Hildyard
is a comedy genius with a mission to pour elabo-
rate sarcasm over the modern horror-drama. It
seems the most natural explanation of the fact
that the lady, who dresses with a great deal of
cleverness, and therefore can’t be altogether a
fool, acts such parts as Lola Selby, in “ The
Great Awakening.” It is in the main the lady’s
own play, too, so she can’t plead not guilty
to any of the responsibility. Yes, it must be that
Miss Hildyard is enticing: the trusting patrons of
bellowdrama to Sydney Royal, so that she may
“ rag ” their taste ; and one night she will come
down to the footlights and explain the joke.
* » • .
In “ The Great Awakening,” Miss Maud
Hildyard, in an elegant fawn-colored riding-suit,
chops up Jack Merton with a tomahawk, and
steals his diamonds and his marriage certificate
(it is usual for the suffering heroine who is in-no-
cent and will “ never, so help me Heaven, give up
me chee-ild,” to carry about this document; part
of Miss Hildyard’s subtle “guff” is to have the
man chopped up by a person who wants to steal
his marriage lines). That is the prologue. In
the first act, Miss Maud Hildyard, in a snaky-
red dress that makes her look like 5| feet of a
drunkard’s dream, murders Sir Henry Merton,
Baronet. She has by this time acquired
several husbands, most of whom are assembled
at the semi-baronial hall of Sir H. M., Bart.
One of them the lady sends to gaol for her
murder ; a plurality of husbands is sometimes of
value. In the second act, Miss Maud Hildyard,
in a Wedgwood blue snaky costume like a poet’s
spring phantasy, doesn’t murder anyone, but she
throws pie at the comic relief man, makes a grace-
ful allusion to her “pants” when she is out of
breath (the house shakes with laughter, for some
reason, at this, though it is natural that a lady
should get out of breath throwing pie at the
comic relief). Also she chloroforms the virtuous
heroine, and delivers her into the arms of one of
her numerous ex-husbands. A slight confusion
as to the crowding wealth of incident in the next
two acts must be confessed to. But in Act IV.,
Miss Maud Hildyard is choked by one of her ex-
husbands. She chokes exceedingly well.
• * • *
Presuming that the object is to satirise
melodrama, “ The Great Awakening ” can be re-
commended as a hilarious farce. The only sad
thing about it is that, since Miss Hildyard is her
own comic relief, so to speak, and exhausts all the
legitimate opportunities of the humorous charac-
ters even to the extent of saying “damn” fre-
quently, the confessed comedians have to fall
back on a sort of harlequinade to make their
fun ; and they are very mournful compared with
the leading lady.
** m m
The plot of “ Miss Lancashire, Limited,”
the co. that was floated on Saturday night at
Sydney Palace, isn’t as new as it might have been
hundreds of years ago. An heiress and a serving
maid who change places so that the moneyed girl
may learn the true nature of the man she is to
marry is hackneyed enough, but Sydney has
never before seen such a serving maid in such cir-
cumstances as Mary Ellen Thompson, alias
Miss Lancashire, in reality Miss Florence Baines.
Enter an adipose, yellow-haired young woman in
shortish skirts, with a broad smile and a broader
Lancashire dialect. She carries her luggage, on
which is written as with a thumbnail dipped in
tar, “ Mary ellen Thompson her boxx.” She
has come from her native province to be a ser-
vant in the house of a London gentleman named
Higgins (not Buggins—Higgins). This Higgins
is the guardian of the heiress, Eva Lancashire.
The heiress is as personally unknown to the house-
hold as is “Mary ellen,” but they arrive simul-
taneously, and, through the amazing and incredi-
ble mistake of a butler, the Lancashire-accented
slavey is addressed as the heiress, and the latter
induces Mary Ellen to take on the heiress-ship
pro tem. The lass proves a human earthquake
at which the guardian, Higgins, and his son and
daughter stand aghast. Thenceforth all is broad
farce, tempered by music. Miss Baines’ soprano
voice is bright and flexible, and her interpolations
of popular ballads of the “ Home, Sweet Home ”
kind are received—as are her draggings of the
butler’s whiskers and her back kick—with shouts
of laughter. An outrageous stage Jew compli-
cates matters by trying to get a racing debt out
of the spineless young Higgins. The real heiress
is meanwhile filling the billet of housemaid in
a capable fashion, and falling in love with
Higgins, junior, just as their elders had pre-
arranged years ago. The masquerader’s property
having been floated into a Limited Liability Co.,
Miss Lancashire wallops the butler for calling her
“a nasty name.” Under pressure, she confesses
that he said she was “a debenture holder.” The
coachman, having said something in her presence
about a “decree nisi,” next appears with a
bandaged head and a badly-damaged eye.
She has given him—so she explains as she
brandishes a rolling-pin—“ a nice eye.” The
outrageous stage Jew, the Lancashire lass’s Irish
stepmother, and her blizzard of a farmer father,
and, above all, herself, rush and rage and damage
furniture, and make jokes, and if the definition of
humor as “ Whatever is out of time and place
without danger ” be true, then Sydney has struck
something very h umorous. Miss Baines’ gifts as a
farcical-singing artiste are considerable, and
Johnson Weir, as the elder Higgins, is worthy of
much mention. “Little Billee ” Higgins looks
well, but cannot act or sing. Mr. Bert Burton’s
Jew is too absurd to win him sympathy, but he
warbles a clever topical set of verses. The girls
of the company are as flat as cold tea on a billiard
table.
%* * *
Every theatre in Sydney staged a new
piece or revived an old favorite on Saturday
night, but spite of the competition a fine, healthy-
sized audience faced Mrs. Blanche Arral at the
Town Hall, and made enough flattering din
for twice its bulk. The brilliant French
artiste sang up to the reputation she made
here on her first visit, going throngh the
heavy programme of classical and modern
music as a skylark throws off morning
song. The “Bird Waltz,” given by her as an
encore, met with an extra joyous outburst of ap-
plause. The visitor song-bird was supported by
an orchestra conducted by Miss Ruby Guest, and
assisted by Mr. Torzillow, the well-known harpist.
Blanche Arral will give further recitals during the
current week, altering her programme for each
appearance.
* & *
This week at Sydney Lyceum the Towns-
Webb championship boat race is being nightly
re-contested with all the vigor of the real, with
never a capsize nor a flick. Added to this, “West’s
Pictures” have the usual scenic and humorous
films, and things in general look bright and
prosperous.
** * *
The girl who dances a little and sings a
little less is having a spell at the Tivoli, and the
human form divine and otherwise is having an
innings. There are three starred “turns” in
which the principals don’t talk at the people or
sing at them—at any rate, not to any extent worth
mentioning. True, McLean, “ The Scottish Her-
cules,” does mak’ a few remairks concairning the
human muscles, as a preliminary to inviting a jury
of 12 to sit on his chest; probably he’ll want a
coroner also some day. Dunbar and Blake
develop something new in billiard-table acrobat-
ism, and a small girl contortionist weaves her-
self into numerous patterns, and doesn’t commit


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
ONLY ONE “ BROMO QUININE”
That is LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine. Used
the world over to Cure Colds in One Day. E. W,
Grove’s signature on box. Is. l^d.*
the unpardonable offence of Rickards’ last old-
girl contortionist, who pretended that it hurt
her.
Hall Caine’s widely read story of “ The
Bondman” differs considerably in details from
his dramatised version of it which came to Aus-
tralian light at Melbourne Royal, on Saturday.
But in its central figure of the wild brutal brother
converted into a self-sacrificing Christian through
his passion for the girl who befriends him, the
play appeals to the same spiritual vanity of
human nature that made the novel popular. It
pleases men and women alike. A slow, wordy
opening is followed by a rush of picturesque inci-
dent towards the end of the first act. There is a
strong conclusion to the 2nd act. The 3rd, where
the plot is transferred to Sicily for good, has a
lively scene of political disturbance at the house
of revolutionary President Michael, and a second
scene—the Sulphur Mines—which is the steamiest
and most luridly sensational work of stagecraft
that Bland Holt has produced. The 4th act drags
a somewhat long tale to a suddenly happy end
(the finale being the cheapest of clap-trap) on
Lonely Island, in the diocese of the redeemed
priest who has abandoned the bottle.
* » * *
A powerful acting play in its three princi-
pal parts, “The Bondman ” introduces two or
three clever character sketches and realistic bits
of business. The performance is bound to improve
considerably on the first-night result, but the first
night, nevertheless, was got through without any
hitches. Considering that the burden of the
trouble rested on the aged shoulders of George
Rignold, who had been in retirement for seven
years, the play went with rather surprising free-
dom in its trial canter. Twenty years ago Rignold
would have been “immense ”as Jason. On Satur-
day night he almost succeeded in looking the
character most of the time, and the art of the
masterful actor made him interesting all the time.
The strength of his personality, the impressiveness
of his voice, and his talent for creating a part were
as apparent as of yore. Jason is supposed to be a
man of 30 or so, and a thick, herculean fellow at
that. At the outset, and again in the last act,
veteran Rignold got near to a complete realisa-
tion of the character. Miss Ross rose to the
occasion when a burst of feeling was expected of
her. Maxwell, as Michael, carried a more
weighty manner than usual. Styan did fairly
well in the small, effective part of the reverend
penitent. Bland Holt impersonated a Manx
grandfather, and Miss Maggie Knight scored a
striking success as a hard-shell matron of elastic
principles. Twenty other people helped to swell
the triumph of the scenic effects.
** * *
“Lady Madcap” dashed on at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, on Saturday, for a fortnight’s
sprint, and, if all the running is to be as fast as
the first night’s pace-making, the co. will need ice
on its head and a pick-me-up at the finish. The
principals follow each other in song-and-dance
like swallows homeward flying. Watching their
wild endeavors, an audience has no time to gasp
or think, so it has perforce to laugh. If the
“business” is all old, it is often transacted in a
new way, and with such vim that the house,
under protest, gives it the glad hand every time.
But to consider “Lady Madcap ” in cold blood
is to admit that a lot of the music is very indif-
ferently warbled, and that the main strength of
the company is in the lower extremities. The
show is danced into favor.
* * * •
Nimble Daisie Wallace takes the name
part. She is Lady Betty, daughter of a Marquis,
and the curtain rises on the high and mighty
dwelling what time Betty is being severely scolded
by popper. The servants on the doorstep ex-
plain that Madcap Betty has merely asked
a whole regiment to camp in the park, and
invited the officers to “lunch, garden-part,
dine and dance” at Egbert Castle, without
mentioning the trivial matter to her aged
parent. The maiden is shut in her room and
makes faces from the window. Before explana-
tions can be sent, an advance officer arrives. He
mistakes pretty Gwenny Holden (Maud Thorne)
for the daughter of the house, and, for appear-
ances’ sake, the Madcap (having got rid of popper
by forging a telegram from the Prime Minister,
and sending him to town), disguises herself as a
maid, and the castle-full goes into ecstasies of frivol.
The cast is possessed with a mania for disguise
—Gwenny is disguised as Lady Betty, Lady
Betty as her own maid, and Majah Miles Clifton
(who is a wealthy aristocrat in the Royal Guards)
becomes a common trooper because of a wild
desire to “rough it, don’t-you-know.” The
deplorable majah enamors himself of the disguised
Betty-maid, and complicates matters further by
becoming a butler at the castle in order to hover
near his adored one. Two bounder fortune-
hunters arrive, disguised as millionaires, in answer
to a mad advertisement of the Madcap, and the
Betty-maid turns herself into a Guardsman. This
dizzy complication of disguise continues until
popper hurls himself in at the finale and sorts
things out.
• * « *
Gourier gets in good work as a Cockney
tuft-hunter, and Miles Clifton is versatile in his
many disguises—copying closely, but rather
crudely, the G. P. Huntley model. Pretty
Maud Thorne drops much of her former stiffness,
and uses up her weak little voice and her skilful
little feet with some dash and charm. A new
man, Cyril McKay (aforetime with the Waldron-
Humphrey Co.), puts his transfer to good account,
and turns his part neatly, in spite of an extra-
small singing voice. Baritone Kenneth, as a
captain in the Hussars, vocalises effectively
enough as in “The Blue Moon,” and two or three
valuable people, notably Miss Ghiloni and Alf
Stephens, figure pleasantly in small parts.
** * *
In obedience to an order from General
Desire, the Besses o’ th’ Barn are prolonging
their boom in Melbourne until Saturday. The
musical taste of the city, which is fitful and un-
certain where violinists and pianists are con-
cerned, seems to be firmly decided in favor
of the Band. There’s a solidity about the
brazen music that suits the world at large,
and draws enthusiastic masses of public to the
Town Hall twice a day. Some of the perform-
ances have happened at the Bijou Theatre because
the Town Hall was otherwise engaged, but _ for
the last three days of this week the municipal
Barn will be available to the Besses. Saturday
is said to be their “positively last day in Mel-
bourne.”
** * *
Talking of the Bijou, that newly gilded
and profusely mirrored home of the passing show-
man is to be reopened, on Saturday, for a season
of Magic-cum-Biograph. Czerny, a wizard who
has produced innumerable articles from the empty
bell-topper, in Sydney and other centres of popu-
lation, takes the floor under Anderson’s manage-
ment, and the bright surroundings will give the
show a good chance.
* -* * #
The blarney-drama of “ The Ragged
Earl ” is dealing out comic relief and sintimintality
to crowded audiences at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne). Roars of laughter and shrieks of
applause rend the air whenever Andrew Mack, in
his Irish lordly capacity, takes a rise out of a
farcical English footman, or invites the perfidious
English baronet to step outside and do his worst.
A fine expansive smile of appreciation breaks
out upon the countenance of Mack’s fondest
admirers when he remarks that the con-
quest of Ireland was started in the year
eleven hundred and something, and isn’t
finished yet. Also he narrowly escapes a
double encore for stating that the only nation
which ate the Irish flag has had a severe stomach-
ache ever since. Oneway and another Mack is
scoring a complete success for a truly remarkable
drama. Probably the two principal ladies of the
co. are important considerations in this case,_ for
the heroine appears as an angel in boy’s clothing,
and Miss Berlein proves her devotion to the hard-
up Earl by loaning him all the wages that he owes
her, so that he can buy a lovely outfit of pink and
lavender satin. But the bulk of the entertain-
ment is Mack, with a capital M. He provides
the sense of harmony in the proceedings. He
strikes a sweet falsetto keynote, and acts up to it.
** * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum Hall the short
season of West’s Pictures with the Brescians has
already stretched into a long season. The pictures
are subject to variation, and the musical pro-
gramme is changed from time to time, but the
pay-box remains open exactly as before, and the
end of the season is not yet.
* *
The Town Hall is about the liveliest place
in Adelaide just now. It has had a Bach carnival,
and is getting ready for Albani’s visit. Also it
has been the scene of a demonstration by 0.8.1.,
which letters stand for one of Adelaide’s most
useful training-grounds for future citizens : Our
Boys’ Institute. The Tivoli has brightened up
its programme with Granville and the humorous
Carlton ; and at the Royal the Holloway Co.,
which is worthy of far better plays than it mostly
gets, has rummaged in the cupboard of the past
and brought out the good old “ Colleen Bawn.”
THE BONDMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the Isle of Man, where the play began,
Came Michael’s bastard brother,
For the brethren both with a solemn oath
Had sworn to find each other.
But Mick went away on the same sad day
That Jason came to find him,
When he left the Isle for a weary while—
O ! he left his girl behind him.
Far across the sea in fair Sici-lee,
Brave Michael searched for Jason,
Whilst the latter stayed by the winsome maid,
Her charms to fondly gaze on.
She pledged her troth to the brethren both
(She was not a cold i-cycle),
But the Bastard’s luck was to get the “chuck ” ;
Yes, she gave her hand to Michael.
So, across the sea, in fair Sici-lee,
The man of birth unlawful
Turned up one day with intent to slay
His father’s son (How awful!).
But his purpose stern took a god-like turn
ln the Sulphur Mines infernal;
There the Bastard’s hate for an ill-used mate
Was changed to love fraternal.
And he risked his life for the Mick whose wife
He had set his broken heart on,
And he shone and shone, as the play went on,
Till he looked like Sydney Carton.
He d ha,ve fain gone dead, in his brother’s stead,
But his end was thwarted —rather !
For the vengeful toff who’d have ticked him off
Was his mother’s long-lost father.
VIC.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The Andersonian chorus angel, who blossomed out as
a lady of leisure and means some months ago (per medium
of a legacy from an uncle who conveniently died), has
been missed from St. Kilda lately. Her smart dogcart,
with its “ tiger,” was for long a feature of the grey
esplanade, and her accompanying swain—the manager of
a well-known station—usually figured as a well-dressed
feature in the procession. When the dogcart was not in
requisition there was the gorgeous spectacle of a per-
fectly tailored woman, mounted on a striking chestnut
horse, with the groom in correct pacement behind, or
the swain in devoted attendance alongside.
“Mother Goose” laid her one-thousandth egg last
week ; she is now at the Crystal Theatre, Broken Hill, and
the hen-fruit was deposited before a large audience. The
management tried a new device with the seats at the
Hill, but it didn’t work. “Owing to heavy expense” it
offered the pick of the seats at auction, and failed miser-
ably at anything like a sale. It is doubtful if the increased
prices obtained paid for the advertising, etc. Two seats
went at Bs., some at 7s. 6d., and a fair number at 6s. 6d.
Seats may be booked for 6s. at any time, so the difference
wasn’t worth mentioning. The joke of the local humorist
who bid 6s. in a hollow churchyard voice for each seat as
it was put up wasn’t worth mentioning either.
“ S.” .' Andrew Mack made a mistake in “ The Ragged
Earl,” by introducing five little boys to sing one of his
best songs. The youngsters were stationed in the
gallery, and broke into melody in the first interval,
attacking their job with the vim and power of silver
cornets. Their fresh young voices, like the warbling of
ecstatic cherubs up aloft, sounded very fine indeed, but
brought out conspicuously the marked elderly strain in
Andrew’s quaint tenor-falsetto organ.
KENNERLEY RUM FORD AND HIS
BETTER HALF, MISS CLARA BUTT.
It appears that the living statuary now barred by the
London County Council is not the mere girl-sewn-into-a-
pink-bag business that Australia knows. La Milo claims
that she was always “ fully clothed,” but one of her pro-
minent rivals was (by the admission of the management)
attired only in a strip of cloth across the loins —attached
by a bit of gold-beater’s skin—with a copious dusting of
white powder all over her. And, in the case of the so-
called bronze statuary, it was apparently hard to say
whether anything at all save girl was beneath the shin-
ing tinselly outer-coating of powder.
“ Ruru,” from Auckland (M.L.): The Bulletin recently
remarked that one of the pleasures of attending the Mus-
grove grand opera co. was a delightful uncertainty as to
which opera would turn up. This attraction has not
been lost in the voyage across the Tasman Sea. The
Maoriland season was inaugurated with the old game of
toss-up. The advertisements had arranged the first
week thus: Monday, “Lohengrin”; Tuesday, “Car-
men ” ; Wednesday, “ Tannhauser,” with “ Hansel and
Gretel ” as a matinee ; Thursday, “Romeo and Juliet” ;
Friday, “ Flying Dutchman ”; and Saturday, “Faust.”
The booking was very heavy, some enthusiasts waiting
around from 6.30 till 9 on the morning the plan opened.
The crowd at the box-office suggested a football scrum.
Owing to gales the boat did not arrive till Monday morn-
ing. The co. did not feel up to it, so Monday’s perform-
ance was cut right out. The people in charge of the
booking-office had a great day. “ Carmen ” came
off all right, but the matinee didn’t, though
no intimation of its withdrawal was given. It
just perished unaccountably like a swagman out beyond
Milparinka(N.S. W.). Late on Wednesday—toolateforthe
evening papers to advertise the fact —it was announced
that, owing to the indisposition of Mr. Studemund,
“Tannhauser” was off. “Faust” went on instead.
More fun for the booking-office. As to the stalls and
gallery people, if they hadn’t the luck to hear in time
they just had to make the best of it, or toil off home
again. On Thursday “Romeo and Juliet ” went to the
wall, owing to something (Musgrove was apparently past
the, explanation stage by this time), and “ Carmen ” was
repeated. All day Friday and Saturday the office was
besieged with inquirers, and the telephone never got a
rest all day. However, “ The Flying Dutchman ” flew,
and Dr. Faustus bartered his soul according to advertise-
ment, to the openly expressed astonishment of those who
had assembled to see them do it. For an erratic week, I
think this record would take some beating.
“ Reka ” from Auckland (M.L.) : There is a penny-in-
the-slot suggestion about the grand opera co. that is
unique ; you pay your money' and a.vait developments,
and the unexpected happens till you. begin to expect the
unexpected, and then it doesn’t happen owing to the
cussedness of inanimate objects. Illness is rife in the co.
(the Germans don’t look a fragile lot, and they eat like
boa constrictors), and out of seven operas three have
come off as advertised. Other times there’s been
the sudden attack by an incurable complaint,
the apologetic notice, and a demand for money back.
Musgrove told an irate booker that he didn’t know him-
self until just before the curtain rose what the co.
intended to play, and a piece of white paper waving about
gives him the horrors- it looks so like a doctor’s certifi-
cate. He spends strenuous days in argument with Herr
and Her, and sleeps not o’ nights for wondering what the
day will bring forth. When the people rolled up at 7.40
on Thursday to see “ Tannhauser ” they were met
with a notice that “owing to the illness of Herr
Something, ‘ Faust ’ would be played instead.”
Part went angrily home, and the rest angrily
stayed. Opera began at 8.10, and progressed
moderately till the end of Act 11. Then came a lengthy
interval, and the crowd grew anxious. “Isn’t there
goingto be any more?” queried the gods. “ Then give us
our money back 1 ” Interval grew lengthier (it stretched
to half-an-hour), and the audience grew riotous. It
worked itself into a fury, and shied its programme and
empty chocolate-box at the curtain, and told Musgrove
in rude terms its opinion of his German co. Then it left
in contingents. At 11.15 the curtain rose on Act 111, and
the audience stumped out all through the act, and stalked
abusively home. People who lived near managed to get
to their domiciles about midnight, but remote dwellers
didn’t reach their distracted families till one in the morn-
ing. It was a memorable night. And it is asserted
widely that the record interval was due to a free fight
behind the scenes ; but whether Herr Somebody licked
Herr Something, or whether Something knocked Some-
body out in one round, hasn’t transpired.
The art of booming- a faded prima donna is skilfully,
but not too successfully, practised by the crowd behind
Albani. A Ballarat interview contained unlimited gush
over a cabman’s alleged gift of a bunch of violets to the
singer as she was leaving Bendigo. Albani rushed from the
railway car to effusively thank the cabby, but, overcome
with bashfulness, he had disappeared from view. Probably
he was afterwards arrested for furious driving ; a bashful
cabman, fleeing from the spot with a blush on his counte-
nance, would naturally drive like Phaeton in his car. For
advertisement and other purposes, the humble Jehu’s
tuft of blossoms constitutes, we are told, the lady’s most
cherished possession. That seems to be going it rather
strong.
Latest letters from Melba appear to re-affirm the state-
ment (which had been contradicted) of her intention to
come along to Australia for a “ rest cure.” Possibly she
will arrive early next month, bringing her son and his
young wife with her, and will keep house at Ercildoune
(the late “ Salmon ” Wilson’s estate) for six months.
Melba has evidently made up her mind to nurse her voice
until next European spring season, but the resolution to
go and get bored to death in the Ballarat district seems
rather too rash to be true. If it be true, it means that
the tired prima donna’s visit is due partly to a natural
liking for her own Australian folk and birthland, and
more partly to a strong-minded desire for a prolongation
of her supremacy as a vocalist. Although Melba is now
firmly resolved “ not to accept an Australian engagement
on any account,” the chances are that she will try the
effect of her rested Voice on the native dog ere she
returns to grand opera in London.
Richard Wagner had literary aspirations till he heard
some of Beethoven’s symphonies, and then he became
smitten with a passion for music. At the age of 14 he
was attracted by the works
of Shakspeare, and he com-
menced a grand tragedy, in
which Lear and Hamlet were
the leading characters. In
four acts he had butchered
in one way and another 42
people, and almost all his
other characters were in hos-
pital. In fact, so badly was
he stranded that Act V. con-
sisted of cripples and ghosts.
Unfortunately, this great
effort was never staged.
Some opinions from
“Adam’s Olay,” a recent
novel by Cosmo Hamilton,
who married into the pro-
fession, and has been a not-
too-popular playwright:—
“What is personality as far
as actors are concerned ? It
merely consists in their hav-
ing a good set of teeth, or
bandy legs, or indistinct
enunciation, or a moustache
and eyeglass, or a bull neck,
or a lisp, or calves in front
of the leg. That’s a 11.... If
t he critics tell an actor when
he begins—they n< ver tell
the truth when he has ar-
rived—of some glaring and
atrocious fault, he seizes
upon it, exaggerates it,
nurses it, works it into every
part, until, in quite a short
time, it is no longer called
a fault, but a personality.
... Acting isn’t an art. It is
merely the habit of being
able to repeat lines with cor-
rect emphasis without ap-
pearing to act; and most
actors completely ruin the
characters they are given to
represent—by acting.”
“Billy T.” : Somebody
starts a recent Bulletin
story with an assertion of the
superiority of Irishmen over
all other men as love-makers.
To be sure only a woman can
pose as a first-hand authority
on this point, and a woman
of vast experience at that, but I have studied the matter
for fully half-an-hour, reviewing the Irish lovers in popu-
lar drama and successful fiction, and either Mike and
Patrick are most artificial lovers, or the representative
Bog authors have done them grievous wrong. The Irish
stage lover is a rare devil for “purt.v” speeches. He
stands his girl off, so to speak, and uses her as an
Aunt Sally to hurl his compliments at, and those compli-
ments are the purest blarney. All the time you are con-
scious that the blackguard is taking, more pride in his
neat flatteries than in the proper person of the girl her-
self. He irritates me so much with his oratory that I
frequently find myself impelled to yell : “ For the love of
Heaven, man, get into holts ! ” Hang it, a girl wants to
be kissed now and then —frequently sometimes—generally
always, I mig-ht say. 1
Stated that'Miss “ Alda’’—formerly Francie Adler cf
Melbourne—has been engaged by Mr.'Rupert Clarke for
prima donna parts in the forthcoming musical comedy
productions of Meynell and Gunn. The statement is
possibly a mere guess. Buxom little Francie used to sing
to Rupert of yore from the Rickards stage what time the
baronial “ sport ” beamed approving-ly in a private box..
Since then the charmer has had a lot of experience in the-
capitals of the colder countries, including one or two-
appearances in Italian opera at Covent Garden. If she-
returns to Australia, and her voice proves to be half as;
beautiful as her clothes, the niece of the Simonsens will
do very nicely. There’s a good deal of the “hummer”
about her.
“ Minndhdha,” on a family of strenuous mimes:
Our own Tittell is not the only pebble of her family' on
the theatrical beach. She owns two sisters who have
also won out in the mumming line. One, Charlotte, was
leading woman with E. H. Sothern before he took Vir-
ginia Harned (whom he afterwards married) to fill that
position. The other, Esther, was for five seasons with
Charles Frohman, and later was leading woman in “ Are
You a Mason?” It was as Mrs. Clarence Brune that
Minnie Tittell first secured a measure of fame in her native
U.S.A. Saw a picture of her in a Munsey Magazine of
1900—Mrs. Clarence Brune as Portia in Fred Warde’s
production of “ A Merchant of Venice.” It is, indeed,
our own “Tittell,” and shows her more cheerful
and less intense than nowadays. Tittell, like her rival
Ada Ward, has settled definitely on her poise here, which
is to be weepful and very intense. She looks in Munsey as
though she were wont to supply but a mildish brand in
those effective lines seven years agone.
“ Wang” : Par in recent Bulletin re Mr. Hayfork and
his ticket for a trip to Ireland, reminds me that I also
took a trip to the O’Sullivan Isle in the Pullman touring-
car in Bourke-street, Melbourne. A big, brass-buttoned
individual informed me and other gapers that it was the
greatest illusion of modern times. So I tore myself from
a sprat, and taking my seat along with others saw the
greatest delusion of modern or ancient times. A man in
a nicelv-starched white suit, who was advertised as the
world-renowned raconteur, stood in a corner, and
now and again impressed upon us that we were
passing through some of the most beautiful
spots on earth. If railway's were in the habit of career-
ing over the tops of mountains we might have seen some-
thing ; but they' have a provoking habit of crawling
along deep gullies and other low-lying places. Conse-
quently' the scenery was composed of two rails in front of
us, and about 2ft. of mountain on either side. Now and
again we’d see a sweet colleen, attired as a stage
peasant, standing alongside the line, waving an Irish-
linen handkerchief. Then suddenly we were trans-
ported into Wales, where, so said the gentle-
man in white, we’d see some of the historical
castles. I didn’t see any cattles; but a fly got oh my
nose, and we may have passed the castles while I was
knocking it off. After a whole ten minutes we stopped,
and were told that the exciting and enervating journey
was at an end. We were too much ashamed of ourselves
to even say anything severe to the world-renowned
raconteur.
A recent “ star turn ” at the New York Hippodrome
and other ’Murkan vaudevillaries are the Famous Dunedin
Troupe of Cyclists, “ whose feats of daring commence
where all others stop.”
After all, there’s not much difference between stage
barnstormers and pulpit John Stormers.
THIEVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have stolen a day from Fate,
We have stolen it, you and I!
Now, while shadows are long and late,
Let us linger to say good-bye.
For night peers in at the sunset’s gate,
And a slow white moon swings high
Into the eastern sky.
We have filched a cup from Life,
A splendid chalice of gold,
Filled w 7 ith a marvellous potion—rife
With magic of ages old !
And though at the end of the strife,
Short space was it ours to hold,
Yet we quaffed it blithe and bold.
We have snatched from the hand of Joy,
A crimson, passionate rose ;
Perchance for some happier girl and boy
Did its radiant heart unclose.
But we stole it, the scented toy !
And only the wild wind knows
Whither each petal blows.
For we flung them to deck the way
Of the bright hours, shining and brief,
Hours that were born to our laughter gay,
And faded too fast for grief ;
In a fairy land, where you held sway,
And I was a robber-chief.
Dost sorrow, dear fellow-thief ?
Nay, weep not! The world grows old,
And nothing is worth a sigh ;
Though the dusk of life grow dim and cold,
’Tis immortal, our day gone by ;
A jewel ashine in memory’s gold,
And—the iast red fades in the sky,
Sweet siiia r, good-night, good-bye !
S.A.
A. M. BOWYER-ROSMAN.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long’ standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes“ For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises*«;iitirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes I cheerfully
endorse the ‘ EAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address :
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Tell of the good of it,
Say what you should of it,
All that you could of it.
Say what you would of it,
Tell of cclds cured by it,
Good health ensured by it,
Long life secured by it—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
at
A CAMERAS
MAY SEEM TO YOU A TOY,
BUT IT IS NO SUCH THING.
7/6
It is a very good little instrument, and takes surprisingly good photos.
3j> x2| inches. The magazine holds six plates, and it has all fittings to
produce very nice work. For beginners it is specially acceptable.
Postage—N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, Is. 2d.
Other Moderately-priced CAMERAS are
“ The Cantor,” 10/6 ; “ The meteor,” IS/- ; “ The Windsor,” 21/-
TU 0 « ‘U* f W » > FOLDING CAMERAS are
* P* ew ¥ IL/ 1 Ulv just landed, and they are
MODELS OF PERFECTION. Nothing better has ever reached the Australian
market at the extremely moderate prices quoted for these CAMERAS.
Every possible improvement is embodied from !m
in these BEAUTIFUL INSTRUMENTS. M PBICES from m
FRESH PLATES and PAPER CONSTANTLY ARRIVING.
AN IMMENSE SUPPLY OF PHOTO. MATERIALS STOCKED.
HARRINGTON & CO., Limited,
386 GEORGE ST. (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY ; and 93 Queen St., Brisbane
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A Leichhardt (Sydney) milk vendor was
recently convicted for the ninth time of selling
watered milk, his most recent mixture being five
parts milk and one of Prospect reservoir. This
offender’s previous fines—not counting costs—
totalled £BB, and though the magistrate had the
option of sending him to gaol he let him off with
a bill for £2O. Anyone can find the cash to pay
fines by selling doubtful water at the price of good
milk if he only sells enough water; and the
Government which augments its revenue by taking
nine separate fines from one milk adulterator is a
partner in the job, and is itself selling water and
dealing in the murder of the infant milk-drinker.
When it has become evident that fining a swindler
won’t stop him from pursuing his fraud, then the
authority which continues fining him, when it
should send him to gaol, is a mere blackmailer who
goes shares in the loot, the same as the policeman
who fines the Sunday pub a free beer for himself.
TOTALLY IRRESPONSIBLE.
CUSTOMER : "Ere, waiter, wot the dickens is
this—tea or coffee ?”
WAITER : “ Blowed if I know. I’m leavin’ next
week.”
As a rule, when the dilapidated land
boiler bursts, it destroys some poor devil who
was driven to stoke it for a living, and a mighty
poor living at that. It is a wise boiler that knows
how to select its victim, and most boilers seem to
befools. Their conduct almost makes one think
that ftehoboam was a boiler. Still there are ex-
ceptions. In one N.S.W. town recently the
threadbare boiler hit its owner with an accuracy
which —assuming it had to hit somebody—did the
old ruin credit.
The haste of two Australians is responsible
for some recent criticism of the Victorian marriage
laws. On June 3rd, John Halliday, having a
spare half-hour, strolled into a Melbourne wine-
shop and imbibed a trifle. Presently entered a
perfect stranger named Catherine Monaghan,
who also imbibed some, at John’s expense. After
conversing a space, they separated, but fore-
gathered again in the evening and, both of them
having another half-hour to spare, they adjourned
to a matrimonial agency and were married at
9.30 p.m. The hasty couple seems to have rushed
to repentance with equal speed; anyway, Kate
presently asked the North Melbourne Court for a
maintenance order, on the ground that her John
had deserted her before the honeymoon was over—
within 14 days, in fact. John averred that his bride
interviewed his employer while she was in a very
imbibed condition, and thereby lost him his
billet; also he was quite drunk when he married
her, and saw two of her, if not three, and which
of her he married he hardly knew. The Court in-
directly assured Mr. Halliday that he was a great
ass, and desired him to continue keeping Kitty
at the rate of 10s. a week, with costs. John’s
assertion that he was completely unsober is dis-
counted by the parson who did the 9.30 p.m.
marriage; he remembered the occasion clearly
because the lady seemed very anxious to be cer-
tain the marriage was legal and binding; also he
produced the marriage certificate butt showing
Halliaay’s signature three times in a firm, round
hand. Nevertheless, various persons are now
advocating the restriction of marriage celebrations
to “ business hours”—10 a.m. to 7 p.m., or there-
abouts. That would be something ; but they might
as well go the whole quadruped and advocate that
a marriage should not be a marriage unless a civil
officer—registrar or some such—was present.
That would be better protection than to fix the
hours from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. The Bulletin has
known men to be very unsober as early as
9.45 a.m.
.* * # *
The Sydney “ Society of Artists ” is, at
last, to be revived. Leading members in the
Society are D. H. Souter, Norman Lindsay,
Lionel Lindsay, Alice Muskett, J. J. Hilder,
Howard Ashton, Fred Leist, Harry J. Weston,
Douglas Fry, Sid Long, Julian Ashton, and
Arthur Streeton. With such an array of artists
the Society’s forthcoming exhibition should prove
interesting. The show opens early next week, in
the gallery (No. 127) next the Public Lending
Library in the buildings where the late Queen
Victoria was wont to go marketing on Saturday
nights. These rooms were “discovered” by
Streeton, and made familiar to art-lovers by his
recent show. The Society is following the sen-
sible arrangement of allotting a panel to each
artist, thus keeping each exhibitor’s work
separate. It is prophesied that the sections
allotted to Norman Lindsay’s black-and-white
work, and to a new exhibitor in the water-color
section, J. J. Hilder, will be worth scrutiny.
* » * •*
Methodism was a novelty in Australia
when “Father” John Watsford, lately!passed
ou t, was a youth, and his descriptions of how they
converted one another in Parramatta in those
early days were vivid pictures of holy riot. Some
of the preachers roared like a cattle-sale in
Bashan, and people went up and down the streets
alternately weeping and yelling. Probably it is
the reaction from those early excesses that makes
the Parramattans of to-day so tired and slow.
* *■ * »
There ought to be a future for a contri-
vance evolved by a couple of Australians —one
Captain Grainger and the other Dr. Harker—for
the purpose of fighting fires at sea. The
idea is to lay hold of the waste gases from
the uptake of a vessel’s boilers, and, after
cooling and partially cleaning them, to use
them to smother any fire that may break
out. Harker, the scientist of the pair of
inventors, figures it out that a ton of coal
produces about 400,000 cubic feet of gas,
so that in ordinary circumstances a steamer
always has enough gas on tap to put the pro-
cess to the test; about all that is needed is a
contrivance to suck up the gas and a fan to
drive it where it is needed. The other day
Sydney fire-superintendent Webb and a
cargo of fire-insurance men watched efforts
made to "burn out an old hulk lying in
Kerosene Bay (Sydney Harbor). An area
was bulk-headed off, and sacking, saturated
with kerosene, was lighted in it. Then the
gas was turned in, and the blaze subsided
and died as dead as Carruthers’ proposal to
build a three-legged bridge to North Syd-
ney. After that, other methods of incen-
diarism were tried, but the gas won every
time. Of course, if any person happened
to be wandering round the hold while the
gas was busy thereabouts, he would go out
as quickly as the fire; but, after all, it
isn’t the practice to use a burning hold as
a promenade deck. Grainger and Harker
claim that, while the big passenger steamer
would always have the material on hand, the
average sailing-ship mostly has a donkey-
engine capable of supplying enough gas to
beat any ordinary fire amongst any ordi-
nary cargo. It’s a scheme with great possi-
bilities in it, anyhow, and the Harbor tests came
out all right.
* ♦ * *
Why is the social purity person always so
wild and reckless a purveyor of the thing that most
obviously is not ? Consider the howl and shout
of the Rev. Wilbur B. Crafts
When I see £600,000 go to Tasmania for Tattersall’s
sweeps in one year, I feel that Monte Carlo is not entitled
to its fame. Three or four times as much money goes to
Tattersall’s from Australia in a year as goes to Monte
Carlo from the whole world in the same time.
Ed. Blanc, the multi-millionaire racing man, all
of whose cash comes from the Monte Carlo
Casino, spends, according to the French press,
over £500,000 per annum merely on horse breed-
ing and on his estate and stables, near Paris. He
has a brother Henri, also a millionaire, whose
income is also derived entirely from the little
Riviera gaming hell. And before these two men
may handle one solitary bean of their dividends,
they have to pay, by the terms of their well-
known business arrangement with the Monaco
princelet, for the upkeep of the entire princi-
pality of Monaco, which is in consequence un-
taxed. Also, they have to maintain their palatial :
gambling hells, and to pay the winners what they
have won. Gambling may be bad in Australia, but
in Europe, and in the country Wilbur B. Crafts
has imported himself from, it is immeasurably
worse. Why should people like Crafts come to
hurl decayed fish inaccuracies at a land which
already has a local press panting to do the job?
You never know your luck. Last week a
Victorian, weary of things, climbed about 40ft.
up to the gallery of a windmill and dived off it,
intending to break his neck. But the swaying
bough of a tree broke his fall, and he only
managed to scratch himself. On the same day
another Victorian, a carriage-cleaner at Spencer-
street (Melbourne), fell off a trestle about 3ft.
high. He broke his neck all right, though it was
probably the last neck in the world that he
wanted broken.
AND THEN THERE WAS ANOTHER ANTI-SOCIALIST.
INEBRIATED OLD PARTY (waking up suddenly in a Sydney tram): “ Hi, cabby, jush pull up at
the nex' pub, will yer?”
Be that Godiva ride, and incidentally concern-
ing the bush girl (B. 11/7/’O7) who won’t be kissed
“ right in front of the horse.” Watts painted a
picture—in the good old humorless and “ proper”
mid-Victorian era—which shows the Coventry
countess being got ready for the ride by her hand-
maidens. One of them is carefully blindfolding
the horse, so that he won’t see the lady being
undressed.
The committee of the Anglican diocesan
festival m Melbourne, being “ impressed with the
necessity of cultivating Australian sentiment ”
has offered a prize of two guineas for the best set
of four original hymns and one Australian
national anthem. Eighty-four sixpences doesn’t
seem much for four hymns and a stirring patriotic
chant, but then the kind of national anthem that
would please a church festival might not be worth
more. One would hardly offer the Marseillaise to
an institution like that.
The importing disease breaks out in strange
places in N.S.W. National Park, 18 miles from
Sydney, is supposed to be a great preserve of our
natural flora, and yet its approaches are already
dotted over with great clumps of imported Scotch
firs—ugly, ragged-looking, funereal hearse-plume
trees—and American pines. Now, as a crowning
atrocity, some miscreant has commenced to cut
down the gums to make way for an avenue of
imported trees. What do we want with imported
trees in an Australian National Park? If the
trees of the park are not good enough, then let
other Australian trees, such as Moreton Bay figs,
or kurrajongs, or graceful white gums be brought
there and planted. Every morning for the best
part of a week writer has been moved to deep
curses at the sight of a fine, old, weather-scarred
gum waving its branches against the sky, while a
fire was nourished at its butt to bring it down. A
man who burned a fine old living tree like that
would kill dogs, and ought to be placed under
restraint. About time Frank Farnell, chairman
of the Trust, who is a good Australian in some
things, went out to his domain and chained up
some of these men who are turning the National
Park into a sample plot of Yankee and other
foreign woods.
* * * *
Forty-eight Kanakas, booked for deporta-
tion by the Makambo, recently asked, on various
pretexts, to be allowed to remain in Queensland,
and, as usual, got some parsons to back them up.
One colored brother wanted exemption on the
ground that he had given £3O to a local store-
keeper to take care of for him, and' the grocery
man had failed to pay up. Immigration Agent
Brennan promised to collect the brother’s money,
if there was any such money; but the brother
explained that if the cash wasn’t immediately
forthcoming he would murder the first missionary
he met on his island home. Now the parson
knows exactly his own value in the eyes of the
Kanaka whom he has made “gentle and civil-
ised,” and over whose return to his “savage
island” he has wept so copiously. The value is not
more than £3O and it may be less. The Kanaka
might have made the same row over £5, and it
may be that the only reason why he didn’t pro-
mise to kill six missionaries for the £3O was that
he knew there was only one sin-shifter on his
island.
AUSTRALIA’S KIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let us people the Northern Territory with Indians—
people of our own kin.— Chairman of N.S.W. Chamber
of Commerce., Merivale, at the annual meeting.
A fraud is Herbert Spencer proved,
And Huxley’s out of date ;
We’ve got no use for Darwin with
The news we have of late.
For there’s a new ethnology
That’s never known to fail;
There’s a new interpretation
Of the station
Of a nation
From the very merry Merivale.
Though he’s grown a trifle darker
Out in India’s torrid clime,
And you’d fail to recognise him,
He’s a Itriton all the time.
The coon who’s driving oonts is from
Stern Caledonia’s shore,
While the dusky Irish laddie—
Lightly clad, he
Tills the “ paddy”
With an ebon Anglo-Saxon from Lahore.
So praises raise to Merivale,
The new ethnologist,
Who’s pointed out a lot of things
The other savants missed ;
And shown the Briton spindle-shanked
Attired in sable skin,
And proved that climate’s rigor
Turns the figure
To a nigger
Of the man who is Australia’s kin.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.
THE HAT OF PERDITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. A. Crockett, speaking at the Presbyterian
Church Workers’ Conference (Melbourne), claimed that a
great many people were driven from the church by the
fine dresses habitually worn in the House of God by
their well-to-do neighbors. The gorgeous raiment
of the rich makes the ordinary habiliments of the
poor appear shabby, and so the poor stay away to avoid
odious comparisons. The Rev. Crockett asks the well-
to-do worshippers to exercise a little “ Christian self-
denial,” and attend the House of God, decently and
cleanly dressed, but not in their very best. It is assumed
that the good man is addressing himself mainly to
ladies :
Now, having heard this hot appeal,
We trust that Mistress Tallophat
Will see ’tis needful to conceal
Her very latest Paris hat.
The tile that suits her face so well
Is sending erring souls to Hell.
To church on Sunday she should go
In cheaper skirts—a dowdy rig ;
A shilling “gem,” with just a bow,
And shoes at least a size too big,
That poorer sisters far from smart
May worship God with all their heart.
Too long have worldly women ’mid
The wreck of fellow creatures’ souls
Worshipped in gowns worth fifty “ quid,”
Or hats that cost a brigand’s toll,
And made the 20-guinea toque
Across the pew a sorry joke.
For no church built will matrons strive
To rid themselves of pride accurst,
And do their utmost to contrive
To dress the cheapest and the worst.
In Heaven the angels do not brawl
Because forbid to dress at all!
VIC.
S. SNELL.


RHEUMATISM
Ob Neuralgia, Gout, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Lumbago,
Anaemia. Insomnia. Etc.,
ABSOLUTELY CURED BY . , .
RHEUMAG-NETIC Treatment
(Patented.)
Recent development of Medical Science. Adopted by
Medical Men. If not yet available at your Chemists
write direct for particulars to
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville Street, Hobart.
“ These men of Angier’s, let us hear them
speak,” King John, Act 11, Scene I. Follow the
immortal bard’s advice and hear what we have to
say about the best lung remedy in the world,
Angier’s Emulsion. 4d. for postage to the Angier
Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
will bring you a free sample and a descriptive
booklet.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six-
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
The Handy
. . Hit Bag.
WHERE is the man who has not felt the
need of a bag like this? For business
or pleasure it is an ideal bag—roomy—easy
to carry, and holds a surprising quantity of
goods. Just the bag for week-end trips—
carrying cricketting requisites—for business
purposes.
Made of solid leather—with nickel or brass
lock and straps—lined with drill, and is the
best value yet offered in bags.
SIZES- 18 20 22 24 26 28 INCHES.
Prices- 25/- 27/6 30/- 32/6 3 51- 37/6
PE APES & CO* LTD*, Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The cave-man has cropped up again—this
time at Quirindi (N.S.W.), where George Tofft, a
kangaroo shooter, aged 20, shot Maud Fletcher,
aged 17, and then battered in her head to make
quite certain of his work. Maud Fletcher, described
as “ a fine girl, rather prepossessing, and well-
developed,” seems to have been Tofft’s sweet-
heart in moderation ; the cave-man apparently
“kept company” with her more by a system
of terrorism than by the influence of poetry and
soft blandishments. He is even said to have
beaten her more than once, probably to let her
understand that, unless she walked the chalk-line
laid down for her, extra copious punishment
might be expected when they were married, and
after he had dragged her by the hair to his
cavern. Probably she decided at last not to
share any cavern with a relic of the Stone Age,
and then he issued his pakeozoic ukase that she
must wed him or pass out. So he killed her, and
took to the hills like a deer, just as his immediate
ancestor might have taken naturally to the tree-
top under like conditions. And when this was
written he was still in the hills, and a police
force that was almost dead with ’flu’ was looking
for him.
WINTER FASHIONS FOR 1907.
SLAUGHTER-HOUSE MODE.
A meeting of Old Theologists, with Rev.
Fitchett prominent in the foreground, was held
at Melb. Town Hall, last week, for the purpose
of “reaffirming” the wicked foolishness of
Advanced Thought concerning Christian dogmas.
The reaffirmation was a complete success. An
Old Theologian explained that there are “three
alternatives of belief as to the historic Christ,”
one of which is profane, and, therefore, “un-
thinkable.” When it comes to a question of
good hard logic, the Old Theology scores every
time. It turns up its eyes, and dismisses the
unorthodox alternative as “unthinkable,” and
there you are ! You mustn’t think it.
SARCASTIC.
HOSTESS (sweetly): “Have you got all you require?”
Police Magistrate Cresswell, who came
from Gippsland to take brother Panton’s place on
Melbourne City Bench, raised some hopes as soon
as he arrived by speaking firmly to a culprit who
had resisted the arresting constable. In future,
he said, assaults on the police, and blackguardism
generally, would be dealt with drastically. Next
day there appeared before him two ruffians, with
records as long as they were disgraceful, who had
badly damaged two constables while resisting
arrest, and for whose subj ugation a posse had to
be brought from Russell-street lest the struggle
should end in murder. That piece of blackguard-
ism Cresswell deemed worth “one month”—
exactly the same as he forthwith proceeded to
award to a casual street mendicant. Magistrates
seem to be all much the same.
This next warm weather season Sydney
will see a mighty battle between Manly and
Coogee for the honor of having the most shapely
youths and damsels disporting themselves in their
respective waters. The surf-bathing rivalry has
come to a head. Coogee has decided to build
a number of dressing-rooms, beside which the
famous baths of Caracalla will be but a mere cir-
cumstance in magnificence. Manly is,
meantime, divided on the question
whether it should charge the public a
fee for the privilege of washing itself.
Behind both places are strong bodies
of local patriots armed with further
proposals for attracting the people.
One party desires to carry duly accre-
dited surf-bathers from the city free of
charge. Another wants to give them
costumes free. A maniac has a pro-
ject whereby every person who visits
the shore of his lunatic asylum for the
laudable purpose of “shooting ’em,”
shall receive afternoon tea gratis.
Manly has the advantage, because a
harbor trip is vastly more pleasant than
a tram journey, but the stupid restric-
tions which govern bathing at the
village get in the way. Why bathers
should be prohibited from lying on the
beach while they are permitted to
stand up on it is beyond any but the
aldermanic understanding. The cos-
tume restrictions are also ridiculous.
The lady who intends to adopt surf
bathing as a profession has necessarily
to reveal something of her form; and,
while the skirts that are mandatory at
Manly fail utterly to conceal the lady
as they are supposed to do, they add
considerably to her chance of drowning.
Further, the tight costumes worn at
Coogee and Bondi, while making no
pretence to conventional modesty, can
always be relied upon to give no
further revelations; while those of
Manly are liable to all sorts of acci-
dents. But whatever else happens
it is certain that the surf bathers of
the coming summer will largely out-
number those of the past season, and
before another five years it seems likely
that the whole population of Sydney
will be able to shoot the biggest breakers
with the best of them.
A Melbourne accused announced in court,
the other day, “ I object to being tried by Roman
Catholics. I want to be tried by a j ury of Pro-
testants, and I will stand or fall by their verdict.”
The idea seems capable of very useful extension.
For instance, a prisoner whose conscience would
only allow him to be tried by Culdees would
probably Be out on bail all his life, Culdees being
extinct at present. And there would be a fine
prospect for the man who refused to have tram-
drivers on the jury, and insisted that they should
be replaced by link-boys and sedan-chair carriers.
» * * *
I token Hill had 30 points of rain the
otheday, and it postponed a race meeting in
consequence. It illustrates the development of
the human species. Broken Hill wouldn’t post-
pone as much as a dog-fight if the sun blazed out
till the thermometer climbed up to 116 degrees;
but a shower measuring something well under a
third of an inch sends a demoralised Broken Hill
into shelter, where it stays till the last drop has
sizzled into the droughty earth. The cocksure
people who live away down in the South, and who
say that “ the white man can’t live in the North, ”
because it doesn’t happen to be the climate they
are used to themselves, ought to fasten the inci-
dent somewhere in the empty spaces of their
brains.
• * * *
A recent inquest on a Melbourne woman
who died in childbirth should be noted by unim-
portant matrons as a warning against the danger
of pre-engaging a medical nian for a midwifery
case. In this instance the pre-engaged doctor
was. summoned at 8 o’clock, but could not leave
another serious case until after midnight. Mean-
while, the husband went around in a cab seeking
the assistance of other doctors, who mostly excused
themselves when told that a brother practitioner
had been booked for the job. The critical condi-
tion of the patient didn’t justify a breach of
medical etiquette they said. Finally, the hus-
band went back home, and learned from the
belated pre-engaged doctor that his wife was
dead. There ought to be a law strong
enough to gaol some of these other doctors
for manslaughter, but probably there isn’t.
When a medico hangs out his plate and his
danger signal, it is understood to signify the
presence of a man who can be relied upon, if
not engaged on another patient, to come and save
your wife’s life, if it is capable of being saved, on
certain fairly definite cash terms. The medico
doesn’t hang out a book of etiquette to explain
that there are other conditions. In this case a
woman died while her husband was wasting his
time rushing round among doctors who had hung
out the red lamp on something very like false
pretences. It was as wretched a joke as that of
the lout who reverses a finger-post, so that the
man who is riding in red-hot haste to Boom-
anoomanah to get medical aid in an urgent case,
brings up 20 miles off his track at (say) Gobuekan-
idgery, where there is nothing to fall back uponsa ve
a publican. A doctor who has the professional
etiquette complaint very badly should hang an
inscription on his bell: “ Wait here while your
wife dies.”
• * * •
S.M. Herald (27/7,/’O7)
PURVEYOR requires Field Assistant, able to use
theodolite, chain, calculate, and plot, six months’
engagement; wages, 255. per week and keep. Apply
F. I. Soiling, Survey Camp, Moree ; or personally at
46 Edgecliff-road, Woollahra.
The above enables one to understand the scarcity
(recently commented on by the Queensland Minis-
ter for Lands) of surveyors in Australia. To
hump a heavy theodolite from daylight till dark,
swing an axe or pick as required, and then bring
a well-stored mathematical brain and a guttering
candle to bear on abstruse calculations till far
into the night—in short, to be a surveyor in every-
thing but name for, say, £2 a week—isn’t a bright,
lure to entice the intelligent youth of the country
into the profession. An eight hour, Bs.-a-day
dirt-shoveller’s job looks roseate beside it.
* * * *
Dorothy McCrae from the Suez Canal: —
Slowly, slowly, we creep up the Canal. Suez on one
side ; the desert on the other. But it is the desert that
claims me. So wide, so silent, so golden, so mysterious.
Above there is a faint blue sky; beyond, some azure
hills ; here a violet shadow ; there a clump of tents, a
cluster of camels, a handful of Arabs. We take the
glasses and look closer, and see the bronze skin, the
colored robes. Heliotrope, yellow, vivid blue. Blue that
burns. Then we hang over the boat-side, and stare at
the water—peacock green (or is it blue again ?), a hue
perfect, unpaintable. A dhow, with snowy sails out-
spread, passes silently, steered by an Arab with a turban
of vivid scarlet. We feel color-dazed, and seek relief in
the soberer tints of Suez. Suez with its mosques and
palms and patches of water and scanty green. At last
twilight comes—a twilight whose cheeks are still rosy
with the kisses of sunset. More dhows pass, and we note
bundles of rushes in the bows. The world is bathed in
an opal light. Stars come out, and the sky deepens in
tint. Jewel-like lights spring to life on the great
steamer passing so close to us, and the search-light in
the bows of our own vessel makes mysterious pictures of
the heaped-up sand that gleams white and ghostly on the
water’s brink.
Fitzroy is not the only place that has
suffered through the act of ex-P.M. Panton in
hunting Tottie and her kind out of Lonsdale and
Little Lonsdale streets, Melbourne. Bendigo has
been favored with a considerable influx of the
sisterhood of Mrs. Rahab of Jericho. Bendigo,
too, was just shaking hands with itself and saying
that the social evil was almost stamped out there.
One street that was once almost given over to the
unrepented and fluffy Magdalene had become
the acme of respectability. Even its former name
was discarded to prove that it had put on the
snowy clobber of righteousness, and it was re-
named Chapel-street. But Magdalene is back,
and the old Rahab has taken unto herself seven
other Totties each worse than the olden Flossie,
and the street that had cleaned itself up is no
longer large enough to hold Cleopatra, conse-
quently Phryne pursues her unsteady job all over
the city.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Chief Justice was moved
recently to lay it down that the evidence of the
private detective is dangerous, and sh< uld have
credence only if corroborated. Mostly the private
’tec. is a person suffering from a great disinclina-
tion for honest toil, or an unfortunate whose
features tend to preclude him from every other
sort of job. He is paid to see things (not snakes),
and he is paid by somebody who wants those
things seen very badly indeed. His continued
prosperity, such as it is, demands that he should
see them, so he sees them. If what he looks for
doesn’t happen, he has either to make it happen
and see it, or to see it in his mind’s eye, as Ham-
let said to Horatio. It is difficult to guess how
he would live otherwise. So many people can see
the thing that is, that there is little money in it;
but to see convincingly and plausibly the thing
that isn’t is rare. It is in the shady ramifications
of unwholesome JDivorce Court proceedings that
tie private ’tec. moves and finds his sustenance.
He is often on a par with the ancient Old Bailey
institution, who wore straw in his boots as an
indication that evidence—any evidence —was
available on the shortest notice. And he deserves
the same consideration, or worse.
• • • •
A curiously circuitous statement comes
here via Cairns (Queensland). It is alleged that
“ Mr. G. Caldersmith, headmaster of the Central
School, Townsville, Queensland,” wrote to the
Musical Herald, London, and it published his
screed, and the Cairns paper republished it, and
then a disgusted resident cut it out and sent it
along. The writing of Mr. G. Caldersmith, of
Townsville, was a proud statement to the effect
that his school choir had learned to sing the
Japanese National Anthem to the original Jap
words. It doesn’t seem so very much to be proud
of, but there are a few queer cattle in the North
Queensland coastal towns. Admiral Kamimura,
it is stated, was so glad to find Japanese influence
spreading in this fashion in Australia that he
gave £5 to the school prize fund. Well, the
school deserved it. The wages of grovel are cash.
• * * *
•
“ D.” : Walking homeward t’other night
I heard an outcry, like all Wagner let loose, pro-
ceeding from an ordinarily-deserted side street of
my suburb. Thinking for the moment that a
German opera co. had burst out of its cage, I
hurried to the storm-centre, which was already
surrounded by a deeply-interested crowd. The
outcry came from a stout lady (partially
drunk), who reposed agitatedly upon the footpath
while a dangerous-looking male acquaintance
(rather more than partially drunk) kicked her
violently, daring all and sundry the while to
stop him by joining issue in open combat.
The contract was past the majority of us; I would
as soon, for my own part, have tackled a Bengal
tiger. But just as I was girding my loins to go
away and seek the elusive Law, the entire diffi-
culty resolved itself into nothingness, like a mail
cqntract grievance. Gently through the shudder-
ing press came a small, calm, ugly boy. In his
hand he poised half a stone gingerbeer bottle. For
the manyth time the defiant one kicked and
turned, clamoring for stoush. All in a flash his
desire was accorded him, full measure and brim-
ming over. Hurled by a practised arm, the
brown substance that had once contained the
liquor Judkins best loves struck the brawler
between the eyes. No Burns knock-out could
have been more effective. As the gentle lad had
come, so he went —not waiting even to salve his
fragment of pottery—and was seen no more.
Gathered subsequently from the lady, while we
jointly ministered to her sorely-injured friend,
that the bottle-hurler was a total stranger. Nor
were her feelings towards him those of the conven-
tional rescued female. In fact, my pen wobbles
with horror as I remember the blank she called
him, and the dash and the asterisk that she
accused him of.
* * * *
The John W. Dare, a coal-lighter, owned
by the Melbourne Steamship Company, is the
oldest hulk in Melbourne waters. Although only
76 years of age, the build and generally-antiquated
appearance of this vessel suggests that it had been
part of the Invincible Armada, or had helped
Columbus to find America. It was originally an
armed brig in the China tea trade, where an
encounter with Penang pirates and other blood-
thirsty casuals was an everyday affair. The old
wooden warrior has been following the useful
occupation of floating coal-yard since somewhere
about 1864.
A “BULLETIN” GATHERING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a gathering recently at the Hotel Fasoli
Melbourne. Thk Bulletin was very much in evidence. The
following is an unfaithful report of the proceedings:—
Hark to the bards of Tiie Bulletin,
Gathered Fasoli’s walls within.
Wine has flowed, and the pipe of peace
Gives the imprisoned thoughts release—
Talk ! How they talk when they once begin,
The bards of the red-covered Bulletin.
They yarn of the men who have gone before ;
l)aley, and Boake, and the many more
Who have passed to the Shades where all must go—
There’s a little pause—and the smoke comes slow—
But soon they’re in eager cry again
For they are living, and they are men,
And there’s work to do and there’s what’s been done,
And a voice that’s the voice of everyone
Fills the room, and above the din
Is heard the stuff that did not get in
To that blanky rag, The Bulletin.
0 brave Romance with heart of gold,
None knoweth thee and groweth old !
Strenuous, passionate, eager-eved,
They are back in the days when the world was wide,
When the moon hung low in the Summer air,
And Amaryllis was wholly fair,
And the game was afoot to lose or to win—
Who cared for Fate or The Bulletin !
Hush’d is the talk, and the glasses clink
As the liquor’s poured ; there’s a toast to drink.
The toast of the Red Rag strong and fit
That has fashioned them—as they fashioned it;
Flesh of their flesh, yet a thing apart,
Moulder of mind and the source of art—
Deep, deep they drink as the shadows thin :
Good luck to the good old Bulletin !
VICTORIA.
BARAK.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The importers don’t know what day the new
duties may arrive now, so there have been very heavy
Customs clearances during the last three weeks ; hence
a comparison of the State revenues for July with those
of other months isn’t worth much. In M. S. Wales the
total was £1,126,286, or £205,579 more than last year;
and, of that excess, £133,141 came from Commonwealth
refunds, which practically mean Customs collections.
In Victoria the total was £765,181, an increase of £122,977,
for £70,852 of which the Commonwealth refunds were
responsible ; and in Queensland, £360,347, an increase of
£61,405, refunds being £32,318 ahead of the figures for
July, 1906. Tasmania’s revenue was £70,227; Wes-
tralia’s, £190,005. In July, 1906, Westralia figured for
£200,697; and that there should have been a decline
this year, notwithstanding the special circumstance
which has made every other State’s revenue bound
upwards, is only another proof of the bad way the profli-
gate Western State is in. It is cutting down expenditure
on revenue account, certainly (in 1906 the July ex-
penditure was £211,095 and this year it is £201,910); but
the cut isn’t deep enough to prevent a deficit. And the
real state of affairs isn’t exposed because of the heavy loan
expenditure, of which no return is made till long after
the end of the financial year. Among all the States
Westralia now presents the most serious financial
problem ; and there isn’t the smallest sign that the
problem is being grappled with. There isn’t much evi-
dence, in fact, that many local politicians even realise
that there is a problem to be grappled with. The State’s
accumulated deficit on revenue account is £220,633, of
which £11,905 was added during the one month of July.
The railway revenue reflects the continued
prosperity of the three big Eastern States under the
“ blighting influence ” of Federation. In July, the
N.S.W. total was £411,686, or £54,845 more than it was
for July last year; in Victoria, £291,165, or £25,597
more; in Queensland, £149,841, or £19,393 more. In
N. S. Wales, the land “ revenue ” is also still mounting ;
it was £154,534 for the month, a spring of £20,687. But
even where that doesn’t represent the sale of assets—
which means the reduction of future true revenue from
rents —it to a considerable extent represents the instal-
ments on the sale of lands bought for subdivision with
borrowed money ; and as no profit is made out of these
transactions, the figures are little better than cross
entries. It is interest received on one side and
interest paid on the other—and the payments
are a lot more certain than the receipts. It is to a great
extent the same with the railways as extensions are
made. Therefore, though the N.S.W. revenue figures
show the extraordinary increase of £205,579, the expen-
diture jumps £182,114, and lands at £1,118,775. The
figures are really very unsatisfactory. In consequence of
the rush of importers to clear the Customs, N. S. Wales
•rot £133,141 more from the Commonwealth ; in other
words, but fbr that rush (and those g#ods can’t be im-
ported and cleared twice) the month’s revenue, allowing
for some natural expansion, would have been only about
£95,000 ahead of last year’s. Yet the expenditure was
£182,114 more on revenue account, and £45,738 more on
loan account. It is pretty evident that a general election
is coming. But it is very deplorable that the public
Treasury should be used to prove what a good fellow the
ruling political party is.
* * * ■*
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd. (Adelaide), pastoral
finance and wool-broking people :
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £20,601 6 p.c. =£11,400 £9,201 £23,923
1900 .. 28,631 9 „ „ 17,100 11,531 35,454
1901 .. 25,283 9 „ ~ 17,100 £5OOO 3,183 38,637
1902 .. 28,078 9 „ „ 17,100 6396 4,582 43,219
1903 .. 29,964 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 7,864 51,083
1904 .. 33,967 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 11,867 62,950
1905 .. 36,532 10 „ „ 19,000 4000 13,532 76,482
1906 .. 45,940 10 „ „ 19,000 3000 23,940 100,422
1907 .. 60,674 10 ~ „ 19,000 1500 40,174 140,596
The paid-up capital, which for many years stood at
£190,000, has now been increased to £230,000, but
it does not appear from the accounts or report
whether the new capital carries dividend for the
past half-year. The liabilities (deposits, etc.) amount
to £1,176,783, so that, in spite of its large reserve
fund, the co. has still over £3 of the public’s
money in the business for every £1 of its own. The re-
cent additions to reserves have no doubt been very
tine ; but, then, the increase of deposits, etc., which are
very largely used in the risky pastoral finance business,
calls for a large provision in this way ; and it is very
doubtful whether shareholders are entitled to regard
these reserves as being there for good. In 1892-3, after
all had seemed smooth sailing and the reserves had got
up to £45,081, it was found necessary to provide for
£78,982 of bad debts ; and the business was not in those
days what it has grown to now. The Board, then, is to
be congratulated on keeping its dividend down to 10 per
cent., even though 10 per cent, absorbs less than one-
third of the apparent profits. Some idea of the rush of
the business figures is given by this comparison :
1899. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Deposits, etc. .. £477,552 £631,584 £724,732 £980,249
Other liabilities .. 305,983 120,196 106,043 196,534
Premises, plant .. 71,551 48,640 54,885 70,677
Govt, stock, cash .. 164,239 247,966 287,304 456,636
Advances, etc. .. 463,992 604,655 617,149 839,740
Other assets.. .. 309,103 130,299 171,359 189,826
The total liabilities to the public are £1,176,783 ; the
liquid assets represent about 39 per cent, of that total.
The finances appear to have been admirably managed ;
writing down of premises has been continuous ; and the
original goodwill item disappeared long ago. “Land,
premises, plant, furniture and goodwill ” cost originally
£165,035 ; they are down now for a total of £70,677.
Certainly, as the co. was formed in 1882, the original
doormat is no doubt the worse for wear now ; but even so
the writing down out of profits has been very emphatic,
and since that much money is available for other pur-
poses, the policy makes it so much easier for the co. to
pay dividends in poor times.
* * # *
The Southland Building and Investment
Society and Bank of Deposit (Invercargill, M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897.. 5 per cent. =£2497 £427
1898.. £2839 5 „ „ 2560 £279 706
1899.. 2541 4J „ „ 2357 £854 36
1900.. 2445 4 „ „ 2326 119 155
1901.. 2556 4 „ „ 2244 312 467
1902.. 2684 4J „ „ 2475 4 205 672
1903.. 2649 4J „ „ 2429 220 892
1904.. 2811 5 „ „ 2637 174 1066
1905.. 29,15 5 „ „ 2867 2 46 1112
1906.. 3564 5 „ „ 3177 81 306 1418
1907.. 4666 6 „ „ 4277 119 270 1688
This energetic society is now in a big way of business, as
these further figures show
Properties
Capital Debentures. Advances, in hand.
1897 £52,697 £15,252 £59,440 £1857
1900 .. 60,770 21,092 74,889 456
1905 .. 60,920 49,722 112,575
1906 .. 67,169 61,960 126,244
1907 .. 76,291 69,820 145,162
The debentures are practically deposit receipts, which
are limited in size by a wise Building- Societies Act. Thus
while the share capital, as shown above, is £76,291, the
borrowing power of the society is £95,941. Throughout,
the maximum borrowing power has been equal to about
125 per cent, of the capital; that is to say, the society
has been legally entitled to borrow 255. for ever £1 of its
own capital. The society offers to take money at call;
so that presumably some of the debentures are payable
on demand, and it would be some advantage if these
were distinguished from the rest. It is pretty
clear that a concern with £50,000 that may be
called for at any moment ought to have more cash in
hand than one whose deposits only fall due at known
dates. A fine feature of the accounts is the absence of a
foreclosed property item among the assets. Now and
again, of course, properties have fallen in ; but the policy
appears to have been to realise promptly, and cut the
loss ; and the losses have been small, as the size of the
amounts written off testify. Nevertheless, it is a mighty
little reserve fund to protect £145,162 of advances,
£143,912 of which are mortgages ; and until it is very
much larger shareholders are not entitled to consider
their capital as safe. The larger the deposits (practically
all in use), the bigger the risk the capital has to run.
Ten years ago £1 of capital only had to safeguard
£1 2s. 6d. of risks ; now £f has to safeguard £1 19s. of
risks. Yet the growth of reserves, to assist capital in
that matter, has been insignificant. To put up the divi-
dend, then, to 6 per cent, was very doubtful policy.
* * * *
Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melb.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £l4BB 7£ per cent. =£937 £551 £6,289
June, 1902.. 2977 8 „ ~ 1000 1977 8,266
Dec., 1902.. 1517 8 „ ~1000 517 8,783
June, 1903.. 1349 8 „ ~ 1000 349 9,132
Dec., 1903.. 1744 8 „ „ 1000 744 9,876
June, 1904.. 3036 12 „ ~ 1500 1536 11,412
Dee., 1904.. 2435 8 „ ~ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 „ „ 1500 2275 15,122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 „ ~ 1000 2225 17,347
June, 1906.. 2616 12 „ ~1500 1116 18,463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 „ ~ 1000 1314 19.777
June, 1907.. 3301 12 „ ~ 1500 1801 21,578
This co. furnishes very little information about its doings.
All its earnings are lumped into one item, and shown
“after providing for contingencies.” Presumably the
“ contingencies ” mean that something is put aside out of
corpus commissions, to assist profits during the realisa-
tion of the estate in respect of which these commissions
are charged. But those reserved commissions—if they
exist —are not shown. It is another case of trusting the
directors. Apparently they think that as you have to
trust them when you’re dead, you might as well trust
them when you’re alive ; yet the argument doesn’t seem
as good as it might be. The co. has no debts (apart from
a few pounds on ordinary trade accounts) ; on the other
hand, besides paid capital (£25,000) and reserves, share-
holders carry a liability of £lOO,OOO for calls, as a further
protection for clients. The business, as far as it is dis-
closed, is, as most trustee businesses are, highly profit-
able. Although profits are charged with £2OO as bonus to
staff, the net return for the half-year is at the rate of
£l4 14s. lid. percent, per annum—and this in spite of
the fact that about £40,000 of the capital and reserves is
in public securities and office premises, which are proba-
bly not yielding more than 4 per cent, all round.
* * * ft
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Go. of Tasmania (Hobart)
Divs. and Written To Re- Re.
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dee., 1901 . .£1404 Bp.c. = £420 £9S4 £5474
June, 1902.. 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 5502
Dec., 1902 .. 677 8 „ „ 420 257 5759
June, 1903.. 796 8 ~ „ 420 713 5422
Dec., 1903 .. 676 8 „ „ 420 256 5678
June, 1904.. 685 8 ~ „ 420 265 5943
Dec., 1904 .. 717 8 „ „ 420 297 6240
June, 1905 .. 818 8 ~ „ 420 398 6638
Dec., 1905 .. 653 8 ~ „ 420 233 6871
June, 1906.. 718 8 „ „ 420 298 7169
Dec., 1906 .. 813 8 „ „ 420 393 7562
June, 1907 .. 706 8 ~ „ 420 286 7848
The above table begins with the co.’s first S per cent. div.
(in recent times, at any rate); before that the co. paid
6 percent, for many years. The published accounts are
a mere skeleton ; both investors anti intending testa-
tors will, no doubt, require more information than
these papers give before becoming further interested.
The co. has “sundry creditors” for £12,07S (its own
capital is £17,848). Apparently this money is used to
finance something or somebody ; for the other side shows
“sundry debtors, £16,733.” The items, thus vaguely
presented, are unsatisfactory. Supposing the co. bor-
rowed money to finance a gamble, the capital which was
put up to protect the interests of beneficiaries under
trust would be really pledged to the bank. It would be
protecting the bank in the first place ; the beneficiaries
would only come in afterwards. Under the circumstances
the co. might at least be expected to be less vague about
such items. The profits, as disclosed, are at the rate of
£8 os. lOd. percent, per annum on capital and reserves.
Sydney Hydraulic and General Engineer-
ing Co.:
Carried to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902 .. £4400 15 p.c. = £2200 £2200 £2200
New Share Premiums 579 2779
1903 .. 2264 10 p.c. = £l5OO 764 3543
1904 .. 2129 10 „ „ 1500 629 4172
1905 .. 2296 10 „ „ 1500 796 4;,(iS
1906 .. 3226 15 „ „ 2250 976 5944
1907 .. 3540 13J „ „ 2625 915 6859
Twelve months ago the capital was £15,000 in 30,000
shares paid to 10s. Early in 1907, after the first half of
this co.’s year had ended, ss. per share was called up.
For the first half the div. was 6d. per share, or 5 p.c. ; for
the second half, Is. 3d. per share on the enlarged
capital, or 8J p.c.—total 13£ p.c. for the year. The
reserves consist of formal reserve £2500, plant renewal
account £1950, and undivided profit £2409. Whether
anything beyond the renewal reserve is provided to,
meet depreciation is doubtful; if it isn’t, then the plant
renewal account is not the best sort of a reserve. Still,
if there have been renewals up to now', they haven’t been
paid for out of this fund, being evidently charged to
working expenses. Originally the co. was formed as a
sort of overflow from the Sydney Hydraulic Co. That
co. has to divide profits with the Sydney City Council
when the dividend goes beyond 10 per cent. ; arid thisco.
makes it easier for the other co.’s dividend not to exceed
10 per cent. Some time ago the Town Hall authorities
notified that they would regard the two cos. as one, so
far as profit-distribution was concerned ; but w'hether
that claim (which would, of course, seriously affect the
value of this co.’s shares) has been pressed hasn’t tran-
spired. If it is pressed, the situation will, no doubt, be
helped out by calling up the other 55.. in which case the
shareholders can draw £3OOO and still get only 10 per
cent.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N. S. W.):
Unex-
plained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- off Re- Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £5480 8 p.c. =£5250 £BO £28,152
June, 1902.. 5507 £13,097 8 „ ~ 5250 41,506
Dec., 1902.. 3988 2,894 8,, ~ 5250 43,138
June, 1903.. 2583 —6„ ~ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 ~ ~ 3938 40,820
June, 1904.. 3992 775 6 ~ ~ 3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3,987 8„ „ 5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4,542 8,, „ 5250 51,134
Dec., 1905.. 6230 852 8 ~ „ 5602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7245 1,000 8,, ~ 6750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8021 1,500 8 ~ ~ 7000 56,630
June, 1907.. 8791 1,573 8,, ~ 8266 58,728
As to the unexplained half-year’s additions to the reserves,
£l5OO is no doubt a contribution made out of profits to
the insurance and repairs account, and £73 has dropped
into the reserve for the equalisation of dividends without
mentioning’ where it came from. The reserves, so far as
they are a provision to cover actual wear and tear, and to
meet risks vvhicli are partly expired, are not true reserves.
But some provision has probably been made for deprecia-
tion apart from these reserves or funds. Follow these
figures
June, June, Dec., June,
1902. 1906. 1906. 1907.
Capital.. ..£131,250 £175,000 £202,665 £216,669
Reserves .. 46,756 60,859 63,630 66,994
Debts to public 13,783- 30,313 13,698 14,922
Ship property 129,962 201,179 197,4401
Freeholds, etc. 20,442 24,631 24,110 24’,050
Other assets .. 41,384 40,362 58,443 56,417
The reserves in this table are as at the end of the half-
year, before paying dividend. In regard to ship pro-
perty, the account stood at £201,179 twelve months ago ;
apart from new ships account, it stands now at £192,640,
so thatj unless there have been sales meantime,
£8539 has been written off out of profits in the
year. This would be apart from the depreciation
reserve. Great changes have occurred in the matter
of the co.’s capital, and greater are being-
provided for. Hitherto 250,000 £1 shares have been
authorised. Twelvemonths ago 200,000 had been issued
and paid to 17s. 6d. Another 50,000 were then offered to
existing shareholders, and all but 2378 are now issued
and paid up to 17s. 6d. But, though £33,331 might be
got in from the unissued shares and the uncalled capital,
the co. has carried through the preliminaries authorising
the issue of another £250,000 of capital as circumstances
demand ; and as a vigorous ship-building campaign is
still in progress, more capital will, no doubt, be got in, in
spite of the surplus of about £20,000 of liquid assets. For
all this, of course, the remarkable activity in the North
Coast butter country is responsible. There is still room
for great expansion there ; at the same time, the wave
which has been sweeping that way is liable to ebb,
for a while at least. Already, though much of the
country is still new, it is found that thfe yields
are not what they were. The heavily-used land
is getting no help, and in those circumstances
the cream may soon be off it. On very similar country
in North Queensland Ah Sin has added Australian ex-
perience to the guile of Asia. The Australian is amazed
at the rent Ah Sin will pay for the five years’ lease of
such land. If it is worth £1 an acre a year for five years,
he says, what must the capital value be 1 And he proceeds
to pay fabulous sums. But Ah Sin doesn’t. Five years
is good enough for him ; somebody else may have the land
then. He knows that after five years the returns will sag
badly. If similar results follow on the N.S.VV. North
Coast there will be a reaction ; and that is one of the
possibilities which this co. has to face.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 ..£3092 6 per cent. = £3OOO £92 £8,793
June, 1905.. 2960 6 „ ~ 3000 8,753
Dec., 1905 .. 3385 6 „ „ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906.. 3053 6 ~ ~ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906 .. 5128 6 „ „ 3000 2128 11.319
June, 1907.. 6348 6 ~ ~ 3JOO 3348 14,667
Out of the half-year’s profits an insurance reserve is started
with £lotio, and £lOOO each is added to the repairs and
boiler replacement funds ; and as these funds are not true
reserves, but have to pay for renewing things which are
partly worn out, the profits as stated above are not
wholly true profits either. Still, apart from the additions
to these funds, the assets appear to be severely written
down out of profits. This comparison shows that, and
also some other things :
June, June, Dec., June,
1897. 1906. 1906. 1907.
Ship property .. £47,550 £40,595 £59,363 £81,480
Freeholds, etc. .. 19,172 5,308 4,122 3,580
Plant .. .. 1,651 3,069 3,503 5,492
Liquid assets .. 39,467 67,551 52,109 34,218
Debts to public .. 4,307 4,332 4,778 7,105
Note that ship property had a smaller book value in 1906
than in 1897. At the end of 1904, too, it was down for
£41,300 ; at the end of 1906, apart from new-steamers
account, the item had been reduced to £35,700. Assuming
that no steamers were sold meantime, then, in addition to
the profits shown for those three years, £5600 was made
and employed to write down the book value of the fleet.
That process and the sale of freeholds account for the
growth of liquid assets from £39,467 in 1597 to £67,551
in 1906, though nominally the reserves had only'
increased by £B6SS in those nine years. Whether
any large sums are being “ socked ” away now,
avowedly as a set-off against wear and tear, it is impos-
sible to say, because the recent purchases of new steamers
at unknown prices disturb the comparisons. The policy
of adding to the fleet is being continued ; so that, within
a year, the balance-sheet will be very unlike what it was
three years ago. Then liquid assets represented nearly
twice as much as ship property, whereas now they don’t
represent half as much. Recent experience is, therefore,
not much of a guide to this co.’s future.
* * * *
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £15,534 30 p.c. = £15,000 £534 £52,188
Dec., 1901 17,96 S 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902 17,645 35 „ „ 17,500 145 52,801
Dec., 1902 17,673 35 „ „ 17,500 173 52,974
June, 1903 15,202 30 „ „ 15,000 202 53,176
Dec., 1903 9,566 20 „ „ 10,000 52,742
June, 1904 4,009 15 „ „ 7,500 49,251
Dec., 1904 5,003 10 „ „ 5,000 3 49,254
June, 1905 5,027 10 „ „ 5,000 27 49,281
Dec., 1905 3,759 10 „ „ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906 5,093 10 „ „ 5,000 93 48,133
Dec., 1906 5,273 10 „ „ 5,000 273 45,406
June, 1907 10,567 15 „ „ 7,500 3067 51,473
This co. pays the extra 5 per cent, (which was more than
half expected six months ago) as a bonus—the directors’
non-committal way of making a larger distribution. The
table doesn’t show the full extent of the co.’s ups and
downs, especially the “ups.” For instance, the divi-
dends once reached 42J per cent. ; but that was nearly
20 years ago. Of the profit of £10,567 for the half-year,
£l5OO is not shown in profit and loss, but is added direct
to the reserve fund. That may mean that the reserve
fund is a set-off against actual depreciation. A mining
property must depreciate, in the ordinary course, as the
mineral is dragged out of it; but there are not many
mining cos. that are frank enough to admit it in this
practical way. This co. has, it is true, much plant, etc.,
to also depreciate ; and there is no sign of any profit
being used to write these assets down, apart from the
reserve. The cash position is still strong ; liquid assets
(including sundry debtors) are £63,523 in excess of liabili-
ties. Six months ago they were £60,171 in excess—before
paying dividend in each case. Five years ago(also before
paying the 35 per cent. div. then declared) they were
£90,140; but since then £15,767 has been added to the book
value of the mining property, plant, etc. Whether that
has added to the life and value of the mine t)te accounts
can’t tell. The history of the concern has been brilliant;
but the past is an unreliable guide to a mine’s future.
The time comes when it is all past and no future. All
that can be said about the Wallsend is that that time is a
long way off ; and, on its past record, and looking at the
size of its liquid assets, it isn’t likely to work out one
mine till it has acquired another. Also for 20 years, at
any rate, it hasn’t paid less than 10 per cent. ; in the very
few half-years when it has earned less, the substantial
reserves have come in handy.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney), pro-
perty valuers, salesmen, etc. :
Deficit
In (Goodwill
Reduction not
of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
June, 1902 .. £3263 sp.c. = £l5OO £1763 £44,907
Dec., 1902 .. 2993 5 „ „ 1500 1493 43,414
June, 1903 .. 1746 5 „ „ 1500 246 43,168
Dec., 1903 .. 2055 5 „ ~ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904 .. 1611 5 „ ~ 1500 111 42,502
Dec., 1904 .. 1622 5 „ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905 .. 1661 5 ~ ~ 1500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905 .. 1730 5 ~ ~ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906.. 1830 5 ~ „ 1500 330 41,659
Dec., 1906 .. 2704 5 „ ~ 1500 1204 40,455
June, 1907 .. 1527 5 ~ „ 1500 27 40,428
The co. began with a deficit of £57,600 representing
goodwill in the old firm’s property agency. The present
co. has set itself to the tough job of clearing out this
great pile of paper, and it has reduced the item in the
books to £42,000 ; there is also undivided profit £1572,
leaving the net deficit £40,428, as shown above. As the
goodwill item is written off, liquid assets are accumu-
lated to take its place ; the surplus of these liquid assets
over liabilities now amounts to £19,924. At June, 1900,
the surplus was £9740; so that there has been an im-
provement of £10,184 in the cash position in seven years.
This does not, however, necessarily mean that the co. is
£10,184 to the good ; because, assuming that the good-
will has a value, it is possible that it is worth less—owing
to the competition of younger agencies, etc.—than it was
in 1900. There are 00,000 shares in the co. ; the surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities could pay 6s. Bd. per share,
out of which current div. has to be met. The market
value of the shares is about 14s. Bd. ; so that, on this
market valuation, Bs. per share, or in all £24,000, is now-
paid for goodwill.
* * » *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and In-
vestment Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £5OlO 8 p.c. =£2972 £2038 £10,665
June, 1902.. 4873 8„ ~ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec., 1902.. 5913 8,, ~ 2972 2941 15,507
June, 1903.. 6048 10 „,, 3717 2331 17,838
Dec., 1903.. 6484 10 „,, 3720 2764 20,602
June, 1904.. 5748 10 ~ ~ 3721 2027 22,629
Dec., 1904.. 5543 10 „ ~ 3722 £250 1571 24,200
June, 1905*. 5606 10 ~ ~ 3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905.. 4469 10 ~ ~ 3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906.. 4398 10 ~ ~ 3726 672 26,605
Dec., 1906.. 3723 10 ~ ~ 3726 26,602
June, 1907.. 3730 10 ~ „ 3730 26,602
It is never reassuring to find that profits work out to the
exact amount required to pay a co.’s regular dividend. It
generally means either that there is a large hole to be
filled up somewhere, and that every available penny
is being collared to write down assets, and so fill
up the orifice ; or that the true profits were not enough
to pay the dividend, and that just enough to make up
the balance has been got by starving the provision for
bad debts—in other words, by reckoning so much bad
debt as good debt. It isn’t, however, anything serious
in this case, on account of the co.’s large reserves—at the
worst, they can stand a little chip cut off them. The
fact seems to be that times are really too prosperous for
the “Monty Peet ” ; fewer want accommodation, and
those that do want it find that banks are much more
friendly than they were awhile ago. In conse-
quence of this stress of competition, whereas in
the first half of 1903 £87,244 of advances brought
in £10,239, in the past half-year £80,429 of ad-
vances brought in only £8104; yet working expenses
have, as in most establishments, gone up. Between the
two movements the 10 per cent, would be impossible but
for the big reserves ; and even with them, it is very
doubtful whether it ought to be maintained. The posi-
tion illustrates again that it’s a good wind that blows ill
to nobody.
• • * *
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road
Metal Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 7 p.c. =£952 £2llB
June, 1905 £944 6£ „„ 850 £94 2282
Dec., 1905 612 Nil. 612 2894
June, 1906 706 3J p.c. =£425 £225 56 2950
Dec., 1906 1050 3£ ~ „ 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907 1375 6J ~ ~ 850 375 150 3450
The capital is £27,200, in 34,000 shares, paid to 16s.
There is an overdraft of £5522, and other debts amount-
ing to £829, as against an overdraft of £6567 and other
debts of £1163 two years ago. Apparently the quarries,
etc., are not being written down out of profits ; so that
all or part of the reserves must be regarded as a set-off
against the depreciation of these necessarily wasting-
assets. The amounts shown as written off are for de-
preciation of plant and tramway ; these items stand in
at £10,917, so that the amounts written off them in the
past 12 months are equal to just about 6 p.c. This
doesn’t seem any larger than it ought to be to cover the
heavy wear and tear on the things that are used about a
quarry.
• * * *
Albury Brewing and Malting Co. (N.S.W.):
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1900 .. 5 p.c. =£725 £274
1901 .. £849 5,, ~ 725 £l5O 248
1902 .. 1340 5 „ „ 725 300 £315 663
1903 .. 446 5 ~ ~ 725 150 134
1904 .. 773 5 „ „ 725 48 182
1905 .. 704 5 ~ ~ 725 161
1906 .. 098 5 ~ „ 725 134
1907 .. 209 Nil. 209 343
For some years past it has been doubted whether the
alleged profits were really being earned ; now it looks
more than ever as though they weren’t. The business
has been, well enough sustained (gross proceeds of sales
were £7533, as against £6833 in 1906, ai. > £6451 in 1905);
but the lumped item of working expense and deprecia-
tion has gone up like this.:—-1905, £5750; 1906, £6146;
1907, £7335. Even now it is doubtful whether the larger
charge for the year includes any provision for deprecia-
tion ; the increase seems to be due to the writing-off of
debts, which, however, still stand at £2421, in addition to
the contingent debts, secured by bills of sale (£7324). As
against this latter there is a special reserve of £309, not
reckoned in with those shown above.
* # it *
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co.
Writ- To
Div. and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £2566 6 p.c. = £1521 £lOO £945 £8,597
£2500 Reserves added to Capital .. 6,097
Dec., 1902.. 3200 6 p.c. = 1597 359 1244 7,341
£1713 Share Premiums used to reduce Debenture Debt.
June, 1903.. 2852 6p.c.= 1654 203 995 8,336
Dec., 1903.. 3329 6 „ „ 1654 600 1075 9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 „ „ 1654 100 1356 11),767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7 ~ ~ 1929 100 1313 12,080
June, 1905.. 3011 7 „ „ 1929 3 1079 13,159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7 „ „ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 „ „ 1929 4 1083 15,207
Dec., 1906.. 3438 7 „ ~ 1929 1509 16,716
June, 1907.. 3208 8 „ „ 2205 31 972 17,688
The small amount written off comes out of the reserve for
the renewal of retorts, and isn’t the best sort of writing
off. Apparently it is merely a trifle spent to replace
something that has been worn out. If anything is pro-
vided out of profits, apart from the general reserves, to
counterbalance current wear and tear, there is no
way of ascertaining what it amounts to. It seems,
however, to be the co.’s policy to write down assets out-
of undisclosed profits; for instance, the furniture item
comes down in this six months from £195 to £lB5. Pro-
bably, the same plan is adopted as to the larger items of
plant, etc. The matter could be traced if no additions
were being made to the fixed assets. This past half-year
they go up £369 ; but whether that was the full amount
of the expenditure, or whether something more was spent
and paid for out of profits but not shown as such, is un-
known. The profit and loss account merely shows the
one charge, “Manufacture, depreciation, etc., £4187,”
and the allowance for depreciation may be much or iittle.
If it is too little, then some day, when large renewals are
called for, there will have to be heavy drafts upon
either current profits or the formal reserves. But the
accounts don’t allow one to speak with any certainty at
all. In nine cases out of ten the published accounts of
Gas cos. give only vague hints as to their actual standing
and progress. Nearly all of them act as though they
couldn’t trust the public with the facts; and hiding
things from the public they have to keep the general
body of their shareholders in the dark also.
Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Co. (N. S.
Wales); —
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1904 .. £2401 6 p.c. =£1694 £707 £5636
1905 .. 2986 6 „ „ 1694 1292 6928
1906 .. 3165 6 „ „ 1694 1471 8399
1907 .. 4542 6 ~ ~ 1694 £2051 797 9196
Broken Hill, hanging on to the unstable silver and lead
markets, is an erratic place. This co. very often passes
years in which no provision at all is made for current
depreciation. Then a good time conies, profits jump, and
something large has to be written off in a lump, mostly
to pay for replacements. The stated profits for any one
year have therefore to be viewed witii some suspicion ,
they are only tentative profits, waiting for a lump to
come off them to provide for the wear and tear and rust
and decay that nave happened while the alleged profits
were being earned. As far as the records avail-
able go back, the fixed investments (buildings,
mains, plant, etc.) cost £33,418, and they now stand
in the books at £27,172; and whether the difference is
sufficient to cover the depreciation it is impossible to say.
Also, there is some doubt whether replacements nave
not absorbed most of the amount written off. Ihere
must be general depreciation apart from the items tfiac


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These, two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* *■ * #
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Felton, Grimwa.de and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Hock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 16lbs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. Ir some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working-
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Sha w-
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne,' where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
* * * *
The Insurance Spectator (London) of Ist
October, 1906, writes regarding the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society Limited:—“Throughout its
whole career the Colonial Mutual has shown" a rate of
progress that is, to say the least, remarkable in even the
bulky annals of insurance.”*
* * * »
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
****■•
To Assayers, Analytical Chemists, Mining
Companies, etc. Taylor and Colledge. Limited, Brisbane,
Laboratory Suppliers, carry full stocks of Balances,
Crucibles, Chemical Glassware, Merck’s Reagents, Purest
Chemicals and all Laboratory requisites at lowest rates.
Catalogue on application.*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
» * ♦ «
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* ». * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * 4 *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cdjiar Stock Exchange.*
* * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
- * * *'c *.
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
*■**-*
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to-consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said: —“It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company bad done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the'-e was not £lO of
extras. ”*
Golden Bendigo.— Tlie safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
■* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six larae Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of: Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office —Haymarket, Sydney.*,
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego. — Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
have had to be renewed, and if this general decay has
not been provided for in the writings down, then the
reserves are to that extent merely a provision for accu-
mulated wear and tear. The cash position is pretty
satisfactory ; the liquid assets are £6168 ahead of the
liabilities. The paid capital of the co. is £28,229. The
municipality has now taken over an electric light busi-
ness formerly owned by “ Tattersall ” Adams ; and if
that doesn’t affect the Gas Co.’s profits, it will certainly
affect the co.’s chances of expansion.
* * * *
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £-2494 15p.C. =£lBBs £609 £44,762
June, 1902.. 2660 15 „ ~ 1885 775 45,537
Dec., 1902 .. 3499 15 „ „ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903.. 2778 15 „ ~ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903.. 3280 15 „ ~ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904.. 3309 15 „ „ 3264 45 47,416
Dec., 1904 .. 3630 15 „ ~ 3312 318 47,734
Share premiums and suspense items 3309 51,043
June, 1905 .. 3835 15 p.c. = 3375 460 51,503
Dec., 19j5.. 3544 15 „ ~ 3375 169 51,672
June, 1906.. 4111 15 „ „ 3375 736 52,408
Dec., 1906.. 4560 15 „ „ 3375 1185 53,593
June, 1907.. 4925 15 „ „ 3375 1550 55,143
The reserves, with the amounts added to them during
the half-year put in brackets, are: —Reserve fund,
£21,310 (£650) ; renewals reserve, £30,975 (£650); meter
renewal, £ll5l (_228); insurance, £5OO (£25); and
undivided profit, £1207 (as against £l2lO six months
before). Some of these are not true reserves : they are a
provision to cover partly-expired risks. Still, in addition
to the provision for future renewals, current repairs and
renewals have been paid for out of revenue ; so most
likely part at least of the amount added to reserve is true
reserve—in other words, more than current decay is pro-
vided for. The financial position is strong : liquid assets
(apart from stores, etc.) exceed liabilities by £20,351,
after paying the current dividend.
The City Mutual Assurance Society (Sydney)
has issued its eighth actuarial report, and finds for the
year a surplus of £8935, of which £7503 will be divided,
or £19,867 for the three years. The premiums amounted
to £167,034 ;so the bonuses are equal to 11 - 9 per cent, of
the premiums. This is much below the rate in some of
the bigger societies; but the young society, having
smaller reserves (or accumulations of premiums), neces-
sarily earns less, in proportion to annual premiums, by
way of excess interest. The City Mutual, however, cuts
down that handicap, by assuming that it will earn 4 per
cent., whereas other offices assume as low as 2£ per
cent. It is no doubt earning much more than 4 per cent,
now ; but its high rate is due to the fact that it carries
on a small-advance business which would not be possible
on a large scale. Whether, then, it is justified in assum-
ing that a 4 per cent, rate will be earned throughout the
life of all existing policies is very doubtful.
* * * *
The Westralian Government is getting anxious
about the future of the gold industry, and is promising
Capital all sorts of concessions if it will only come along and
bring its relations. The labor covenant in leases is to be
knocked on the head, Bull Cohen is to be treated with
greater respect than formerly, and the conditions under
which mining areas may be taken up are to be as near
fee simple as it is possible to make them. The Govern-
inent may succeed in getting its foolish way in these
matters, but if it does, the day will come w'hen those who
allowed the new order of things to be brought about
without an emphatic protest will curse in a loud voice.
Present labor covenants in the West may not be neces-
sary in the case of some mining companies, in which case
they do no harm ; but they are not nearly stringent
enough in the case of others. The Hannan Star is a
gloomy example. This co. has now over £25,000 (mostly
got out of the pockets of Australian shareholders) in hand ;
yet the mine is closed down, and the plant is being
allowed to rust. If the property is no good (and strong
evidence points that way) liquidation is the proper
course to pursue. The directors, however, appear to
think differently, and will probably go on drawing fees. In
the meantime, shares, which on a forced realisation should
be worth between 2s. 6d. and Ss., are quoted at a few
pence. Yet conditions calculated to give mining com-
panies even more liberty to do this sort of thing are now
proposed.
♦ * * *
In the campaign against the gold-stealers, a
Bill providing for the licensing of treatment plants has
been drafted to go on with in Westralia ; but unless an Act
is framed making such plants liable to forfeiture on con-
viction of the owner for knowingly handling stolen stuff,
and giving the authorities power to sample the ground
from which the gold is alleged to come, prosecutions are
bound to fail. The Labor party takes its own stand in
the matter ; it threatens to oppose any increase in the
detective staff to look after the property of the foreign
capitalist till the Government provides extra inspectors
to look after the lives and limbs of the underground
workers.
* * # *
Associated (W.A.) seems to still have an
attraction for speculators out of proportion to its value.
Recent deve.opments in the bottom workings have failed
to reveal anything but of the ordinary, while at No. 7
shaft, in the north-east corner of the property, the short
but rich shoot exposed at the Nos. 1 and 2 levels has
petered out in depth. As in thecase of the Perseverance,
there is too great a discrepancy between the profit in
sight and the market valuation of this mine. AlO per
cent, return is not enough when there is barely three
years’ ore actually in sight, and only six years or there-
abouts more or less reasonably conjectured to exist so far
as the mine is proved.
* * » *
Two or three fair developments are reported
from the Boulder Main Reef (W.A.); but, coming right
on top of the announcement of another reconstruction,
they must be viewed with some suspicion. Since the
j-ich telluride shoot cut out at the sixth level, the most
strenuous efforts of successive managers have not shown
a profit. Possibly an improvement may take place
when the property is developed still deeper, but it has
been such a rank disappointment in the last 1000 ft. or so
of sinking that the odds against it seem overwhelming.
* * * *
R. E. Tyler, late chairman of the Murchison
Associated, has let the cat out. In a circular issued
recently he states (1) that since the last reconstruction
(there have been several) £50,000 has been expended
without result; (2) that the general manager condemned
the property as worthless twelve months ago ; (3) that
since then £9OOO has gone in useless prospecting ; and (4)
that more money has been spent on the property than
circumstances warranted. Yet on the plea that recon-
struction is the only chance the co. has of ever getting
its money back, shareholders are being hard pressed by
i he new chairman and his colleagues to provide more
funds. If they do, their credulity must be boundless.
* * * •
Blackboy Hill goldfield (W.A.) has been blasted
by the local inspector of mines. He reports that, although
some quartz seams embedded in the formation undoubt-
edly carry rich values, they are too small to be worked
separately by hand picking ; and when broken with the
remainder of the lodestuff the bulk is too poor to pay.
On the strength of glowing reports published in Perth, a
good deal of wild speculation had taken place in con-
nection with this field.
■* * * *
A mostly-Adelaide co. has bought the Kyloe
mine, two miles from Adaminaby, out in the snowy
regions of Kosciusko (N.S.W.). Capital is £35,000, in
10s. shares, of which 50,000 have been issued, fully paid.
The promoters appear to be the people who passed the
Lobb’s Hole on to the other people who floated it. The
only prospectus (“for private circulation”) available is
really a report by Chas. Taylor, a copper metallurgist,
who appears also to have had something to do with pro-
moting the co. He says the ore-body is proved
450 ft. long, and “ taking the ore on" the dumps
and filled-in old stopes, there is above the 100 ft.
level 8000 tons, which alone will give a net profit of
£20,000.” The width of the ore-body isn’t mentioned,
except this: “The vein consists of quartz and
small seams, impregnating the porphyry itself with ore
for several feet on each side of the vein.” The new co.
proposes to concentrate, treating 800 tons monthly, and,
taking copper at £75 per ton, it figures profit out at
£lBBO on that output. Well, if the new men can do any-
thing like that, it is a good deal more than the old
owners did. Last year’s Mines Department’s report men-
tioned that Schaefer and party, of the Kilo (the spelling
has been altered by the new co. on the Smith-Smythe
principle), raised ore which they dressed to 14 per cent.
“ During the year 105 tons were disposed of, for a return
of £9'H.” The report on which the new co. proceeds
seems to Im been written by a very opti-
mistic man. > co. has to sell its conceu-
trates ; vet, in reckoning up the revenue, he
doesn’t allow for that nice habit copper-smelters have
of knocking one unit off for a start, and in some cases
two units. Also, though the price of copper may be £75
per ton (15s. per unit), the copper smelter takes, as a
rule, from Is. 9d. to 2s. 6d. per unit off that; so that the
copper-miner who sends 10 per cent, ore gets paid for 9
units; and, though the price may be £75 per ton (15s per
unit), he gets, not 10 X 15s. = 1505., but 9 X 12s. 6d. =
112 s. 6d. Occasionally the deduction isn’t quite 2s. 6d. per
unit; but it often is. It is little things like this that in
practice spoil all the beautiful calculations of the men
who write the pretty reports about copper properties
when the copper properties have to rely upon a custom
smelter.
* * * *
N.S.W. has another div.-paying gold-mine—
the New Homeward Bound, one of the few Wyalong
mines held by public cos. The present co. has only been
in existence about eight months ; it is in 28,000 shares of
55., and is a reconstruction of the Homeward Bound,
which was making calls for equipment and development
until less than 12 months ago. This first div. of 3d. per
share conies out of the recent treatment of 221 tons of
ore for a net return (after paying smelting and railway
charges) of £3161. The mine is now provided with a good
rock-drill equipment, and looks as though it had started
on a profitable career in a small way—it must be small,
for the sulphide veins, though rich, only run a few inches
in width.
* * * *
Broken Hill has had good rains—good, that is,
for that droughty part; something under 2in. altogether.
It might have been better for it if it hadn’t had any. The
question of a second water supply is still hung up while
the interested parties quarrel over representation on the
Trust, and the present rain may result in nothing at all
being done, as usual. In the matter of water suppty
Broken Hill is about the most improvident place in Aus-
tralia, and the place that can least afford to be improvi-
dent ; it is always balancing on the rim of a famine.
It fell in once of late years, and then the Anti-Sosh
bosses of its mining cos. made their throats sore crying
out for Socialistic help.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, is wearing a cheerful
smile just now, in spite of various old sores, which must
still be smarting. Some unusually good sulphide ore is
being mined in a stope about the 600 ft. level, and the
mill has been kept going more regularly than before.
The sliming trouble is also being overcome to a great ex-
tent. The deepening of the main shaft below the
1315 ft. is in hand, but as the lode at that level was found
to be considerably narrower than at the 1215 ft. (where it
is about 50ft. from wall to wall), developments at the
1415 ft. will be watched with more than usual interest.
No other outside show along the supposed con-
tinuation of the Broken Hill main line of lode has com-
manded the faith and spare coin of the working miner
as the Globe has done. Nevertheless, for the present its
star is dimmed. The old manager has resigned, having
failed to find the alleged large bodies of ore left un-
touched by the pioneers ; and new schemes are afoot.
Also a story is afoot of a surreptitious visit to the mine
which nearly ended disastrously for an active Adelaide
mining speculator. Under cover of darkness, two inter-
ested mining men and this speculator, accompanied by
the engine-driver from another small mine, visited the
Globe when all was quiet to make a secret inspection.
The engine-driver lowered the three others to the bottom
level. But the water had risen above the plat, and none
of the party knew it till the cage dropped into the unex-
pected bath, and half-drowned the lot of them. Then
the driver tried to pull them to the upper level, but the
engine got “ centred,” with the cage stuck midway in
the shaft. Shivering with cold and fright, the three
explorers had to clamber out of the cage and claw a
passage to the surface by the ladder way."
* • • *
North British Blocks, Broken Hill, have been
given a fair show to produce the much-talked-of lode ;
but they haven’t done so yet. Some pipes of ore have
been met with, and there has been a good deal of talk
about “ raising sulphides for shipment.” But so far as
development has gone, the country is too tumbled to
harbor any extensive and continuous shoots of ore. The
management is still pegging away, however, in the hope
that something may turn up.
* * * *
The prospectus of the Brookman’s United Gr.M.
Go. was issued in Sydney last week. The provisional
directors are Abrahams, and Isaacs, and Jacobs. Esau
seems to be still under a cloud, and no good for prospec
tus purposes, and Ephraim and Manasseh are apparently
still sticking to sheep.
* * * *
“Follower” :Be Mount David (N.S.W.). No
wonder the public jumped out at the first chance. In
1903 the co. paid a div., much against the desire of the
manager, the late John Pearce, and in a few weeks a call
was made. The finance is a mystery. Nobody seems to
know what rent the co. pays. A shareholder was in-
formed (at the last meeting, I think) that a director had
a mortgage over the assets at 10 per cent, interest; yet
at the same time a call was made before it was needed to
buy a cyanide plant. The tramway has not justified
itself, the underlay shaft has been a ghastly
failure, and the promises as to costs have been
unfulfilled—the last return works out on the wrong
side of 30s. After saying that, it is some plea-
sure to add that the cyanide plant is good, and a first-
class extraction is made ; that the battery plant is also
satisfactory, and that the drive at the lowest level, where
the good stuff for the last crushing came from, is in
more settled country ; and the reef looks like going down.
More men are being put on as they are obtainable. As
showing the change which has occurred, in 1904 the
battery treated 12,578 tons for 23760 z., or an average of
3dwt. 18’6gr. ; in 1905 the average for 11,611 tons was
2dwt. 15'9gr. ; for 1906, 2669 tons averaged 4dwt. 14’5gr. ;
while the last crushing showed 2640 z. from 300 tons, or
17dwt. 14gr. per ton.
* * * *
J. V. Bartlett, “king” of Yerranderie, is get-
ting in suction-gas engines for general mine purposes—to
work drills, rock-breakers, and concentrating mill, etc.
This will be the first big suction-gas mine plant in
N. S. Wales, and the results of the test, in the matter of
fuel economy, will be watched with very great interest.
■* * * »
In order to give Chillagoe shareholders some
idea of the advantages of the Etheridge railway con-
cession, chairman J. S. Reid shows what the Govern-
ment would have to pay for the Chillagoe line if
resumption of that were provided for on the same scale.
The Chillagoe line cost £381,902; but, taking last
year’s profit (£61,153) as a basis, the cost of resump-
tion under the terms of the Etheridge Railway Act would
be £1,064,563, The Etheridge line is not likely to make
such large profits as the Chillagoe line is doing at pre-
sent, but the example serves to show what a slippery
business these time bargains are. Still there is nothing
permanent about a sudden boom of prosperity over the
Chillagoe line : looking backwards over the whole period
since the line was built, the average returns are not
nearly so wonderful as they seem on top of a metal and
mining boom.
* * * *
The first crushing from the old Durham (N.
Queensland), reopened after a slumber of 15 years, re-
sulted in £462 from 200 tons—concentrates and sands to
come. Whatever happens, it is safe betting that the
officials under the present co. will not have the glorious
time that prevailed when J. Bull held the property, and
lashed the cash so splendidly on the surface, many years
ago. The change, however, won’t do the mine any harm.
The gaudiness of J. Bull’s imported officials has wrecked
better mines than the Durham.
* * * »
From Irvinebank (N.Q.) : Tin mining around
Reid’s Creek is sick, owing to the unsatisfactory develop-
ments in Dalziell’s Boulder. Although a good body of
tin stone showed on the surface, prospecting, so far, has
proved only a narrow and erratic pipe ; and results have
coiqe up to about half the prediction? as to output and
returns. One mine that should have a chance is the Nil
Desperandum, owned by the Globe (Townsville) Syndi-
cate. The ore body is chlorite, and looks permanent, but
the “ one manager to two men ” system is followed. The
Village Blacksmith, lately on the market, is another
greisen body, the tin lying in floors. The deposits are
rich, but, as far as the old workings show, very limited.
As for the Boulder No. 2, included in the float, the tin-
bearing stone is probably only a thin flake. The diamond
drill is working in the Vulcan, and has finished one
lateral 150 ft. hole, and is in over 100 ft. in another.
Nothing of any value has been found. Last month’s out-
put totalled nearly £6OOO worth of tin, but only one team
is carting. A contract has been called for sinking the
main shaft another 100 ft., making the total 1250 ft.
“ Ikona,” from Cloncurry : “ Quartpot ” says
that less ore is going from this field now than formerly.
Natural enough, in view of the nearing completion of the
raihva3 7 ; men don’t want to pay £6 a ton to cart to Julia
Creek, the present head of the line, making total charges
from £l2 to £l4 per ton. From a prospector’s point of
view, the wholesale exemptions which are granted are the
curse of the field. “Business ” people form syndicates,
acquire large areas, and hold them for speculative pur-
poses. Many instances could be quoted where leases
have been held for three years, and no work done on them.
Most of the lodes pinch out at from 10ft. to 50ft. There-
fore, these “ prospectors ” say, “What! Break the reef
and spoil the mine!” These “squibs,” as they are
locally termed, are at times very rich, and would provide
remunerative employment for hundreds of workingmen
if the Government would cause the Mining Regulations
to be reasonably administered. Either make these
“prospectors” work or forfeit. Fancy, 1100 leases
pegged, and the principal (in fact, the only) town re-
sembling a teamsters’camp ! Taking a radius of 80 miles,
I feel sure the entire population does not exceed 500
souls, or half a soul to the lease. It is scandalous. From
a miner’s point of view, Cloncurry district is fine-
looking country, though somewhat difficult to prospect.
It is exceedingly rough. In many instances the ore
would have to be packed off the rangt s to where a dray
could reach it. It is very poorly timbered and, at pre-
sent, badly watered. Looking into the future, when
better facilities of transport are provided, or when smelters
are erected locally, it should come to the front, especially
as a home for the small working mine-owner. But before
that day can arrive, these “prospectors” who don’t
prospect must be hanged, drowned, or dynamited. For
myself, 1 don’t care if it is all three.
* * * *
John Bull, during 1906, put £104,000 under-
ground in Victoria in quartz-mining, and £144,300 in
deep-lead mining, and got only one div. to keep up his
enthusiasm, and that was from Victorian Cornish, Dayles-
ford. Quartz shows in which he is interested are Vic-
toria Prop. (Bendigo), Forest Creek Gold Reefs (Castle -
maine), Daylesford Mines and Victorian Cornish
(Daylesford), South No. 1 (Gaffney’s Creek), and Eagle-
hawk Consolidated (Maldon). Of these the Victorian
Cornish took £45,000, and led to no small amount of
tough talk in London, because after a few good yields
and high share values came bad times and a slump.
The deep-lead show’s comprise the six mines
in Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s office, and the Charlotte
Plains, under Drvsdale Brown. To the list could be
added the Junction Deep Leads and a few others, partly
held in England. Certain it is that Bull picks up very
few odd pence on the south-eastern slope of Australia,
whatever he may do in the West.
* * * *
Burnt Creek, Maryborough (Vic.), has spelt
burnt fingers for so long that the public smiled when
four headlines were bumped out in the Age' telling that a ,
prosperous future was ahead. As this appeared in a
paper that had just been reviling London journals for
doing the same sort of thing, a smile as wide as Collins-
street lit up 8., M. and Co.’s staff. Burnt Greek, so far,
hasn’t gone over 10dwt., but it has been a model of
cheapness and hard work ; and the manager has now just
touched wash which he says prospects' 14dwt. to 16dwt.
After the many disappointments over deep-lead “pro-
spects,” it was hoped that no more would be heard about
such things for a while. Still as the public is not “on
the feed,” the announcement won’t make much difference.
• * • *
New men, new manners. " Victor’s Quartz,
Wood’s Point (Vic.), has been put under a Bendigo
manager. His backers already sing louder about the
future than Ada Ward does about her past. The claim
was under a cloud till the tributors got it, and it has been
in the dark ever since they let it go. Now the gentle
prophet is tooting the loud trumpet to the effect that the
co. will get on to rich stone in a short time ; but this
paper doesn’t believe that even a prophet can see far into
a diorite dyke. It is much safer, then, to wait for yields.
» * » *
“ Stone has been struck in the Florence mine,
Daylesford (Vic.). It is reported to be the healthiest
seen in the mine.” For this, oh Ballarat, we thank thee !
True, the remark is only first cousin to that other beauti-
ful but vague mining observation—“ The lode goes strong
underfoot”—which is twin sister to the other indefinite
one that “ The stone in the face looks kindly.’.’
has been a sad jade, and needed something stimulating
to help her along, both in the mining and the market
way. And now she’s got “healthy” stone. Well, it’s
some satisfaction to find something that has escaped
both the ’flu’ and whooping cough.
* * * *
Poseidon rush (Vic.) is a rush no longer. It
has got down to 50ft. ground, and to a little trickle
of diggers the wrong way—that is, to other fields.
The odd part about the field is that all the best
gold, particularly big nuggets, was got only’ a
few feet from the surface. The hope to-day is that
Mackenzie and mate, who have the claim crossing the
Woolshed reef, will get on to good gold in the deep
ground. Should this happen, there may be a bit of a
flutter. But it cannot last. Poseidon to-day is in the
stable after his race, and to all appearance is a tired
hero, incapable in the future of anything more than a
short sprint.
* * » *
The deep lead at the Glenfine South, Pitfield
(Vic.), was heralded with fanfares, and between times
stories were told of half ounce prospects to the dish. One
or two divs. were paid, and then calls were made, and
now there is a solid overdraft. It isn’t much use having
rich prospects if they don’t crystallise in the puddling
machine. Lately the mine has been mainly a matter
of “prospects,” for following the gutter came the
quartz, over which the market had a fall, the
worst known at Ballarat for many a day till the
Ajax came along. There must be some reputations
to mend over that “ go,” and it is a pity that the share-
holders don’t have them out for purposes of identifica-
tion. At present Glenfine South is worth the battery and
plant as scrap machinery, and it will need a lot of solid
development—without the stereotyped “prospects”—to
get it on to the next stage.
* * * *
Mackay’s Quartz is the newest dividend-payer
in the Gaffney’s Creek district (Vic.). The show was
found about'two years ago by the prospector for a local
syndicate. A shaft was put down on the reef and a couple
of 3oz. crushings were obtained. With this money a
lower tunnel was driven and a battery bought ; but it
was found that the reef had pinched and become poor.
Latterly, however, another run of loz.. stone has been
picked up in the tunnel, and with returns of about 1950 z.
per month the little co. has got to its first div. A deeper
shaft is now in prospect.
* *
Welsh and Slater, Rocky Lead, Ballarat dis-
trict, seems to be “ up against it,” which is bad business
for the scrippers who were guided by the enthusiastic
speeches made at the inauguration of the co. a few
months back. Developments at 100 ft., bottom level,
have not been satisfactory ; and, higher up, the lode has
pinched considerably. Shares have been squeezed down
to a few pence, and a good many have changed hands.
Those in the know want paid-ups, because at the worst
the sale of the machinery, etc., will recoup them.
» « * *
A shaft sunk 25ft. in the Ballarat graveyard
showed that the golden stone shrieked about lately was
merely a surface patch. The syndicate formed to work
the Old Cemetery lease disbanded on the first loss of £2
10s. each.
* * * #
New Oorinella, Eganstown, near Daylesford
(Vic.), about which fabulous tales were recently told, is
already in trouble. Calls have not been well responded
to, and work has been suspended. The rich shoot at the
bottom level extended for about 40ft., and was then lost.
Sinking will be resumed “ when confidence is restored.”
But confidence is a shy bird in the Daylesford district
just now, and you have to take a very long shot at him.
An agent has been rounding up a big party of
Victorian alluvial miners at £3OO a year and quarters to
work in the Tronoh mine, Uintah Valley, Perak, Malay
States. This mine, owned mostly by Chinese, employs
about 4000 coolies, and produces 200 tons of tin oxide per
month, averaging 74 per cent, of metallic tin. It paid
66 per cent, on the par value of shares last year. The
Australians are to boss the coolies.'
* • * *
Quandary: See no reason in the accounts why
the div. should be reduced next quarter; but the
man who holds that stock at £5 Ils. will be in the soup
sooner or later... .Braceman : Can’t find any trace of any
Industrial departinent in connection with the M.L.
Government Life Office at any time .O.L.M.C. : Write
Mr. Goodman, engineer to the Adelaide Tramway Trust;
he could advise you better Shareholder: Don’t know
tjie Aunty Janet. What do you know about it?
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 30J.
Of the 52 members of the S.A. Assembly
of 1890, only seven are still in politics. Coles
(Speaker and Father of the House), Larry
O'Loughlin (Crown Lands),, Burgoyne (octo-
genarian, leader of the Country Party and sound
Democrat), and McDonald and Solomon (fossils)
remain in the Assembly. John Downer and
Jamie Howe are ghosts in the House of Political
Death, and drift about at nights, each with his
tombstone under his arm and his coffin on his
head, lamenting at the progress things hare made
since they died.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
15s. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
“Suffering Jehoshaphat” is the common
expression when someone has stepped on your pet
corn. Why have corns when they can be speedily
removed with Handy Corn Cure-—sold every-
where, 9d. per box, or send direct to Sunset
Drug Co., Gl2 Harris Street, Sydney.*
David vStorer (£L Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(SL BLUE.
Kept by . . .
ALL MERCHANTS
CSL STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Tantanoola ” : At the entrance to Beach-
port Harbor (S.A.) stands Penguin Island, on
which the lighthouse is built. The earthquake
shocks that occurred on May 10, 1897, caused the
little isle to split in two; a wide chasm now
sunders what was once a solid mass of rock, and
20ft. of water flows between the parts. On the
portion nearest the mainland two falls of rock
took place lately, and several hundred tons
dropped on the reef below. The island is sand-
stone, and in many places the water has eaten
large, submarine holes in the formation. It is
the opinion of many that after the next earthquake
Penguin Island will be no more. What worries
the lighthouse people is that they will also, in all
probability, be no more, and they reckon that the
salary isn’t at all commensurate with the shakiness
of the rock. The salary is fixed, certainly, which
the island isn’t; but they reckon that it is
fixed too low. On the other hand, the Govern-
ment points out that if a thing is low its centre of
gravity is more secure in a time of earth tremor ;
but the keepers reckon that if the lighthouse was
lower and the salary higher it would meet the
case. The lighthouse wouldn’t have so far to
drop, and as for the salary, they don’t care how
far it has to drop so long as it doesn’t drop in their
time.
GOD HELP THE PIONEER.
Outback transport—Gulf diggings, near Pambula.
The last stretch—Mount Agony.
The list of polling places in the Ecliuca
(Vic.) electorate gave the compositors a bad time
during the recent campaign. Try a few samples :
Bamawm, Pannoobamawm, Pannoomilloo, Kan-
yapilla, Toorumbarry, Karramomus, Gowangardu,
Girgaru, Naringoningalook, Dunbulbalane, Con-
gupna, Tallyaroopna.
“ The Bandicoot ” : Those shell deposits
above high-water mark again. “Rhaupo” (B.
(25/7/ 07) gives the age (indirectly) of these de-
posits as 12 years, and he blames a grub or a
disease. (He hues his doots, as it were.) He also
drags tides, currents, and trawlers’ nets in by the
scruff of the neck, and makes them carry the
shell from Port Stephens to the Hawkesbury
River, and thence, in some instances, 50ft. above
high-water mark. Then his grub spread the shells
neatly several feet deep for hundreds of yards
along the shores, and plants elderly gum-trees in
the deposit. Verily “Rhaupo’s” views re shell
deposits are shrouded in the veil of mystery and
wrapped in the impenetrable blanket of gloom.
* » * «
“D.H.It.” : “Phoenix” is right (B.
18/7/’O7) re the matter of arresting the wandering
ophidian by depositing head-gear in front of him.
Not only does the proceeding give time to
find a sapling, but it is interesting and amusing
to the snake, which will lie still and regard that
gaping hat in silent wonderment for half a day.
At any rate, I once knew a brown snake that
stared at mine for three hours, and it would
probably have gone on staring had not a
young gum tree unfortunately fallen across it.
I have heard of many other cases also. Curiously
enough, the snake never attacks the hat. Whether
the snake, if left alone, will die of old age still
looking at the hat I cannot tell.
* * * *
“ Barb ” : I always had an idea that
children in N.S.W. were obliged to attend school
until they were 14, or, at any rate, until they had
reached a certain standard. But a family out this
way has managed to dodge the inspecting bodies,
whoever or whatever they are. They—l say they
advisedly—deliver our mail. A couple of years
back a small atom under an extraordinary big
hat was the individual who brought our letters.
With a microscope you might have found him in
the sulky when the mailbags were aboard. I got
to know him well, and I knew his hat better. But
one day there seemed to be a change in him—he
seemed to have shrunk. “ Don’t you feel well,
Johnny?” I asked, sympathetically. “I ain’t
Johnny; I’m Tommy,” the mite informed me.
“Good gracious! are you?” 1 exclaimed, in
amazement. “Then where’s Johnny ?” “’E’s
too big to drive the mail now. ’E’s work in’
at the mine.” Tommy went on driving for some
time. He got no bigger—only older. His small,
freckled face was hidden under Johnny’s dear
old hat, and one still required the microscope.
Tommy had become my very good friend, and
one day I went to meet him as usual. “ Cold drive
out, Tommy?” I inquired, genially. “I’m
Billy,” the two-foot-nothing of humanity informed
me. “Are you, really ? Then, where’s Tommy ?
Sick ? ” “No ; ’e’s too big to drive the mails now.
’E’s fencin’.” I swallowed my amazement, and,
noticing joyfully that with the mails Billy had
taken on Johnny’s and Tommy’s tremendous hat,
felt him to be my friend. Billy tells me that
Frankie will be driving the mails soon—he is
quite six, and Billy thinks of getting a bit of
scrub clearing. A more honest and manly set of
pigmies than this amazing family never lived, and,
in spite of lack of schooling, they are omnivorous
readers.
* * * *
“L. Crade ” : The enthusiasm of Tom
Mann’s revolutionists is sometimes overdone.
Last Sunday morning, at about 12 o’clock, I
strolled past the Port Melbourne Pier. On
one side of it was a bunch of about 10 propa-
gandists, one of whom, mounted on a box, was
violently haranguing the audience on the
other side. The audience was not large,
nor was it enthusiastic. It consisted of
one man, who sat stolidly smoking,
quite unmoved by the earnestness
of the speaker. I leaned against
a post and looked on. Four
speakers in succession mount-
ed the box, and each uttered
long strings of ungramma-
tical sentences without
making any impression on
the audience. Each urged
him passionately to rend
his chains and throw off
his shackles—and he
smoked stolidly. But
when thefourth man,
after a long diatribe
on things in general,
told the audience to
consider himself a
mere hound if he didn’t
rise in a body against
the tyrants who crushed
him under foot, I decided
to go over and give him my moral support. “ Are
you enjoying yourself ? ” I inquired. He looked
at me in a puzzled sortof way and said, “Plait-il ?”
He was a French sailor.
* * * *
“Prospector Bill” : “ Carrandotta ”
Frayne, whose 30 years’ moving over and under
the surface of Australia have made him known in
almost every mining camp in the country, drifted
for a spell into Adelaide recently, after delving
for eight years in the Northern Territory. From
a mining viewpoint he described the Territory
this way :
I left the Territory because I was prospecting for
Chinese, and I object. I don’t mind opening up new
country for my fellow-countrymen. To find a new patch
in new country where hundreds of our own race can
follow on and share the good luck is, in my opinion, one
of the best uses to which a man can devote his life ; but
when you are trying the value of your latest discovery
with a pair of dry-blowing dishes, and rub the dust out
of your eyes to see a string of jabbering, basket-
bearing Chinamen, headed by a nigger tracker,
bearing down on you, it’s time to quit the busi-
ness in these parts. That’s what happened to me,
and that’s why I am not prospecting in the Northern
Territory now.' lam keeping my knowledge of the good
gold up there in the hope that the Commonwealth
Government may, later on, be able to give the white
prospector a show. What the value of the Territory as a
gold-bearing country is you may guess from the fact that
for eight years I have lived wholly upon alluvial gold I
found while travelling about in it. Only a little while
ago I brought in an Boz. Slug from country never tried ;
but, if I showed the gold, I didn’t dare to disclose the
locality, for I knew a swarm of Chinese were just waiting
to rush it. But the true value of the Northern Territory
lies in its reefs and lodes of gold and other minerals.
The alluvial is merely proof of the existence of gold in
reefs over an enormous area. Unless some steps are
taken to induce the prospector to open them by giving
him the right to peg, hold, and work all unpegged
ground, the Territory will continue to be a vast, unuti-
lised blank space, a danger to Australia, and an earthly
paradise for a horde of Chinamen.
* * * *
“F.D.” : Bo snakes pick their teeth
before sliming their afternoon tea ?
•» * » *
A STEADY JOB.
SPRIGS : “Hello, Geordie, her yer got constant work here?”
GEORDIE (bitterly): “Constant! Well, ez near ez hang it. Tin key goin ’ from daylight
till midnight .”
“Shearman”: The other day a bit of
land (three acres of kitchen garden) near Ballarat
(Vic.) was offered for lease on the tender system,
which is brother to the other curse described as
“ state salary expected.” It came into the mar-
ket because one of the pair of gaunt Chinamen
who formerly leased it had died, and the other
yellow bag of bones had been consigned to the
benevolent asylum. The highest offer sent in by
any white competitor was £2 10s. per acre per
annum, which seems liberal enough in all con-
science ; but the offer staggered the owner—-the
two vanished Chows, it seemed, had paid £6 per
acre. Then people began to have an inkling as
to what the dead Chow died of. That owner
reckons that White Australia is a fool of a policy,
and many other landowners reckon the same
thing for the same sort of reason.
° * * * *
“ Knuckler,” from Maoriland : I write
seeking the assistance of your Financial Editor.
I had occasion to dismiss our Maori lady help for
wandering off the premises in search of dried
shark —she invariably brought back the smell. I
sent her a cheque for 17 weeks at 10s. per week,
and received this letter
Kia Mr. Dash,—-Your counting which you was sent to me.
I say that you and it are mistaken, and I say that 1 work
there for 17 weeks, and in my count I say that I work for
six days in a week—Sundays including—Because I don’t
stay away on Sundays. So then I told you now. lam
25s coming back. What you doing about it?—Yours
tr U ly, Hinemoa Waitangiete.
I can’t make this out at all. Is the 255. to
be carried to reserve fund, or is i't a sum
written off for the depreciation of the lady, or is
it gross profit (the lady is very gross, weighing
16 stone, and there is a prophet among her
relatives)? When she arrives, should I throw
her out, or should I declare a dividend ? If I
floated her (she floats best in beer) Would you
take up any preference shares? Would you re-
commend me to reconstruct the 255. as a deposit
at 3h per cent., payable in 1917, or to treat the
lady with silent contempt, or to turn it into
debentures? \Vou 1d it be best to make a fresh
issue of shares, or to let the dog issuefrom the
front gate at top speed when Mrs. Hinemoa
appears on the horizon ? Do you think it is worth
sinking any deeper into the subject, or would you
drive (to the police station), or would you stope
out when the infuriated female comes, and leave
some one else to deal with her? It seems to me
the expenses are high ; 255. for 16 stone is at the
rate of £l2 10s. per ton, and I don’t think the
reef will pay at that rate. As the recent frost
destroyed my cyanide plant just as it was begin-
ning to blossom, I suppose I had better charge the
huge female to petty cash, though if I could time
things so as to meet her just at the top of the
hill as she comes back, I think a good push would
convert her into rolling stock. In that case, of
course, she would be an asset, but she would be
so angry before she struck the bottom of the
valley that goodwill would have to be written off.
THE STRANDED TOPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There rings a question through his brain
VVhen hearts are hard and purses low,
When Drought is fierce on hill and plain,
And prospects black and blacker grow—
Where are the lads who formed a row
When pots were full and hearts were gay ?
When eyes could flash and hearts could glow,
Where are the Beers of Yesterday ?
Where are the jests that rose amain?
Where are the songs whose genial flow
Could drown the dirge of Autumn rain,
Or warm the chill of Winter’s snow ?
Where’s Hebe, too—who long ago
Dispensed the dews to mortal clay,
And fooled the smiling toper so?
Where are the Beers of Yesterday ?
The miser counts his loss and gain,
And measures thus his weal and woe ;
The lover’s hopes—they wax and wane ;
The merchant’s fortunes come and go ;
But deeper grief no man may know
Than he who weeps beside the way,
And asks in vain of friend and foe :
Where are the Beers of Yesterday?
Envoi.
Friends, of your kindness pity show —
One cup would cheer the toper gray ;
Ye feel his bitter need, I trow :
Where are his Beers of Yesterday?
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
SAINTLY SIMON’S WILD OATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Simon was a saint,
He’d held his passions in restraint
Until they one and all were cowed,
And he, of their subjection proud,
Made boast: “ Behold me ! Now so strong,
Can you believe I once ‘ went wrong ’ ?
“ You ask how this thing came to pass?
’Twas thus : Our Sabb.ith Bible class
Had been dismissed, and at the gate
We stood in knots, the hour was late
(Maybe a quarter after eight).
Yet thus vve stood as I have said,
Instead of going home to bed.
“ And there was one amongst us there
Who was a thorough deit-may-care.
He’d never learn his Sunday text,
And, oh, it often made me vexed
To think —the thought was worse than gall—
He’d failed to look it up at all.
“ I’d taxed him time and time again
With his neglect, but all in vain ;
Yet still I’d hopes I might redeem
This youth—he’d sometimes sorry seem.
But on the night I write about
I rather think I put him out.
“ He called me 'Saintly Sim,’ and said
I ought to go and ‘ bag my head ’ ; ■
He next observed he had a mind
To kick my something blank—be kind
And spare a repetition crude
Of words both boisterous and rude.
“He then removed his Sunday coat,
Rolled up his Sunday sleeves and smote
The circumambient atmosphere,
And said : ‘ You canting cow ; I’m here
To make you sick ; you must allow
You’ve often sickened me, you cow 1
“ ‘ I fancy I could flatten you
With just an upper-cut or two,
You cow ! ’ (again he called me that)
And cried, as on the ground he spat,
‘ Come on ! You make me tired I’m set;
So fight, ox—smoke a cigarette !’
“ Ah, never shall I quite forget
The night I smoked a cigarette !
Alas, dear friends, in very truth,
I was a harum-scarum youth,
When I—God help me !—was not more
Than twenty-three or twenty-four 1”
MAORILAND.
SING. S. CLARK.


13
A STIMULANT
It imparts lasting exhilaration
JWOLFE’S SCHNAFFS.
SHEEP BUYERS.
Diamonds are a Good Investment*
They must rise higher and higher.
The world’s supply does not equal the demand.
They have risen gradually during the last 10 years.
Investment apart—they afford immense pleasure to
the recipient.
We are showing Australian Diamonds that are
phenomenal value.
Marquise Ring-, Dia-
monds and Sapphires,
£l6 16s.
Finest Quality
Diamonds,
£45.
We bought them in the rough and cut them, hence their lowness of price.
£E£ OUR LARGER STOCK.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Yass (N.S.W.) dis-
trict is experiencing one of the coldest winters
known for years. It’s common to see smoke-rings
frozen in mid-air. I could not understand how
these ice-rings managed to remain suspended,
till a nature-student informed me that even the
laws of gravitation were frozen and the Ten Com-
mandments had stopped running, for the first time
on record.
* * • *
“F.H.R.”: There was only one concer-
tina player at the party Ryan gave when Kate
was “spliced,” and that one wanted a dance.
Several of us boys could just manage to knock out
a tune, so I “ showed willin’ ” with a bar or two
of the “ Billy Boils Over,” which sufficed them to
scramble through the first figure of the lancers.
All through the ordeal I had been trying to think
of that other tune I used to play, and I had it in
my head, when —slap went the M.C.’s hands, and
away the memory vanished. Both girls and boys,
to say nothing of Ryan, whistled tunes to me in
the hope of calling it back again ; but it was gone
like the Lost Chord. Kate was dancing with her
newly-wed husband, and just then she remem-
bered he could play the “ Wearin’ o’ the Green ” ;
so, much to my enjoyment and Jim’s displeasure,
he swapped the missus for the concertina. Jim
managed two whole figures when his repertoire
ran out, and, although Ryan tried to whistle
something by way of filling the void, the musician
himself had to play the fourth figure while Jim
danced with his partner. Just then I thought of
my remaining tune, “ Where Did You Get That
Hat?” so let the musician finish the last figure
with the bride. For an all-round mixture of
music it took the cake, and the bride had only
three partners in one set of lancers.
THE MULGA PALACE.
The roominess and comfort as well as the taste dis-
played in some of these bush homes is surprising-.— In-
formation for intending emigrants.
Quite so. This shows dad and mother looking
round seeing where they can run out a bit of a
skillion for an extry room, for the boys.
“ Walilia ” : How’s this for cosmopoli-
tanism ? Here in Papua, although the total
population, other than the natives of the soil, only
counts some 600 odd, we have a fairly representa-
tive Jot .of the nations of the globe. If Australia
is a separate nation, its representatives have the
top position for number. Next to them are
Englishmen; then come Germans, Frenchmen,
Scandinavians, Italians, Greeks, Yankees, Bel-
gians, Spanish, Portuguese, a few South
Americans, American negroes, Japs, Javanese,
Chinamen of the 41 welly ni’ flesh callot ” persua-
sion, Filipinos, Malays, Kanakas, and South Sea
Islanders of sorts. As the majority of the colored
immigrants have married with the natives, the
resulting mixture will be interesting, and will
give the Government much victuals for reflection.
The bulk of the copra and fishing industries have
been collared by the colored strangers, and the
sooner they are hunted out of the Possession the
better it will be for both the white and native
population.
FAMILY PRIDE.
SELECTORr (fighting his son): “My oath, mother, ’e’s a tough ’un !”
MOTHER : “ Small blame to ’im, Bill. You an’ me’s both tough ’un’s.”
“ Lonx ” : Referring to length of Queens-
land crocodiles (“Backwash,” B. 27/6/’O7, and
“Flinderino,” B. 18/7/ 07). The North Queens-
land gavial, named by some naturalists the John-
stone gavial, is locally known as the “crocodile.”
It is from 6ft. to Bft. long, and inoffensive so far as
man is concerned. It infests the upper waters of
N.Q. rivers; while the real crocodile, found in the
tidal and lower parts of the Johnstone and other
rivers, is miscalled the “alligator,” and grows to
20ft. long. The crocodile ranges much farther
south than the gavial.
*** * |
“ J.G.” : This is a sample of the risks a
man has to take who works near a boiler in the
Yic. country districts. This boiler was part of a
steam threshing plant. The driver saw that the
water had got a long way below the gauge-glass.
To save the metal plug from melting, he had the
front wheels of the engine raised on blocks, so as
to throw what water
there was above the
plates and tubes to-
wards the end where
the plug was. He did
this, he said, to “ save
time.” The plugs are
placed in the roof of
the fire-boxes, so that,
in case of accidents,
they will melt, instead
of the whole boiler
blowing up. And when
the driver tilted up
the engine to prevent
the plug melting, he
took a tremendous risk
of bringing down the
funnel end, if not blow-
ing the engine and
about a dozen men to
pieces as soon as cold
water was pumped in.
Another fool, when
getting short of water,
screwed down the
safety valve to prevent
the steam escaping,
and thus lessening the
stock of fluid. This
was continued for some
time, until Heaven
only knows how many
pounds of steam to the square inch tiie boiler
plates had to resist. Yet, when a Bill comes
before the Vic. State Legislature to provide for
inspection, a howl goes up from all cockydom at
the proposed outrageous interference with private
enterprise.
A cry from the tail-end of N.S.W. :
The one time glory of Silverton has indeed departed.
The town which once boasted of its 10,000 inhabitants,
now has a population of 40 or 50, and the majority of
these are too old to leave and too tired to die. About
the only buildings left intact are the gaol, Courthouse,
Council Chamber, and one pub. All the wood and iron
habitations have been removed to Broken Hill, and those
of stone have been denuded of roofs, doors, windows, and
everything else movable. That once famous hostelry,
De Baun’s, where sixty dozen of fizz were once demolished
in an hour, has been razed to the ground, and right op-
posite stands the grinning skeleton of that one-time
busiest of banks—the Bank of South Australia, now the
habitation of goats. The main thoroughfare, over which
the spanking four-in-hands of W. P. McGregor, Willie
Wilson, Reg Pell, and other heroes of the roaring days,
were wont to prance, is seldom disturbed, except by a
Chow’s vegetable cart wending its way to Broken Hill.
The town still boasts a mayor, but no councillors, and
no funds. The Courthouse opens, on an average, about
twice a year, when the Broken Hill S.M. sits on a case,
usually that of a wood-carter working without a license.
In spite of Silverton’s decay, the oldest inhabitant still
fondly dreams of the restoration of the place to its for-
mer glory, through the discovery of the huge Plying
Dutchman of a silver lode, which legend declares to be
hidden thereabouts, though all the legend on earth
seems unable to locate it.
“Ginghi”: Phoenix (B. 18/7/’O7) says
that the “hat” method of stopping a snake
applies principally to the carpet snake. But
surely no Australian native would run the risk of
sunstroke, by leaving his hat to watch a carpet
snake whilst he looked for a stick to kill the harm-
less reptile. Most bush people keep a stray
carpet snake or two about the place for the same
purpose as city folks keep cats; whilst the ordi-
nary bush bloke treats them with the same amount
of contempt that Alfred Deakin should show
towards Joe Carruthers over the Federal capital
site.
* * * *
“ Janor ” on snakes ;
“Paul Oupid’s ” advice to those about to be snake-
bitten (B. 20/6/’O7) is right on top. He says “ You must
catch his eye.” To make the catch he advises “ get
straight in front ” of the snake. Not at all. Get
crookedly behind it, seize it roughly but gently by the
ears, and at arm’s length elevate it to the level of your
own eye. Then, and then only, can you see the eye of a
snake. When a snake is hustling over the landscape its
eye is not visible to a man in an upright position. It is
deeply sunken and heavily lidded. If it were not so,
snakes would be blind at an early age. As they canter
over stones and through undergrowth the head acts as
does the cowcatcher of a loco. The faster the pace the
nearer the surface glides the head. Now, having caught
the eye of your snake, you will find that it is not a
“ beady optic,’’ as “ Paul 0.” affirms, but that its exterior
presents the Asiatic slant. Within it you will notice (if
you keep calm) a diabolic gleam, even as of the port side-
light of Hell. However, having caught the ophidian
eye, place the reptile on the ground and proceed to
hypnotise it, and you will find that it will light
straight out for its camp. A snake always does
when it’s mesmerised or irritated. Saw a curious
instance of this devotion to the home last summer.
Riding along the Dargo (Vic.) road, I spotted thereon a
large copper-head, which retired into a roadside log
before I could argue with it. I set Are to the log, and had
a smoke while the Are got fairly going. Turning to re-
mount, saw another copperhead travelling towards me at
a great bat. Grabbed at it as it Aashed by, and missed,
and it darted into the burning log. Returning next day,
I found the charred remains of the two snakes. “P.
Oupid’s ” incident of the hat is remarkable, for the reason
that nothing (barring a human) alarms a snake so much
as an unfamiliar object that moves when he comes in
contact with it, and he scoots directly. That is the
reason why dwellers in snake-infested localities are safer
from intrusion in tents than in solid structures. Have
killed scores of the brutes in houses and huts, but nary a
one in a tent.
“Dux” : The fellow who does the wrong
thing at the psychological moment crops up in
every game, but when Maoris take the football
field all ordinary rules suspend themselves. Such
an event occurred lately in Wanganui (M.L.),
where sculler Webb hails from. The local cham-
pions engaged the Kaierau natives at a willing
exposition of the Rugby game. Skin and hair,
hoarse shouts and sickening thuds filled the
atmosphere, and Kaierau scored and goaled.
Wanganui then hurled itself into the disturbance
and bullocked things into native territory. Mat-
ters grew exciting. Solid pakehas bustled into
the fray with great violence. Wild-eyed, dis-
hevelled and frenzied Maoris rushed here and
there like raving tom-cats. A score seemed
imminent. A Maori back, Takarangi, rushed
into the melee, secured the leather, and drop-
kicked wildly for the touch-line. The ball screwed
and went back over his own goal-posts. The
referee promptly awarded Wanganui four points
for a potted goal, and the whistle pierced the
bruised and shattered atmosphere. The Maoris
won by five to four, but they had kicked the
whole nine points, and made their opponents a
present of nearly half of them.
A RAILWAY SURVEY.
The adjourned debate on the motion for the second
reading-of the Kalgoorlie (W.A.) to Port Augusta (S.A.)
Railway Survey Bill was resumed. Senator Mulcahy
(Tas.) stated that there were three reasons why Tas-
mania was opposed to the measure. The first was that
there was no moral responsibility on her part to support
it; the second was her unfortunate financial position ;
and the third was that no benefit would accrue to the
State, owing to her geographical position.— Melbourne
Herald.
Will it benefit Augusta Road, or Don, or Mangalore ?
Will Chudleigh Junction be inclined to praise it more and
more?
Then why disturb a States-man from his Stabe-ly sleep just
for
The notion that a nation needs a railway ?
Will it straightway make a profit, and will Sandfly get a
share ?
Will Little Oyster Cove, d’you think, approve of the
affair ?
And say, O say, can Rumney’s Huts the mere idea bear
That a nation ought to have a nation’s railway?
O rash indeed this scheme appears, for if it goes ahead
Some State may profit tuppence on the State to which
I’m wed :
Such ugly possibilities must e’er surround with dread
The notion that a nation needs a railway.
Thus ever some State person longs to make his little row,
And to show he hasn’t realised we’re all Australians now ;
To me it seems quite time to say “ We’re ‘ sorry for the
cow ’
That blocks the train upon the nation’s railway.”
VIC.
U.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. tv ill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.S. : Poem too solid. A sample herewith :
But away in dear old England, my own sweet native land,
To every 48,000 souls, to legislate, one man.
While over here in Germany one member’s got to mind
100,000 persons,
But the unoffending Australian in this our Continent
Has one member to every 8000 for us to legislate.
Now did it ever occur to you, regarding yourself dispas-
sionately as a dashed fool who throws mud blindly at his
own country, and whose poetry would disgrace a wild
hog—did it ever occur to you, considered as an ass of the
worst description, that there are about 27 Parliaments of
one kind and another in Germany (many of them Parlia-
ments of two Houses) with about 3900 members in the lot, or
one member to every 1540 people ? Also, that there are cases
hi Germany of 166 members legislating for less than
300,000 people, and 134 members for about 110,000 people ?
And if these things didn’t strike you, why didn’t they ?....
Oriel: Rather weak, and the ma-in-law joke is stale, any-
how VV'.A.E. :“ 1 know my pen is feeble and my muse
is weak and wan.” That’s the best line in it—and the
truest Skeet-more : There is some improvement, but
you shouldn’t make Australians talk pure Cockney...
N.E.D. (Vic.): Note your statement that the Australian
Women’s League “combats State Socialism,” and that
“ every person with any common sense admits that
Socialism is bad for a country.” Well, the Redeemer
didn’t, anyhow ; He was the first Socialist. But
probably you have never taken the trouble to learn
what Socialism really means, and have merely listened to
some wild female who mixed it up with confiscation
and Communism, and who mixed up Communism
again with the Commune of Paris and the Com-
munards who fought behind the barricades in ’7l.
By the way, did it ever strike you that an
army, navy, police force, State railway system,
State-made roads, State irrigation works, post offices—•
in fact, pretty nearly our whole civilisation—is State
Socialism? And you, an Australian woman, are proud,
as you muddle along in your little village, that
you belong to a society which, if it lives up to
jour description of it, is against civilisation....
A.L.W.: Letter received with many thanks. Matter
dealt with in a spirit which, we hope, you will approve.
.... Marie E. : That joke about the bosom of Beelzebub
is utterly worn out. And when one item is a steal there
is always a suspicion that others are steals Crack-
shot: Very poor R. (Maoriland): Letter filled with
language about Premier Ward duly to hand. First of all
we’ve seen Ward, and after looking at that rather hand-
some person your description of a bloated monstrosity is
ridiculous Dorcas: Poem miles below standard, and
cost us 4d. owing to your uncjpe economy with stamps....
N.S. : Very slightly above mediocrity J.R. W. : They
“go ” pretty well, but there’s no pith in them. ..W.8.A.:
Involved and obscure G. Knowles: A rank chestnut.
E.H. : Don’t care for any of them, though there are
good bits in the longest Telwill: Too stilted and
magniloquent, and the dream-device is hackneyed....
Denver : The incident doesn’t deserve half the narration.
. ...C.W.C. : Style too tedious and repetitive.. ..Carmen :
Probably a faithful transcript, but too long and mono-
tonous. .. Ida N. : Promising, in the circumstances. Try
again Lenoir: Well intended, but very weak in spots.
Maude A.R. : Nothing new or striking in it T.F.M. :
Some of it is good, and some of it strained and
clumsy. ..Nym. : More failures. Good verse involves much
more trouble than j'ou appear inclined to take 8.W.C.:
Funny, but there isn’t incident enough behind it....
J. P. : We had to stop the syllabus debate somewhere.
Both parties to it were old contributors, and each,
because he was an old contributor, had a right to the
last word ; and there can’t be two last words Nux
Vomica : An intoxicated cocky said, at a recent Vic.
political meeting, that he knew J. S. Mill. Perhaps he
did know him. Possiblj' he didn’t Banool: Hardly
rises to the occasion even now.. K.L.Y.: “Conversion ” too
g ruesome. Can see that deceased Asiatic hanging in our
mind’s eye now. (No comments on this grammar
allowed.)... .Moeatra : “Wash” contains one shout of
humor, but one shout doesn’t make a sustained
roar Goril : Seems to us the Premier called
up the Devil in a verj' purposeless manner Harry
K. : Amusing in detail, but has no central idea....
Phil Random: Doesn’t get near the mark W.H.D. :
Funny, but crude... .Mooch-About: Third-class stuff
only Uckle : Lively in style, but lacking in interest
A.P.D.: It bristles with blunders VVot-oh : Too much
straining after effect. The subject required simplicity.
. ...C. Mac: No breadth or solidity in any of them....
“A”: Your “Meanest Man ” but a commonplace per-
former. A mean man whose case requires the expendi-
ture of over 200 words before Che meanness is satisfactorily
sheeted home is never the genuine article P.J.H.:
“No” to verse, which is not skilful enough ; “no” also
go query....“ Canary ” (M.L.): No local interest in the
antics of the Orange crowd in far-away Belfast....
C.E.B. ; “Comfortable Apartments” hardly worth the
space Meekathagga: The lines, “To My Sister,” Can
be ascribed, with reasonable certainty, to Gordon. They
were not included in any of the three volumes published
by Gordon himself, but were found by his friend John
Riddock, of Yallum, S.A., amongst the poet’s papers
after his death, and were included by the editor,
R. H. Birnie, in the collected edition of Gordon’s
poems... .Larola : Faintly amusing... .W.W.A.: Has a
good point, but the syntax and the metre are too
shaky,...Arthur A.: A graceful nothing... .Jeannie F.:
Not too bad, but lacking in pith and dramatic force
Palisade; Good swing in the verse ; otherwise crude....
Maro: A good “situation,” too weaklj' handled....
M.R.K.: Veryinferior quality Groper: Well told, but
hardly enough in it... .E. J.W.: Good idea, not well enough
worked 0ut.... VV-in-Circle :We don’t care for parodies,
Otheritem hardlj' calls for print, otherwise than locally..
Frank B.: Versification too stiff and awkward
H.E.: (1) Our own representative did the Melbourne
lacrosse match. (2) You’ll never do anj' good at that
kind of press-work till you realise that the slovenly and
illegible report which arrives after the paper has gone
to press only helps to disfigure the waste basket
C.M.L. : “ Preacher ” somewhat rocky H.S.C. : “Time
of Flood” rather a solid record of hard facts.... Wainta :
“Sob of the Mine ” and the others have good ideas in
them, but the metre is too erratic Skeet Moree:
“His Ship” takes too long to work up to a point that
isn’t large enough A.L.: Tschaikowsky was born at
Wotkinsk, in the Ural District (Russia) in 1840.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
J.N.: Poor picture. As for the joke—well, presumably
you thought it was a joke because one of the characters
was called Hennessej'. A man may even be called Finni-
gan and not be a joke. ..A.H.T. : Accept your assurance
that drawing is a first attempt. Never do anything of
the sort again ...G.E.K. : We w 7 ere only economising
space when we told you the legs of one of the men
couldn’t stand inspection. Other things that can’t stand
inspection are the legs, bodies, faces, hats, and clothes of
both men ; likewise, the picture generallj 7 , and the
joke.


THE CONTEST.-(An Historical Picture , 1907.)
JOSEPH CARRUTHERS: “BY MY MALIDOM, YOUR CREST BELIKETH MINE.”
JAMES McGOWEN: “YEA, AND YOUR SHIELD HATH THE SAME DEVICE. WHY SHOULD WE FIGHT?”
JOSEPH CARRUTHERS: “IN TRUTH, I KNOW NOT, BUT YON SPECTATORS EXPECT A CONTEST. LET US BREAK A LANCE.”


> A foci Al»s^tas
Won $e Coltje Valley'
EngJ Seafj
; in Inr<- tfeoy
'//) ( T^ble )
A |r u sT/ould ~be -
io I igtjlirj s<■
gtowers W-t>;ji wffjcfr
is Very ;*
j
>\nd we've
&r-* in *
lije *»*y
easily I>e led
lot© & -finyitiaj
quagmire ! ”
11/C Gov,;_ ' l?e
irj Lr
t 0 - ^u
Comporliable . We'd
do A^yttjiUP toK A
CtKov/er j
■“
j)irec-ta>r s 0 t a^ n y tut/it ~]
will fa> forbidJeJ
Under * ne »/ Federal Dill I
tj Contribute, prorv, it s ’ I
to * n y V litter I
Uper
T(00 !
of-
l*nf>o rfeJ Pbj'chf
Me A rc - in ''^whJre
do I>e distloyd o^>
% uw; >
ft I*'}
JT"- \\e\\)oxjrrit looKs^SV
struggle h> Correct
nf*' deficiencies COhijd&cency^
she Ki» be 4 lydy!f
A LOOK ROUND MELBOURNE.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
If a laddie gets a wetting
Coming thro’ the rye,
If he has a cold upon him
Need the laddie die ;
He can laugh at all chest troubles
If he can procure
The proper stuff, and plain enough,
It’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Pneumonia always results from a cold, and
can be prevented by the timely use of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.*
PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchio. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
■JR. GENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure ot
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal ncte
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The chances of the game : Paddy Slavin is
now one of the Fat Men of Alaska (B. 11/7/’07); John
L. Sullivan has just interviewed a Cardinal in
Rome, and been blessed by him (current American
papers); and old JemMace was, at latest accounts,
taking the twopences at the door of a low -down
boxing booth in London.
Private astronomer John Tebbutt, of
N.S.W., writes that he is now too old to go out in
the early morning looking for comets. The vener-
able scientist is in his 74th year. He was born
in Windsor, and has lived and hunted for new
heavenly bodies there all his years, despite many
offers of appointments to astronomical offices else-
where. Also he collects many rents thereabouts.
Windsor is another of the dead towns that are
strangled by big landlordism.
Georges Danysz, the rabbifc-slayer’s son,
reported as having died of fever in Brittany, was
in Sydney with his father, and proved a modest,
dreamy, artistically-disposed youth. He drifted
a good deal into society, and hostesses, in their
anxiety to be agreeable, mostly talked dead
rabbit to him. Now, he hated dead rabbit —in
fact, he wasn’t a slaughterous young man, and
he hated dead anything—so he spent most of his
time in drawing-room corners, looking into albums
and trying to avoid notice.
Joseph Hatton, whose death at the age of
68 is recorded, strolled on to the English section
of the Inky Way at a very early age. His father
was one of the first men to found a penny paper
when the repeal of the newspaper stamp tax made
such enterprise possible. Hatton senior was
proud of the fact that some ancient Act of Par-
liament authorised a printer to wear a sword ; he
also believed fervently that he was a descendant
of the “ dancing Chancellor,” Christopher Hatton,
who captivated our old friend Queen Liz the
Loud by the way in which he could fling his toes
about. Joseph did not indulge in the parental
vanities, possibly because he was too busy journal-
ising and writing novels, with every now and then
a play, or a travel-book, or a biography, or
special correspondence for journals abroad, in-
cluding at one time the Sydney Morning
Herald. If circumstances had allowed him to
write less he would probably have written much
better. Still, if much of his work was tripe it was
good tripe.
THE RAILINGS IN THE PARKS.
The Sydney City Council has decided to remove all
railings from the parks.— News Item.
Judge Murray, at Sydney Quarter Sessions
on Saturday, had before him an energetic person,
one William Collins, aged 22, who pleaded guilty to
15 charges of housebreaking. The Judge said
that if he gave the prisoner the full penalty the
sentence would be 150 years. As it was, he gave
him the full penalty on each charge, but the sen-
tences were concurrent.
The late Stephen H. Lambton, who was
50 years in the N.S.W. Postal Department, had
one or two hobbies, of which chess was the most
incurable. In the old days, when Public Service
Boards weren’t invented, any fine chess-player
who strayed to Sydney could get a billet in the
post office almost as easily as any of a certain
politician’s bush constituents could get into the
police force. Lambton had no difficulty in
getting jobs for his chess-players, but had con-
siderable trouble in keeping them in the jobs.
They often had little regard for office discipline,
and one particular chess star had no regard at all.
Recently dead at Glenelg (S.A.), Mrs.
Charles Swinden, aged 84. She came to S.A. in
1840 with her father, the late Nicholas Foote,
who brought with him cattle, horses, etc., and
selected and stocked what is now National Park.
Mrs. Swinden’s husband was a pastoralist in a
large way, and owned at one time or other Prin-
cess . Royal, _ Pinda, Bartagunya, Woolundunga.
Saltia, Callioota, Winnowie, Mount Attraction,
Corrieberrie, and Pernatty stations. In fact,
Swinden’s sheep had such a habit of browsing
over the broad surface of the Province, that on the
old Government plans all the lands west of Lake
Torrens were classified as “ Swinden’s Country.”
W. H. Moule, just raised to the Bench in
Victoria, was a fairly good cricketer in his day—
his day being about the ’eighties. He was a
member of Murdoch’s first -team (1880), which
played the first test match against All England
in England. Judge Moule’s batting average for
the tour was 12, and his bowling average 17, so he
was not a phenomenal success. To be a real live
Judge is about the dizziest height that an
Australian Eleven hero has attained, though
many of the species have done well. Mur-
doch himself married one of the wealthy
Bendigo Watsons. H. H. Massie has a
highly-salaried post with the Commercial Bank-
ing Co. of Sydney. H. J. H. Scott (Tuppenny
Scott) is a flourishing New England doctor.
T. W. Garrett and Dave Gregory are in good
Government billets. Also there was Mr. Coning-
ham, of the divorce proceedings.
Mr. Stephen Harbord Lambton, formerly
Deputy-Postrnaster-General of N.S.W., died sud-
denly at his home at Drummoyne on Thursday,
aged 73 years. He was born in Edinburgh in
November, 1834, and came to Sydney with his
parents two years afterwards. His father, who
was a solicitor, settled at Windsor, where lie
practised for several years. (Sixty years ago there
were four solicitors practising in the now dead
Hawkesbury town.) The deceased entered the
postal service at the age of 16, and dwelt therein
all the rest of his days till the leaden foot of
Superannuation overtook him.
William Morgan, the Sydney solicitor
who died suddenly at Paddington on July 31,
aged 65 years, was a native of Kelso, near
Bathurst, where his father was a manufacturer of
bricks. Most of the red brick town of Bathurst
emerged from the kilns of Morgan, senior.
William Morgan was in N.S.W. Assembly for a
while, but left no extraordinary footprint there.
His brother George, who suicided in Sydney
Domain a few years back, was well known as a
cricketer, and had been for years in the Civil
Service, first in the Lands Department, and finally
with the Sheriff.
Though well on in his sixties and showing
unmistakable signs of wear and tear—especially
of tear—J. L. Purves, of
Melbourne, still contrives to
keep his place as the best-
known criminal lawyer in
Australia. But there is very
little in his slow and heavy
gait and his thick, drawling
voice to remind you of the
fierce and relentless cross-
examiner who was the terror
of witnesses 20 or 30 years,
ago. In one respect only
does he give you any con-
vincing clue to his identity—
his propensity for contempt
of Court. But the wily old
lawyer knows the exact
length of his legal tether.
In a long case at Beech-
worth, the other day, Justice-
Hodges sternly ordered him
to sit down. Purves kept
his feet and debated the
point, and his Honor said to-
the gaoler, “Fetch the
Sheriff.” J.L. immediately
collapsed, and the next,
moment slipped into his seat..
Dr. Bevan, the elderly
Cupid of Collins-street, pas-
tor of the empty Independ-
ent Church, has the reputa-
tion of owning the healthiest,
appetite in Melbourne, now
that Benjamin Benjamin,
gets his plate of beef handed
to him by the angels. Bevan
can get through two
meals as rapidly as an ordin-
ary alderman would get-
through one, and he talks all
the time, and yet he never
talks with his mouth full—
at least not with it any fuller
than his church—and he
doesn’t seem to bolt his food to make room for
conversation either.
How is this for tenacity of life ! Reubent
Cook, of Portland (Vic.), had a wooden spike
driven clean through his head in a local saw-mill.
The stake entered the eye, and came out at the
back of his head, near the neck. It required the
daintiest surgical skill to extract the wood,
splinter by splinter, and now Reuben is doing
well. He has not even lost his sight; the ball of
the eye was pressed aside, but wasn’t seriously
injured.
“ Alba ” writes :
Mark Twain arrived in London amid the guffaws of
friendly donkey engines and steam sirens. Mark has.
developed boiled eye since he was in Australia ; his brow
wears a crushed, concertina-like appearance through
firing off tinned joke at the boy reporter. One or two.
big London papers pleaded hard for the King to see
Mark, and decorate him with the order of the Dried
Guffaw, or something. Why does the King avoid Mark
Twain ? That has long been a burning question across,
the Atlantic. Those who know Albert Edward reckon
that he will never give the Yankee joke-man the chance-
of his life. For 40 years or thereabouts Mark has written
dozens of imaginary interviews between himself and the
Man of many Dominions. If a meeting really happened,
Twain, it is assumed, would grip his chance and set the
world laughing at England’s monarch. The councillors
at Buckingham Palace are not inclined to rush their
potentate into the jaws of the comic lion.
STRANGE BEHAVIOUR OF THE OLD MAN.
The British Government intends to further reduce the hands employed at Woolwich Arsenal by 3000. — Cablegram.
The Editor of the S.A. Register is an
ardent lover of the colored Asiatic. He is also
entirely without a sense of humor, as indeed is
evidenced daily in his paper. His dreariness and
his nigger-hunger are evidenced by the fact that
he calls his house “ Kimono.” Why not give the
English equivalent of that Jap expression and
dub the gaudy mansion “Dressing Gown,” or
“ Loose Frock ” ?
All the fuss that was made a year or two
ago concerning Charles Truelove, ex-manager of
St. Kilda (Melb.) Cemetery, and his muddled
dealings with the graves and the cash accounts of
the fashionable bone-yard, where he long-time
held sway, has boiled down to a conviction of the
poor old chap on a charge of embezzlement, which
was so unsatisfactory and trivial that the Judge
sentenced him merely to a month’s imprisonment.
Truelove was a man of considerable musical taste
and education, with an enthusiasm for the train-
ing of church choirs, and no sort of a head for
business. In his troubles he was pathetically in-
capable of extricating himself, and he went to
“do” his month in prison, pitied by all who •
knew him, without feeling persuaded that he had
been guilty of any legal offence. When one
thinks of all the Melbourne men of his acquaint-
ance whose financial jugglings, particularly at
land-boom time, deserved twenty times more
punishment, and didn’t get it, the three prosecu-
tions of Truelove (two of them abortive) seem to
qualify him for a martyr’s crown and a big benefit
concert. As a promoter of musical entertain-
ments for everybody’s benefit but his own, the
ex-manager of St. Kilda Cemetery has an honor-
able record, anyhow.
The late Vic. Judge Hickman Moles-
worth, he of the chubby and beaming counte-
nance, had the job of seeing Victoria safely
through the Bankruptcy Court after the
boom burst. It was a strenuous time ;
in one year (1894) £5,239,010 worth of
liabilities, or about 25 times the present
annual average, drifted into the witness
box to explain to Molesworth how the
thing came about. As far as the amounts
owing were concerned, Victoria did nearly
twice as much business that year as all the
other States and Maoriland put together.
Molesworth took things philosophically as
long as feminine insolvents didn’t weep in
his court. He hated having his court wept
in, and used to look inclined to come down
from the Bench and personally dry the
testifier.
It lias been decided that Prince
Edward of Wales is to be officially known
as Prince David, and, if he lives, the kid
will eventually come to the throne as King
David I. Truly, there were two Davids
of Scotland far back in the misty past,
but they are not nearly so well known as
that David who made Mrs. Goliath a widow
and afterwards jumped the throne of
Jewry. The accession of David I. would
be generally accepted as an indication that
at last the Throne itself had passed, like
many Other things in England, into the
hands of the Chosen Folk who took over the
signboard and goodwill of the business
from the Lombards.
The Stork is still very friendly with the
German settler in S. Australia. Dr. Schmid, whose
“field” covers the scattered German farming com-
munity around Kapunda, lately wrote to the local
papers to say that he had just welcomed his 1515th
little stranger. And not one mother has been
lost in the process, he added.
Frank Myers, the lately-deceased journal-
ist, revelled in early Australian history, particu-
larly of the biographical sort, and his last essay
(written for The Lone Hand) was devoted to one
of his heroes, parson-politician Dr. John Dunmore
Lang. Myers mentioned that, to carry out his
immigration ideas, Lang sold his Sydney property.
He didn’t mention, though, what is something of
a coincidence—that the principal part of the
property was the fine block now occupied by
Petty’s Hotel, overlooking on one side the park
that "bears the old warrior’s name, and on the
other the square in which stands the appalling
Lang statue.
Melb. Congregationalists tell the public,
who are quite uninterested, that Collins-street
Independent church can’t raise an attendance
big enough to stop the echoes on Sundays. The
fact is that old woolly woman Bevan has turned
his congregation away by his unchristian belief
in Anti-Sosh, and his foolish and impotent object-
tions to “ White Australia.”
Biographical sketch from “ F.” -
A much dilapidated skittle in Australian politics is
Edmund Lonsdale, Foreign-trader, Single-taxer, and Anti-
Australian generally. Lonsdale belongs to New England
(N.S. W.), and it is a favorite diversion of that district to
set Lonsdale up in order to knock him down. Armidale
first adopted Lonsdale for its pet skittle when, with grim
humor, it set up this staunch Single-taxer, who believes
in a land-tax without any exemptions, to support Reid’s
Land Tax, which depended for existence on the exemp-
tion principle. Then the Australian Constitution Bill
game came along, and Lonsdale asked Armidale to allow
him to remain perpendicular as an Anti-Bill piece of
wood, but Armidale took a steady aim, and knocked
Lonsdale down. Next Lonsdale thought he’d make a
very good Foreign-trade pin in the Federal alley,
but New England sent along a beautiful ball and
bowled him down before he was up, so to speak.
A little later, however, Armidale reckoned he was
down long enough for once, and set him up again
in the State alley, and then New England borrowed him
for a while, and made him vertical in Melbourne. Here
Lonsdale remained more or less erect until the last
Federal competitions, and then New England scored a
splendid shot, and Lonsdale went down for the third
time. This last fall rather scared Lonsdale, and he
scooted off, and offered himself to Newtown (Sydney) in
the State selection tournament. Newtown just looked
at Lonsdale, and promptly knocked him down. Now
Lonsdale is pleading to Armidale to set him up once
more, but much flooring has knocked most of the varnish
off Lonsdale, and, according to present indications,
Armidale reckons that - as a skittle he has outlived his
usefulness.
THE DOWNWARD PATE.
The British Board of Education has put a stop to the
practice of training the scholars at the public elementary
schools at Eynsford (Kent) and Shoreham (Sussex) in rifle
shooting.— Cable News.
The 8.8. of E. : “ Briggs, my boy , I'm sur-
prised at you lowering yourself to the level of
a beastly common soldier ! There's no necessity
for it. When the time comes it’s the place of
the lower classes to do the fighting — so this
must cease at once ! ”
Barrister Moule’s appointment as Yic.
County Court Judge, vice Molesworth, deceased,
was quite unexpected. Acting-Judge Neighbour,
Duffy, K.C., and Finlayson had been mentioned,
though the last two would probably have de-
clined ; but apparently nobody thought of
“ Billy ” Moule, Australian cricketer, whose
name had scarcely been heard since he quitted
politics in 1900, defeated by the same Thomas
Bent whom he had ousted in 1894. Moule is a
combination of the “ quiet brown man,” such as
Turner, and the cold, bloodless lawyer, such as
Irvine. Latterly he has helped to edit the Vic.
Law Reports, and is regarded as an authority on
case law.


LAST DAY : SATURDAY, AUGUST 17th.
GLEANINGS FROM "THE BIG BARGAIN BOOK.”
SPORTS SECTION.
PROFIT LOST SIGHT OF !
9 Ayres’ Tennis Racquets, cane handles
8 Golf Clubs, Simpson’s Niblicks
10 Golf Clubs, Simpson’s Drivers ...
8 Golf Clubs, Simpson’s Lofters ...
16 Golf Clubs, Forgan’s Drivers ...
14 Golf Clubs, Forgan’s Lofters ...
12 Golf Clubs, Forgan’s Clicks
2 Golf Hole Cutters
14 doz. Golf Balls, Scotch Haskell 2
5 doz. Golf Balls, Kempshall Click 2
Usual Price
d.
9 ea.
9 ea,
8 Lacrosse Sticks, Flannery’s
36 Leather Cricket Balls, 6-seam
36 Leather Cricket Balls, 6-seam
6 Chest Expanders, Double Rubber
6 Whitely Grip Machines
12 Sandow Dumb Bells, Boys or Girls
2 Dayton Punching Balls, complete
Brackets
2 Gymnastic Sets, Ropes, Hand Rings, I
and Trapeze Bar
ANNUALS.
Published Reduced
The Children’s Friend, full of charming stories,
beautiful pictures, puzzles, music, &c. —
50 Vol. 44,1905
103 VoL 45,1906
90 Father Tuck’s Annual, 1906
50 Infants’ Magazine, Vol. for 1905
100 Infants’ Magazine, Vol. for 1906
Little Folks, a Magazine for Young People,
handsomely bound in cloth gilt, gilt
edges—
-50 Half-yearly Vols. —Vol. 60, 1904 ...
17 Half-yearly Vols.—Vol. 62, 1905 ...
250 Our Darlings—the Children’s Treasury of
Pictures and Stories
250 Nister’s Holiday Annual, nicely bound in
cloth gilt, gilt edges, Vol. for 1906
Good Morning ; Have you seen Pears’ An-
nual, with 3 colored plates
14 Cassell’s Magazine, edited by Max Pember-
ton, Half-yearly Vol., Dec., 1904 to May,
1905
102 Cassell’s Penny Magazine, full of bright
stories, well illustrated, Vols. 25, 26, 28,
29, 30, 31, 32, 33
The Girl’s Realm, an ideal magazine for young
ladies, well illustrated. Vol. for 1901 ...
Vol. for 1904 ...
The Strand Magazine, bound in half-yearly
vols., cloth gilt, gilt edges—
-50 Vol. 26, July to Dec., 1903
50 Vol. 27, January to June, 1904 ...
50 Vol 29, January to June, 1905
'The Windsor Magazine, half-yearly vols., bound
in clotb, gilt—
-50 Vol. 15, dating from Dec., 1901 to May,
1902 ...
20 Vol. 18, datingfrom June to November,
1903
:36 The Quiver, yearly volumes ...
150 Battles of the Nineteenth Century,
described by Archibald Forbes, G. A.
Henty, Major Arthur Griffiths and others,
with colored frontispiece, and numerous
other illustrations : 18 Vol. 1: 17 Vol 2
16 Vol. 3
7 6 ... 3 6
CHILDREN’S BOOKS.
950 The Playroom Annual, containing Pictures to Color, Pictures
to Weave, Pictures to Sew, Colored Pictures, Illustrated
Verses, Songs with Music, Fairy Tales, Stories, etc.
Published at Is. ; Reduced to 4Jd.
136 Dean’s Imperial Series Toy Books, 4 kinds, large size, 13in.
x lOin. ; Colored Pictures, Nursery Rhymes, ABC, Favorite
Animals, Jack and Jill, The Story of John Gilpin
Published at Is.: Reduced to Bd.
Scripture Texts.
An Assortment of Scripture Texts, suitable for framing or
hanging, artistically printed in gold and colors—
Size 18in. x Bin., Floral design
Size 19in. x 12in., Floral design
Size x 10in., Floral design
Size 23in. x 10£in., Seascape design
Reduced to Is 6d doz.
coiort
= }
Reduced to
Is. doz.
Musical Instruments.
10 Violins, f size
4 Concert Zithers
2 Banjos, American 7-string, 30 nickel screws,
pearl inlaid finger boards
2 Musical Boxes, 6 tunes
3 Music Stands, telescopic, wood desk
3 Music Holders, leather, with place for shoes
Usual
Price,
s. d.
Reduced
to
S. d.
... 7 6
... 7 6
45
10
8
6
My Lady Nicotine.
CIGARS AND CIGARETTES.
“ The man who smokes thinks like a sage
And acts like a good Samaritan .”
Havana Cigars.
6 for 2
6 for 2
, s. d.
4,000 Flor de Partagas Conchas... 3 for 1 0
3,000 Flor de Partagas Regalia de
Espana ...
3,000 Flor de Partagas Bouquet
Especiales ...
1,250 Flor de Nave, Chiea Extra
3,000 Flor de Nave, Henry Clay,
Concha Especiales
1,700 La Corona, Castlelares
2,350 Bock & Co., Flor Beatrice
3,000 Villar Y Villar, Conchas
Especiales ... ... ... „ „
3,500 Upmann, Conchas Regalia 6 for 2 6
1,000 Alvarez, Rothschilds ... 6 for 2 3
Sale Price.
s. d.
30 0 box of .100
6 for 2 3 18 0 box of 50
6 box of 25
0 box of 50
G for 2 G
3 for 2 6
6 for 2 6
6 for 2 3
18 G box of 50
20
20
17
18
0 box of 25
0 box of 50
6 box of 50
6 box of 50
8 6 box of 25
Manila, Continental and Colonial Cigars.
Sale Price.
„ j
3,510 Santa Della, Flor Fina ...
8,000 Floreal, Neuvo Habano ...
8,000 Floreal, Cortardo ...
1,700 La Eminente, Mexican
Conchas „
16,000 La Insular, HabanoEsmerado 6 for 1
15,000 La Insular, Conchas F10r...
9,000 La Insular, Imperiales ...
11,000 Alhambra, Esquisitos
29,000 Zeyhyr, Patriotas
5,000 High Life, Reine Victoria „
20,000 Camilla, Regalia de la Reiua 10 for 1
3,000 Vision Bouquets ... ... 8 for 1
6,000 El Ministro, Rothschilds... 5 for 1
Egyptian Cigarettes.
2,000 Kader, made by Lockyer & Co.,
■London Tins of 10, -/7; 5/6 per 100
3,200 Rialto, made by Nicolini & Co.,
Cairo Tins of 25, 1/6; 5/9 per 100
TOBACCO.
“ For thy sake , Tobacco, I would do anything—but die."
Aromatic Light Triumph, 5 plugs to
the lb. ... Reduced to 4s 9d per lb.
Semper Eadem, Dark, 5 plugs to
the lb.
Semper Eadem, Dark Cu
packets
Tortoiseshell Mixture, Mild
Medium, 4oz. tin
4oz.
and
Reduced to 3s 3d per lb.
Reduced to 3s 8d per lb.
Reduced to 2s 3d per tin
SMOKERS’ SUNDRIES.
60 doz. Tobacco Pouches, purse shape
1£ doz. Tobacco Pouches, round shape, covered
walrus skin, assorted shades
la doz. Tobacco Pouches, round shape, covered
walrus skin, assorted shades, with silver
shield
4 doz. Glass Match Pots, silver mounted
12 doz. Ash Trays, assorted designs in Copper
and Brass
Usual
Price,
s. d.
0 6
3 3
Reduced
to
s. d.
... 0 4
... 2 6
0 6
INK'
Stephens’ Blue-Black Writing Fluid.
46 doz. Is. size, Boz. bottles 0 11
50 doz. 2s. size, 240 z. bottles 1 H
30 doz. 3s. size, 40oz. bottles ... 2 11
0 5
0 9
1 8
2 8
Galvanized Ware.
Galvanized Buckets, strapped—
Usual Price
Reduced to
Galvanized Water cans— \
Usual Price ... Is 7d 2
Reduced to ... Is 5d 2s Od
Galvanized Wire Parrot Cages—l 4
Usual Price
Reduced to
2s 9d
2s 6d
2s 6d 3s 3d 4s Od 4s 6d
16 18 20 22 galls.
3s 9d 5s Od 8s Od 13 6d
3s 6d 4s 6d 7s Od 12 Od
Usual Price. Reduced to
Galvanized Slop Pails, No. 1
Galvanized Stop Pails. No. 2
Galvanized Coal Hods, No. 1
Galvanized Coal Hods, No. 2
Japanned Coal Hods, No. 1
Japanned Coal Hods, No. 2
Galvanized Sugar Bin, 301 b.
Travelling Requisites ,
Bush and Shawl Rugs for Travellers.
160 Warm Woollen Rugs, for Camping in or
Camping out, GO x 80in
140 Superior Woollen Bush Rugs, 60 x 80in. ...
80 Superior Woollen Bush Rugs, 70 x 90in. ...
Fringed Travelling Rugs.
150 Fringed Woollen Rugs, in neat designs, 56
x 66in
100 Fringed Woollen Rugs, in heavy weights,
60 x 72in.
80 Fringed Woollen Rugs, special large size,
60 x 90in.
Palace Rugs.
150 Palace Flannelette Rugs, in pretty Checks,
60 x 80in.
PILLS and PATENTS.
" I d° remember an apothecary, and hereabouts he dwells.”
137 doz. lib. bottles, Blaud’s Pills, Gelatine
coated, 1000 in bot
45 doz. Blaud’s Pills, Sugar coated, 144 in bot.
7 doz. Blaud’s Pills, Gelatine coated, 100 in
bot
fi doz. Bristol’s Vegetable Liver Piiis, bot.
37 doz. Blair’s Gout and Rheumatic Pills,
box
250 doz. Cascara Tablets, P. D. & Co.’s 3 gr.
25 in bot.
24 doz. Doan’s Backache Pills, bot
16 doz. Fleming’s Quinine and Camphor Pills,
box
5 doz. Jayne’s Sanative Pills, box
7 doz. Morrison’s No. 1 Liver Pills, box ...
2 doz. Morrison’s No. 2 Liver Pills, box ...
36 doz. Podophyllin Compound Pills, bot ...
36 doz. Rhubarb Compound Pills, bot.
12 doz. Little Early Risers Liver Pills, b0t....
32 doz. Scott’s Little Liver Pills, bot
4 doz. Siegel's Pills, bot.
15 doz. Towle’s Steel and Pennyroyal, box ...
15 doz. Widow Welch’s Female Pills, box ...
9 doz. Whelpton’s Purifying Pills, box
7 doz. Cuticura Pills, bot.
Usual Reduced
Price to
Drugs and Patent Medicines .
“ F° T want of timely care millions have died of medicable wounds.”
4J doz. Alkalithia for Rheumatism ...bottle
15 doz. Antipon, to reduce fat small bottle
12 doz. Antipon, to reduce fat large bottle
11 dozen, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla bottle
3 doz. Professor Brown’s Restorative
Assimilant bottle
11 doz. Coutt’s Acetic Acid, small ...bottle
15 doz. Cascara Liquid, Lorimer, loz. ...bottle
14 doz. Cascara Liquid, Lorimer, 2oz. ...bottle
7 doz. Cascara Liquid, Lorimer, 4oz. ...bottle
46 doz. Fellow’s Syrup of Hypophos-
phites, large bottle
15 doz. Influenza Drink for Horses ...bottle
50 doz. Insect Powder, large tins, per-
forated tops tin
2 doz. Killrheuforßheumatism(Fisher’s) bottle
9 doz. Rheumatic and Gout Cure
(Steam’s) bottle
40 doz. Rubinat Water bottle
72 doz. Seigel’s Syrup, small ... ...bottle
3 doz. Syrup of Hypophosphites
(Steam’s), 16oz bottle
3 doz. Tamar Indien, for Constipation...tin
30 doz. Hunyadi Janos, Mineral Water...bottle
18 doz. Blackberry Cordial for Diarrhoea...bottle
19 doz. Warner’s Safe Cure ...bottle
12 doz. Mother Seigel’s Ointment tin
Usual
Price
s. d.
4 3
3 6
5 3
3 6
4 6
1 8
0 6
0 9
1 3
4 8
2 4
0 7i
2 3
2 4
1 41
1 4
3 6
2 6
1 3
1 9
3 9
1 0
Reduced
to
s. d.
. 2 9
. 2 11
. 5 0
. 3 4
. 3 3
. 1 6
. 0 4
. 0 7
. 0 11
. 4 6
. 1 10
. 0 6
. 1 11
1 2
1 3
2 6
2 1
1 2
0 6£
3 8
0 10
STATIONERY.
Note Paper in 5-Quire Packets.
Size 7| x 4hin. Usual Reduced
Price to
. s. d. s. d.
30 Reams “ Universal ” Cream Laid, ruled pkt. 0 54 ... 0 44
48 Reams “Oak” Cream Laid, ruled 0 8“ ... 0 7
33 Reams Extra Superfine Cream Laid, ruled... 010 ... 0 9
84 Reams “ Federal ” Repp i 3 ... 1 0
28 Reams Silurian, extra thick, burnished, plain
and ruled ... ... ... 010 ... 0 9
5 Reams Stratford Mill, rough surface, ruled... 16 ... 1 3
Size 8 x Sin.
17 Reams Cream Laid, ruled pkt. 0 7 ... 0 6
11 Reams Old English Vellum, ruled 010 ... 0 8
13 Reams La Roche’s Highly Glazed, for
Foreign Correspondence 1 1 ... 0 11
10 Reams Federation Cream Bank, ruled ... 0 8 ... 0 6
25 Reams Federation Silurian Bank, ruled ... 0 8 ... 0 6
30 Reams Universal Bank, ruled 0 6 !.. 0 5
Quarto Size, 10 x Bin., in Packets of 240 Sheets.
55 dozen Packets Single Sheets, plain ... pkt. 1 3 ... 1 0
45 dozen Packets Single Sheets, ruled, with
margin 1 3 ... 1 0
15 dozen Packets Single Sheets, Bank 1001,
with margin 1 0 ... 1 3
Writing Tablets, 100 Sheets.
Quarto Size, 10 x Bin.
5 gross Superfine Cream Laid, Ruled with
marginal line 0 8 ... 0 7
20 doz. The “ Universal,” ruled with marginal
line, each sheet with printed heading,
“ Sydney, New South Wales ” Oil ... 0 9
16 doz. Letterettes, Paper and Envelope com-
bined 1 2 ... 011
Envelopes.
Commercial Size.
100,000 Cream Laid 11b per 1000 3 0
50,000 The “ Oak Tree,” 11b ... ~ 5 0
60,000 The “Oak Tree,” No. 6 ... „ 4 0
Court Shape.
50,000 The “ Oak Tree,” large Bvo box of 250 1 9
60,000 The “ Oak Tree,” small Bvo ~ ~ 11
30,000 Antique Wove „ ~14
50,000 Chatelaine, Ancient Laid ~ ~14
... 2 9
... 4 6
... 3 6
... 1 6
... 0 11
... 1 2
... 1 2
“Invicta” Opaque Envelopes for Foreign Correspondence.
30,000 Commercial, small size ... box of 250 1 6 ... 1 4
30,000 Commercial, large size ... ~ ~ 111 ... 1 8
30,000 Square Shape, large size ... ~ „ 111 ... 1 8
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


1818.
o*
0*
" t3L°T
tv>*
UNDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE, of Collins Street, Melbourne,
Begs to inform her clients that she will be at the
HOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY,
FROM THE 7th TO THE 15th AUGUST,
Both Days Inclusive.
The Melbourne movement towards re-
ducing the cost of State Government, abolition of
the six unnecessary Governors, etc,, would have a
better chance of success if the organisers would
hang a heavy weight on the political failures who
are trying to float into public notice again on what
they see is a rising tide. At one meeting, after
the local members had given the affair a send-off,
no less than five rejected politicians fastened their
little cards on the resolution. But the last straw
came when a telegram was read from poor old
derelict B. Goddard, of Kyabram. It only needed
Mudkins’ blessing to kill the movement stone dead.
A Red Nose is the bane of many a woman’s exist-
ence. It detracts so greatly from her appearance that all
sorts of subterfuges are resorted to to hide the defect. But
ladies should know that an absolutely certain and pain-
less 9ure can be had at the Valaze Institute. Here Dr.
Lassar’s Electric Device, operating a process of Nasal
Massage, restores a Red Nose to its normal color in from
six to eight sittings. Mile. Helena Rubinstein secured
this treatment from Vienna, where it is used in the
Beauty Salons for which that city is famed. Of course,
one must personally attend the Institute to be treated,
but those who have to delay their visit may secure a
Cream and Powder from 8/- that hides the defect.
Then, when opportunity offers, they can call and need
have no further trouble with the disfigurement. Call
or write either to the Valaze Institute, 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 158 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
FA CILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
“Black & White” Whisky
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King-,
andH.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Stdnet, August 6, 1907.
Mt Dear Arinl
Miss Emma Temple supervised the “living
Sicture ” show, given in aid of the District
fursing Society at the Palace last week. Her
friends say she looked five years- older after the
ordeal. The martyrdom of Emma ! Two playlets
were also produced under her direction. Possibly
the smart amateurs who did the pictures and
plays proved stupid or stiff-jointed at rehearsals.
But the result was so brilliant a success that the
supervisor and her assistants are hereby' awarded
the C.S.T. order for distinguished service.
Comet of Seven Tails is the full name of the new
order.
If Captain Wilson should be cut off from his
present means of money supply (whatever it may
be), J. C. Williamson or Anderson or Geach
would give him a leading-man job at once. In
the duologue, “A Breezy Morning,” that pre-
ceded the tableaux, he played the bored husband
to Miss Doris Bloomfield’s bored wife, as well as
the professional imported matinee idol. But—
the audience saw all his socks. I don’t suggest
that there were more than two of them, or that
they had Jacob’s ladders in them, but they
weren’t smart socks. Who wears those color
schemes in hose that we see in the men’s depart-
ments of swell shops—the apricot, drake-green,
and Nattier blue socks ? I didn’t wait to see him
star in the final piece, “Browne with an ‘E,’”
but possibly he changed his socks for an “ earth
of Egypt ” pair. That is a nice shade of brown.
Audience included as many Sydney Somebodies
as the theatre would hold. Some of the stalls
were resold at a guinea each, and the front rows
of the gallery (at seven-and-six) were crowded.
Young Curate Saumarez Smith, with his bride,
blessed the show. Mrs. Curate S. Smith is a
sharp contrast to her rather puggy lord, with her
thin, Elizabethan profile, and her pale and dark-
haired outlook. She seems clever and capable of
ably filling the uneasy billet of parson’s wife. I
believe it is a mighty job. Every female
parishioner thinks she should be asked to tea at
the parsonage, and treated as if her weekly silver
thruppence supported the parsonic establish-
ment. And then how sick Mrs. Minister must
get of seeing her husband in his long flying coat
and foolish collar! One can’t realise young
Saumarez in a dissipated blazer.
Another fashionable clerk in holy orders and
the dress circle was Mr. Metcalf, who is a marine
preacher on the Pah’f’l. His bride-elect, a pretty
North Shore girl, was with him.
The living-picture part of the show started with
Rosetti’s “Blessed Damozel.” You know her,
leaning out “ from the gold bar of Heaven,” with
three lilies on her arm and seven stars in her hair.
Miss Irene Marks, as the Damozel, and Miss
Gladys Bowker and Vera Moore, as the two
angels looking up from below the bar (as if in fear
that the lady in the celestial dress circle will
throw herself over back on to our planet), made a
beautiful live replica of the masterpiece. But out
of the nineteen pictures, Mrs. Ted Simpson and her
little girl, posing as Madame Le Brun and child,
were the star effect; even the seven stars in the
blessed thatch of the Damozel paled before them.
The seventeenth century picture shows Mme. Le
Brun seated erect, one arm, bare from the shoulder,
thrown around the child whose head rests
on her breast. Mrs. Ted did the picture majestic
justice, but the lighting of the “canvases” was
faulty. The little Belisario and Rodd boys re-
peated the success they made at Lady North-
cote’s children’s party with Millais’ “Princes in
the Tower.” “Joan of Arc” (Millais’ painting
of the Maid in armor, and holding a sword) fell to
Miss Y. Riddell. If the real Joan had looked like
thatlive picture, Charles“theWell-Served” would
have married her, instead of leaving her to
be burned by the English at Rouen, and with a
tidy and capable lady to look after him he might
not have died miserably of hunger on the throne
when he was 58, and his grandson might not
have worn the lamentable distinction of “the
Affable.”
All the pictures were based on imported origi-
nals. One can’t blame Captain Wilson he’s
an imported . article himself ; but Miss Eadith
Walker might have shown sufficient patriotism
to frame an Australian picture.
There’s nothing more to be said unless it be the
word “ amazement ” at the bad taste and reckless-
ness of men in the audience who struck matches to
look at their, programmes when the auditorium was
darkened. Chiffons and other highly inflam-
mable materials, and quite 20 lighted matches in
a crowded circle !! !
Circle and stalls were made auriferous in spots
with the uniforms of naval men. Mrs. Ewan
Frazer and some friends were a sombrely smart
boxful. Miss Eadith Walker, gorgeously and
bluely clad, received the State Governor and Miss
Rawson and the tribe of elect who came with
them. Next Sunday the Rawsons leave for a
saunter to Queensland.
On Wednesday the Northcotes slipped quietly
out of Sydney and fled Melbournewards. Her
Ex. will return in September, to stand on the
deep-piled carpet (now being made) and open this
State’s show of work for the Women’s Work Ex-
hibition. The Empress of Japan is sending Lady
Northcote some goods and effects done by herself,
and twenty Jap ladies are coming to Melbourne
for the Exhibition'. They won’t be exhibits, but
visitors.
More singing of “ O, Perfect Love,” more play-
ing of the “Wedding March”! Miss Ethel Wood,
the artist, is going to marry Mr. J. B. Jones, of
the legal and six-and-eightpenny firm of Jones
and Jones, possibly before the new year. The
bridegroom-elect is a notable University athlete,
and is plated with medals like an ironclad; or, at
least, he would be if he hung ’em on all at once.
As it is, he has made a most knightly use of some
of the tokens. He had them made into a belt for
his bride-elect.
Two bridal pairs, the “ Bert ” Littlejohns (she
was a Teece lamb) and the Dr. Adams (he of the
Pah’f’l, and she a Knox girl), are eating after-the-
honeymoon dinners in Sydney. First-named
brace took an Asian trip, and have now settled
down at Double Bay. Lieutenant Rawson and
his young mate are motoring about Queensland.
As that State runs to over 670,000 square miles,
they don’t expect to do the whole of it, but they
are shoving the motor for all it is worth.
Talking of Queensland, every theatrical enter-
prise going there this winter has been frosted
with many degrees of frost. Even Alice and
“ Wonderland ” on wheels didn’t have to put up
“ Tent Full ” notices. Manager Anderson, when
in Brisbane, listened to a Queenslander ski ting
about “our boundless resources” and “our four-
teen million sheep.” “What a pity we aren’t
playing to sheep ! ” said the manager, gloomily.
Miss Ackerman n has had to take her tall,
vigorous self into ambush to escape the impor-
tunity of the axe-grinding multitude. She is fol-
lowed about by an adoring bodyguard of girls. So
the star stage charmer hasn’t a monopoly of the
charmed. The drawing-room meeting must hang
on Miss Ackermann’s mind like a wet macintosh.
Dismal things are drawing-room meetings ! The
hostess mostly gives one the feeling of saying,
“Make yourself at home in my morgue.”
As the visitor is here principally in the in-
terests of the Westminster Gazette, she is
pursuing information as the hawk does his
prey. On Friday she tracked the home-made
drama to its genesis, observing “The Squatter’s
Daughter” from a box at the Cri. She is away
now, going through the country where the wheat
waves, and the butter factory flourisheth. All
the time she is reaping statistics about women’s
work in the Commonwealth.
Miss Ackermann is too ’cute not to know the
value of good frocking. Her theatre get-up and
a costume in which she attended a luncheon at
the Australia were unobtrusive but right up to
the last split second in smartness.
Influenza has smitten us so heavily that the
papers are giving it column-long articles as if it
were a distinguished visitor or a big fire. The
epidemic has gone through all the boarding
schools and commercial houses, and has rung up
the telephone bureau with the energy of an in-
fluential subscriber. On one day 130 employees-
were away from Anthony Hordern’s through the
strenuous microbe, and on a daily average 80
people belonging to the Great Providery have
had to dodder into bed with a hot and
aching head in one hand and a prescription
in the other. At the public schools nearly
half the teachers and pupils are laid low.
Three weeks ago, eighteen working girls (typists,
music-teachers, and the like) in a certain suburb
formed themselves into an “ Anti-’Flu’ Society.”
Each carries a bottle of ammoniated quinine with
her, and takes a dose at the hint of a sneeze or a
chill. If any member fails to produce her bottle
when challenged by another member, whenever
or wherever they met. she is fined tuppence. An-
other fine of sixpence is imposed if a member gets
into evening dress whilst the visitation stalketh
abroad, like Satan seeking dry places, and
the rules insist that members “shall feed
regularly and nourishingly.” It may or may
not be chance, but, so far, not one of the Anti-
’Flu’ Society has been smitten. Also, not one
fine has been collected.
The casualness of some mothers : A rather loud
young matron, who turns out every day to do the
Block or go to a race meeting, and spends half
the night at Bridge tables, was awakened
after midnight by a knocking at her front
door like unto the knocking at the gate in
“ Macbeth.” Someone answered —most probably
not the loud young matron. The coachman stood
on the mat with the matron’s baby, aged two, in
his arms. He had found the infant asleep in the
stable. Probably the nurse had put the baby to
bed, as per usual, at the usual time, and possibly
the infant had got up and wandered out. But the
pathos of the tale lies in the fact that baby’s
mother, who' had racketed home at midnight,
couldn’t have looked into his cot before getting
into her own.
Mrs. Eileen Mitchell O’Moore has started
fiddle-teaching in Sydney. She publishes letters
from her teachers, Ysaye and Sevcik, and from
Walter Damrosch, in which the writers speak of
her as quite too utterly finer than any previous
pupil or performer. Her portraits show her as a
handsome woman
Miss Dina Cooper, her brown eyes and her
turquoises, go to Tasmania in a few weeks, to
open in a new play wherein she will be leading
damsel.
Andrew Black is staying at Auckland with his
friend Dr. Stopford. Premyslav and pianiste
Beattie, with Mrs. Gower Burns of Christchurch,
are giving concerts in the South Island, and Rosina
Buckmann is having a short holiday in Taranaki,
under the cold shades of Mount Egmont. H. N.
Southwell left them all alive and doing well after
a prosperous run through Ward’s own country.
H.N.S. canoed down the Wanganui River. As he
swells fore and aft when saying this I take it that
the feat is an unusual one. A man I know tried it
once, but failed to get started. He negotiated for
two days with a mob of chattering brown men,
two of whom were to take him’down the river.
There were from 14 to 20 Maoris engaged in the
negotiation, and evfery time he fixed an arrange-
ment, with a pair of them that pair seemed pre-
sently to dissolve into the general mob, and the
clatter started afresh. Terms were fixed and un-
fixed a score of times, and in the end the mob
melted away, and matters remained as they
were, • except that a very hoarse Australian was
trying to buy a voice jujube.
At the conversazione to Dr. and Mrs. Arthur,
on Tuesday night, August. 13, Miss Eva Cham-
pion and Dr. Maguire will sing, and Mr. A. H.
Norman’s string quartet and Gilhooley’s orches-
tra will discourse heavenly melody. Messrs. Car-
ruthers, Hogue and Lee will probably be present,
and fill an hour or so with burning eloquence. _ A
supper committee is doing happily in the trifle
and sandwich line. Evening dress is discouraged.
It ought to be a fine and dandy meeting.
Mrs. Willie Robinson, daughter-in-law of the
Age Robinson, and the most graceful Melbourne
skater, has been staying at Petty’s and cutting
ice at the Glaciarium here. The example of these
Melbournians has urged local women to make
that effort for want of which Mrs. Dombey
perished, and all around us are evidences of the
evil effects of strong rink. At 10 a.m. the grown-
up girls leave mother and the one misfit to wrestle
with the household wprk. They shoulder the
white woman’s burden while Ethel and Gwen go
a-iceing. Households of women with a good staff
of misfits don’t suffer so much. Miss Rawson is
coming along capitally in the amusement, and
Mrs. Burdekin is taking to it kindly. Fat learners
are like Polar bears travelling on their hind feet.
All self-consciousness must be shed if you are
going to learn to skate. You know that the
collective grin of the onlookers is as long and
wide as a bath, but your time—the time when
you’ll waltz on the frozen lake—is coming.
Recent papers contained the announcement of
“a quiet W'edding,” at St. George’s Church,
Penang, Mr. Gordon C. Hart, Adviser
to the Government of Kedah, son of the late
Justice Hart, High Court, Bombay, and Mrs.
Norton Goodwyn, widow of Lieut.-Col. Goodwyn,
D. 5.0., of the Devon Regiment, and daughter of
the late Mr. Thomas Charles Gore, of Bathurst.
All the Big People thereabouts were present. No
mentioii is made of the first husband of the lady,
Mr. Willie Mitchell, of Tooths Limited and
Darling Point. The bride’s father, Mr. T. C.
Gore, was Registrar of the District Court at
Bathurst in the late ’sixties.
Two ancient Bathurst families became hyphened
at Holy Trinity Church, Kelso (the oldest church
beyond the Mountains), on July 25, when Mr.
“Jack” Ingersole was wedded to Miss Sarah
Kathleen, eldest daughter of Walter Rivett.
Canon Oakes, representative of one of the oldest
families in Australia, performed the ceremony.
Miss Lillian Seaife, of the W.-W. Co., who is
playing Eliza Dibbs in “Mr. Hopkinson,” is to
be married in a few weeks to Mr. Warburton
Gamble, of the same company.
Workers are wanted to complete the carpet on
which Lady Northcote will stand to open the
W omen’s Work Exhibition. Anyone with fairly-
deft fingers and a normal amount of brains can
do the work.
Saturday was a very frocky night on the various
stages. There were new pieces at all the theatres,
and new gowns. Blanche Arral, who was at the
top of her vocal condition, was at the Town Hall,
and her changes of gowns, or rather robes, gave
the concert a tableau vivant value. The living
picture moved and sang like a prima donna in the
Nine Choirs of Angels co., now appearing regu-
larly in Paradise. In the Mad Scene from
“ Hamlet,” the Arral, in long classic draperies,
with poppies in her hair and a sheaf of floral
sprays in her arms, was a charming picture. The
audience spent ten solid minutes (after the last
programme item) in fusillades of applause. It’s
about up to us that Arral tells us who is Arral.
Grace Palotta’s gowns in “Mr. Hopkinson”
are like the clothes of Heaven. She does the
Duchess in fine grande-dame fashion, and wears
in the first act a frock of cherry chiffon over white,
with elaborate yoke of cream lace and cherry
velvet trimmings. An emerald-green chiffon or
ninon over cloth of silver is another achievement.
The skirt has half-wreaths of silver leaves, with
an emerald choux in the centre. The bodice is a
complication of green and silver, with a rain of
silver tassels or pendants on chiffon.
Miss Baines, at the Palace, also exploited some
splendid gowns in her r&le of Merely Mary Ellen
masquerading as an heiress. One was a cream pop-
lin overlaid with hand embroidery, and another
of gleaming blue and silver. Everyone notices
the likeness between Florence Baines and Maggie
Moore. There is the same dazzling smile,
vivacity, and versatility, but Maggie’s plumpness
is not there—at least not all of it.
State Ex. Rawson was to have shed the light of
his uniform on the Palace Theatre on Saturday
night, with Miss; but a question arose at the last
moment about the difference between Tweedle-
dum and Tweedledee, and a straw of etiquette
failed to split precisely down the centre, so the
vice-regal brace stayed away. And the red carpet
was down, too ! Also the front entrance was hung
with foliage, and the Flag of dear old Engle-
land, as W. Barrett called it, waved over all, and
good-looking bobbies and a crowd of gazers had
assembled on the roadway.
Probably some one from “ Cranbrook ” gave
the S.M.H. an explanation, for that paper
had an “inspired statement” (lovely phrase!)
three inches long, under three headings. “Vice-
Regal Etiquette ” was one, in big black type;
the second, “ ‘Patronage’ and ‘Presence’”; the
third, “An Important Distinction.” It was at
the word “Patronage” the Governor flung his
cocked hat with deadly aim. Explanation says
the word should not have been used in this con-
nection in the advertisements announcing his
Ex.’s intention to attend the show. Only to
charity things does the Governor extend his
patronage. But the advts. had been out
for three weeks, and the management had
not been advised of his Ex.’s intention of
staying away until shortly before the theatre
opened. The explanation won’t hold champagne,
or sand, because a vice-regal command night has
often and yet again been announced as “ under the
distinguished patronage and in the presence of
Lord Nozoo.”
Personally, I’m inclined to the idea that Sir
Harry put his helm hard aport (I hope that’s right
nautically) when he saw the announcement
blazoned on the hoardings of the city. Turning
to that fine dentifrice advt., Captain Wilson, he
probably thundered : “Does the Miss Lancashire
Limited Company mistake me for a freak ? Am I
to be billed as if I were a new camel at a
circus?”
Miss Agnes Noyes Goodsir, the Victorian
artist, now living and working in London, had an
exhibition principally of portraiture work in the
Austral Club recently. Several of her pictures
were reproduced by English illustrated papers.
Miss Goodsir is a sister of Mrs. Nellie Phillipps,
the Melbournian who wrote the popular Mistletoe
Waltz.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
Governor Chelmsford, after delivering a masterly dis-
course at the Royal Geographical meeting this week, has
gone on a riding tour through to Toowoomba, where his
lady, with her sister and her cousin, will join him.
Lady C., clad in a cream sicilienne gown, opened
the annual picture show in the Albert Hall on Thurs-
day afternoon with the briefest of brief speeches.
From an art standpoint the show is about 150 per cent,
above any of its predecessors. President Godfrey Rivers
has done himself proud with a night scene upon the river
and an early morning land-and-riverscape, which (despite
the suggestions of an inane local critic, who declared that
“ a string of ducks would have improved it ”) is a real fine
effort. Several Queensland artists who are away study-
ing beauty of form in Paris and elsewhere sent acceptable
samples of their work.
Invitations are out for a vice-regal dance in show week,
and, as over-crowding is to be strictly avoided, great is
the howl of those “on the mat.” You can’t avoid over-
crowding except by shutting out somebody, and the
shufc-out section takes wildly unreasonable views of the
situation, and expresses them frankly through the key-
hole.
Mrs. Holliday, who comes from America and England
to have another try at getting that famous mothers’
union into working order, arrived on Monday, and will
tell harrowing tales to all and sundry during the next
week. She begins with an address to nurses, and if she
can give them any further points about bagging the
eligible medical student, they will be grateful.
Snow fell within 40 miles of Brisbane on Wednesday
last, and the air was like that of a blizzard for 24 hours.
This constitutes a Queensland record.
Tittell Brune shed her steely smile and her intense
attitude over two social tea-fights on Friday. First, she
drifted to the Pioneer Club, and, amid nasturtiums
and roses, spent half-an-hour while some good music was
contributed by a number of people. Later, she flitted to
the big she-convention at the Cate Eschenhagen, where
Mrs. Jim Robertson, a substantial vision in pastel blue,
made some 90 guests forget that the old man’s dinner
was probably burning a pale black in the oven at home.
The room was a mass of exquisite white La Mark roses,
for which the garden of the h stess is famous.
Never before did such a crowd pack itself into the
Brisbane Cricket Ground at Woollangabba as that which
witnessed the third wiping out of Australia by the All-
Blacks on Saturday afternoon. The blue and chocolates
led at half-time, and mad was the cheering thereat. But
later, with the wind and the enemy against them, they
blew away like leaves at Vallombrosa, or any other gusty
old spot. Still there was plenty of excitement, and the
crowd smashed most of the seats in its enthusiasm. The
damage was mostly done during the first half of the pro-
ceedings.
Artist-novelist Mrs. Owen Harris is doing the northern
coastal tour in search of copy for both pen and brush.
She will prcbably be an exhibitor at the new Society of
Artists. „
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Point-to-Point Steeplechase, pet event of the Hunt
season, caught a wet day for its revels on the 27th.
Nevertheless, the dukes of Adelaide and the Semaphore
put the cover on their second-best motor, and ambled
down to Findon to see the fun. It was damp amusement,
and mud obliterated the landscape, and most of the pink-
coated persons wore a battered air by the end of the day.
A gorgeous afternoon tea was ready and waiting under
the shelter of a marquee, but the majority of the peeresses
preferred to go tea-less rather than swim to the fray. Our
fathom and six inches of Excellency and Miss Clowes
were dragged down (metaphorically and literally) in
David Waite’s smart turn-out. The Chief Judicial Way
shepherded another party, and the Leonard Bakewells,
the Melroses and Mrs. David Fulton, Richard Baker, and
some friends, were among those who braved the wild
elements.
On Friday (2nd) the Hunt Ball chanced at Strathalbyn.
It is one of the best sprees of the year, and, as usual, the
girly element of the State fished brilliantly for invita-
tions. Every house in the neighborhood was packed full
of town girls and their best chiffons, and the local male
element had the time of its life. Two other dances on
the near horizon are the “ Tarantelle,” to be held at Nor-
wood by a he-committee, and one at St. Peter’s College,
when the will host a crowd of short-frocked and
pig-tailed misses. '
The 30 or 40 sweet maidens who man (or girl) the Girls’
Realm Guild in this city manipulated a joyous spree at
the Lyric Club on the 27th. The Lady Victoria Buxton
Girls’ Club was in need of tables and chairs and a coal-
scuttle for its new residential quarters, so the maidens
aforesaid came to its rescue and invited some 70 smart
feminines to tea and music, with a modest footnote re-
questing that each one should bring a chair, a grand
piano, a soup plate, a book-case, a salt-cellar, or some
other piece of useful bric-a-brac. The snug club quarters
were in festal array with two or three cartloads of almond
bloom, asparagus fern and violets. Her Le Hunte Ex-
cellency, in a gorgeous robe of old rose silk, lent her
countenance to the affair: also Mrs. Coles and
daughter Ruth, Mrs. and Miss Wallman, the David
Lindsays, Mrs. Beach, Mrs. Cleland, Mrs. T. A. Caterer,
and a crowd more. Five brilliant damsels of the Guild
(notably the Victorian nightingale. Lizzie Newbold, and
little Ethel Sever, a 14-year-old fiddler of remarkable
promise) achieved a programme of sweet noises. After-
wards the populace bent its mighty intellect on a guess-
ing competition, in which you had to decide whether a
given parcel was a rocking-chair or only a skewer. The
prize was a set of dainty little water-color sketches,
painted for the Guild by the vice-regal chick before she
was hustled away to school in the land where they say
“ Hocb.”
Adelaide has been engaged for the past week shaking
the visiting lacrosse men by the brawny fist, and inviting
thein to dinner. The Football League hired a drag anil
tore round the suburbs with them ; the Lyric Club enter-
tained them ; and the peerage came dow n off its pedestal ;
and its ramparts, and said “ Howdy?’* All the ton and
fashion turned out to the match on Saturday, in its
wedding or Sunday garment and its best millinery out-
burst. One question the athletic visitor eternally hurls
at us is : “ Why do you Australians always havefences to
your front gardens?” My answ'er is that we do it be-
cause we feel that way. If it comes to that, why is it
that Canadians have bears and snow-shoes, and why
don’t wax matches grow' on icebergs ?
The Hammond silver wedding held at the Bray man-
sion in Hutt-street, on July 31, was rather a rare
festivity, and the titled population flocked thereunto in
considerable force. The Hammonds are a versatile
family, and have manipulated dozens of successful
charity shivoos, from Punch and Judy show’s upwards.
This time they gathered a number of clever people into a
band of white minstrels, and these troubadours, in
picturesque knee-breeches and powdered hair, achieved
a programme of good minstrelsy for the amusement of
the guests.
Adelaide is to have a batch of Albani concerts this
week, and if the world doesn’t come to a sudden end, or
any unforeseen trifle like that, we shall have heard the
star in “Elijah ” with the aid of the Choral Society, and
be girding up our shekels for her second and third con-
certs by the time this communication is held by the
public paw in front of the public orb.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Don’t Stay FAT
OBESITY is an ugly, ungainly disfigurement. It is injurious
to the general health, and makes you ridiculous amongst
your friends. We can reduce your fat by from five to eight
pounds a week. Thousands cured yearly by our harmless
method. With the reduction of fat, reflex symptoms, such
as Constipation, Rheumatism, and General Debility disappear.
“FATCURE”
Obesity and overcomes Corpulency.
the absolutely NON-poisonous,
pleasant- to-take fat-rcducer, cures
The worst cases permanently cured
in a few weeks. The cure is permanent and lasting-. Satisfaction guar-
anteed. Write or call and get full particulars.
SEND 3d;, and let us send you a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Enclose 3d. with your request and let us send you—under
closed cover, without marks—a Free Sample of “Fatcure”
and our hook giving particulars. CALL, if convenient, andlet
us explain our method. HOURS 9 A.M. TO 5.30 P.M DAILY.
THE WATWORTH CO.,
SUITED J, Castlereagrh St., Sydney.
Entrance also from Market I
AWell Drcyed L&dyMvjt
H&Ve & Good Figure, • * * *'
u a. Only*
£
&
o
:et-
ffrafcVis
r I aril
ASK
FORTHEI
m awx> A
• SEE *
THAT YOU
kGEY i
tkemJ
ytfutwm',
mmm
AND
05E
t W AU. t EADINo'sTORES *
W 6
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 5, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
There is a lull in the garrotting season. The
bewatched and bediamonded city man of portly
ponderance is no longer gagged and winded ; the
gay young buck of late hours is not chased for his
cuff links, nor is the unescorted maid bereft of her
jewels and her coherence of narrative. The
strained, anxious look of the homeward bound
suburbanite relaxes a trifle. The murderous
marauders must be lying low till the scare cools
down, and then a resumption of hostilities will
take the public unawares.
Maidens aforetime were called spinsters because
of the hopeful work they got in on the prospective
trousseau. Nowadays, no one owns up to “spin-
ster.” She is just a bachelor girl or “miss-by-
ehoice,” and she never spins—except yarns or in
a motor. But I know an exception. A smart
girl (one of George Grey’s American-looking
daughters—the “Ontario” Greys) is having cosy
little afternoon teas for girl pals, and she gives
them fascinating peeps at piles of frills and acres of
tissue-papered frocks, collected for th e frou-frou of
her wedding this month. They are not “ out from
Paris,” nor labelled with a swagger Melbourne
store mark ; but are stitched by her own deft
little hands. It’s a fortune in lace and flimsies.
The lucky He who is to wed this dainty paragon
is Reg.-Jackson, of the “Young and Jackson ”
firm, and the wedding is fixed for the 20th.
“Tryphena” writes from London on a first
night at Daly’s :
It’s an occasion for which the London public, the rest-
ing professionals, the critics, and the composers give up
everything, and for which they struggle like so many
dogs after a bone. A fresh comic opera or melody farce,
either with or without a continental reputation, has a
piquant fascination for the emulative playmonger. It
has large sentimental prospects for the golden ass that
brays in the stalls the whole season through. It holds a
promise of delight for the general golden public to
whom a fresh footlight dazzler is of more consequence
than a new Prime Minister. It means a sensa-
tion for femininity, which sees in the brilliantly-
caparisoned legion of girl, fashions of glory, illuminated
and set off as they never are in the show rooms of
Paquin or Worth. Yet Daly’s is not as large as Mel-
bourne Princess’s, and out of all the desirous thousands
only some hundreds find accommodation. It happened
significantly that George Edwardes marked out the
second Saturday in gorgeous June —the month of the
year in all Merrie England—for a first night. And for
once there were no postponements. Up till the dinner-
hour, ticket-holders nervously eyed the latest
press intelligence for the dreaded word of sick-
ness of a principal, motor accident to a star,
or a fit of jealousy that ended fatally. Even
up to the door of the theatre, the heart of the enthusiast
was agitated by fears of a hasty postponement. Nothing
so miserable happened, and the baton of the conductor,
raised for the first beat of “ The Merry Widow ” music,
brought a thunder of applause from the relieved throng.
The first bars of Franz Lehar’s insinuating music created
an atmosphere that lasted till the last curtain-fall.
The small footlighter who was billed as the Widow was
a vague quantity to the theatre-goer. Lily Elsie is a
weak, forgettable name, anyway. No girl with pretensions
should have labelled herself Lily Elsie. But she started
very subtly and sweetly to write her feeble name on the
scroll of theatrical glory. Without having a notable
voice or any magnetic power she did it. Slowly the chic
little star overcame one’s prejudices against even her
physical unfitness as the dashing, devilish, worldly widow,
and got home with her clever int erpretation of the lines,
her artful acting and the fascination of her twinkling
feet. She danced, acted, chattered with consummate
daintiness,and when,in ascalygarb and exposing draperies,
she half-lay, half-floated in the arms of the Prince rake
whom she was out, to conquer, and wriggled her soft
body to the lilting waltz-refrain, her triumph was com-
plete. The audience forgot it was English, forgot it was
tired, and hurst into a roar of applause.
Among the audience were composers, artists, cele-
brities of all classes. Captain Basil Hood, who quarrels
with Edward Morton over the authorship (or rather the
adaptorship from the German) of “The Merry Widow,”
strolled round the stalls at the interval—chewing his
drooping moustache, and with battle in his eye. On the
bills appeared the name of Morton as adaptor, and the
triumph of the show led to the moustache-chewing of
Hood. Two days later, Morton hit his lip. His name
was off the bill.
Mrs. Langtry was a-droop (the Jersey Lily droops in a
chair ; she never sits) in a stall. Her brown hair (not a
grey strand visible) was parted Madonna-wise and colled
seemingly without the help of hair-pins on her indolent
neck. Many men sought her at the interval. She talked
lazily with a heavy air of indifference. Clara Butt sat
witli her handsome Rumford in a front stall. Alice
Crawford—resting because the salaries offered of late do
not reach her claims—languished in a stall, looking less
handsome than I expected. She confessed to motor-fag.
Guvment House has taken off its holland pinny
and got its gorgeous footmen a-row, now the
Northeote dame is here again. There was an At
Home on Friday afternoon, preceded by a com-
mittee meeting re the coming huge Exhibition of
Australian Women’s Work. When the North-
cote lady got through with her say, a lengthy row
of secretaries rolled up with accounts of their
stewardship so far. Dr. Greig was the most
business-like. Her particular committee is to
have an exhibit of an old-time Sairey Gamp sick-
room, and, by way of contrast, the most up-to-
date of modern hospital apartments.
The secretary of the athletic department was
the most timid lady of the lot. She whispered
strenuous rules about riding competitions and
furious sports, and repeated the regulations re
motor-racing and hair-dressing four times. These
two branches of sport were bracketed together.
Mebbe, it is an athletic feat getting one’s hair
straightened out after motoring, but the subject
is deep.
A faint suggestion of argument arose on the
point of dress. It had to do with riding and
other athletics, whereat Secretary Share looked
down his nose and smiled almost blushfully.
After intense discussions, the divided skirt has
been firmly tabooed. The athletic ladies of the
show will not ostensibly bifurcate.
When it got too dark to see reports and such,
the Governor-lady declared it was quite tea-time.
In the drawing-rooms some hidden musicians dis-
coursed sweetly and softly, and the cheerful
hostess got in a word and a smile all round.
Everybody had froeked Huffily for the function.
Lady Northeote swept round in soft trails of
autumn browns, and the Madden dame wore quite
a wake-up green (she is wont to wear deliciously
soft colors). The Forrest lady kept to her beloved
mauves and violets. The top-notch dresser was
Mrs. George Chirnside, who sparkled in all black,
and looked like the Frenchiest of Jan Van Beer’s
Eictures, with her chic hat, a diamond clasp on
er black-clad neck, and, instead of furs, the
Tobiest of tulle frills.
One of the most original specimens of crafts-
manship intended for the Women’s Exhibition is
the work of Mrs. Blamire Young. It’s a carved
door of ordinary proportions, made of Australian
wood, which is left unstained. A lithe nude
woman is the principal item of the composition,
which is further beautified by a most poetic
arrangement of stately native flowers. Mrs.
Young has succeeded in making a door fit to be
used as a barrier ’twixt a Paradise and the outside
world. It’s very suggestive, this decorative effort.
It suggests that the door, usually a bare unsightly
arrangement of when it isn’t disguised in
an equally untesthetic mass of fabrics, could be
made into the most characteristic and significant
feature of a room—the sign-manual of the room-
owner’s temperament. The door could serve as
a lure for lovers, an inspiration for students, an
appetiser for gourmets.
Nowadays, Melbourne is greeted each morning
with an invitation to avail itself of a lydy
detective’s subtle services. She is “Trapped,”
care of a suburban post office, and announces that
she is highly successful in the most involved cases
—especially divorce suits. She suggests the
nucleus of a novelette romance, in which the
wronged petitioner gets rict of his erring missus,
and takes to his buzzom the skirted ’tec who ran
the case. By the way, didn’t Mr. Willoughby run
a farcical comedy on those lines ?
Mrs. John Forrest, it seems, if the press is to
be believed, has opened her mouth so widely this
week that she may probably find she has placed
her energetic number five in it. Her topic
was (naturally) Emperor John and his defection
from the Ministry. And the journal to which she
confided her peppery pronouncements was
Truth. Amongst other rash and ill-considered
statements, she is reported to have informed the
interviewer “ My husband always had a backbone.
The others are jelly-fish.” “Mr. Deakin is a great
chum of ours ; but he’s so weak. He gives in too
often.” “ Mr. William Lyne—we call him Bill—
the Cabinet calls him the Rogue Elephant.
Chapman is his understudy. What a pity it is
that Deakin can’t stand up to them !” “My
husband is a scientific Protectionist. He has felt
most uncomfortable in the Ministry. He has put
up with a great deal.” Mrs. F. is candid—
probably some folk would say maliciously tactless.
She also animadverts on land taxation and Social-
ism. “It’s well enough,” she says, “for people
with nothing at stake to advocate Socialism. But
such people aren’t the ones who have made Aus-
tralia. . . I don’t believe in handicapping the
producer.”
Sincere regret has been felt for the death of old
Thomas Shaw, one of the first of the Western
District squatters. He was a lovable old man,
in spite of a natural gruffness of manner. The
death was very sudden. Mr. Shaw had been
staying with his sister, Mrs. Dr. Fitchett. The
eldest son, Oliphant, and his smart young wife,
are in London.
The whole of old Thomas Shaw’s Australian
life was possessed by an undying feud with
another pioneer, Patrick M‘Farlane. M’Farlane
introduced the Vermont sheep ; Shaw snorted at
them, and called their wool hair. These Ver-
monts have proved perhaps the most successful
of Victorian and Riverina sheep, but, to his death
day, Shaw could not pass an argument without
gasping “It’s hair—not wool.” After M’Farlane’s
death the feud was carried on with Horsfall, of
the Riverina, and a wool talk meant flying fur
every time. Thomas Shaw’s hobby was Aus-
tralian merino sheep. These he bred and inter-
bred till their wool was of the finest, albeit the
animals were little bigger than ’possums.
“Blue Moon ” drifted regretfully off at the
Princess’s on Friday, arid “Lady Madcap”
bounded on for the first time on Saturday. To
judge by the life and “go” in her whirling, and
the enthusiasm of the audience, the management
will have to us.e force to drag that wilful young
lady away at the end of the promised fortnight.
The frocking on the stage was so fine and changed
so often that the brilliantly-dressed house
had neither time nor eyes for the summing-
up of the other cats’ frilleries. The Ghildni
swept on to a warm reception in a silk of fainting
blue, fortified and clasped and bulwarked with
brocaded ribbon in gold, and a slashing hat of
white wings. Later, at a regimental dance,
Mrs. Latham-Ghiloni drives two officers to duels
and distraction because of her charms, decked in
blazing sapphire and silver. She also carries the
unnecessary and fashionable dog, about the size
of a threepenny bit. The Madcap (Daisie
Wallace) doesn’t stay in one dress more than
three minutes at a time. When she is not Lady
Betty she masquerades in grey and apricot and
much white frill, as a light-toed maid, and anon
as a guardsman. Pretty Maud Thorne, always
well-dressed, follows the lead with a bewildering
number of frockings. One dream of misty rose
panne velvet drives her French lilac-clad lover
(even the men are caught in the dress fever), to
sing that her dress is “ as soft and sweet as her
blush.”
Will Ashton, the S. Australian youth who
came here with a large cargo of canvases, returns
with a small one and a large bag. When he has
replaced the sales of his Melbourne Exhibition
with new pictures, and (he modestly says) better
ones, he makes a descent upon Sydney.
An illustration out of a French novel ( edition
de luxe) materialised one day last week, and
walked Collins-street. She was a stranger in
Melbourne, a willow-slender slip of a girl, white-
clad, with a garden hat smothered in flowers, and
flowers tucked in her belt. Also she wore a grace-
ful, irresponsible air, as if she wandered in a
garden with no consciousness of the attention she
attracted. Melbourne beauties have an interest-
ing rival in the owner of this cameo face with the
“radiant pallor” of the Frenchwoman, accen-
tuated by coils of black plaited hair and eloquent
eyes of golden amber brown. Amazed blockers
chorus the question—Who is she? I intend to
find out. lam searching the Public Library to
discover which French pictured book she walked
out of.
The Cathedral Hall hangs out an arresting
placard, to announce that the “ Parsifal Quadrille
Club ” will meet on Thursday for its special dance.
The Parsifal Quadrille ! Does it expect to draw
Kundry from the Magdalen Convent Laundry
round the corner?
The visiting lacrosse team has had a gay old
week in Melbourne, and the Canuckian Redskin
shout ending with “ Hurraw, Hurraw, Hurraw!”
still echoes round the city and scares the passing
horse into the shop window. The local lacrosse
boys broke exuberantly into a ball on Monday
night at Hawthorn Town Hall, where the purple
of the Canadians and the green-and-gold of the
Australians flapped excitingly all round the walls.
The Chief Justice brought his dame, who was
dazzling in silver sequins in place of her usual
soft-colored frocking. Daughter Ruby muffled
herself up to the eyes in befeathered cloak all
the evening. There was a Mayoress or so, also
member Knox brought Mrs. Knox in startling
white-spotted black, and the fair and dainty Mrs.
Best toted her Senator to the frivol. There lie
cast off the burden of politics, and forgot the weary
hours he spends with his shoulder at the wheel of
the bogged Parliamentary chariot.
The Brewery M’Cracken chicks “debbed,” and
carried lacrosse designs. There were also two very
pretty sister blossomers from Benalla—where
Bland Holt’s fictitious “ Drought” uncle died.
Brighton hadits wedding of the year on Tuesday,
30th ult. Greta Caldwell joined herself in holy
captivity to the scholarly Jack Behan—or rather
Mr. JohnC. U. Behan, winner of the first Rhodes
scholarship for Victoria. The youthful bridegroom
was a Caulfield (Vic.) Grammar School boy.
He took a scholarship, and went to Melbourne
University. There he collected honors as some
boys collect stamps or beetles, and struck the
pinnacle of p, irne with the Rhodes scholarship.
The lily-fair bride (she is of the pale gold, sylph-
like type) is step-daughter to the Rev. J. Sinclair,
and owns quite an intellectual record of her own.
This marriage of intellects is the climax of a boy
and girl love affair. All youthful Brighton
turned out and hurled flowers, and the University
was solidly at the ceremony. The white-and-silver-
clad bride slipped into a mole-colored travelling
suit, and hurried off with her Jack for a Sydney
frivol before they leave for England, where Mr.
Behan has a lectureship at Oxford waiting for him.
This year’s dancing has brought an army of
callow youths on to the man-deserted scene of
frivol. The girls moan, but still roll up. Spoke
one wiseacre of twenty-two summers “ I enjoy
the dances, a good floor, good music, and, for con-
vention sake, something in the outlines of a man
to dance with, instead of another skirt. It is the
dancing I love—the joy of movement —and
these youths generally dance well. They are
at the dancing-class stage, and enthusiastic.
They have such baby faces and ask so
prettily for ‘the pleasure’—it is taught with
the steps —and they prattle so easily. I can give
myself up to the ecstasy of the waltz when I am
with them. There is no brain energy needed to
talk to the dears.” Then this ancient lady of
twenty-two summers sighs over “their innocent
little remarks sitting out between dances,” and
chortles about the way she beams on them when
she meets them in the street, so that she will be
high in favor at the next frivol. You see, the
eallowest youth has always one great recommenda-
tion. He grows up by degrees, and in his man-
hood he may possibly propose to take one of his
early partners off the shelf and marry her. For the
sake of that contingency lie’s worth encouraging.
An experienced charmer makes sad plaint:—
I’m four-and-twenty, and there’s no sign of my going
off this season. Indeed, the only women who are
achieving honors and husbands of their own are either
silly schoolgirls or over-wise widows. The schoolgirl is
fool enough to marry almost anyone who asks her ; the
wise widow is smart enough to make most people worth
having propose, and then she picks one with a decent in-
come. I think there ought to he a limit to repeated
matrimony. Once some women have enjoyed and rid
themselves of a seeond husband thej 7 get a mania for
matrimony. As for me, since I emerged from pinafores
and attained wisdom teeth, my adorers have been divided
into classes—eligibles who didn’t speak, ineligibles who
did, and absolute outsiders. The eligible men have hovered
round my flower-like self, with intentions in their eyes—
admiration, too. But their conscious superiority has
made their lips silent; except for cryptic compliments.
That sort of man knows that he can be happy till he’s
fifty, and then get a guileless girl-wife. The ineligibles
have exceeded their incomes in tram fares to our suburb,
and in postage stamps to carry their futile vows of
eternal worship and their offers of hungry matrimony.
They’re the men who make one’s life a burden as long as
they like one. They’re inspired with a thirst for excite-
ment, and they have the consoling certainty that their
divinities won’t be foolish enough to wed them, anyhow.
Spring-like weather makes good business for
the hilly boarding-houses, where a number of ad-
vanced club women make a practice of week-end-
ing in feminine batches. A youthful and swag-
ger dress-designer joined one bunch. The hill
hostel was in the far out-of-the-way, with a
special week-end train there and back. The
frocky one had asudden summons back. There was
no train on the sleepy Sunday. A visiting Senator
also wanted to return immediately. So the two
drove in a hired and jolting jinker many miles to
another railway. They arrived half-frozen. No
train for a couple of hours ; no hotel. There
was a store, and the kindly storekeeper made a
fire in the parlor, and then the pair of travellers
thawed. Into this Arcadia came another Mel-
bourne man who knew the Senator. He had come
up on some rigidly serious business “about land-”
He also raided the store. Now no amount of ex-
planation will satisfy him as to why the Senator
was spending Sunday with a charming girl in this
out-and-beyond.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.
Confronted by the vital questions of effect-
ual defence and peopling the Northern Territory,
never did Australian politicians and people stand
more in need of a moral Guiding Flame of Fire.
Given tlm necessary mental oil, the addition of
D.C.L. Whisky will quickly produce the Illumi-
nating Inspiration. Both the wise and the strong
become augmented centres of force after a few—
not too many—genial moments with D.C.L. *
Now that Big John Forrest is politically
departed, the Deakin Government car. say with
“tWiddy ” O’Brien, “ Poor man, I hope he’s better
off. I know I am!”
Last, year the N.S.W. railways carried over
41,000, and didn’t kill one of them.
Three-fourths of the time the railways were under
Chief Commissioner Oliver, and the Carruthera
Government was so angry that it sacked Oliver.
“ H.F.” offers a word of advice :—■
Your views on the White Australia question are riffht
as rain, but you flick us in the eye too persistently with
that little brown caudal appendage. Don’t you think it’s
bad policy, in view of possible future developments?
Should the small tawny one (i.e. much of him) ever ar-
rive with hostile intent forninst your shop, and your
shingle strike his eye, your disrespectful editor will
never know the nature of the cyclone that hits him, so
quickly will his jugular be squeezed by the aforesaid fly-
teaser—the while his sacred commissariat is being
hurtled over the Harbor by the simian’s hind claws.
Your esteemed chief doubtless desires to quit these
scenes in the usual orthodox manner—to have time for a
prayer, and to forgive God for creating Carruchers.
Therefore would it not be well to adopt a little of the
suaviter in modo, and not press the blucher so hard on
the animal’s yesterday afternoon ?
The “yesterday afternoon” is good, and will be
noted for future reference.
With a big struggle with the House of Fat
on hand, South Australian Ministers find them-
selves deluged with paltry questions as to why
there wasn’t a foot-warmer in some railway car-
riage or other, or why Moloney was appointed
poundkeeper at Bunkum Siding. The worst
sinners have been Labor members; and Price,
exasperated by their constant heckling, and the
triviality of the queries, has arched liis back and
made some heated Welsh remarks in reply.
Finally, he has invited them to move a vote of
no-confidence, if they are dissatisfied with his
administration —either that, or cease firing “silly
questions ”at the Government. Price has dis-
appointed some members of his party. They
thought they would have a nice tame Premier,
and his backbone is an unwelcome surprise to
them.
The troubles of the Standard Oil Trust
continue. The Illinois branch co. has just
been struck by Judge Ken. M. Landis
with a fine of nearly £6,000,000 for receiving
secret rebates from the Chicago and Alton rail-
road people. The Judge regretted that he could
not send J. D. Rockefeller and his associated
criminals to gaol. Unfortunately, the Octopus
has the right of appeal, and has exercised it, and
the case will have to be fought over again in the
Federal Court. This is about the seventh big fine
that has struck the Trust, through its various
subsidiary companies, during the last year or so;
but, up to date, it is not on record that any of the
States concerned have succeeded in recovering the
money. If they had all been paid, the Standard
Oil Trust would be a very shrunken Octopus,
whereas it seems as bloated and aggressive as
ever. Present appearances indicate that the
Trust trouble will continue to grow till somebody
has been executed, or till the American Constitu-
tion has been amended so that these vast concerns
may be nationalised. That is the cure. Inflicting
fines that cannot be collected is a waste of time.


From the Bacchus Marsh Express ("Vic.),
13/7/’O7 :—
Without The Bulletin, Federation would not have been
carried in Queensland, and without that it would not
have been carried in N.S.W.
That is such a powerful compliment that this
paper retires in confusion. It isn’t every day
that a plain, well-meaning sixpenny weekly gets
credit for having built a new Commonwealth all
on its little own.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is especially
prized by mothers of small children. For sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Australia has its fair share of those most
miserable of human beings—the chronic dyspeptic.
Angier’s Emulsion works wonders in many forms
of dyspepsia. It has cured many obscure cases
that have baffled other treatment. It is soothing,
healing, strengthening, and pleasant to take. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
GrO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis-
The afflicted all fly to it,
The suffering- cry for it,
Sing praises high for it,
It can ensure
Protection from chills,
Chest troubles and ills,
Keep down doctors’ hills—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrtilin.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
This Elastic Truss
Spfiirapß
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
HOBSONS CHOICE.
The House of Lords—an institution which is not only
rich in great memories of the past, but adapts itself with
marvellous tact to the needs of the present.—ARGUS.
THE DEMOCRACY: “ Go on—or go off!”
There are something over a dozen reputable
Australian fire insurance offices ; but the N. S.
Wales Government helps to pay the dividends of
dl foreign concerns to which it gives its insur-
ances. It used to insure its own properties : but
Oarruthers abolished the department, and collared
the accumulated funds to use in making a surplus.
Tlie fact that the Australian cow industry
or heifer job has brought up with a shock against
the shipping combine, which, with the aid of its
mail subsidies, is in a position to dictate terms to
' le , ? ut *' er trade, has come as a horrid nightmare
to the crowd which, led by the anti-Australian
claily press, shouted with joy at the failure of the
Ueakin Government to inaugurate a mail service
outside the Combine. The additional fact that
the cow person put his hoof down with
emphasis, and said he wouldn’t pay the
increased freights, only to have to lift
Ins dispirited hoof up again and say he would
pay anything demanded, has worried other
mu e f S - W J"!° l ,e beve that it will be their turn next.
Ihe Anti-Sosh primary industries are now de-
manding not only a subsidised mail service, but a
socialistic rabbit service, butter service, dead
meat service, and every other service. In fact,
they want Government aid, and a lot of it, and
they want it in a hurry.
Last week’s champion mean man turned
up in G. M. Merivale, president of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce. He wants to hand the
.Northern Territory over to Britain, to be filled
with “the overflow’’—meaning, no doubt, the
scum—“of the teeming millions of India,” on
condition that Britain protects “our northern
coast.’’ As a matter of fact, Australia wouldn’t
then have any northern coast worth mentioning;
but let that pass. Would Merivale be quite content
to let a filthy crowd of “overflow ” nigger slaves
have the run of his kitchen and back premises,
and wander through the ground floor of his house,
and interfere with his family on the stairs, pro-
vided the owner of the slaves paid the hire of a
policeman to sit on the back doorstep. Well
Merivale might ? But Austral' has better ideas
about running a house than that.
The South Australian Government is at
loggerheads with the Adelaide City Council, and
the loggerheads do Price and his Ministers great
credit._ Ihe Council wanted a Bill put through,
authorising it to borrow something well up
towards £lOO,OOO for making footpaths and carry-
lng out some more of those permanent and repro-
ductive works that Cohen has heard so much
about; but Premier Price declared that he
wouldn’t help it through unless the Bill provided
fora one-ratepayer-one-vote referendum to directly
authorise the swindle. For, of course, it is a
swindle to borrow money to make footpaths with,
and then hand your children over a footpath with
holes in it and the original bill without any holes
in it at all.
In spite of the recent row about the
attempted wholesale purchase of imported pianos,
Victoria’s feeble;Minis-
try still cheekily
ignores the instruc-
tions of the House that
imported goods are not
to be bought as long as
Australian goods, made
by white labor, can be
obtained. It trans-
pired the other day
that imported chairs
adorn the waiting-
rooms at Spencer-
street railway station,
and that Chinese-made
furniture has been
placed in the new
Agricultural Depart-
ment offices. Of course,
the Government made
excuses, which “were
received with much
dissatisfaction by the
Labor Opposition.”
But what’s . the good
of that ? The Labor
Opposition is a poor
minority that stands
aloof; and, as long as
it does that, and hasn’t
a hope of a majority,
its dissatisfaction isn’t
of any practical conse-
quence. On the other
hand, if it showed that
it was willing to work
with Liberals so as to
form a majority, the
other crowd would
take mighty good care
that it wasn’t dissatis-
fied.
A London paper :
TheN.S.W. Premier now
comes forward with a
programme of reduced
taxation that may make
him popular with the
people of his own State,
but is certainly not re-
assuring to the British investor. The abolition of direct
taxation in N.S.W. at a time of unexampled prosperity
in the history of that country would be a reasonable
enough thing, if it were not for the immense public in-
debtedness of the State. We have always contended
that the assets of N.S.W. are so great as to justify the
borrowing- of this money for the development of its re-
sources. At the same time, a load of debt like this must
be shouldered, and not evaded. There is no reason why
the people of N.S.W. should not submit, in their present
prosperity, to some direct taxation in order to put a
better face upon the finances of the State. The reputa-
tion of N.S.W. and of all Australia would have been
better served by such a programme, and it is not a little
alarming to find this policy of truckling to the electors is
still so popular in N.S.W.
William Lyne has decided that in future
the label on a patent medicine must clearly state
the ingredients of the compound, and in so
deciding W. Lyne has struck a worthy idea. As
a case in point, the Customs Department lately
found 30 different drugs in one patent medicine.
They were all fairly good drugs, taken separately,
but thirty mixed medicines at once are as
dangerous as thirty mixed drinks.
IN HIS LATEST CHARACTER.
But tor any man to think that the wildest flights of
intellect would ever dethrone the Creator was to indulge
in mad visions of ignorance which would be dissipated as
the true inwardness of human life and human intelligence
became brighter and brighter.— G. Reid, at Salvarmy
meeting.
A deputation of iron-workers and boiler-
makers recently waited on Minister Lyne with a
question so simple yet so unusual that it made the
Minister stagger back several feet, and then sit
down with his hand to his aching brow. The iron
and boiler people wanted to know what is the use
of trying to create a ship-building industry in
Australia while ships, built by far cheaper foreign
labor, can be imported free ? Come to think of it,
what is the use ? The idea seems to suggest two
remedies. One is a4O per cent, duty on imported
ships. The other, and very much the better
remedy, is to enact that, except as regards ships
already under order, no new vessel whatsoever
shall be permitted to take a hand in the Aus-
tralian coastal trade, unless it be locally built.
Then the ship-building industry would wake up—
likewise the iron and steel industries, and a dozen
subsidiary trades, and Australia would become
able to build its own cruisers, iron-clads, torpedo-
boats, dredges, etc., and soon would hardly need
to care whether Britain held the sea or not.
Some of the State Frights people who
threw up their hats when the efforts of the Com-
monwealth to get a new line of big mail-steamers
running to England failed, are beginning to
wonder what sort of fools they were ; for
they find out that the present Combine is
something extra hard to bump against.
When the Victorian Butter Exports Com-
mittee tried to arrange freights, it dis-
covered that the price had been sent
up with a sudden bound. Then the
N.S.W. Butter Shippers’ Association
proposed that a contract should be made
with the mail cos., leaving the balance
of the trade open to competition among
the slower boats of the other lines. That
looked all right, until it was discovered
that the Combine was so real that
the mail cos. and nearly all the other
lines are standing together, and
aren’t taking any competition; and,
after hours of arguing, the matter hasn’t
been advanced a peg.
The exigencies of the Australian Immigra-
tion Act have produced a versatile type of officer.
For instance, the steamer Yorck arrived from
Europe at Fremantle (W.A.), the other day, and
the official interpreter got to work upon the mot-
ley crowd of passengers.. He began with some
Frenchmen, went on with some Italians, pro-
ceeded with some Greeks, continued with some
Syrians, followed on with an Arab, and finished
up with a Bulgarian who spoke Turkish. Then
he leaned over the rail, and spoke some good,
plain Australian about the unnecessary abundance
of the Dago upon the face of the earth.
Federal Attorney-General Groom lately
gave the straight answer that turneth away bosh.
Spruce Myth, with his anxious eye fixed on the
dignity of Commerce, asked Groom if he would
submit a draft of the proposed Bankruptcy Bill
to Sydney Chamber of Commerce, and secure its
approval before he submitted the thing to Parlia-
ment. Groom looked upon Mr. Myth, and said
in a voice like Irvine’s best icicle that he wouldn’t.
While Spruce was recovering from his swoon,
Page wanted to know in whose interests the Bill
was being introduced. “In the interests of the
people of Australia! ” replied Groom. There were
no more questions.
“ Western Line ” writes :
At a meeting- of the quarter-million North Coast
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) “ strong references ” were made
to the Government’s “systematic neglect of its obligations
to keep the waterways of the northern rivers open to
reasonably safe navigation.” Where did these alleged
obligations come from? If the State didn’t dig up any
sand at all, navigation by some sort of vessel would still be
possible ; so the alleged obligation evidently consists in
digging up enough sand to suit this particular co.’s
boats and to earn this particular co.’s dividends.
Then if some other co. wants to run bigger
boats, the Government will presumably be still “obliged”
to dig up enough sand to let that co.’s boats pass, too.
The writer of this lives somewhere out on the dusty-
western line, and he would often rather go home by boat
than by train ; and the Government is under an obliga-
tion to dig out enough dirt to let a ferry-boat travel that
way, and the Government’s neglect to do this obvious
duty is disgraceful. True, the Government has provided
a railway ; but, then, it is providing railways up on the
North Coast as well, and the fact that it has made rail-
ways there, and is going to make more, apparently doesn’t
affect this alleged remarkable obligation to dig up sand
and make rivers to knock the railways out.
Thus “ Thomas Clodd ” :
Maoriland post-office servants have an Appeal Board,
which sits once a year and dreams over things. Two
heavily-gilt bureaucrats and two cheap clerks compose
the Board. The clerks are alarmed at the importance of
the gilt members, and the whole are scared oftheP.M.-
General, who has the power of veto on the Board’s “ find-
ings.” All appeals must be sent in writing, and officers
who began writing ten years ago are still shedding ink on
the Board. Nothing has ever been finally settled by the
Board since it began its farcical career. The M.L. postal
service seethes with discontent, but the dissatisfied have
merely the privilege of stating their grievance to a body
which has no power of redress, and which is as useful
| to them as a silk blouse is to a scrub steer. The de-
' fections from the service are so constant that the
Maoriland P.O. will shortly have to warn correspond-
ents to break themselves of the foolish habit of letter-
writing.
Thus a person called Littlejohn (not
Littlemind) to Sydney Chamber of Commerce :
The Federal Parliament .... had passed laws which
made criminals of merchants, and other legislation, in-
stead of looking after matters such as the Federal
capital.
Quite true. The Australian Parliament has
passed laws which make criminals of merchants
who import brass jewellery marked as gold, and
goods described as all wool that are really half
cotton. Will Mr. Littlejohn come out with a
plain statement that he objects to the Commerce
Act, and that he is on the side of the swindling
merchants who live on lies and false descriptions,
and who simply rank with the three-card sharp
and the passer of bogus cheques ?
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, at its
recent annual meeting, showed the cloven hoofs
and tail of a scheme to rob N.S.W. The Aus-
tralian capital, according to the Constitution,
belongs to that large part of N.S.W. outside the
100-mile limit from Sydney. The Chamber of
Commerce seriously discussed a scheme for rob-
bing that part of N.S.W. for the benefit of one
city by shifting the capital to Sydney. This is
the first scheme for robbing N.S.W. that has been
heard of since the Commonwealth was established,
and the country should keep an eye on it, and, if
necessary, holler for the police.
Things move a little. The Bill providing
for the survey of the much-needed railwav to
Westralia has passed the Senate, and that "is a
small step towards the work of building the two
great lines that are to cross Australia from east to
west and from north to south. One of the joys
of the debate was the position of the three new
Queensland Senators, Sayers and Cliataway and
Sledger. They won their election on purely local
grab principles by advocating a wild scheme for
diverting the Northern Territory railway into
Queensland, and their inability to get the ear of
the House, and make it understand that the only
Federal railway idea worth thinking about is the
one that they shove along in their little wheel-
barrow, has made them as wild as three bears
sitting in a row.
TAKING THE MONKEY BY THE EARS.
Vice-Admiral Sir W. H. Fawkes, who was received with
applause, said he was delighted to have General Gordon
associated with him in this toast—(Hear, hear)—and he
hoped that if a foe came here they would be together,
and be able to prevent him getting on these shores.
“ One , two, three. Over you go! Next, please /”
After all Willie-motor Kelly’s screams
about the proposed Australian navy being “a
useless torpedo flotilla,” “a ridiculous mosquito
fleet,” etc., etc., the First British Sea Lord rises
unkindly to imply that Willie doesn’t know what
he is talking about, and informs the British House
of Lords that an Australian “well-manned flotilla
of destroyers and submarines would be a very
substantial defence against casual raids, and would
also be of the greatest assistance to the British
fleet in the event of war.” Thus does the British
authority sit on Willie, who thought he was being
“so English,” and prove himself a better Aus-
tralian than Willie himself.
At the Sydney Chamber of Commerce
meeting, during the howl re the Australian
capital—
Mr. Tucker held that, if necessary, they should appeal
to the British authorities for the enforcement of their
rights.
If the Ma State grievance party really appeals to
the British authorities, as suggested, The
Bulletin will gladly give £lO towards the ex-
penses. The spectacle of the British Govern-
ment sitting with the Australian Constitution in
one hand, and the confused flurry of alleged woes
in the other, and trying to identify the “ wrongs,”
would be too beautiful for words.
Mr. Frank W. Frazer, of Scone, N.S.W.,
writes“ I was touring New Zealand some time
ago, and owing to the continued wet weather
contracted a very severe cold. While staying at.
the “ Royal Oak,” in Wellington, a friend advised,
me to try Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This:,
advice was followed, and after I had taken a few
doses was completely cured. I can confidently
recommend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy ten
anyone suffering from throat or lung troubles.”*
AUSTRALIA’S RIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
4-v, *. r ‘u " l lanis wired to Captain Evans, pointin'!: out
that the Quarantine Bill was another intrusion on State
Bights.— Hobart (Tas.) telegram.
Australia Speaks.
By traitors base it’s yelled aloud
Until it gets upon our nerves—
The poaching by the Federal crowd
Upon the injured States’ preserves ;
“ Injustice,” “ tyranny,” and “ wrong,"
The long array of fancied “ slights,”
That wring the anguished “ Lord, how long?”
But what about Australia’s Righ ts l
The State Frights Speak.
On patience we have long relied
To turn her taunts and jeering cries,
Unselfishly we’ve vainly tried
To point out where her duty lies ;
Her “ flagrant insults ” daily grow,
Her “ veiled oppression ” sorely bites,
We only want to run the show—
Australia Interposes.
Say, what about Australia’s Rights l
The State Frights Yell.
She wants to build a capital
On land that’s, after all. her own,
And, with unmitigated gall,
She wants to choose the site alone.
And now—ye narrow-minded, pause,
And tear your hair, provincial mites—
She wants to make Australia’s laws
Australia Speaks.
Well, what about Australia’s Rights 1
Chorus of State Ghosts.
She tries our “ dignity ” to flout —
We needs must take a second place—
She wants to keep the nigger out
And raise a clean Australian Race.
We’ll lift Secession’s mud-stained rag,
We puny, whom her strength excites,
And tear our stars from off her flag—-
Who cares about Australia’s Rights ?
x.s.w.
VELDT.


Talking
Machines
at Paling’s.
U
m
. * _
won.
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Graphophones.
Gramophones.
BEBT QUALITY goods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
Paling's,
89
338 George St..
Sydney.
Bechstein
Pianos
madmmmmmzmmmam
Zsf-)Q most
musical
Pianoforte
made and
one that
retains its
marvel-
lous char-
acteristic
tone qual-
ity to the
end.
Buy a Bechstein
Piano and you will
be convinced of its
i excellence.
Catalogues Free,
j Sole Agents:
Paling" s
338 George Street*
92 Sydney*
Bandsmen
PALING'S
can supply any instrument
required from a
CORNET
111
to a DRUM
and all other Brass and
Wood Wind Instruments
in between.
Send for Catalogues,
Post Free.
>9
S,
338 George St,
SYDNEY.
Shaving Comfort Every Day.
SHAVING 'omfort is what you’ll get day after day all
the time with the Celebrated PLUM RAZOR. Try
it against any other razor, and note the difference in
quality of steel—in shaving- comfort—in durability.
THE PLUM RAZOR COSTS 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair in Handsome Case, 307-
Post Free to Any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
Missing Friends.
T EO RICH, of Krotoschin (last heard of
from Yass, N.S.W.), or anyone knowing
his address, is requested to write to the under-
signed, who has money in hand for him.
H. S. PIEREMONT,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
RODS
Edw. NORTON,
For Locating MINES,—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps,
64 Hunter Street, SYDKIT.
Your Bicycle
will always yield you greater pleasure—
greater comfort—if it possesses that in-
estimable quality SUITABILITY.
Have it built for you , and when placing
your order, specify
EADIE FITTINGS.
These components are manufactured in
one of the largest factories in the world
—they are designed by men with a long
and wide experience not only as engineers,
but as practical cyclists also.
They are exceptionally light—exception-
ally strong—of the very highest grade,
and in the construction of the bicycle
built therefrom can be embodied all those
points essential to your comfort.
Write to-day for latest Art catalogue
“Eadie Fittings.” Dept. /
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
o
IB
WORKS 1 RED DITCH,
ENGLAND.
To Water Jacket Foremen
and Machine Miners.
WANTED on or about 7th SEPTEM
BEE next,
Three Water Jacket Foremen.
A/so a Number of
Machine Miners.
For further particulars, apply
NYMAGEE COPPER LIMITED,
NYMACEE, NEW SOUTH WALES.
That Famous Inventor,
Thomas A. Edison ~,
Has spent some thirty years of his life
improving his Phonograph, and thinks so
much of its perfection tli£\t every genuine
Edison Phonograph and Gold-Moulded
Record bears his signature like this —
TRADE
& £dvh
cm~
That is a guarantee of good quality, and
you should look for the name when buy-
ing. Don’t accept something said to be
“ just-as-good as the Edison ” offered you
for the sake of greater profit.
Write us for the Latest
Printed Matter.
RATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
r
WEAR . .
Bucßley* Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO 1C
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
iiM**
W-7
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
BUCKLEY & NUN N, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. . Also i Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 0 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE
Acknowledge that De. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills aee Women’s Best Friend.
Women of the highest type, women of superior
education and refinement, whose sane discern-
ment and good judgment give weight and‘force
f D?
DIRECTIONS
AOIILT3 T*o toIU* *«•
CHILDREN A Hal* to a
Wnou Pi lx Dissowts .
hi SwttntNcoWftTXii
T*t*e Mbtwrr/irini
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
to their opinions, highly
eulogise the wonderful
corrective and curative
properties of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. Years
ago, pills were the medicine
of the poor only. To-day
the efficacy of Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills to over-
come the common ailments,
and restore health and
happiness to sick and ailing
women, has convinced not
only the working section of
the population, but the
wives and daughters of the
more wealthy, professional,
and independent classes,
that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a great
female medicine, , and
are absolutely ind i s-
value health should never be without, Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Nurses and doctors
recommend them, and thousands of women
who now enjoy health and strength owe
their rescue to this wonderful remedy. Through-
out the many stages of woman’s life, from peevish
girlhood through womanhood, motherhood to the
declining years of old age, there is no better
milder, or more effective medical ccfljiipanion to
women folk than Dr. Morse’s Indiarfi Root Pills.
They heal inflammations and ulcerations, and
cure all womanly weaknesses, cleansing and
restoring the bowels, liver and kidneys to
P'-rfect working order. A few doses occasionally
when well will assure a pure and healthy system.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Australia engaged in three international con-
tests on Saturday, and with hideous luck lost every one
of them. On the Parramatta River, Webb, the Maori-
lander, took the sculling championship of the world and
£5OO of Australian money ; at Brisbane the All Blacks
beat the Australian Rugbyites by 14 points to five ; and
at Adelaide the Canadians downed the Australian
laerossers by six goals to three. J t was a dreary day.
Of course, the crowning disaster was Webb’s
victory. That took from Australia the proud possession
of the sculling championship of the world. Australia's so-
called champion had been elevated to the position, not on
his merits, but because his elder brother stepped down
from it—it is said to oblige a lady of the family, who
wished to have two world-champions in her flock. The
bogus champion was hopelessly outclassed and decisively
beaten. Success is the only thing that can justify such a
transaction as the passing on of the championship from
George to Charles Towns, and when Charles was put to
the proof there was no success in him. A championship
of any kind is something of a national possession, and
should be held by the man best able to defend it. In
this case it wasn’t. It was defended by a man who got it
because an obliging relative forfeited it to him, and the
relative might have forfeited in the same fashion, if he
had liked, to a middle-aged uncle with one lung. Aus-
tralia has a right to think tha*t it has been treated .in a
scurvy fashion by George Towns, and that the country’s
aquatic fame was discreditably sacrificed to petty family
vanity.
Curiously enough there was a general impression
that Webb’s chances were hopeless, or that, at the best,
he had only his own and Buckley’s. So confident were
the followers of Towns that they cheerfully laid six to four,
and they fell in with a tremendous splash. Although the
race was rowed under ideal conditions, the weather of the
morning and early part of the afternoon scared thousands
away, so that there was nothing like the usual crowd
that flocks to see a championship event on the Parra-
matta. After a considerable mob had collected, the
wind grew cold, and an angry rain swished down, soak-
ing those on the shore who could not get into the shelter
of caves and ledges. About 3.30 the trouble ceased
suddenly, leaving an opalescent sky brooding over a scene
of elysian calm. Cool atmosphere, and smooth water—
what more could a sculler require or desire? Up
at Ryde bridge they got away to a beautiful
start, and Towns jumped to the front and made
the pace. He made it for a mile, with Webb holding him
comfortably, and then, after getting so close to one
another that their sculls touched, Webb went away to
the front, and the race resolved itself into a procession.
At Bedlam Point, Webb was leading by eight lengths,
and the end of the race was close in sight. Off Abbots-
ford the Maorilander deliberately slowed down, and with
his eyes fixed on the gamely struggling Towns, paddled
home an easy winner by five lengths. The time (20miii.
45sec.), although faster than that in which Towns beat
Durnan (22min. 27sec.) on the Nepean, was slower than
the times of Stanbury (19min. 47sec.) and Towns (19min.
53Jsec.), when they won the championship in 1905 and
1906 respectively. Quite obvious that had Webb been
pushed he could have travelled much faster.
After the way the daily papers had decried
Webb’s style, people were astonished to see his clean,
easy movements, and from the boats scores exclaimed
that the man in blue was Towns : “ Only Towns could
pull like that! ” And they cheered accordingly. It was a
sad revelation. Webb was cool as a cucumber. When
people started to congratulate him, he cheerfully pro-
posed that they should wait till the protest was decided.
Umpire Rush did not decide the point right away,
but carefully referred to the rules, and gave a judg-
ment that was crammed full of horse-sense. The
people who place stock in omens regarded Webb’s chance
as hopeless on account of the attempted suicide on the
voyage from Maoriland, and subsequent death in Sydney,
of one of his chief backers. On the other hand others
discovered that what lost Towns the race was a minia-
ture Union Jack hoisted upside down on his shed. This
is the signal of distress in the language of the sea.
George Towns announced that he would not challenge
the winner. The next race for the sculling champion-
ship will take place on the Wanganui River (Maoriland),
and will be the first in that State.
* * * *
Webb’s chief backer, Tuck, landed the squeal-
ing Towns crowd a nasty one at the handing over’of the
stakes. One of Towns’ backers declared he wasn’t satis-
fied with the umpire’s decision. He offered Webb £lOO
exes, and guaranteed him agate of £250 to race Towns
again. Tuck sprang up before Webb could g'et himself
together, and told the man who made the offer that he
considered it an insult to the umpire—which it was.
Webb had won the championship, and if Towns thought
lie had not been beaten on his merits he could come to
Wanganui and win it back in the ordinary way. Whereat
there was a great silence in the Towns corner.
“Wanganui” inquires: “Taking for granted
that Webb was the better man on the day, and also that
a foul did occur, accidentally, intentionally, or other-
wise, was the umpire's decision correct?” Well,
whatever experts other offices may contain, there
is nobody in this one who knows more about scull-
ing than Michael Rush. The umpire did not
decide hastily, but having noted the occurrence very
carefully consulted the newly-framed rules, and de-
cided that Webb in no way deprived Towns of his
chance of winning the race. Towns’ statement that he
did not try after the foul reads very badly. If he wasn’t
trying off Bedlam Point and thence to the finish, writer
never saw a man try.
» * * *
The lacrosse match at Adelaide was a great
struggle, and, although beaten, the Australians played a
wildly exciting game. But it was useless against the
tactics of the Canadians, who massed their men in the
middle of the field, and carried the ball down the centre
with their amazing system of short passes. This left the
Australians hovering round the flanks as the French
cavalry hung round the squares at Waterloo. When the
Australians did get poss“ssion of the leather they found a
solid phalanx waiting for them in front of the goal. What
really beat the Australians was lack of combination. This
w’as no doubt partly due to lack of practice together, a
drawback which was quite unavoidable.
* * » «
The last of the three international matches was
the Rugby struggle at Brisbane. This did not excite any
particular enthusiasm, the disreputable tactics of the
Maorilanders having killed interest in their doings. The
men who compose the team are not good sportsmen. As
before mentioned, Maoriland won by 14 points to five.
Some sanguine souls thought that when Messenger went
north it would make a difference ; and it did, but even
the mighty Messenger can’t prevail against the finesse of
the Maoriland off-siders. The only man who can cope
with that is the umpire.
<* * *■ *
Sydney got a shock on Saturday when it was
noised abroad, “ on the best authority,” that Messenger
and three other of the finest plavers of Eastern Suburbs
would go to England with the “ Maoriland ” Professional
Rugby team. If it is true, it will just about wreck
“ East’s ” applecart and seriously damage the Australian
XV. Somehow, writer has his doubts about Messenger
or any of the Australians going to England. All the
same, it seems pretty certain that- professional Rugby
will be in full blast in Sydney by next season, unless
there is a sudden and remarkable change in public
opinion. The Metropolitan Rugby Union lias been dis-
playing wealth of late, buying new ground, for which it
wrote a cheque of £15,000. And the players are realising
that the Union gets all the loot, while tliey have a mono-
poly of the bVuises and kicks, and the abuse of the critics.
Fired by the spectacle of 50,000 odd people gathered
at Sydney Cricket Ground to watch the Maorilanders
play N.S.W., sundry showmen suddenly caught the idea
of starting professional Rugby in Sydney. When the
grounds have been secured, it is proposed to form
district clubs, in which the players will share the
gate, paying the management a certain rate of
ihterest. After the interest is paid, all profits shall be
divided equally between players and management.
First-grade Rugby continued in Sydney on
Saturday afternoon, when Eastern Suburbs broke up the
formidable South Sydney crowd by six points to three at
Sydney Cricket Ground. Both teams showed good work
in attacking, but the Eastern Suburbs’ defensive work
was too good for the others. University got Newtown
out at University Oval, and slew it in a cold spot by 12
points to five. The Oval was wet and slippery when play
started, but after a heavy shower of rain it became a
quagmire, in which the University men showed some
brilliant dribbling rushes which just sw’amped Newtown.
Glebe also caught its rival, Sydney, out in the lonely
Wentworth Park Oval, and did for it with brutal thorough-
ness, the figures being eight to nil. The corpse is there
yet. Sydney never had a show. It was just rolled
on the wet, muddy field, and trodden on. North
Sydney hillmen proved too strong for Western Suburbs
;by six points to three, the Westerners playing one man
short the whole of the first half. With a full team in the
second half the club held its own against the hillmen,
but could not score, and the points that had already been
made against it were fatal. In the unfortunate St. George
men Manly found a team of its own weight, and waded
through it in great style. An exciting game ended in
the downfall of the Saint by 14 points to 10.
This left Glebe still at the head of the com-
petition with 18 points, but reduced the second line to
two, University and Eastern Suburbs with 17 each.
South Sydney (15), Sydney (14), Newtown and Western
Suburbs (11 each), North Sydney (10), and the rest
(nowhere), follow in due order.
Thi3 means that the “ rest ” —Balmain, St.
George and Manly—are out of the competition, which
now remains with the eight above-mentioned. The play-
off will commence on August 17, tbe day the Maoriland
Professional team is to split into two and play the first of
three matches in Sydney at the Agricultural Ground.
Sydney Sunday Times has risen groggily to remark that
the financial success of the professional matches is
extremely doubtful. Is it? The chances are, more the
pity, that the public will rush to see the new thing, and
if they have bumpergates for the whole three matches the
people who are trying to arrage for professionalism here
will get a lot of encouragement.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby team’s career in Westralia was a
royal progress. The Perth Metropolitan team was beaten
by 17 to nil; the Goldfields by 16 to eight ; and the two
Westralian teams were beaten by 16 to three and three to
nil respectively. The low scoring in the last match was
due to wet, slippery ground. Also the wet state of the
N.S.W players internally is understood to have affected
them.
* * * *
In the Association struggle for the Rawson Cup
(Sydney) Pyrmont is still leading with 23 points to. its
credit. Tbe nearest rival is Glebe with 19, after which
come Balmain with 17, Rozelle with 16, Ultimo with 10,
Petersham with 10, and The Navy with five. The surprise
of Saturday was the way Balmain, playing with only nine
men, managed to prevent Glebe scoring. Under the cir-
cumstances a scoreless draw was highly creditable. It is
to be hoped the Balmain captain used some bad words to
the two men who failed to either turn up or send sub-
stitutes. Rozelle and Ultimo made a very savage struggle
of it. Rushes came fast from either side, and some
excellen t kicking was shown, but Rozelle bad the more
versatility and ran out with five goals to two. The Navy,
with its tail down, forfeited to Pyrmont; the prospect of
playing the premiers was too appalling. The result is
that Pyrmont has won the premiership for the fourth
time, and will hold the Cup.
• » * *
Whispered that the Sydney Agricultural
Ground will riot be available for the N.S.W. League’s
football next year, and the ground difficulty threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Australian game in
Sydney very sadly. Which is a pity, as the game is not
getting a fair fight for its life. When the clubs play on
open spaces like Moore Park, not only are they unable to
charge for admission and raise revenue, but they
find it hard to keep hogs from walking across their
playing space. Sydney badly wants more sports grounds.
The followers of Vic. football pretty well filled
the ground at Prince’s Oval on Saturday, to witness the
discussion between the two topmost clubs—Carlton and
Collingwood. This was conducted in quite an academic
fashion, and would have been an almost historical argu-
ment but for two things—the wind had a little too much
say in the matter, and the umpire much too little. He was
a most disinterested umpire ; even when a player tripped
another headlong before his eyes he merely viewed the
episode as something that might have happened in
Timbuctoo. In spite of these drawbacks the game
was good and exciting till the middle of the
last quarter, when Carlton, with a 3-points
lead, kicked a neat goal, and followed that up with an
attack that resulted in two more behinds, making the
scores 45 to 34. The Blues’ victor was mainly due to
splendid high marking, andto their having.picked up the
strenuous finish that ' the Magpies had apparently mis-
laid. At the East Melbourne ground Fitzroy lost its last
hope of getting into the semi-finals—lost it in the
last quarter of the game against Essendon. At
lemon time the ’Roys had scored 31 points to 29,
and, with the wind now behind them, felt quite easy :
but in that last quarter, the’Dons showed sornething'of
that splendid play which, a few years back, won the club
the premiership four seasons consecutively, and just
doubled their score while allowing the Maroons not a
single added point—sB to 31. It was a fine exhibition,
but heart-breaking for the losers. “Saints” continued
its downward career, the kick this time being adminis-
tered by Melbourne—47 to 30. And Geelong, afterflatter-
ing its supporters by leading throughout from South,
went down in the f last 10 minutes—42 to 50...
In the Association, Footscray practically
ruined its hopes of cutting up the semi-final gates by
knuckling under to Essendon (A.), by 11 points to 43. As
the match to which this was the return had been won by
’Scray by one point, after a strenuous battle, and as there
was no apparent weakness about the team, the barrackers
were much disgusted at the conclusion—also very out-
spoken. Brunswick’s combination gave it all the best of
the play against WiUiamstown, but, alas! its for-
wards couldn’t kick straight, and the victory that
would have astonished many was missed—by three
goals 13 behinds to six goals three behinds. West
beat Preston handily, and Richmond “ had a wifi.”
Nowadays Richmond mostly seems to “ have a .win ”
which is a pleasing habit for a team to get into, though
this paper is prepared to admit, upon argument, that it is
hardly feasible for every team to contract said habit.
During tbe afternoon a couple of Junior Association
teams —Carlton and Fitzroy—playing on the ’Roy ground,
got into holts, and temporarily suspended the game
while players and barrackers fought a strenuous battle
of several hundred rounds. Coburg and Footscray
Juniors, of the same association, were to have met on
the latter’s ground, but the former forfeited rather than
risk, it alleged, a repetition of the treatment handed it
when the teams met previously, on which occasion the
argument was conducted with fence palings, road metal,
etc. These juniors ought to pass some such regulation
as that of the Girls’ Hockey Club—“ In future no player
shall get unduly excited.”
* * • *
The Dunlop Co. promoted a hill-climbing
contest at Heidelberg (Melb.) recently up a slope of
1050yds., with an average gradient of one in eight, and
one in six and a half at the pinch. Over 120 riders com-
peted, and the affair was run off in 22 heats of five or six
riders. The co. had laid a wire up the hill, and a bang on
the gong announced to the time-keeper at the top the
second of departure. . The fastest man was A. W. Moore,
who got up in 2min. 26 3-ssec. He used 74 gear and 6iin.
cranks. It’s very interesting, but darned bad for the
cyclists. A man who rides up a hill like that is a fool—
it is about the best way writer knows of straining the
heart.
Senhouse, theN.S.W. disqualified cyclist, dis-
covered that the arm of Mclntosh’s League was long
enough to reach to the uttermost parts of the U.S.A.
and the isles thereof. When he forwarded his little
entry, the National Cycling Association kicked him with
both feet, and biffed him right out. After the Associa-
tion had kicked him, the press rubbed it in like this :
“Outlaw comes far for Nought! Travels from Aus-
tralia to race in America, but the Hand of Punishment
reaches across the Weary Leagues of Sea 1 ” Very flowery,
but darned nasty.
* * • «
.At last word begins to filter through about the
rearguard of the Pekin to Paris motor-car squadron.
Jean du Tallis, the press rep. aboard the 15-h.p. Spyker
car, tells of terrible experiences. They had reached the
middle of Gobi, and after leaving a village named Pon-
kong, the Spyker took most of the heavy luggage of the
Contal tri-car, while the latter took the emergency supply
of petrol. The Spyker soon left the de Dions and the tri-
car far behind, while Prince Borghese, the brilliant Dago,
was raging two days ahead. The road was marked by
the line of bones left by the people who had perished
there through the crumbling ages. The bumping
over skeletons and such suddenly split the petrol tank,
and before the motorists knew it the motive power
was all in the sand. When the De Dions came along they
could only spare four gallons, which was not nearly
enough to take the Spyker to the next petrol dep6t, 150
sandy, weary miles away. The last straw was the news
that the tri-car, with the emergency petrol abpard, un-
able to force its way through the sand, had turned back
for Pekin. Godard and Tallis found themselves in the
middle of Gobi with one chicken, a few biscuits,
and a very small quantity of water between
them. The De Dions promised to send assistance.
But it was something like six days before it came,
and in the meantime the motorists nearly died of starva-
tion and thirst. The intense heat cracked their lips and
peeled the skin from their faces, and most of the Mongo-
lians to whom they applied for assistance stared at them
stolidly, and rode on unmoved. Fortunately, they found
a somewhat more sociable crowd, which supplied them
with food, and, for a price, commenced to haul the car
with camels. They hauled it till they met the Mongo-
lians from Udde with the petrol. After the petrol arrived
the bones along the track looked quite ordinary—pre-
viously they had had a very sinister expression about
them. )
• * * *
The American motor-engine manufacturers
have decided to adopt a national standard for
horse-power, and are following the lead of the
“ effete and played-out ” Royal Automobile Club,
of England. Imagine the Yankee following Eng-
land ! Here is the formulae: Square the diameter
of the cylinder in inches, multiply by number
of cylinders, and divide by 2.5, and the result is the
standard horse-power any standard engine will develop
at a normal speed of 1000 revolutions per minute. The
Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. ought to adopt this, and
compel all owners to submit their engines for measure-
ment. Unless some of our crack boating men are pre-
varicators, we have several boats here which, for speeds
developed on low horse-power, beat everything in the
other four continents.
* • * *
Doubtful if Major Taylor will be seen on the
Australian tracks again. He has got fat inside, and can-
not get into condition, and consequently his European
appearance has been a dreadful frost.
* * * -*-
Maoriland Cricket Council is preparing for the
coming season in an almighty bad temper. The visit of
the Marylebone team was a howling success from the
standpoint of the team, but the M.L. Council finds itself
burdened with a deficit of over £lOOO, which will
probably be dropped heavily on to the shoulders of the
guarantors. The loss itself is bad enough, but it is con-
sideration of the items that makes the M.L.' Council go
on the drink. Washing and “ tips,” £4B Bs. 3d. ; hotel
exes., £457 175.; and the cost of the trips between
matches to Rotorua, the West Coast, and up the Wanga-
nui River, are the items that have made up the deficit.
The Council feels that it has been had. The team came
out to play cricket, and in between times formed itself
into a free touring party, all exes, paid by the Council,
and this the Council considers is stretching things a lot.
Any man who wants free board and residence in a com-
fortable hospital for a few months only requires to call
round to the Council’s office and ask when the next
English XI. will arrive.
* * * *
Failing Jackson and Fry, the London M.C.C.
has fallen back on A. O. Jones as captain of the coming
English cricket team. His position as successful captain
of the champion county (Notts) evidently got him the
job. Jones has been in Australia before with Maclaren’s
team, when his failure to strike his admitted form was a
disappointment. He was actually omitted from the test
matches. The new captain is a “ ladies’ reserve darling.”
Last visit he fielded at long-on, at the reserve end,
always without a hat, and with a snowy silk hanky folded
round his lily-white neck. From hanky to shoes he was
painfull}' white ; he was even careful to avoid wearing
the team’s colors, lest they should blot the white-
ness. He also mashed the girls during adjournments
without a hat. A beautiful and hatless vision was Jones.
* * • •
The Vic. Amateur Turf Club commenced its
G. N. Steeplechase meeting at Caulfield on Saturday,
under the critical survey of Excellency Northcote arid
staff. Seventeen started for the Moondah Plate, for
which an intelligent army of punters made Uro favorite,
at five to two against. The son of Havoc justified the
faith that was in him, and streaked home a length to the
good. Naturally, the interest was centered on the Grand
National Hurdle Race, of 1200 sovs. But the backers did
not find time tedious, as the Wilgah Steeplechasers’ Flat
Race saw the popular fancy, top-weight Anchor, win
by four lengths. Firelight and Prestonpans dropping
out, the G.N. Hurdles field was reduced to 10. The public
pinned its fancy to The Wizard early, and he was soon
backed down to 7 to 2, a price which he shared with his
rival favorite, Bribery. In spite of a series of mishaps, the
last of which caused The Wizard to strip his leg to the
bone from the hock downwards, he managed to hold the
fast-running Dog of War, who looked dangerous right
through, and led the way over the last obstacle. At the
half-distance they were howling “ Dog of War,” but The
Wizard soared up alongside, and won easily by nearly a
length. After weighing in, The Wizard went into hos-
pital.
* * * *
Last week A.J.C. committee went further in
their whitewashing of the “ unregistered,” and gathered
in several prominent pony “ books,” who, consequently,
looked on at Ascot meeting while their late brother
Moses literally raked the shekels in. More than one
cleared £3OO on the day, and all. had big- credit balances.
But Fate rubbed it in hard indeed, when, fielding for the
first time under the changed conditions, at Canterbury
horse meeting, the new recruits struck a particularly bad
day, and, without exception, lost heavily.
Some possibilities for coming A. J.C. Epsom, as
evidenced by form at Canterbury (Sydney) Saturday, are
Forge and Mimer. Forge won the Flying Handicap with
top weight (10.8), and Mimer secured'the Stewards’ Mile
with something to spare and lOst. on his back. Their
weights in the Epsom are : Forge, 8.13 ; Mimer, 8.1.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Ass. has shifted the
route of the State cross-country championship from
Manly to Flemington. The course originally a] proved of
was an ideal one to try the stamina of the athletes—that
is, from the viewpoint of those who spied out the land ;
but there was a mighty kick at the prospect of climbing
rocks and ploughing through sand, so the scene was
shifted away to the scrubby land of Flemington. One
time the A. A. A. wouldn’t sanction a route that didn’t end
on a racecourse, where the best girl could cheer her worn-
out wreck as he toiled home first; but nowadays they
take on runs that would break the heart of a motor bike
and fill an automobile with blank despair.
* * * «
Billy McColl, one time heavy champion of Aus-
tralia, lias had a suspicion for some time that he is a
back number. The fact that he only lasted five rounds
against ex-Maorilander Jimmy Griffin in Melbourne, last
Saturday night, convinced him that there are grounds
for the suspicion, and very wisely William steps out of
the ring for good.
* • • •
Boxing and wrestling championships, promoted
by the Victorian Amateur Athletic Association, put in
five prosperous nights at the Masonic Hall (Melb.).
Financially the A.A.A. extirpated all previous records.
The biffing and catch-hold wrestling drew an entry
that just missed three figures—the best up to date.
Generally speaking, the boxing was more of the slather
and whack order than usual, though several smart
experts came to light in the bantam and feathers.
Clearly the small weight division is the more popular
from the entry and spectacular point of view.
The light men do no damage worth mentioning
in proportion to the heavier exponents, and though an
occasional knock-out occurs, it does not convey that
dull sense of a fall of meat that strikes you when a
middle or heavy hits the boards. The light fast men
were the feature of the amateur contests in both boxing
and wrestling. Roy Ralph out-pointed Gibby Hobbs
after three rounds of shifty and dodgeful work—the con-
test making the third year of success for Roy. Williams,
a feather from Ballarat, went clean through his herd
of opponents, only one man standing more than half a
round before his noble punch. He defeated Watson
in the final with one hand, his right being gone before he
entered the ring. Harold Gray secured the bantam
championship with a good, forceful left that persisted in
pushing' t’other fellow’s face sideways and all over the
shop. Denis Herlihy (middles) outlasted Frank Brown over
three rounds, and won. Heavyweight Ernie Lafranchi
(13st. 21b.) obtained the decision over practically a middle,
Val Quirk (list. 101 b.), who, by the way, would keep
Snowy Baker more than busy. The awful knock-out
occurred in the welter division, where Hollis landed
Reddaway a very definite clout in the second round, and
ended that section of the argument right there. The
’rastlers showed decided improvement, with the
exception of heavyweight Hugh Gunter (13st. 21b.).
He found it difficult to settle Sohemnitz, a
middle-weight, who managed to overturn the b'g
fellow in a surprising manner. Gunter, however,
ultimately secured two falls, and won. Eric Taylor, a
lithe, wiry youngster, won the “light,” by defeating a
muscular, but by no means clever, exponent in W. D.
Adams. After toiling for 25 minutes, middles Smith and
McDonnell were called off, otherwise they might be still
at it. Meantime illness has settled “ Mac,” and Smith gets
the glory. Joe Stokesbury decided the boxing bouts,
and Charlie Cunningham perspired considerably looking
for falls, while between contests announcer O’Hara
Wood mostly talked, and did it well.
* * *, «
A sarcastic brute writes from Melb.: “Vic-
torian Amateur Athletic Competitions committee threw
the dead cat of scorn at several intending pugilis ic com-
petitors who laid claims to amateur status, and then, as
usual, employed the professional referee, Joe Stokesbury,
to adjudicate on the amateurs. Joe, always the puffick
gen’l’man, whispered words of wisdom to competitors,
and said ‘ Shakans ’ and ‘ Boxon ’ nicely, but some-
how the crowd didn’t seem satisfied. F’rinstance,
in the bantam final Joseph said Gray beat Boyd,
and the crowd made noises at him, and violently
said Boyd beat Gray. Someone wanted to get up
and explain that Gray’s teacher is McGowan, who
is Joe’s pal; but was suppressed. In the heavies, Lafranchi
fought Quirk, and Stokesbury said Lafranchi took the
plum, and the crowd again dissented thoroughly, and
another man wanted to explain that Joseph trains Bill
Lang, and Lafranchi is Bill’s brother, despite the dis-
similarity in names ; but someone took a grip of his coat-
tail and hauled him down. The result was that many
people left holding their noses, and declaring there was a
dead lobster under the floor.”
* * * •
Hockey and hurling are practically the same
game, and both have their followings in Sydney. Seems
a pity that they do not all amalgamate, and form them-
selves into electorate clubs, and organise a first and second
grade competition. Under proper conditions the game
would simply boom, being amongst the most exciting on
earth.


KUGELMANN’S
isss
11
£
E&
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
f FREE
' SAMPLE
Mnt on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kallmann's Fare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jl 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
* And at ADELAIDE Am BRISBANE.
£BOO
For a Few Old
Stamps.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Stamp
Merchant, f 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once— they are worth lots of money.
h
0
**
Outlast all Others
on Australian Roads
Unapproached for
Reliability & Wear.
Our Artistic Illustrated Motor Booklet
should be in *he hands of every
Motorist. 0 r- *>’ted on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER. CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence St., Sydney;
117 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 81 King St., Perth; Worcester St.,
Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop
Grooved
Tyre.
Dunlop
Studded
Tyrs.
The Iron Industry—No. 1.
The Country that wouldn’t take a
Straight Tip.
In 1868 the United States offered Australia the
“straight tip,” and Australia didn’t take it. For
some years before that intermittent efforts had
been made to set up an iron-smelting industry in
N. S. Wales, and they had mostly failed at a very
early stage. But in that year 1868 the directors
of the Fitzrov works, on the road between Sydney
and Goulburn, sent away to San Francisco a few
small shipments of their product; one lot ran to
140 tons. And from MacCondray and Co., of
’Frisco, came back this advice : “ The parcels of
your pig-iron received here have given great satis-
faction. We can safely say that we can dis-
pose of from 200 to 300 tons per month, and
that it would command from two to four
dollars per ton more than any other iron
imported into California.” That was in 1868.
At that time the production of pig-iron in the
United States amounted to about 1,400,000 tons a
year, and the furnaces turned out under 50,000
tons of steel. In 1905 the same country turned
out 22,992,380 tons of pig-iron, according to the
Statesman’s Year Book (1907); and the output
of iron and steel and their products was valued at
2,176,739,726 dollars, or, say, £45,140,000. Thus
in less than 40 years, starting from the time the
United States told Australia that it was capable
of producing finer pig-iron than any that was
then available in the Californian market, the
United States production has increased nearly
16-fold. And even that remarkable progress does
not represent all the progress. In IS6B, when
America offered Australia the straight tip before
mentioned, the output of United States steel,
made out of the pig-iron and opening up vast
secondary industries, was under 50,000 tons per
year. In 1905 the Bessemer steel plants alone had
a capacity of ingots or direct castings of 41,448
tons per day , and the open-hearth steel plants
had a daily capacity of a further 34,243 tons.
# 4e * tr
But while this extraordinary progress was
taking place in the United States, what of Aus-
tralia, the country which had been told that its
actual product was better than any on the Cali-
fornian market ? It is a sorry history, almost too
disgraceful to repeat. That the local product was
the best in the Australian market, just as it had
been declared to be the best in the Californian
market, most Australian engineers admitted.
At about that time the big block of buildings in
Pitt-street, Sydney, known as Vickery’s Cham-
bers, were being planned ; and, after ample tests,
this same Fitzroy iron was adopted for use in the
girders ; and the result has stood the proof of time
just as it then stood the proof of the engineer and
the chemist. But the Australian manufacturer
had to grope his way, and while he got no Protec-
tion from his own Government as he groped, he
got plenty of kicks from outside. The expe-
rience of the Australian ironmaster was the expe-
rience of the. early American ironmaster over
again, varied slightly to meet the new times and
the altered circumstances. Mulhall puts into a
few words what that experience was :
The first regular foundry in North America was that
established by Joseph Jenks, in 1663, at Lynn, Massa-
chusetts. There were six existing in the Colonies in 1750,
when the British Parliament passed a law to close all
mills, forges, or furnaces in the Colonies, the better to
protect British manufactures. After the Independence,
this branch of industry made progress, but soon, col-
lapsed owing to the influx of British merchandise.
The British Parliament no longer needs to pass
a law “to close all mills, forges, or furnaces
in the colonies.” The same thing, as America
afterwards discovered, can be accomplished by
other means. When the United States, after the
Independence, had got beyond the power of the
British Parliament, the industry, nevertheless,
soon collapsed, “owing to the influx of British
manufactures.” Then the United States learned
something else. It learned to stop that influx
and give its own infant a chance. The output of
£45,140,000 worth of iron and steel and their pro
ducts in 1905 ought to be a good enough answer
to the question whether that policy has succeeded
or not.
• * * *
Yet the people who want today the foundations
of a new iron industry nowadays have to en-
counter a competition utiknowm to the days when
the United States were struggling to rear their
baby without offering it the protection of a prac-
tically prohibitive tariff. There is more now
than “ the influx of British manufactures ”
to contend with, aibeit even that influx was
sufficient to cause the collapse of the American
infant. That infant itself, grown into a giant
under a complete reversal of the old policy, does
now for every other infant what Great Britain did
for it while it lay struggling helplessly in its own
cradle. And to that giant the German giant is
added—raised under precisely similar conditions.
In 1850 the German production of iron was 410,000
metric tons. In 1905 it amounted to 10,875,061
metric tons. Protected from outside competition,
assured of a home market sufficient to meet all
their running charges, these giants have developed
the great art of “dumping,” which would be a
terror to a grown competitor, but is something
more than that to an infant not sure as
yet of its feet. It is jiu jitsu applied
to the nursery. Yet, when it was with-
out Protection, the American industry
“collapsed”—to use Mulhall’s words—even be-
fore the new trick in industrial garrotting was dis-
covered. Whether it deserved to collapse—
whether it wasn’t worth saving—its later history- :
tells. And still, 38 years ago, when both the
Australian and the American industries were in-
fants, it was the Californian who said : “ The
parcels of your (Australian) pig-iron received
here have given great satisfaction. . . It would
command from two to four dollars per ton more
than any other iron imported into California.”
* * * *
What then, have we lost ? Or rather, what
have we thrown away, seeing that, in comparison
with the United States, Australia began with
a natural advantage ? The population test
is perhaps the best of all. People will go
to where they can get most work for
most pay, and there is no doubt about it
either that the natural increase will also be
largest where work is most plentiful and the
returns highest. And on that subject G. H.
Knibbs, the new Commonwealth Statistician, had
something interesting to say in the very first
report he made on Australian “Population and
Vital Statistics.” If the population continued to
increase as it had increased in the past six years,
he showed, Australia would have 7,964,000 people
on December 31, 1950 ; but if it increased at the
rate the population of the United States increased
between 1790 and 1860—to come no later—it
wo.uld by the same time have a population num-
bering 15,226,000. In other words, if Australia
continues its present policy, by 1950 it may be
expected to have barely half the population
that it might be expected to have if it
adopted the American policy. And the fur-
ther you take ' such calculations, the more
startling the figures become. The census of
1900 showed 66,893,405, or an increase of no
less than 35,693,405 in the last 32 years.
That was in the United States. In Australia,
in 35 years to the end of 1905, the total in-
crease was 2,359,089. Where Australia has added
one to its population—in spite of its remarkably
fine record in the matter of the death rate —
the United States has thus added 16. Yet,
there was probably never a country in the
world which wanted population worse than
Australia, does. It has a great territory,
but its people are so few that the occupation of a
vast portion of it is only nominal; and that
portion happens to be the most open to the
inroads of peoples whose presence is the least
desirable. At the end of 1906 the Commonwealth
only owned one inhabitant to every 460 acres. If
the population increases as it has done during the
past six years, then even by 1950 we shall still
have but one person to every 238 acres—say one
male of fighting age for every two square miles.
That will be poor enough ; but we must get
through 44 years more at our present snail’s pace
before we can accomplish even that much. On
the other hand, if we can catch up to the Ameri-
can pace that ruled between 1790 and 1860, and
has often been even more rapid still, by 1950 we
shall have one Australian to guard every 124
acres of Australia.
From this point of view of defence there is pro-
bably no better man in the world than the man
who is called off the farm. The S’African war
provided all the evidence that was wanted on that
point—provided it out of the experiences of both
sides. But there was never much of an impres-
sion made by an army of farmers who smote their
enemy with a pound of butter, or hurled at them
a frozen lamb. Butter and lamb are well enough
in their places, and for their own purposes, and
even a ton of pumpkins is not to be despised ;
but they are not much good against an enemy that
fights at long range. This is the age of iron and
of steel. Industry is built upon them, and so is
war. They make a thousand other enterprises
possible. And those thousand enterprises feed
the farmer—the raw material for armies, for such
defensive war at any rate as Australia is liable to
be called upon to fight—just as surely as the
farmer feeds the ironworker and everybody else.
* * * *
It is from this point of view that the firm estab-
lishment of the iron and steel industry has been
of such tremendous importance both:to the United
States and to Germany— not to mention Great
Britain—and it is from this point of view that its
tremendous importance to Australia will have to
be considered. Coghlan, in 1900, estimated that
for five years from 1894 onwards the average
yearly value of the iron and manufactured iron
imported into Australia had been £5,306,729; or,
including Maoriland, £0,535,901. But those years
included some in which Australia was still suffer-
ing a slow and painful recovery from perhaps the
worst drought it has ever had. For the past three
years the figures, as contained in the Common-
wealth “Trade and Customs Returns,” are even
more impressive. The imports of “Metals and
Machinery,” as stated in the just issued volume
for 1906, run upwards in this manner :
1904 £7,186,181
1905 7,480,494
1906 9,143,861
Of iron and steel not worked up into machinery,
the record for last year alone was as follows :
Bar, rod, angle, tee 999,633 cwt.
Galvanised, plate and sheet .. 1,245,211 „
Girders, beams, joists, etc. .. 222,155 „
Hoop 110,783 „
Ingots, blooms, slabs, etc 88,083 „
Plate and sheet 458,197 „
Pig 898,297 „
Scrap 321,939 ~
Total .. .. .. .. 4,344,298 cwt.
That means 217,21.5 tons of iron and steel, apart
from the metal contained in manufactures; and
in iron and steel wire alone there were 55,944
tons. Coghlan estimated that the quantity of
pig-iron required to produce the average
£6,535,901 of imports between 1894 and 1899 was
470,000 tons; it seems quite safe to say that there
is a call now for at least 600,000 tons —probably
650,000 tons.
* * * iA
Six years ago or thereabouts, some mostly-
• Victorian people turned their attention to a re-
markable deposit of iron-ore, which exists on the
Blythe River, in Tasmania; introduced J. H.
Darby, one of the foremost English authorities on
iron-making, to report; and started out to
establish the industry on the Parramatta River,
near Sydney. The industry was never started.
They shivered on the brink of the sea that Bad
swallowed up the previous efforts, and drew
back ; but some of the figures they got together
they left behind them. They only proposed to
turn out 150,000 tons of iron and steel per annum,
yet apart from coal production and the mining
and shipment of the ore, they calculated that
they would have to employ at least 3000 men. If
it takes 3000 men to produce 150,000 tons —apart
from coal-miners, coke-makers, seamen, lumpers,
ore miners, quarrymen, and railway people—it
looks as though it would take something over
12,000 to produce the pig-iron and steel which at
this moment Australia is calling for. To make a
ton of iron at Middlesborough, in England,
on the average they need from 20 to
21 cwt. of coke; at Pittsburg, according to
a report quoted by J. B. Jaquet, who, in 1901,
wrote a report on the subject of N. 3- Wales iron
deposits for the Mines Department, it was done
with 16cwt. of coke. He would not, however,
assume less than one ton of coke per ton of pig-
iron to be produced at Lithgow (N.S.W.). On
top, then, of the men at the iron works is the
equal or greater number at the coal mines and
coke works. Jaquet, before mentioned, estimated
the labor in the actual production of pig-iron at
6s. per ton ; the coke would cost 15s. per ton—the
15s. to be divided between the coal-miner, the coke-
burner, and the railway man. So the 12,000 men
whom Australia might employ—and as a matter
of fact does employ, though it doesn’t employ
them in Australia —multiply themselves by two
and three. Then these multiplied thousands have
their own needs of iron and steel and manufac-
tured goods; and those who feed these new
mouths have their needs of iron and steel and
manufactured goods ; and those who supply those
new needs must be fed ; and those who feed them
have their own needs; and so the multiplication
goes on. That extraordinary progress in the
population figures of the United States is,
after all, then, no miracle. A self-contained
community of a dozen people lives by ministering
to one another’s needs. If one more comes it is
another mouth to feed, but there are another pair
of hai)ds to work* If the raw material is there, it
is the same whether it is one new mouth or a
million. One million in a self-contained com-
munity, supplying its own needs out of its own
natural resources, makes it possible for another
million to live. So, because its policy has been
to supply its own needs, the American population
has advanced by millions, while the Australian
has crept on by such tardy thousands that to-day
it views with increasing apprehension its great
empty spaces, and almost dreads to think upon
what is likely to happen next.
Vic. political forecast by “L.” :
Possible that Victoria will be governed by a Parliament
without Bent before very long. Unless the stout song-
and-dance Premier is in much better health than when he
left, the work of running Victoria will be beyond
his strength. With Bent eliminated, Vic. politics would
take some interesting turns. The Peacock-Mackinnon
piece of the Cabinet cannot mix very long with the
fossilised portion represented by Cameron and McLeod,
or with the Methodist Toryism to which Swinburne grows
more and more devoted, and a split threatens. The so-
called “ Country Party ” is only a temporary political
weapon, which would smash as soon as serious fighting
began. What is beginning to loom largely is a revival of
the Liberal-Labor alliance, which procured all the most
successful democratic legislation of the State in the
past. The Liberal and half-Liberal members who clustered
round Bent (after thanking God that they were rid of
Irvine) grow uneasy. On the other hand, the Labor
party has started the session with a more temperate tone
and policy than it has shown for years. Those who have
disappeared from its ranks include Scott-Bennett;
Martin Hannah, the strike promoter; and bitter-
mouthed Bob Solly. It can do without these. A
working platform, as the basis of an alliance between
Liberalism and Labor, is an immediate possibility. But
nothing will be done while Thomas Bent remains in office.
That weighty and humorless customer is too formidable
to be thrust aside in a shuffle of parties.
The chances of a progressive land-tax in
Victoria, never bright, are duller than ever since
Mackinnon and Peacock were gobbled up by the
Bent Ministry. Practically, outside the Labor
party. Jack Murray is the only notable man in
the Assembly who now raises his voice for this
most urgent reform. If the bulky man from
Warrnambool does not become too lazy or too
dead, he will some day be Victoria’s democratic
Premier. But as that day still seems far off, the
Australian Parliament had better impose the tax
in the meantime. The sooner the better for Vic-
toria’s agricultural prosperity.


GIFTS FOR WEDDINGS
The Art of Giving is net only to select an article that pleases,
But something that always remains a source of satisfaction and delight.
Buying by Mail.
Our Mail Order Department will serve
you promptly and satisfactorily. Orders
large or small, you will receive the best
merchandise and the best value.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND,
Pure Silver Plated,
Hand Engraved,
Highly Burnished,
Post £2 . Free.
Other styles,
355, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver, Richly Engraved.
Post 2/6. Free.
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL AND TONGS,
Pure Silver Plated,
Blue Glass Lining.
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Engraved,
Post 2/6. tree.
Other Styles, 2s, 2s 6d, Ss, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE CUP,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Engraved Name,
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality.
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles,
Post 25/- Free.
Other Styles,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS;
SERVIETTE RING,
Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal,
Richly Embossed and Engraved,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s Od. 6s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Clear Glass Dish,
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other Style*,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-plated
Floral Decorated China,
Post 12/6. Free,
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 9s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. "*
CALL BELL,
Pure Silver-plated,
Solid Silver Handle,
Post 4/6. Free
Other Styles,
Ss 6d, 10s 6d.
Free Carriage.
Our system of free carriage on all goods
to any part of the Commonwealth means a
big saving to you. All goods carefully
packed to ensure safe delivery.
m
£
m
d>
o&d
a;
8KKWB»?BBiBl
B
BiSS®
&mHMM
A. SAUNDERS.
TANTALUS FRAME, English Oak Frame,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2. Pree.
Richly Carved Frame, £3/0/0.
Other Styles, 355, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-DAY MARBLE CLOCK, First-class Movement,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Cathedral Gong,
Visible Escapement, Enamel Dial.
Kept in Free Repair for 3 Years.
Post £4/10/-. Free.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £3 15s, £l,
£4 10s, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
3-Piece, Pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers,
Post £2/15/-. Free.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
SESE
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver Plated, Nickel Silver,
Al Quality, Fine Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2 Free.
Other Styles, 30s, £2, £z 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Illustrated Catalogue
is yours for the asking, write for a copy. We
send it post free to any address. It contains
over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,Silverplate, Leather, Optical G-oods.
A. SAUNDERS.
TIE CLIP, SOLID SILVER,
2s 6d; Engraved 3s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d,
Engraved 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR,
Pure Silver-plated
Frame and Spoon,
Rainbow Glass,
Post 5/3. Free.
Other Styles,
2s 3d, 3s 3d, 4s 3d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, 4-Branch,
Pure Silver Plated, Ruby, Opal,
Clear or Green Tinted Glass,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Embossed,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, Vs 6d, 8s 6d.
r<
Ti «KK
wimmk
i'f'JV'
SSHgEKgm
j£»
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass bottles,
Post IT/6. Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK,
Pure Silver-plated Cup,
Patent Stop,
Morocco Covered,
Post 17/6. Free.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
ORIBBAGE BOARD AND
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
English Oak,
Porcelain China Lining,
Post 7/ ■>« Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Engraved,
Burnished or Satin Finish,
Post 20/-. Free.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC BINOCULAR,
Complete with Sling and Case.
Large Field of View, Perfect Definition.
No. 6. £7/-/-. No. 8, £8
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-street,
opp. New Kailway Station, Sydney-


s
//
Er
7.
H
f®
m
m
K
SeS?
I
38
mm
-
\
1/
'
-r-
-00%
Mjpff, g |;fs;< *
SSiS :i®S Si S ;; g:
• •*.* -i 1
. Sfis ggg 'S; :
:: ■ ■"- : s 'S.
g> *^i ; c -Mp
> : ‘s , ' ■ ■
■
HARftyT-WKtbh
i gw ./■
1 I * 11 *
Ilf iS®g
i
isss
SSIS
SfttSfeSg'Sf: V'. SlSfc*®?■
. ■ •
iggif ; ss,s
.
ms
ai
.. 5L.y
iiSIS
Hh
)V’ % , S* £
“ Well! I was just going to g'et off and have a
pipe of VICE-REGAL, anyway! ”


Don’t experiment with unknown medicines
when yon have a cold. Take Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy and be cured.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S° ou °AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
. Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrutob & Co. on each Bottle.
Amusements.
OWN
HALL,
SYDNEY.
C RI
SATURDAY, AUGUST 10.
BLANCHE AERAL,
GRAND OPERATIC CONCERTO.
F. AENGENHEYSTER, Manager.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS of
Andran’s Famous Comic Opera,
LA MASCOTTE, “iS&gS*
interpreted by the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
• Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
Enormous Success of
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in the Magnificent Production,
THE GREAT AWAKENING
By Maud Hildyard and Russell Vaun.
Prices 3s, 2s &Is ; Is extra for booking. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
TERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Direction of .. EDWIN GEACH.
Sole Managers: George Willoughby and Hugh Ward.
EVERY EVENING. Sensational Success of
WILLOUGHBY and WARD LONDON COMEDY CO.,
Including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, in
MR. HOPKIiMSON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
E LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Remarkable Success of THE SVENGALIS.
DUNBAR and BLAKE, Marvellous Burlesque Artists.
LEX McLEAN, The Living Anatomical Chart.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL.
THE TWO COLLIERS, Premier Song and Dance Duo.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Vocalist and Comedian.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
HINDMARSII JAMIESON, Talented Tenor Vocalist.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
T H
LEONARD NELSON, Character Comedian.
HAMILTON HILL, Australian Baritone.
CARDEN WILSON, Australian Mimic.
PEARL HELLMRICH, Serio Comic.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL, Eccentric .Jugglers.
TECHOW’S PERFORMING OATS.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
Plan at Allan’s. ‘ BSgT PRICES— Ss, 2s (id, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SECOND WEEK of the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK in
THE RAGGED EARL.
A ROMANCE OF ISth CENTURY ENGLAND.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
ENTHUSIASTIC CROWDS NIGHTLY CHEER
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE BONDMAN.
RE-APPEARANCE OF GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. GREAT SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
LADY MADCAP.
REMEMBER LAST TWO WEEKS OF SEASON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. USUAL PRICES.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 9, and
SATURDAY, AUGUST 10,
At 3 p.m. and at 8 p.m,
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
CHAMPION BAND OF THE WORLD.
Established Nearly 150 Years.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
COMPLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EACH
CONCERT.
THE BOX PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Intending patrons are strongly advised to book early
and save disappointment.
55., 35., 2s. F. S. STETSON, Manager.
G. D. PORTUS, Touring Manager.
-[■HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
BAL MASQUE.
BAL MASQUE,
ON THURSDAY, Bth AUGUST, at 8 p.m.
A GRAND FANCY AND EVENING DRESS
BAL MASQUE
WILL BE HELD ON THE ICE.
Admission, 2s; Reserved Chairs, Is extra; Skates, Is.
REAL ICE SKATING,
THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Fairbairn, M.H.R., who has toll tele-
phones on the brain, again got on to the subject
of his pet horror the other day, and wept over
the poor attendants who have so much extra work
to do—they have to keep a record of the calls, as
well as answer the rings. After the Minister had
implored Fairbairn to bear up, and remember that
the toll-attendants don’t have to answer more
than about a third as many calls as those working
on the flat-rate machines, Fairbairn- replied that
anyhow people had the uniform flat-rate in some
countries. And when some Labor member said
that they had, and that the people paid a great
deal more for it, Fairbairn lit up the whole
situation with the remark —“Yes, but in those
cases the telephones have to pay !” Probably he
sees now that he gave the whole weep away there.
The marvellous thing is that people send men
like Fairbairn to the House (1) to urge that State
works shouldn’t be expected to pay; (2) to curse
Socialism because State works don’t pay. It
seems to be a fairer thing to curse Fairbairn for a
change.
The Sydney Telegraph (2/8/’O7) described
the N.S.W. Freetrade contingent in the House of
Peps.:—
The fine fighting force on the Opposition side is on the
direct left benches, where the N.S.W. members and the
Queenslanders are gathered. The N.S.W. member, no
matter what p irty lie belongs to, has a perfect genius for
•political battling. This is why nearly all the leaders are
gained from this State. From Mr. Reid, who is un-
doubtedly the most distinguished parliamentarian in the
Chamber, down to the rawest of the newcomers, the first
move of the N.S.W. man, whether he has had a term in
the State Parliament or not, is to do something that will
stir up or harass some other party, and preferably the
Government. The member who does not talk in his first
session never comes from N.S.W. The N.S.W. member
speaks if he can on the first day, begins to manoeuvre on
the second, and is ready with a concealed censure motion
on the third. Even Dr. Liddell, who stepped very gin-
gerly forward long after he entered Parliament, now
takes his place in all big debates, and is getting in train
f >r tripping up Ministers with points of order against
their Bills.
It isn’t a flattering description. Put shortly, it
amounts to the statement that the N.S.W.
Foreign-traders are about the most quarrelsome
members of the House ; that instead of attending
to the interests of Australia their chief ambition
is to “harass some other party and preferably
the Government ” ; that they are horribly gar-
rulous—the fresh N.S.W. Oppositionist, it seems,
begins to talk on the day of his arrival in the
House ; and that Dr. Liddell has, to the great
admiration of the Telegraph, acquired the dirty
little finesse of the police-court attorney, and is
great at blocking the business of Australia by
“ tripping up Ministers with points of order.”
The S. M. Herald clawed the air vio-
lently in a leading article last week because the
head of the Federal Meteorological office is to be
stationed for the moment in Victoria, and said
that “it is the fixed policy of the Government to
concentrate the administration as far as possible
in Melbourne.” Well, what does the Herald
object to? Also what does it expect? The ad-
ministration must be concentrated where the
Government is, or how on earth can the Govern-
ment administer ? It would be concentrated on
Monaro, in N.S.W., if the Sydney daily papers
and the Carruthers creature would cease blocking
the way, but as they won’t cease blocking the
way, things of necessity keep moving Melbourne-
wards. Unless the Sydney daily papers and the
Carrutbers creature get some sense, everything in
the departmental way will be at Melbourne in
course of time.
Some ramblings by this paper’s Oldest
Inhabitant :
An interesting picture of Old Sydney by Conrad
Martens, dated 1839, has been purchased in England by
Mr. William Dixson, and lent to the National Art Gallery.
The wonder is that so rare a work by such an artist as
Martens should have been allowed to pass into the hands
of a private buyer. One would have thought that the
Trustees of the Art Gallery would have an agent on the
look out for such treasures. Conrad Martens was the son
of a Hamburg merchant settled in England, his mother
being English. Conrad was born in 1801, at Crutched
Friars, London (the name suggests that begging clergy
witn wooden legs hung out there in days of yore).
He studied art under Copley Fielding. Captain Black!
wood offered him a cruise in H.M.S. Hvacinth, and he
sailed in that vessel for Rio. There he“ heard that an
artist was needed on board the Beagle, then engaged in
a surveying expedition, and Martens painted whales and
such like in an official capacity for two years. He reached
Sydney from Valparaiso in or'about 1835, and settled at
a lovely spot on North Shore, overlooking Berry’s Bay.
He married the daughter of'William Carter, barrister and
Registrar-General, who lived at Crow’s Nest, North Shore.
Mr. Martens settled down to the practice of his pro!
fessionT but the discovery of gold burst up art, and he
accepted (in 1863) the office of Parliamentary Librarian
which post he held until his death in 1878.
Dr. Bernstein died last week at Lismore
(N.S.W.) at the age of 70, esteemed by everybody
who knew him. A few years ago he was famous
in a much wider circle than Lismore. In the
drunken days, when Australians were fighting
and burning farms in order to get Chinese labor
for the Johannesburg mines, Bernstein refused
to applaud the craze of the moment. Then
all the refuse of the district yapped at him,
and bombarded the Government with letters,
anonymous and otherwise, about liis “dis-
loyalty* ’ and a blood-drunken Ministry de-
prived him of the valueless job of J.P., and of
various’Government billets which he held, .These
things all came back to him in later years, and
the bellowing multitude of Lismore in time put
on the semblance of humanity again, and had the
grace to be ashamed. It was vaguely suggestive
of a previous case, when some J’s.P., who said
they thought Ireland should have a Parliament
of its own, the same as N.S.W., were driven from
the Beitch at the instance of a frantic politician,
whose pwn sins found him out very soon after-
wards.
“ J.R.” writes :
Our own Bill Lyne told an interviewer, the other day
that when he boarded the Orontes at Naples, he passed
through a crowd of Italian emigrants embarking for
America, and, from what he saw of them, “America is
welcome, to them.” Bill is probably right, judging by
what we hear and read about them. Only a day oUtwo
before, there appeared in the press a correspondent’s
letter, giving some curious details about a murder society
called “ The Black Hand,” which is raging in some coaly
districts in the States. It is said to be an offshoot of the
notorious Mafia society of Sicily, and that again is likely
to be a survival of the Saracen dominion in the island.
It is a gruesome business to trace these survivals of
Asiatic domination in Europe, and it is not always clear
where the traces begin, and how far they extend. The
name of the Mafia is certainly Arabic in origin, and its
meaning,, which may be rendered “ unmitigatedly
bad,” is admirably expressive of its character as a secret
society for purposes of murder, kidnapping, and black-
mail. Robbery in the ordinary sense does not seem to be
a regular part of its business. In a poor country like
Sicily robbery would hardly be profitable enough to offer
any great temptation to an enterprising law-breaker ; but
the chance of catching, and holding for ransom, a rich
landowner or some member of his family (for there are
fabulously rich landowners in Sicily, as in all poor coun-
tries) offers temptation not to be resisted by men always
on the verge cf starvation, and too grossly ignorant to
realise the enormity of their crimes. The prisoner is
murdered if the ransom is not paid.
Senator Neild continues to knock large
pieces off N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade over
the proposal to grant an appeal to the High
Court in criminal cases. Wade asserts that in
N.S.W. a convicted person has already a limited
right of appeal to the Supreme Court, and that a
f urtner appeal to the High Court tends to intro-
duce the scandalous American system, whereby
there is no finality in the case of a moneyed
criminal. Neild replies briefly that N.S.W. isn’t
all Australia; that the proposal is to create a
uniform appeal system for all the States,
some of which need it badly, even if N.S.W.
doesn’t; and that N.S.W. can abolish the
right of appeal to the local Supreme Court,
and thus avoid the evil that Wade complains of.
That reply leaves nothing for Wade to grumble
about save “Federal encroachment.”
Died in Sydney recently Thomas Davidson
Hay, formerly secretary of the Australasian In-
stitute of Marine Engineers. He was a deter-
mined litigant, and when discharged, under
abusive circumstances, from his position as secre-
tary of the Institute, he fought strenuously for
about seven years to clear his character. He had
one arbitration on the question ; it lasted four
months, and the arbitrator’s award vindicated
him. A fresh attack gave him an opening in the
courts, and he won a verdict for £2OOO against the
then figurehead of the Institute. This verdict
was rendered abortive owing to the flight of the
defendant. He then sued thelnstitute itself, which
had meanwhile become incorporated, and a jury of
N.S.W. gave him £l5OO damages. The Supreme
Court of N.S.W. upset this, on the ground that,
while he could have succeeded against individual
libellers in the shape of the Society’s officers, the
legal responsibility of the Institute (newly incor-
porated) was too remote. The High Court
upheld this decision, and Hay was left saddled
with the costs of two big trials and two appeals.
The worry broke his heart.
Thomas Shaw, of Wooriwyrite, Camper-
down, one of the last of the pioneers of western
Victoria, died last week, aged 81. He reached
Sydney in 1843. In 1847 he overlanded to Ade-
laide with cattle, and arrived at Portland the same
year. He bought land at Camperdown originally
held by J. G. Ware, and sold by him to Oliphant
and Robertson. As owner of Wooriwyrite, he
became one of the leading flock-masters in tl)e
Western District. He devoted himself to the
improvement of the breed of Australian sheep,
and to destroying the breed of men and women
by keeping the lands locked against settlement,
and all his days he did his little bit to make the
fertile Western District the howling waste of
grass that it is. Camperdown, the principal
town in the deceased’s locality, has been just
saving burial expenses for 20 years or more.
“ Squidge ” in an incoherent sort of way ;
Par re the Victorian Vagrants Act (B. 4/7/’O7) is so
inaccurate as to cast a slur on Victoria’s House of Well-to-
do Persons (a thing that The Bulletin would never con-
sciously do), and to pay a compliment to Bent when he
ought to have a big clod hurled at him. The amending
Police Offences Act was drafted by Attorney-General
Davies as the result of some redhot articles in Melbourne
Argus on the class of persons who had invaded Melb.
for the spring racing carnival. It was pointed out that
every racecourse and street corner was thick with
“guns” of every description over whom the police,
thanks to lax laws, had no control. Davies brought his
Bill into the House of Rich Landlords with a rush, and
the House of Landlords, thinking of its massive gold
chain just out of sight below its bulging meridian,
trembled visibly and held its breath while the Bill was
dashed through all its stages, so as to he available before
Cup week came along. It was sent down to the Lower
House, and Bent did not even bother to have it read a
first time. He boggled along with the Gambling Bill, and
stumbled through with the Licensing Bill; but the Police
Offences Act Amendment Bill, not having anyone behind
it to chew Bent’s elongated ear, was part of the cargo
jettisoned at the end of the session. If Bent had done
his part of the job, the Bill would have passed the
Assembly as rapidly as it did the Council. But he
hadn’t time to think just then, and didn’t care, anyhow.
For croup there is nothing better than
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For sale every-
where, Is. 6d.*
The new Postal Bill has some good points
and one noteworthy omission. It endeavors to
distinguish between the paper or periodical which
carries advts. and the mere one-firm advertise-
ment which carries a thin disguise, or veil, or rim
of reading matter. Thatisgood. But why notalso
discriminate between the original publication and
the steal publication ? It is a common thing to
enact that a paper gets the benefit of the cheap
postal rates, provided it isn’t more than seven
days old when posted. But the publication
that is four-fifths steal from English magazines is
probably, on the average, six weeks old. The
bulk of the matter was first posted in London
last month, or the month before last.
The Adelaide Tramway Trust refuses to
consult its engineer as to the matter of routes ;
and Bonython’s Advertiser is scornful about it.
That scorn brings memories to some Adelaide
people. The Adelaide School of Mines—which
is almost wholly bossed by Slangdon Bonython
when he is in this country—some time ago had a
fine metallurgist named Crowther in charge. Full
of energy, Crowther wrote report after report and
made recommendation after recommendation,
and finally poured out his aspirations at a
students’ dinner. He wanted the School of
Mines and the industries section kept separate ;
he couldn't see the sense of giving the girl who
had learned how to cook tripe a School of Mines
diploma. After that speech he was promptly got
rid off; he left Australia then, and was killed a
few weeks ago by an accident at the Etruscan
Mines (Italy), where he had got a professional
billet. Now the mining students, who used to
swear by Crowther, see Slangdon Bonython’s
Advertiser making remarks to the effect that
the laymen of the Trust should listen to the ex-
pert, and they are scornful too.
“J.A.C.”: David Christie Murray, de-
ceased last week, made his acquaintance with
Australia under the aegis of “Jimmy” Mac-
mahon. He came out as a lecturer, and opened
at Melbourne Town Hall on 21st August, 1889.
The title of his first lecture was “ Making a
Novelist ” ; it was amusing and interesting, and
delivered in a colloquial manner, but it did not
catch on. It lacked stirring incident, and there
were no pictures, moving or stationary. Contem-
poraneously, Snazelle, also on his first visit and
under the same management, was “dissolving”
to big business at Melbourne Athenaeum. I re-
member one specimen .of gruesome jocularity
which Murray narrated. He represented an
English provincial daily at the execution of
Charles Peace, expert burglar and murderer.
When Peace was placed on the scaffold he was
much agitated, and gasped huskily “ Water! For
God’s sake, water ! Only a drop ! ” Almost im-
mediately the hangman drew the bolt. “ There,”
said a reporter at Murray’s elbow, “he’s got it.
He said he only wanted a drop ! ” When the lec-
tures failed, D.O.M. essayed play-acting. Together
with Harry St. Maur, he made a tour of Australasia.
For a semi-amateur, he was by no means a bad
actor —a little ponderous and deliberate, but not
bad. During the tour he wrote some new plays,
and produced them. None of them made a last-
ing impression. One I saw at Melbourne Opera
House. It was named “Gratitude,” and was
played at one consecutive matinee, on October 20,
1890. Perhaps his best novel was “ The Way of
the World,’’ in which he satirised Henry W.
Lucy, in return for a similar attention on the part
of that gentleman. The man who created “Mr.
William Amelia’’had a great latent capacity for
hatred.
Just at present the man who does the biggest
business in Australia in the biggest store south of the
Equator is holding the largest sale in the southern
hemisphere. Anthony Hordern does not hold a sale
very often, hut when ha does it is a very thorough-
going concern. The “Famous Low Prices” have come
tumbling downwards, even as Australian championships
have fallen during the week, and the pick of the world’s
markets are now to be had a t bed-rock prices. A Hordern
sale is different from any other in Sydney. In that
huge building, which really is an emporium, there is no
crushing, and the woman who wants bargains has not
got to fight a pitched battle to get to the counters.
There are miles of counters in Anthony Hordern’s, and
room for all.*
Under date September 5, 1877, an ancient
chronicle remarks: “ First female clerk in the
public service employed by the Adelaide Council
of Education.” Even so far back as that did good
old Tortoise-town lead the way.
“ J.P.” digs up a centenarian (presumably
genuine):—
Mr. H. Burling, the oldest inhabitant of the Wairarapa
(M.L.), is getting fairly ancient. He has celebrated his
106th birthday, and is looking hopefully toward his 107th.
His sight has recently failed him, but otherwise he is
hale and hearty. He amuses himself even yet by doing a
little gardening. Shortly after he completed his century
he was assisting his grandsons to sow grass seed on very
hilly country, and took the lead with a bag of seed upon
his shoulder. After a time he noticed that the boys were
lagging behind, so he asked if he was making the pace
too fast. It is not considered advisable to say anything
about the declining birth-rate in his presence. He has
over 400 descendants.
Fierce language from “F.C.” :
Re “H.A.” and the relative profits of football and
cricket matches (B. l/8/’ff7). As “ H.A." is kind enough
to admit the correctness of my figures, the only dispute
is as to the deductions to be made from said figures.
“ H.A.” says the cricket clubs “provide and equip
the ground, supply dressing-room accommodation,
etc., and undertake the management of all football
matches,” etc. To which I reply, “Go to.” Like-
wise “Rats.” Which ground does any cricket club
in Melbourne provide? Toe match which brought
up the discussion was played on St. Kilda ground for
which the cricket club pays the Albert Park Trustees
£25 a year. Ditto South Melbourne, Carlton and ’Wood
grounds, likewise’Roy, Essendon (East Melbourne) and
Melbourne. They all belong to the State.
“H. A.” then says, Before this season St. Kilda had
practically no revenue from football. South Melbourne
has splendidly improved its ground. Fitzroy has re-
cently built a fine new grandstand to accommodate foot-
ball patrons.” Jesso 1 St. Kilda has had practically no
football revenue hitherto—and its accommodation is
as yet practically nil. South’s was ditto until
a few years back, when its football club came to
the top, and indirectly supplied the wherewithal
Fitzroy likewise, until, from ’9B to 'O6, ’Roy football
club was near the top of the list, and the football
thousands demanded and paid for more accommoda-
tion. Does “H.A.” pretend that that new stand was
bought by cricket patrons, or that they would need
it! They would be lost in a corner of it" The existing
dispute about the control of the new Carlton ground °”ives
point to my contention. Here, as at Collingwood each
competing football club gets a third, and the committee
that manages the ground gets a third. The cricket club
ge ts nothing. Which is exactly what should be the case at all
other grounds. That ground is but a couple of years old •
already it h s been made, has been banked up better
than any other ground in Melbourne, has got turnstiles
and is preparing to build a stand. The receipts there last
season and this T by reason of the Carlton football club
being temporarily a great affair—have run to £2OO
and £3OO on alternate Saturdays, right through the
seasons. Could the Carlton cricket club provide
or draw one-tenth of that amount? Yet this precious
Carlton cricket club lately contended that it should have
entire control of the ground. This piece of bluff was
modified to a demand that the ground management com-
mittee should consist of equal numbers from the O.C. and
the F.C., with a, cricket club chairman.
My original contention was that the football clubs
should manage the grounds and the cricket clubs should
play thereon only with their permission—and I still
contend so. With splendid accommodation, a first-class
premiership cricket match and a band, the M.C.C. has
not been able these last two seasons to get a decent
crowd, with the gates wide open for all u'ho care to
e, ' ter ; .y, efc 25,000 will pay to stand at St. Kilda to see
a football match. Will “ H.A.” say after that who main-
tains these grounds and builds the stands and provides
the accommodation, club-rooms, promenade, etc.?
And is there any occult reason why the football sup-
porter should not have all these things, which he pays
for, while the superior cricket barracker stands out on
the embankment in the rain? At Carlton and ’Wood
°" y the F.C. member or the eighteenpenny public
get the best that is on offer ; elsewhere the cricket patron
takes the cream that the other provides, and passes him
the skim milk. v


il
FOR THAT “BALD SPOT”
use “CAPILLA”
“CAPILLA ” Hair Tonic, if used
according to the simple directions
wrapped round each bottle —will
rid you of that “bald spot.”
Now, examine your for a
moment —place yourself in a strong
light, before a mirror—what can
you see ? A little “ down ” or
fluff ? Now that down or fluff will
be replaced by long and strong hair
—if you remove the harmful
bacteria that ,is weakening those
tiny hair bulbs—killing them—
robbing them of the power to pro-
duce long hair.
“CAPILLA”
Hair Tonic
will remove the harmful bacteria
that is checking the progress of the
hair —will infuse into those tiny
hair bulbs a power they never knew
before —a power to produce longer
hair —stronger hair—better hair.
No matter how long you’ve been
bald —if you’ve still got a slight
“down ” left I will positively guar-
antee that “ Capilla ” will give you
a luxuriant growth of hair—where
that “Bald Spot” now exists—or
refund your money.
Full Course of “Capilla” (6
bottles) costs only 15/-, post-
age 2/6 extra, Inter-State 4/2.
Don’t let that “ down ” die or your
case will be helpless— BETTEß
WRITE NOW.
W. O. Richards,
Inventok,
SAVINGS BANK CHAMBERS,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Posted 2/- and 3/3 bottle.
GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said :
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli-
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did iC bring? Only
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn’t taken Clements
Tonic when I did l am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.”
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
or other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind was unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.
Just Typical
of the; many enthusiastic letters
we receive from all parts of
Australasia offering spontaneous testimony to the pre-eminence of
S 3
THE
GRAPH -O-PHONE
Extract from letter dated Toly 28, 1907.
“I am very pleased with the whole outfit. Since my last letter to you I have seen and
inspected a Phonograph at nearly the same price as the ‘Peerless,’ and it is not to be compared
in any shape or form to the ‘ Peerless ’ Graph-o-phone which you have sent me. A friend of
mine considers that this is the most perfect talking machine he has ever heard, and he assures me
he has heard several dozens of other machines. I myself consider it perfect in Governing and
Reproducing, and consider that I have the worth of my money.” Thomas 0 Sutton N.S.W.
YOU WILL BE JUST AS PLEASED WHEN YOU
PURCHASE A GRAPH=O-PHONE.
Catalogues and Interesting Literature mailed FREE on application ;
COLUMBIA Phonograph Co. Gen'L,
255 “B** Clarence Street, Sydney..
a
Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in
the World—Wholesale and Retail,
LONDON, NEW YORK, BERLIN,
PARIS, ST. PETERSBURG.
1
100 FINE'CIGARS, 17/6
Absolutely the FINEST CIGAR in
Australia at the price.
Has a rich flavor that makes you want
more—a flavor that you won’t find in
any other cigar at or near the price.
KING OF ALL
K. AND B.
HIGH LIFE.
17/6 PER 100—9 d. EXTRA POST FREE.
SMALL BOX OF 4 POST FREE 1/-.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
;
O
> Peerlesslbilef Preparations
nrivalied For the Complexion,
"V
m
tm
V •]
LD MEDAL. PARIS! 1900.
Irand PRIX. ST LOU IS. 1904.
OF ALL CHEMISTS f
L & PERFUM ERS.
Made by
P. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
oi Baden.
Sole Agents:
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
nn~
ID
2D
m.
«=
rrrm
uUU
KNOW YOUR FATE! LOOK ! LISTEN!
Heed tbe Voice of Heaven.
Be Guided by your Star.
Let Me Tell your Fortune
FREE!
Read the Answer in the Stars. Shake-
speare says : —“The stars above us govern
our conditions.” Let me tell you what the
future has in store for you. Do you wish to
know whether you will prosper or not in
your undertakings ? Win or lose in specula-
tion ? Why be sick when you may be well ?
Whv be poor when you may be rich and influential ? Do you know where your star is guiding you ?
If not it is very important that you should know, and I will give you this knowledge. Clear answers
to all’questions of vital interest. About vour love affairs, about family matters, about marriage,
about your lucky days, about changing your position, about what business will bring success, about
perplexities.
If you want to make your future successful, and know what it contains, all you have to do is to
write me, giving your full name and address, state whether you are married or single, tell me tne
date of your birth and year, and enclose 1/- stamps or postal note to
cover cost of postage, etc.
Your Horoscope will be sent you sealed and confidential. Let the world’s greatest astrologer read
your life as the stars reveal it, and mystify you by its truths. Address—r ,
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 BOURKE STREET,
. , v MELBOURNE.
The parable of “ Silica "’ :
One recent Thursday, Pate, in the course of a shop-
ping expedition, happened on Brisbane, and there,
while in the act of adjusting her glove, she
negligently dropped the tail end of her skirt oyer
the political constitution of Queensland, whereat tne
greater part of that State was perturbed and
mystified, and made violently suspicious. Most people
are, where a strange female is concerned. On -lues-
day a spring hat on the show stand in Patagonia attracted
the lady, and she struck out for it. William Kidsuon was
left standing in the full glare of daylight, Kidston has
played the game well. Ever since the May elections,
Trouble, with an ugly glint in its eye, has been looming
up, and it burst into fury when the extreme Labor party
crossed the House and sat on the Opposition cross-
benches, driven there by that curious amalgam of Robert
Blatchford and T. Mann, the Brisbane Worker. Kidston
should have, by all the rules of the game, been smitten
to the earth; he should have been buried in the most
deserted spot in the political cemetery, below fl°°d-
mark ; and his name to future Labor stalwarts should
have been plain Mud. But a Dutch-built, heavy-brained,
dour Scotchman had to be reckoned with. Kidston
reached for Trouble the moment it entered the
House, and secured first fall. He hobnobbed with Fat,
to the great and intense dismay of Anti-Fat, but
he did not make the mistake of allowing the oleaginous
people to take it for granted that Labor was utterly
irreconcilable. He gave Philp rope—considerable rope,
since the Brisbane press was discovering new virtues in
Kidston every day : but he knotted the end of the rope to
the Treasury bench, so that Philp wouldn’t get too far.
Bowman and Hardacre and the Worker saw Philp appa-
rently free and independent. They saw stacks of rope
about the premises, but nothing more. They trembled,
but in the end capitulated. At the eleventh hour (which
was 2 o’clock, and about an hour before the House met) a
flag of truce was sent, and it was announced that the
party was prepared to give a general support to the
policy outlined in the Governor’s speech. William Kidston
heard, and cut Philp’s rope, and the “situation” was
over, with Kidston still in the “ stiddy job.” There is
nothing startling in the Govermnentprogramme nothing
heroic enough to even win the 1.5.0. medal that every
other policeman wears. A Bill to establish Wages Boards
and another to provide for State insurance are the two
main features. But, at the least, Kidston is a buffer
against the howling calamity of a Philp regime.
Says Mr. Dugald Thomson, M.H.R.,
rebuking Alf. Deakin for his unseemly conduct in
daring to criticise the Colonial Office : “What an
outcry there would be in Australia if a visiting
British Minister were to publicly attack a Com-
monwealth department! ” The Dugald object,
in his anxiety to say something nasty, even if it
is wholly untrue, about Australia’s representa-
tive, carefully misses the point. When the
British Government doesn’t like Australian legis-
lation it doesn’t need to criticise ; it simply vetoes
the Bill. As we can’t veto the acts of the British
Colonial Office, we have to criticise.
The annual meeting of Sydney Chamber
of Commerce carried this motion :
The time has arrived when the State of N.S.W. should
insist upon the complete fulfilment by the Commonwealth
of its obligations to N.S.W. in respect to the Federal
capital.
Quite right. The time has arrived when N.S.W*
should intimate in unmistakable language that
it is deadly tired, also weary and exhausted, of
seeing the capital business hung up through the
irresponsible cackling of such parochial small-fry
as Joseph Carruthers and the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce; and the period is tight up against
the buffer-stops when N.S.W. should insist upon
the Commonwealth Government forthwith pro-
ceeding to plant the capital at Dalgety, the place
selected by the Australian Parliament, and so
“fulfil its obligations” to N.S.W. to the letter.
About a man who lived in uncertainty :
Died recently at Dublin, Ireland, George Augustus
Jervis Meredith, baronet, aged 76. He was once a police-
man at Hobart, and after that he drove a cab—one of
those large open vehicles with the faint odor of three-
penny cigars about them—over the cobblestones of the
city till he reached the age of 72. In 1904 he succeeded
to the baronetcy and went to Ireland to take up the title
and occupy the “estate,” which may be accounted as
nil, seeing that the late baronet was resident at No. 15
Royal Foundation, Windsor Castle —said to be a sort of
almshouse for the elevated who have come down.
The deceased, by the way, wasn’t really a whole baronet.
He was only a hazy legend. His cousin and pre-
decessor, the pauper, refused to recognise him at
all, and the title was classed by most authorities as
extinct before the ex-cabman arrived at it. There
was an alleged but unproved marriage over 100 years ago,
and a mysterious tale about a pedigree that was forged in
1808, and other difficulties. In fact, the man from Hobart
abandoned his claim in disgust, and threw the title after
the vanished estates, but some people still called him
“ Sir Augustus,” and “ Debrett,” the great book of aris-
tocratic grovel and small beer, never quite made up its
mind whether he was the genuine article or not.


7T5
Mp>
V:
BYDNEY DEPOT:
85
Clarence St.
BARNET GIASSeC?
city oco9r. &2> 6 Flir\ders Lfc^e
wmmm
|_r-A.C T9BY • - . |
'PARA-RUS&TRW9RKSI
RHEUMATISM
GUREO.
Thousands have proved that the
“ URICA”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments.
These rings are scientifically
made from specially prepared
metals with four zinc and three copper
coils ioi ming a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connect* the coils, causing a gentle
current of Electricity to circulate
throughout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free.—White Metal, 2/-:
Silver. 3/6; Gold filled. 3/-. 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE.
DUNKLING, The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
The
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sig'ht”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “ light ” visible is the
BLICK £lO <a £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
j== Britisbflustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
. Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of i all the leading Australian papers may be
I inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLE3URY.
Mother Seigels
SYRUP
Read This Testimony
Mrs. CAROLINE M. WHITE,
of MACQUARIE ST.,GLEBE,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W., in a
letter dated Jan. 9, 1907, says:
“ I strongly recommend
Mother Seigel’s Syrup to
all suffering from indi-
gestion and biliousness,
as I have proved it to be
an unrivalled remedy for
those dreadful maladies.”
INDIGESTION is the root cause of
nearly all human ailments. It
robs you of the power to digest
your food, saps the very source of life
itself. Slowly your strength ebbs away,
you are tortured with pain, and life
becomes a misery.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a purely
vegetable compound having a specific
action on the stomach, liver and kid-
neys. It promotes healthy action of
the stomach and intestines, expels im-
purities from the system, enriches the
blood, and thus imparts health and
tone to every part of the body.
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
BILIOUSNESS, CONSTIPATION, HEADACHE, PALPITATION and DIZZINESS
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
4 Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete
Extra Mantles
Extra Chimneys -
ss. each.
6d. „
2\d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
-■■■ ■■ ‘ , ■ ■ ' " ' ... .... ...
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
Facsimile of 3oz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
The Silverton Tramway Co.’s chairman claims
t° have a lower expense rate than any other railway in
Australia, the percentage of working expenses to revenue
being 31-42, as against 56-63 in S. Australia, with whose
railway system the co.’s line is connected. But it is
unfair to compare this 35 miles of line with the aggregate
system of a whole State; there may be sections of Govern -
Ulen^n ine Victoria and N.S. Wales which show up just
as well as this bit of Private Enterprise line. The Private
Enterprise line can, however, usually show a good result
on the basis of working expenses in proportion to income
simply because, its charges being higher, its income is
greater in proportion to the work done. For instance
assume that Private Enterprise charges 20s. while the
State charges only 12s. for the same service, and see how
it works out:—
Proportion
of Expenses
„ . , _ . freight. Expenses, to Income.
Private Enterprise .. 20/- 6/8 33p.c.
State .. „ ..12/- 6/- 50 p,c.
Here the State’s expenses are actually lower than Private
Enterpnse’s ; yet worked out in proportion to income,
the State is a bad second. The Silverton Co.’s comparison
isn t, therefore, worth anything without a comparison
also of freight charges. And it is no use, either, taking its
ire ght for 35 miles and, say, the South Australian freight
for a 35-mile journey, because the Silverton Co.’s, is all
through traffic ; a full train is made up at one end, and
19 times out of 20 is delivered in the same state at the
other end. Also, it is worth noting that when the co.
wanted a man to run its amazingly profitable enterprise
it got one who had had his training in State railway
employment. On the latest published figures (1906) the
Victorian aggregate results are the best, judged on this
basis of the proportion w'liich working expenses bear to
earnings : Vic., 52-78 per cent. ; N.S. Wales, 54-51 per
cent. ; Queensland, 55-84 per cent. ; S. Australia, 56’‘63
per cent. ; Westralia, 73-53 per cent. Westralia has de-
cided that it is about up toitto put in a newßailwavConi-
missioner.
* * * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual Building
Land and Investment Co. (Newcastle, N.S. W.)
T _ Written Re-
f“" e » Proflfcs * Dividends. Off. serves,
i Nil. £4336
1898 £939 2£ per cent. = £639 £lO5O 3586
£2501 forfeited Capital added to Reserves 6(>s7
mnn !™ ‘4 percents 641 1i23 5922
m *8 5 ;; ;; gg
1903 1543 l ” ” 1281 708 4439
38 I;; ;; S $. ffi. 1
1905 1578 5 „ ;; 1281 126 4446
1906 1598 6 „ „ 1537 390 4117
1907 1418 5 „ „ 1281 71 4183
The mistake made last year in paying a 6 per cent, divi-
dend has not been repeated. It isn’t every Board that
has the courage to turn back like this. Pretty often it
continues in its error, and that is mostly the beginning
of inflated balance-sheets and cooked accounts. Pro bah 1 y
because the banks have been giving extra-cheap ac.com-" 1
modation, building societies have not in general been able
to show much in the way of larger advances to mark this
wave of prosperity. Here are this society’s figures on this
and other points :
T , 1897. 1900. 1906. 1907.
Deposits .. .. £1,844 £4,234 £12,743 £l2 903
Other liabilities.. 4,741 6,504 238 ’64
Advances.. .. 12,033 20,099 28,149 27 353
Properties (fore-
closures, etc.).. 26,787 23,030 16,080 16,570
The society had a bad time a few years ago, and had to
forfeit about a fifth of its shares. Fortunately, it had a
fail- depreciation reserve, and this has been gradually re-
duced to write down properties. But they are still far
f J?i 11 E^ rofifcabl ®,h Properties standing in the books at
£16,5/0 are credited with a net return of only £414 or
but a shade over 2J per cent. Fortunately, the new busi-
ness shows a gross return of over 7£ per cent. ; and the
increase of this business has saved the situation Of
course, it has its risks, for it has been built very largely
on borrowed money, and it isn’t the depositor who takes
the risk of a slump in the securities. Looking at the
matter from the depositor’s point of view, the position
however, seems quite safe while the capital and reserves
more than double the borrowing's.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees. Executors anti
AgkncyCo. (Ballarat, Vic,):- AND
Net To Re- R e .
r , Erotics. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1901.. £lll3 8 per cent. = £6OO £513 £1 7->9
Dec., 1901.. 1252 10 „ 750 502 2 931
June, 1902.. 1748 10 750 998 I’ooq
Dec., 1902.. 1391 10 750 641 H
June, 1903.. 1248 10 ” ” 750 498 »
Dec., 1903.. 1529 10 „ „ 750 779 5*447
June, 1904.. 1268 10 „ „ 750 518 o’gOo
Dec., 1904.. 1503 10 750 753 6 4iu
June, 1905.. 1547 10 ” 750 797 7^l
Dec., 1905.. 1834 12 „ „ 900 934 8*149
June, 1906.. 1773 10 750 1023 q’lyo
Dec., 1906.. 1858 12 900 95S 10
June, 1907.. 1758 10 I,’ ”gj xgf
This highly profitable business more than holds its own.
blx a “° the value of trust estates in hand
iC is £1 >255,302. At the end
of 1904, when the figures were first published the
total was £1,016,734. The trustee co. is On a remarkabl v
good wicket, so long as it doesn’t run foul of the law and
make itself responsible for losses through applying funds
to purposes to which trust funds shouldn't be applied
according to the rather obscure statutes—some of the
earlier Victorian cos. got into trouble that way. It takes
practically no capital to run the business: capital and
reserves, which are merely the testators’ guarantee fund,
ca.n be invested apart from the business ; and the business
itself is mighty profitable. This co. (capital £15,000) has
now apart from its premises, £22,515 in public securities
S ga £ es > and other investments, bringing in probably
£9OO a year, or more than half the dividend. The
commissions are at the rate of about 9s. 6d per
cent, of the trust estates, and the total ex-
penses are only about 6s. 4d. per cent. It is
not certain, however, that the charges for administra-
tion amount to 9s. 6d. per cent. ; for possibly some of the
commissions are earned apart from that business
Wherever they come from, 44 per cent of them are profit'
On the basis of capital and reserves, the total return was
at the rate of £lB 19s. 9d. per cent. A good feature of
the case is that so large a proportion of the profits are
put to reserve, and that is a point which testators can
note with, satisfaction. If this trustee should go wrong
there would be something more than a vanished reputa-
tion for the beneficiaries to satisfy themselves with. All
the same, the time is coming when trustee cos", will
either have to reduce their charges or do more for the
money.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co. :
„ _ . , To Re- Re-
Jrronts. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1901 £498 7 per cent. = £lO5O £l5 067
Dec., 1901 1219 7 „ „ 1050 £169 15,’ 236
June, 1902 701 6 ~ ~ 900 —— 15 037
Dec., 1902 1174 6 „ „ 900 274 l^ll
June, 1903 837 6 ~ ~ 900 15 > 248 1
Dec., 1903 1395 6 „ „ 900 495 15743 i
June, 1904 986 6 ” ” 900 86 15 899
Dec., 1904 1269 6 „ „ 900 369 16* 198
June, 1905 881 6 „ ’ 900 lfi’m
Dec., 1905 1069 6 ~ , 900 109 16 348
June, 1906 800 6 900 _ 16 254
Dec., 1906 1316 6 „ „ 900 416 16 670
June, 1907 739 6 „ „ 900 _ 16,509
The co.’s share capital is £30,000 ; but in addition it has
outstanding* debentures and loans amounting to £22 460
nJ,r e Z < : arf l; lg ' 0 fche liabilities in excess of Hquid assets were
£25,0647 they are now, before paying dividend, £23,592
a reduction of £1472 in five years. Meantime, however
nothing at all has been written off for depreciation of
buildings (£70,000) and furniture, etc. (£1000), which
stand at the same amounts as thev did in 1902 ’
* * ; «'
Reports of the great value of the ore being
developed in the Calllon leases still appear almost every
day in the Westralian papers. First one telegram giving-
details of rich assays is published ; then another describing
the mine as the “best thing outside Kalgoorlie.” Mean-
while scrip stands at a few pence, to the disgust of the
artful ones who are trying to boost the show. An expert
' lanle( , Blatchford sampled this mine a few weeks back.
What has become of his report? Didn’t it suit ?


Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 20th AUGUST, 1907.
THE
BLACKALL ESTATE,
QUEENSLAND.
Highly Important Sale of Famous
Blackall Range Country.
All Superior Dense Soft Wood Vine Scrub.
Splendidly Watered. 70in. regular and reliable Rainfall.
Fronting the North Coast Railway Line between
Enraundi and Cooroy, extending back to the
Maroochy River, 78 miles from Brisbane. 2,000
acres Freehold subdivided into 17 farms.
MAURICE AND JOHNSON,
of GRAFTON (N.8.W.) and BRISBANE (Q.),
have received instructions to sell by Public
Auction, at Eumundi, N.C. Line, Queensland,
on Tuesday, 20th August, at 2 p.m. Lots Ito 17,
all carefully designed and survey just completed.
Areas from 80 to 156 acres, all rich volcanic soil,
and containing beautiful, permanent and running
water. ALL IDEAL DAIRYING COUNTRY,
and capable of producing splendid Sugar Cane
and other crops.
The situation being on the eastern extension of
the Blackall Range country, right on the Railway
Line, adjacent to Railway Stations, Township
handy to all Markets, and within three hours by
railway from Brisbane, renders this sale an excel-
lent opportunity to those in search of good, solid
investments enhancing in value, or intending
settlers to secure beautiful Virgin Farms. The
climate is considered one of the most genial of the
Australian Coastal Districts, with no extremes of
heat or cold.
TERMS.
One-third deposit, balance may extend over
7 years. Interest 5 per cent. Immediate
possession. The Auctioneers will be pleased to
supply Lithos and all information upon appli-
cation to either Grafton or Brisbane Offices.
Brisbane Office Address : Union Trustee Build-
ings, corner of George and Queen Streets.
NOTE.—Sale will be held at Eumundi town
(near the Estate) on Tuesday after Brisbane Show.
iiiiiyfHHijj- {)
nine CEMf'E is made in a
rHUE rCliuE variety of styles
—from the attractive lawn fence shown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
years ago, are still giving'good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence be a
good one to have the agency for?
Write to-dav for special offer.
CHAS.DOBSCN, FRANKS & Co., Syd ley
cmrf fOiUi r
MJ
/%
DU
0
fy
e
YaY
fflSOTi
Pf
sf.
ft
m
POTOX’S
BALSAM-ANISEED
The only SAFE AND RELIABLE REMEDY
For COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
NIGHT COUGH, INFLUENZA, etc.
The unpleasant sensation of tickling in the throat, which deprives so
many of rest during the nisht by the incessant coughing it causes, is
quickly removed by a dose of Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed. It is a proved
cough remedy of 80 years’standing. It strengthens the Voice and cures
Hoarseness. UNSOL , CITED TESTIMONIALS.
The Rev. WM. LUSH writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle—'* For the past
twelve years I have been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending
your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. When-
ever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and again it has
cured me.”
Mr. A. J. WOODHOUSE, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk, writes—“ Last
year Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate cough of some months’
duration, which I feared would lapse into a pulmonary affection.”
Mr. LIONEL BROUGH, the eminent actor, writes—” I think it an invaluable medicine
for members of my profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and
sister artistes.”
Squatters and farmers, when ordering their stores, should not omit this time-
honoured Cough Remedy.
WARNING.—When purchasing Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed you are
earnestly requested to see that the “ Lion, Net, and Mouse ” Trade
Mark is on the bottle wrapper, and be not persuaded to take
imitations.
Sold by all Chemists, etc ., throughout the world.
Prepared only by THOMAS POWELL, Ld., Blackfriars,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agentsfor New South Wales and Queensland
ELLIOT BROS.. LTD., O’Connell St., Sydney, and Eagle St., Brisbane.
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
it
SALT
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
"This compound salt is particularly suitable for children. It is economical,
and when used instead of common salt in bread-making, adds to the
phosphatic value of the bread.”
Agents—Harrison Attivood. Sydney*
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is a true food and contains Albumen and Fibrine which go to
form Blood, Bone, Brain and Muscle. Beef-teas and Meat-Extracts
are stimulants only.
BOVRIL is liquid life.
Medical Electricity !
IS used in every part of the civilised world—in every
hospital, and by every doctor, whose fees you can
save by having a battery in your home. Our
Medical Battery will cure
RHEUMATISM SCIATICA LUMBAGO
NERVOUS TROUBLES Etc.
It is the latest battery known—contains no acids and
nothing to spill, for it is worked by means of dry cells,
which can be replaced easily and at a very small cost.
Medical electric treatment is both a tonic and a sedative.
If you have a trouble that can be cured by electricity—
there are few ailments it cannot cure—write for this
battery—we will refund money if you are in any way
dissatisfied.
Price 35/= Post Free.
EXPLANATORY BOOK SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
gSgjsj§4g. 393 QEORQE STREET, KOYAL^HOTI
My Opticians,
SYDNEY.
fcSS
IE I HYPNOTIST
SFUNaMONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others ? Do you
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both fun ana
money ? If so, you should become a Hypnotist. You can now master this
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating' science free of all cost at your own
home. Bv a few hours’ study you can learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic trance. You can surprise and mystify all
your friends by placing any one you wish under this_ weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, think, feel, and act precisely, as you.wish. Yon
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding-
feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amazing things that other people cannot do, and make yourself famous in a week s time, t
you want to make, money, you can do so by giving entertainments, curing disease, or _ teaching_ttte art to
others. These are three sure and easy ways to win a fortune. Why be poor? Why wopkJor others,
when vou can master this money-making profession so easily ? Investigate now. It costs nothin to hpa
out all about it. Professor Barraden, the world-renowned Hypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Key to the Mysteries of Hypnotism, and anybody can get a copy of it
merely for the asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting and valuable book over
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best or all, this charming book tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Every secret and mystery is here explained in the simplest
language. You are also shown how you may heal the sick, relieve pain, cure bad habits, give sleep
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, you can win promotion,
social and business standing, increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desme, and, in
short, all that is needed to make you rich, esteemed and happy as long as life lasts. This book. also treats
fully on Personal Magnetism, Magnetic Healing and kindered subjects, and hoyr to cure yourself ot
any pain, ache or disease. In spite of its great value and precious contents, this book is tree (to you.
Simply write and* it will be sent by next mail. Don’t send any money, but send your name ana
address TO-DAY.
Professor R. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“0.T.” £lOO
U
O.T,
33
The Great
Australian
Dr Ink,
Reward.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The Premier
Winter
Beverage.
The extraordinary success of “0.T.” in
every State of the Commonwealth has
brought into the market more than the
ordinary number of imitations—the pro-
ducts of unscrupulous traders, who seek to
take advantage of the wide publicity given
to the popular beverage, and to hoodwink
the public in their endeavour to pass off an
inferior beverage as the genuine “0.T.”
These counterfeit preparations contain
none of those pure, health-giving in-
gredients that have made “ 0.T.” so popular,
and the trader who gives you one of those
so-called ‘‘just as good” substitutes does
so in order to swell his profits at your
expense. The proprietors of “ 0.T.” offer a
REWARD OF £lOO
for information leading to the conviction of
any persons wilfully misrepresenting or
selling an inferior beverage as “ 0.T.”
You know what you want—don’t let the
trader choose for you.
Residents in country districts are par-
ticularly warned against the many un-
scrupulous imitations of “0.T.” that are
on the market. The genuine “ 0.T.” bottle
has a Red Chillie label, and carries the
manufacturer’s name and address. No other
beverage has the same strength, the same
health-giving properties, the same delicate
flavor as “ 0.T.”
THE COUNTRY HOUSE DRINK.
One bottle of “0.T.” will make from
twenty to thirty good drinks, and mixed
with either water, soda, lemonade, spirits,
or wine, it gives a delicious, palatable
beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle
in the house, and if guests drop in unex-
pectedly, you have a delicious drink ready
for them at a minute’s notice. If such un-
welcome guests as Indigestion, Influenza,
Chills, or Colds call, you have a very
effective remedy but insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “ 0.T.”
manufactured J DIXON (& CO
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN, MELB.
Sydney Agents: OFtME, KEIGWIN & CO.
•9


Hand Became Swollen and Very Red
and Painful—Arm Gradually Af-
fected Up to Elbow—lmpossible
to Give Idea of Agony Undergone
for Three Years—Doctor and Very
Many Remedies Fail,
CURED BY TWO SETS
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“My trouble started with swelling in
my right hand, which became red and
Very painful and irritating. This swell-
ing spread gradually up the arm until it
reached the elbow. It is impossible for
me to give any idea of the agony I went
through during the three years that
this eczema continued. I tried first
one remedy and then another, only too
glad to test anything that my friends
suggested. Nothing seemed to be of
the least good. I went to a doctor for
four weeks in the provinces, where I was
living at the time, and the treatment
he put me under was as ineffectual as
the rest. I was almost in despair. One
day I happened to catch sight of an
advertisement of Cuticura Remedies,
and there I read of a case of eczema
having been cured by the use of Cuti-
cura Soap, Cuticura Ointment, and
Cuticura Resolvent Pills. The case
was so similar to my own that I thought
I would at least make one more try to
get my arm right. I bought the whole
treatment of the chemist, and I perse-
vered with it for a week. By that
time the improvement was apparent to
any one, and the relief I felt myself was
great. I should not have believed it
possible for any remedy to afford such
comfort in so short a time. My ex-
perience with the other remedies for
eczema—and I should think. I tried
them all enables me to appreciate
Cuticura to the full. By the doctor’s
orders I was keeping my arm in a sling
for many months, but the sling was soon
dispensed with when I started with
Cuticura. I persevered with Cuticura
Soap, Ointment, and Pills for about a
couple of months, using in all two
complete treatments, and I can tell
you candidly and heartily that I was
cured. I have occasion to have great
faith in Cuticura in skin ailments, not
only because of the great good it has
done me, but because of the benefit I
know has accrued from its use in other
cases. Mr. T. S. Gillard, 3, Hetley Road,
Shepherd’s Bush, London, Nov. 19, ’06.”
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots; London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns &
Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
eS'Post-Iree, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
This Lady’s Beaded
Evening Shoe
for
18/6
This is one oT the finest Evening Shoes weVe ever
had to offer you. The insole is padded so that per-
fect rest for the foot is ensured. The beading is very
chaste, whilst the shoe is perfectly finished in every
detail; very light in make, yet staunch.
Price, 18/6. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra : to
other States, 1/2 extra.
This Man’s Stylish
v Button Boot
for
14
6
At this price It can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Oalf. State which you prefer in or ering.
Price, 14/6. Posted in Victoria, 1 - extra :to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahan,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
The Wayback Series*
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry 1s
w
Ip*
•er
r %
41#
HAPPY, HEALTHYCHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required—not a purgative, mind! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
Price,
57/6
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal.,
24 inches, Weight B|lb.
James Martin and Co., — 1
Oct. Barrel about
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A NEW DEPARTURE
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
(CONCENTRATED)
NON-ALCOHOLIC
2/6 BOTTLE 2/6 BOTTLE
. Responding to the urgent requests of many sufferers, the proprietors have
decided to introduce a concentrated, non-alcoholic form of that valuable medicine
Warner’s Safe Cure, under the title of “ Warner's Safe Cure (Con-
centrated) The price of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is 2s 6d per
bottle. The bottle is one-fourth the size of the ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure
but it contains the same number of doses, the dose being also one-fourth namely’
a teaspoonful instead of a tablespoonful. The medicinal value is the same in each
case, the medicinal contents of a ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure bein« con-
centrated into a 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated).
So well known are the beneficial effects of Warner's Safe Cure in all cases of
kidney and liver disease, and complaints arising from the retention in the system
of uric and biliary poisons, such as J
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anosmia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick headache
that the introduction of the 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated)
cannot be regarded otherwise than as a public boon.
Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
will be sent, carriage paid on receipt of price, by H. H. Warner and Co. Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
The New Zealand News is to be definitely hatched
at Wellington in August. The Times is a harassed
rag, for it had an idea that several of its writers
who had been with it for anything up to a year
meant to stay for another 12 months. The new News
bought Mick Keene, Times associate-editor, and he be-
comes assistant-editor on the fresh job. Reading, a
Times sub-editor, and Guy Schofield handed in their
resignations and prepared to depart, having promised to
man the new staff, but the Times threw more gold at them,
and they will stay at the old address. Marcus Plimmer
(brother of “Our ’Arry”) really does leave the beer-
prohibition organ and becomes chief reporter of the
News. Hoben, who, a few months ago, was implored by
the Hard Times to go from Sydney to general-manage it,
has been implored not to do it any more, and the Times
has been rushing M.’s.H.R. on to its directorate to stop
the loss of ink, or prestige or something. The steady old
Wellington Post, which didn’t know until recently that
anybody would dare to leave it, supplies in Charles Earle
the £Booper year editor of the News. “Ernie” Hall,
who has been driven by the two rival papers backwards
and forwards between their offices for the last year or two,
goes with Charles to the new inkery, and Charlie Weston
brother of Fred Weston, who “ subbed ” the Post for 16
years, and then went Hansarding—is another Post deserter.
The Times also supplies the News with a recently-acquired
specialist in Sainsbury, who will handle the big tomato
and woolly jumbuck section of the new print. The Maori-
land capital is also threatened with a new evening daily,
which reckons it is coming from somewhere in Australia,
lock, stock, and paste-pot. As the Wellington business
man is a mean advertiser, and as the population of Wel-
lington won’t be as dense as that of Manchester for
several weeks, the Poneke person will obviously have to
buy four papers a day to keep the quartette of machines
roaring.
* * * *
Hobart is threatened with a new daily—a democratic
Protectionist paper—to be called the Post. The
originator and nominal proprietor of the Post is
A. J. Nettlefold, who has risen to prominence by his
business energy in various retail lines, and is a patriotic
and uncompromising Australian. The prospect of an
early deliverance from the sway of the awful Hobart
Murky has caused the inhabitants of the Tasmanian
capital to rise to deeds of daring. Members of the
House of Assembly, notably one Jarvis, who has been
shockingly misrepresented by the prevailing rag, have
actually, “in the very forum, under the noonday
sun,” defied the Murky and all its lightnings.
Only those who are intimate .with the public life of
Southern Tasmania can realise what an extraordinary
state of affairs has existed there by reason of the Murky’s
monopoly of morning journalism. The Tasmanian w orm
has long been trying to turn, but as a political
and social worm can only turn by publishing
things, it has so far found the process very difficult.
Henceforth the worm promises to wear the aspect of a
very angry boa-constrictor, and many results may be
looked for. Persons such as McWilliams will probably
vanish from the Tasmanian representation in the Com-
monwealth Parliament, as they have from the Legislatures
of all other civilised lands. A Ministry such as that of
“ Jacky ” Evans, living upon the support of, and obeying in
all things the orders of the Murky, will no longer be
possible. The delay of measures tending to solve the
land problem, and to relieve the small farmers of their
burdens under the property-tax, will not be endured
when the small people have a paper to give voice to their
views. Probably nowhere in the white man’s world is
there such an opening for an honest paper, and it is good
to see that the chance has been seized by a patriotic Aus-
tralian.
The Victorian Women’s National Ass. is going to have
a paper of its own, published monthly at a small price,
with Miss Grace Watson as chief of staff, editress, busi-
ness manageress, publisherina, and most other things.
The production will be devoted to the interests of the
ladies and their tame pet politicians ; also to the de-
scription of branch Ass festivities. The recollection of
the Ass.’s spasmodic publications ijiises hopes of a new
form of Australian humor. As a burlesque of journalism,
and a farce of feminine false logic, it will surely
be unique. Leading articles will be a masque in
which Jeanne D’Arc, Caius Caligula, iGeorgy Reid, and the
Guelph family will link arms and polka gaily through
a maze of Federal politics, and social anachronisms.
Our humorists of to-day and yesteryear are about to be
out-laughed. The Dowager of Cliveden will write a
philosophic screed. The interesting and whirly Grace
will contribute a sensational serial, “Legal Experiences
of an Enterprising Spinster.” Mrs. Frank Madden will
explain “ The Importance of Being Respectable ! ” (which
means holding a place upon the Wimmen’s League
membership list). And the Staughton widow will ex-
pound “ The use of politics as a social side-dish.” These
announcements aren’t authorised by the respective
authors, but the programme set forth will certainly be
followed to some extent.
* ~ * • *
Pott and Shirk lately got “into holts” again—at
Casterton (Vic.), this time, where one organ accused
its “reptile contemporary” of working its employees
seven days a week, while the other retorted that it didn’t
make its male and female comps, work in the same shop,
anyhow. As a result, the provisions of the Factories
Act may be extended to Casterton’s printing trade—
which somehow recalls the old proverb about Potts and
Slurk falling out, and other people who don’t Slurk
thereby coming into possession of their own.
* * m m
“Nulla”: “Don’t want Boer war stories” is how the
Sydney Mail’s “Answers to Correspondents” column
replies to the budding author nowadays. The farm-
burners’ lot in three words: (1) Cheers, (2) beers, (3)
jeers.
* * * *
“ A.F.T.” (Vic.). What show have writers got in Mel-
bourne with very Reverend Piratical Editors of the
Fitchett type? The other day I purchased Life, and
took the trouble to make a careful analysis of its con tents.
I discovered that one thousand inches of matter (equal
to 125 columns, out of a total of 200 columns), had been
stolen, either en bloc or piece-meal, from the under-
mentioned publications :
! Tatler, Westminster Gazette, Light of India, Maori-
land Free Lance, Yellow Book (English), Daily Mail
Year Book, Pall Mall Gazette, The Bystander, Current
Literature, Munsey’s Magazine, S.A. Commissioners’
Report, The Australia, London Times, London Chronicle,
The Bookman, The Academy, Argonaut, London Punch'
The Fortnightly, World’s Work, Harper’s Magazine!
Atlantic Monthly, Sunset, Scribner’s Magazine, The
Scotsman, The Bulletin, The Age, Whitaker’s Peerage
Daily Mail, British Weekly, Book of Birds (Rothschild)!
The Critic, Review of Reviews, Public Opinion Monthly
Review, Methodist Times, M.A.P., North American
Review, The Century", Raleigh’s Life of Shakspeare,
Monthly Review, Nineteenth Century, Macmillan’s
Magazine, Modern Science, Science, The Independent,
The Reader, The Philistine, Success.
Also a complete chapter was lifted from a new book. As
a literary cuckoo, Fitchett is an easy first in the Com-
monwealth, beating even the good little Juddy. 1
THE SETTLED BARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These be the grim suburban days,
And, tho’ in verse we frolic,
All soberly we go our ways
Writing our sweet commercial lays
And any sort of stuff that pays
(Our Johnnie’s got the colic).
When Omar was our guiding star
We drank and quoted gaily,
But Middle Age said “ Here you are ! ”
And now we live in suburbs far,
And watch the fleeting- railway ear,
And rush to catch it daily.
We’re settled down and going bald,
And when we sit at table
The wife recites the Ones Who’ve Called
(.Some years ago it would have palled,
But—Pegasus is snugly stalled
And champing in his stable).
We’ve done with dreams—we’ve done with drinks
(Could anything be stranger !)
And when we ask Peg. thro’ the chinks
Of his abode just what he thinks,
The old steed whisks his tail, and winks
Into his well-filled manger.
VIC.
KODAE.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
How Deaf People
Are Made to Hear!
A Device that is Scientific, Simple, Direct,
and Restores Hearing in Even the
Oldest Person—
and Perfect Fitting.
Ever See a Pair of ELECTRICONS ?
They fit comfortably in the Ears.
The Electricons are to weak hearing' what spec-
tacles are to weak sight.
Because they are sound magnifiers, just as glasses are
sight magnifiers.
They rest the Ear Nerves by taking the strain off them
—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds. They can be
put into the ears, or taken out in a minute, just as com-
fortably as spectacles can be put on and off.
MAY BE WORN AT ANY TIME.
THE PROOF
is in our book, which
contains letters from
people whose hearing
was brought back by their use. BOOK FREE. Send
for it to-day.
L R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SULPHUR
Cleanse
The Vitiated
Blood
When you see
Its impurities
Bursting through
The Skin
In Pimples,
Blotches
And Sores.
Rely on Sulphur Bit-
ters and Health will
follow.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY*.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA-
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/tj & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
gcT-llhJ
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
MEN! DON’T
*l*
\\
v\
\\ x
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you Stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing
doctors does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other
with the same disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine doser,”
and the only change in your condition is for the worse. Why don't you
stop tHis medicine Habit ? Why don’t you avail
yourself of the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own
lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of Electricity!
This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of Electricity.
You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we apply it and you
will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to
the breaking-down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its alotted task
the entire human machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life
—is to rebuild the weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply
of vital electric energy. This can only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now
admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is
crude —shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good.
Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . . Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shocK, no burning or blistering, and
you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weaßness of all Kinds, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, WeaK Back, Sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys,
Failing' Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a man, . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
The McLaughlin Co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN Office Hours —9 a. 111. to 5. 30 p. 111.
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
2
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING $ MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
9in%
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION,
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Sto e
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district: If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. C. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.O.W. BRANCH OPFiCS :
No, 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney,
THE BULLETIN POST CAROS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th J une, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up ~ .. .. 413.289 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.'C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of llorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of || e <u Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
Irandon Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED,- negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guai'antee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. All?.*,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq/ Adelaide: L. a.
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgagees) .. .. • £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., 1 - Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hun. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORKOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FAQT’"RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
>1 i . >f A lstr-tlian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHF.R LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Ma.il Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibr i tar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
PBINZ WALDEMAR .. 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal jjank of Queensland
LIMITKI >. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 6th SEPT.
AFRIC, to sail about 4th OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 oto 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
- Dalyety and (o in pany, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY : _____
f’MILTIADES .. lA. Douglas, R.N.R. 1 Noon. Aug. 10
MORAVIAN .. I A. Simpson .. I Noon. Sept. 13
*MARATHON . IN. Allan .. .. INo n, Oct. 11
•Twin Screw. f Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
J HOLipny
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G-.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hem South (|jales.
Established 1817.
Head Offlee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... .. ..
Reserve Fund «
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
2,000,000 0 o
1.500,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... ... 55,00,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurix, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$5-
*
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST-S.-W.
fflontdepietep.’Jii|.|X,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101 S.
Mr Ski oner has a very extensive and -carefully-
selected \PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the \ largest and most complete in the
colonies ;\ and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Mo3t
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, frENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Vcirious Sizes Supplied.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States*
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE*
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rrUK Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjHNEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
■*- LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY. Telephone 174.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, s
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. /
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
August 17, at 1 p.m.'
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Olirns.
S.S. Yongala, August 10.
S.S. Wollowra, August 17.
Best and Cheapest Itonte to Cold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ail
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
{via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
“ RENT,”
9500 Tons A. G. McGIBBON, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 19th SEPTEMBER.
Has excellent accommodation for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewardess carried.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
Durban ... £2O £lO £ll £l2
Capetown £22 10s. £lO 10s. £lllls. £l2 12s.
London ... £45 £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND. Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 10.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 17.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 24.
ADELAIDE 'v
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) j
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 10.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
August 13.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 17.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swans ton-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel In Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.
A POLICY tor the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.


N.S.W. Branch Office:
No. 5. First Floor. Greer's Chambers.
522 George Street. Sydney.
FREE
late of N.Z. Ex. so give us a call.
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Electro-plated Goods. We are
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
"Jr
<- v «
%
to-UlfQ
Oi
%
#
Medlcator. alza
laches loaf.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense' of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks dov. n
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis. Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1349. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
lAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
reehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
if Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand ÜBF" - AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine"
MIiKCTORS— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wineheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
IKAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
crr ccr
'll!'!!" 1
ii l ii n -i
i !>i
“00
1 00 OgBB []
2 5 ® Q 5 SB II
T r r
* ff "■ rf rr r r» rrf r rr.—.
Trr.fTr rr '" 1
' l!
rrr
dKJJK!
O
ii
Settle that leaky roof once and for all! Cover the old shingles or
the pin-holed tin with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it
down ! Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to
remind you of it.
We call Congo the “Never-Leak Roof.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufacturedby BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co. Philadelphia,U.S.A., & London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & Co., Ltd., Melbourne
GEORGE WILLS & Co., Brisbane.
_ Free 1
Sample
Write Today
A FORTUNE FOR FIVE SHILLINGS
,S,£S!l^
Hundreds of Profitable Trade Secrets, now
first published.
Valuable Formulas for Many Processes,
hitherto jealously withheld.
Methods for Making a Multitude of
Marketable Articles.
Money-Making Wrinkles relating to Every
Trade and Manufacture.
|< * BTABUSH yourself in business and become Independent
Whether you are a man or women, boy or girl, employed
or unemployed, you may eecure a Constant Income and a
Respectable Business, without hard work or worry, by making
at your own home in your spare time eome of the hundreds
of articles which rind ready sale everywhere, the manufacture
of which is clearly described in thiß valuable book. Study
the careers of the most successful men of the world and you
find that many of them began in a smaU way by making
something in general request, and by gradual extension came
to own mammoth concerns. A single recipe properly
employed may be the foundation of a fortune. Pear's Seap,
PROFITABLE
Trar Secjjjjp
VALU
WR+NKLEjg^
PRACTICE
9
PR
ES.
ARE
S?TDI
FOR
EVERYBODY.
•MAK
DEA
A STj
IN BjjAiffess
WW^OUT
W^CAPITAfo
'OA
MjMKE
£2oO&Yearl
Beecham's Pills, Holloway's Ointment, Aspinall's Enamel and hundreds of similar things, from which huge incomes are derived
may be equalled or even surpassed by some of the articles described among the 3000 Priceless Recipes, Any bright and intelll*
gent person may earn a good living in a pleasant way by utilising toe Information here afforded. This Valuable Work of 368
pages (each page 4 inches by 6 inches) Is not tne production of some obscnre gleaner from out-of-date sources but Is the result of
the life-work of the Famous Scientist Dr. N. T. Oliver, who has selected and published only the best of the many formula
submitted to him, haring thoroughly tested every reoipe, many of which cost large sums to acquire. Every process is ftillv
described in the simplest language. It is not a cookery book. It is a book of recipes, an'd NOTHING BUT RECIPES <5
Inestimable value to Farmers, Housekeepers, Mechanics. Manufacturers. Chemißts, Confectioners. Metal Workers, and in fact to
everybody. Single recipes are worth many times the cost of the volume. Write at once for this Valuable Book which
will be sent by post toany address, carriage paid, for Five Shillings. There is no extra charge, nor any duty to pay Only a
limited number are available, which we expect will all bo sold by the 30th November next. After that date we cannot guarantee
delivery Cut this advertisement out at once, as it will not appear again, and forward it with your order and Five Shillings to
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
CETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. PTSbnd for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
H ARLENE S HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet,
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I / O/fi®/ l!(Z
1/ , 6/Q C
per Bottle, from Chemists and
StQres a]] oyer thj . worj£L
m
mm
mm
V
Edwards' “Harlene" Co. London, w.c.
Consult HERR RUSSHOSSEH.speciaiist
In all Private, Nervous. Skin and Blood Diseases and all Specific Complaints of Men and Women No
.Mercury. Cures Guaranteed. AL.L, DISEASES OB' WOMEN CURED.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Pile Powders, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, e/-j Liver and Kidney Pills, 1/-
AL FA LINE
'Will Cure the Nerves, Debility
. Strengthen the Spine, Brain & Nerves
They secure the Return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish Self-Confidence and Prevent
Melancholia, Despondency and Despair, Boxes, 6 /»k 1 21- Courses,23/6, Special Powerful Double Courses 43 6
VARICOCELE, PILES, RHEUMATISHI, STRICTURE, GRAVEL CURED
15T nnn TITQTJ 1 A No matter of how long Standing, Cured
-DljUtll/ lilOJlliiOiilD by ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS, 12/-, 24/= & 44/.
Head Office s 547 George Street, Sydney,
Don’t Lubricate
your bowels with castor oil, gly-
cerine, or other oily laxatives that
let the matter slide through. This
makes them more lazy until finally
you have to lubricate them
regularly. Lubrication does not
cure. It relieves for a while only
then you find yourself compelled
to keep on dosing yourself with-
out getting results. Adopt nature’s
way —exercise. That’s the only
sure way of curing constipation
and its allied troubles. Exercise
your bowel muscles with Reuter’s
Little Pills. They start the
digestive juices flowing. They set
the hundreds of cells inside your
bowels to work absorbing nourish-
ment which builds you up and
makes you well.
Reuter's Soap cures sklu troubles
&
•V
In consequence on
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
t fresh supplies arrive
' we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/8, or
White,Cream or.Pinh.
Powder for 2/6.
Ag«nts.*
CLAUDE HEAIY. & Co„
M Pitt StrMtk
SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which ha* outlived the Centune*
SINGLETON’S ETE OINTMENT.
In use since 1608.
"-mwawamußM,
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
A*k your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
MORE HOMES MADE HAPPY!
MORE TESTIMONY!
MORE GRATITUDE!
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORE
EUCRASY IS DOING.
Sample Sssiar Writing
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any. Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do in others.
EUCRASY
is doing a great Humanising, Reclaiming,
and Reforming Work throughout Aus-
tralia. One of its Most Valuable Features
is that it is Tasteless and Odorless, and
can be administered with or (secretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer.
It is imperative to note that—
EUCRASY DIFFERS FROM ALL
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/’O7.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating-, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing which has be-
fallen me. My was the patient to whom I gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one time
it seemed hopeless, being in the bar all dav, as he was in
the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let him stav
in it any more than I could possibly help, and I am now
thankful to see him constantly turn away from the spirit
bottles with a shudder. I have about a dozen powders
left. r shall recommend Eucrasy to anyone I know
troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours sincerely
grateful, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
li you mention this paper, a Sample
of EUCRASY and BOOKLET of IN-
STRUCTIONS will be sent you sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine offer.
CALL OSSf OR ADDRESS—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takittg them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to -waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
autibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids. "
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose ot Froocoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.


“ F.M.” on fleas and other winged
animals :
Have you met the great flea of Balclutha (M.L.)? It is
the one ferocious wild animal the country possesses, and
can only be stalked successfully by the wise and prudent.
Its horns are very ornamental for use as hat-racks, albeit
rather large for small families and boudoirs. In the
famous Hobken collection there is a pair that weighs
two hundredweight ; but from the ferocity and
size of the savage brute to which the antlers be-
longed, there is an idea that it was bred in the
Theatre Royal, Hobart. The Hobart theatre species is
noted for its strength of bone, its indiscriminate appetite,
and its love of limelight and priina donna. It has also
been known, when hard-set, to attack the proprietor. It
can be heard calling for its young at a distance of tw o
miles. It loves American farce, and weeps so copiously
during amateur performances down there that its jaws
become nerveless and flaccid, and it can be led away by
a little child. The angels also weep ; but they are far
away and negligible. Your angel is a very modest
bird, though its costume is not considered respectable
at Dunedin (M.L.). This critical acerbity is due in part
to jealousy, and in part to ignorance. No Dunedin man
has ever seen an angel, nor ever will. The angels have
their compensations. There is also the angel without
wings, otherwise known to the initiated as the Queen of
the Earth. She is generally very beautiful by malice
aforethought, and tastes like a dispensary just suggested
across a field of clover. In the beginning she came down
from Heaven on a cheap excursion, and lost her return
ticket. Now, she has even forgotten the name of the
station she came from.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works i Birmingham, Eneland,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention *s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
0
d
• • •
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS POWER IS
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS PAIN SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEbI
able as it EFFECTS' A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving streng
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never oeen
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken a
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
. CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am a storekeeper, living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a number of years, and has been in the hospital'with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he tried it, and found that it gave him great rehef. <-
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has bee
in these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He makes ray house his home when her ®>
medicine from me. He is at mv place now, and he says that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is "ell and
hearty now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part of it you like, as it may be of great benefit
to other people suffering from Bronchitis.-Yours truly, Sfc()rekeeper> Yunta _ South Ausfcralia .
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD, COULD NOT GET ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr W G Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has t ken the
cough clean Feeha different man. You may depend on my making your wonderful medicine known
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case the cough may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam
surgthere are “at many people out this way that, if they knew the wonderful effect of tins medicine, would
6end and procure it at any price,. Yours faithfully,. p< Contractor> Torrens oreeki North Queensland. '
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING INTENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr W G Hearne. Dear Sir,— In 1898 (I was for four years previously in Queensland travelling representative
for a mercantile house), having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself under a medical man, and used all kinds
of chemists’ prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes' Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager
did ad possible for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan Currie, at that time acting manager for
the New York Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about
donefor could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly suffocate a dozen times a day suffering intensely
Guess of'my thankfulness when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured
me I took another bottle away from the city with me, and gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it
alio saved her life The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan, Tweed River-three persons cured by your valuable
medicine Although I have camped out and travelled ahout 10,000 miles since my illness, 1 have not contracted a
cold since.-I am, Sir, your best well-wisher, THO S. ROSS, Lebasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr W C Hearne Dear Sir,— l had Bronchitis several times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and
M , nrU 1 way in medicine : but when I arrived in Cairns in 1900, from Western Australia,
here, and had paid y P r took five bottles, and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards
lere, and had five bottles, and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards
I was induced to toy > . vertical shaft without any feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for
Bronchitis that ever taken has afforded me such relief as your Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,^
Bronchitis tnat i na RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager, Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OP THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,-I had a very bad cough so I bought one bottle of T o " r bad’cou-h
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days My daughter, who had been t.oubled with a bad cou h
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think yo r
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy. ... ... . v vnl .
piJ, ta 'ir. d ,.TpS y «K“ 2&SS?NewTaS.’ 0
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l feel in duty bound to express my gratitude, first to >’ ou fo J a .3™* I ™ a ™ e .!'
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure ; next to Mr. Cheshire Chemist, North Brighton, for having so valuable secure m
stock. My wife, being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. It gave lmmed t
relief, and continuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My wife and I recommended it to a 1 our acquaint-
ScW who «I|E the .erne. You can „ee this letter lor publication .1 you Victor!..
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE. EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,-Accept my testimony to the success of your Bronchitis Cure I was very ill last
February in Melbourne, and was recommended by a friend to try vour Bronchitis Cure. A JJ er 1, i
immense relief, and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished. Before _leaving Meibourno I obta
three bottles of it, as I would not like to be without so wonderful a medl^ > Darhnghurst, Sydney.
SEVERE COUGH—A 5 YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest, with cough, for five years, and during that time got treat-
ment from different sources, but derived no benefit until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief at once,
““• “ ls * ~“ i ’
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville, Queensland, writes After suffering from asthma for seven-
teen vears and having been under a great many different treatments without benefit, I was induced to ti y Hearne s
MedicinTfor Asthina After taking three bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the asthma, and since then,
which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing two years later he states“ lam keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr Hearne.—The silent workers are frequently the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria who,
during the last few years, has been repeatedly working for and singing the praises of Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, it is
our Mr. s J,(p, mnn gome three vears ago, was recommended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham,
accountant, Collins Street, and the effect that it had was so marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mer 'we , "are H a( i to add this our testimony to the value of Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even in our own circle of acquaintances.
tne suueiii H r Believe us always to be, yours most faithfully,
J PHTT.T.TPR (TR.MONDE A, CO.
RFIAIARF OF IMITATIONS! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure ” with the „ O LpoNOHIThS CURE
Sed and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE S BRONCHII lb CURL
has ConsequeLv it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to he
particular to ask for HEARN B’S and see that you get it.
HEARN M’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. fid.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE.— Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
dtNCf^j
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tin;, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


If it's from
Stewart Dawsons
i ts good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
Modern Jewels
AT
Stewart Dawson’s
By a combination of Good Luck and Ready Cash we have just managed
to secure a Big Parcel of Fine Australian Opal. Good Opal is very scarce
just now. The Continental buyers snap up at once all the good Opal they
can find. We have been busy mounting them up as Brooches in 15-carat
Gold of most artistic and modern designs, and we expect a prompt apprecia-
tion of their extreme beauty. We have decided to make the price so low that
the majority of our Lady Customers can readily possess at least one piece.
If desired, we can substitute for the Opals, Green Queensland Sapphires.
VICTORIA
Col li ns & S wansfbn S* Melboorn
WEST. AUSTRALIA /
3955397 HayS.? Perlh ft
QUEENSLAND f
Queen 5 Edward St? Brisbane'i
NEW ZEALAND
H6514S QueenS?. Auckland. ~
18*3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington
236 5233 HighS* Christchurch.(
Princes 5 DowlingS'? Dunedin^
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery,
Silver and Silver-plated Goods
sent free on request. Your
Address on a Post Card will
bring them.
C3338—15-ct. Gold and Real Pearl
Circle Brooch, £l/15/-.
D1579.—15-ct. Gold and Real Wing
Shape Pearl Brooch, £2/15/-.
C332B—The “ Lohengrin ’’ Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, Real Pearls, Rubies, and
Olivines, £6/10/-.
1)1277—15-ct. Gold Rrooch, set Fine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £9/10, *,
C3333—15-ct. Gold Brooch and Pen-
dant, set Real Pearls and Green
Tourmaline, £3/10/-.
GS92B—Fine Diamond, Real Whole
Pearl, and 15-ct. Brooch, £6/6/-.
is m n
€
m
0
a
6
X 0
#
( 2>e|^
tTS
it.
©
O
v
C
V
14.
—r
e..
*l6
'vH*
20.
.s!?\
£> 1
sv m
22
2.1.
2*
31
25
26,
24.
m
29.
28.
m
27
X
82
30.
31.
\ >
(,
C3lB3—Pearl and Turquoise Laughing
Jackass Brooch, 15-et. gold, £4/10/-.
D 1270— 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Fine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £7/10/-.
MM
C3334—15-ct. Gold, Beal Pearl and Ceylon
Rubies. Set Brooch, £3/3/-.
C 3291— 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Real
Pearls and Olivines, £4/4/-.
C3331—15-ct. Gold, Real Pearl and Pink
Tourmaline Brooch and Pendant, £2/15/-
GB93o— Fine Diamond, Real Whole Pearl
and 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £7.
aiioi»taii'll|
35
Wj
%
18-ct. Gold, Fine 18-ct. Gold and Fine
Opal and Green Green Sapphire
Sapphire Ring, £4. Ring, £3/10/-.
C3332—15-et. Gold Brooch
and Pendant, set Heal
Pearls and Australian
Kulries, £4/15/-.
C 3343B —9-ct. Gold and Real
i’earl Brooch, 9/6.
C33l2—Beal Pearls arui-15-ot. Gold. A Handsome
Brooch, £2/15/-.
G 3343C —9-ct. Gold and Beal
Pearl Brooch, 9/6.
C3335—15-ct. Gold Brooch, set 1 Row Real Pearls,
and 1 Row Turquoise,£4.
Order by Mail if unable to call. Money back
if we fail to please you.
C3314—15-ct. Gold and Real Pearl Set Brooch, £2/7/6.
J aUu
'awsvnt
C3313—15-et. Gold and Real Pearl Set Brooch, £2/5/-


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S ’he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
Pifle
£heu/inq Pifle A parr
“The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight
12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop llandyhook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. Mv Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Od. A ust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind tiie Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports,. Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMRRAOIN'3
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vami> on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Ganns), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evkry Man Ills Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Tadgiit, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street 3 Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS to Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all 1 Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s.' Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
F
Oafine
is the new face cream that will bring
natural beaut)- to the plainest face,
and will prevent the hot Australian summer
from spoiling your complexion.
Soap and water removes surface dirt only
and leaves irritating waste matter in fehe
pores of the skin. Oatnc, the new face
cream, removes this waste end leaves the
skin fresh and clear, soothing and healing all
sores and blemishes.
It is made from fresh clean oats and con-
tains no animal fats nor injurious mineral
salts. No matter how hot tl;e weather, it
will not go bad; It cannot g'ow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Try Oatine now. It will remove all
freckles and prevent the dry heat of the
Australian summer robbing your complexion
of its bloom and loveliness. In dainty white
jars, 1/9, or larger size, containing four
times the amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc , throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for Coughsand Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &e.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED~COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
~COAGULINE~ KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘ LINUM~~CATHARTICUM PILLS ’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
PRIZES value £l5OO.
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2»dt, 1907.
First Prize, value £3OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
The First Prize last vear ’
lay of ONE SHILLING.
7th. To anv person forvvai
TICKETS may
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES
tvas won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodoojra, N.S.YV., for the modest out-
Resnlts of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
•tlirijw stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will he posti d.
be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It lias a powerful tone, handsome el ionised case, extra
J' u 'o e bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
l,m ad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price ;£l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/3 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 2 1Q Queen St., Brisbane
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
MAGNESIA
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DelkhtfulPipes
'Ji
CUARANTEtf*^
means
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable fromallTobacconisis
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borcijgrevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes :—“Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing- proved most excellent during the time I
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.”
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).


DSheldons
N EW
DISCOVERY
1
§
ON THE HOP ! —3OO of “Hop’s” Best
Drawings.- Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
B
7 6
Post
Free
OSTRICH
PLUMES
Frcm Africa.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped
with WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
The Best Feathers for the price in Aus-
tralia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade. Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee.
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved, cater on, when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, hie remarked that the Cap wou.a
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Bof rJ.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive booh of the Evans Vacuum Cap ivill be sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Allcocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied a*
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
lAllcock’s Plaster.
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., 4c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For Rheumatism or Pains in
Shoulders, k-lbows or elsewhere,
or fur Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
ami fur Aching Feet, Piaster
should be cut site and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc
Established r; 52.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IY r ., V., Vl.
Packet of Twelve ... Is.
Packet of Ten 10d.
Resurrection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WESTWARD floats the drowsy Day in
her glorious disarray,
To a scarlet cloud a-slumber in the
sunset’s mist of gold ;
And a wave-born lullaby,
Creeping down the dying sky,
Croons around her splendid footstool like a love-
song overbold.
Westward go the swimming wings, from the red
cliffs and the springs,
Homeward from the dusky shore-woods, and the
upland’s wooded pride;
For they beard the feet of Night,
As she trod the darkening height,
With her twilight robes about her, shadow-shod
and starry-eyed.
Jealously her ebon hair, streaming down the
everywhere,
Blinds the purple eyes of daylight smiling from
her scarlet cloud.
And the stale that wandereth
Sings a tale of dream and death,
Of a springtime glory pallid in its western shadow
shroud.
There’s a clamor in the foam where the breakers
curl and comb,
Calling through the misty waters to the shore
waves in the dark :
“ Have you heard the bitter tale
Of the wandering western gale?
Did you catch her blown sweet kisses ere the
black night smote her stark ? ”
Out and out across the deep, where the quick-
sands slide and sleep,
Where the harbor-bar is droning to the plunging
water-ways,
Where the boulder beaches ride
’Twixt the sandstone and the tide,
There are voices sighing sorrow for this fairest of
all days.
They had loved this bright first-born since the
gateway of the morn
Gave her to them, fair and splendid—sea and sky
and waking world.
For the winter grim and gray
Swept across them many a day,
Scourging with his frosty midnights and the
north wind blindly hurled.
Bub a voice from out the deep called the Spring-
tide in its sleep
Blushing from the womb of Winter, scarlet lips
and golden eyes,
So adown the heights she came,
And the world-wide sang her fame,
Torrents on the shiny uplands, loud throats in
the glowing skies.
Leagues and leagues of tramping sea smiled a
welcome graciously,
Never went the gale so gently through the wood-
lands by the bay ;
There were songsters north and south,
And the sinuous harbor-mouth
Shook his shoulders, laughing, laughing, in a flood
of falling spray. - *
Lo, a whisper down the thrall of the mystery
over all—
Oh the hapless world is sighing, and her hopeless
voices weep!
Lo, a whisper, tenderly,
Stirs the air and sobbing sea
With a tale of Resurrection when the Night slips
off the deep.
‘ ‘ When the thousand, thousand eyes down against
the morning rise,
She shall wake once more the beauty, still the
dearest of all days.
With the dawn wind on her lips,
She shall rock the sleeping ships,
Kiss the slumb’rous world to joyance in her won-
drous, winsome ways.”
Drowsy hours rise and fail, swims the darkness,
croons the gale ;
There’s an echo in the white east of a clear up-
springing song.
She is coming up the skies
With the sun-burst in her eyes.
Hist, the gladness of the shore-woods and the
waves that loom along !
Maoriland.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
The Shepherd Kings of
Maoriland.
THE USURPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS confidential (and only) clerk and
head engrosser in the office of Martin and
Drinkwater, Barristers and Solicitors,
Violetville, Maoriland. Incidentally I collected
accounts and did anything else that was going,
between taking down confidences and engrossing
deeds. One afternoon, while Martin was working
up a divorce case in his private room and Drink-
water was heavily adulterating it with whisky,
a tall, handsome man with cold blue eyes and a
clean-shaven face strode in, and, leaning across
the counter, inquired, as man to man, was there
any chance of a billet.
I said there wasn’t, and then proceeded to take
stock of him, for he was of striking appearance.
He was tall and finely built, and ought to have
been attractive. But he wasn’t, and I wondered
why. Then I placed it against his cold blue eye
and hard, cruel mouth. He was undoubtedly
intellectual, but there was something about him I
didn’t like. He was very anxious to get some,
thing to do, as he had just arrived from England
and had a little son in delicate health. The boy’s
mother was dead, and he had brought the little
fellow all the way to Maoriland on what he termed
his “dead ace.”
I told him plainly that he had come to the
wrong quarter to do any good to himself. The
country was a huge sheep walk, and employment
was growing scarcer every day. The only thriving
industry I knew of was marrying “Maori prin-
cesses.” Several of our most estimable citizens
had made fortunes that way, but I had not heard
of anybody having amassed a competence by hard
graft.
He said he didn’t want to make a fortune, but
he was willing to do anything to make a decent
living. I didn’t tell him that his mouth belied
him, but I thought it all the same.
Martin came out, held the door open for the
lady, and while she drew on her gloves, he men-
tioned there were some letters on his desk I might
attend to. He rather thought he wouldn’t be back
that afternoon.
On Martin’s desk, among others, was a letter
from old Mr. Morphett, of Oreti Valley sheep
station, asking the firm to get him a good, reliable
overseer and bookkeeper. Previous experience
with sheep was not necessary, but a thorough
knowledge of bookkeeping was. He was begin-
ning to find that at 65 years a man wanted some-
one to lean on.
I stepped back into the front office. The tall
stranger still leaned meditatively over the
counter.
“ Are you a bookkeeper ? ” I inquired.
“I am ; I have good references —English ones—
if you would care to see them.”
“Well, do you know anything about jum-
bucks ?”
“ Er— no ; I’m afraid I do not even know the
animals.”
“ Woollies, sheep, baa-lambs—you know.”
“ Well, no, I regret to say ”
“It doesn’t matter a hang. Let’s see your
references. I might be able to put something in
your way.”
He spread them out on the counter, and I
glanced over them. They seemed pretty good.
Anyhow, he wanted the billet badly, and the end
of it was he was engaged for a month on trial.
* * * *
Old Mr. Morphett was the soul of kindness,
and, discovering that his new bookkeeper was a
man of education, he had him at his own table.
A good conversationalist, alert and well-read, he
appealed to Morphett. Also, it soon began to be
said that he appealed even more to Mrs. Mor-
phett, who was at the dangerous age of 29, and
was given to writing passionate poetry on the
beauties of youthful love.
I received a note from Mr. Warner that he had
fallen on his feet and among the whitest people
on earth.
It was nearly three months before Mr. Morphett
was in Violetville, and when he called in to shake
hands with Martin, he expressed himself as de-
lighted with the mau we had sent him.
Martin didn’t seem wildly enthusiastic. He
had himself finished working up his divorce case
—in fact, he had been made co-re just ten minutes
before Morphett arrived. I foresaw that the firm
of Martin and Drinkwater was doomed. Drink-
water wouldn’t see anything ; he stuck religiously
to whisky. But this divorce case would kill us. I
began to regret that I had sent Mr. Warner to
Oreti Valley—l wished I had gone myself.
I asked Mr. Morphett if he had any more
vacancies.
“ Yes,” he said, “ we’ve a vacancy for a guest
for three months any time you feel that way.
Now, don’t forget. Just drop a line, and we’ll
send the waggonette down for you.
* * * *
When the firm of Martin and Drinkwater had
been dissolved, and Drinkwater carefully placed
in the asylum for inebriates, I found myself a
guest at Oreti Valley till something should turn
up.
“ You’re just in time, my boy. Governor
coming up next week—meet all the best people
and have some excellent shooting among the hares.
Splendid, couldn’t be better,” said Morphett,
gleefully.
I didn’t see much of Warner —in fact, I felt
that he avoided me. But I heard much about him,
and the thing that puzzled me was that Morphett
didn’t hear it too ; it seemed to be such common
talk.
The hare drive was to take place in a couple of
clover paddocks bounded on one side by a patch
of gohi trees, and a deep, wide stream on the
other. The men were to beat up the gohi patches,
which were a great cover for the hares, and drive
them across the clover paddocks, where they
would be in the line of fire. It might be bad for
the hares, but it meant joy in the hospitals.
Warner was on the right wing, against the
stream. His Ex. and Morphett were between the
centre and the left wing. The result of this
arrangement was that the harts that came under
Warner’s aim had run the gauntlet of the whole
party—and were painfully scarce.
The yellow gohi blooms filled the atmosphere
with perfume, the morning air was delightfully
crisp, and the hares being very fast and wary,
some pretty shooting resulted. His Ex. became
very enthusiastic, and pressed eagerly forward,
Morphett accompanying him.
There was a sudden rush of nearly a dozen
hares; a volley of shouts and shots rang out.
Morphett dropped his gun, spun round, and fell
heavily against his Ex. The Governor was a
man who had seen active service, and he knew the
symptoms of a mortal wound.
“ How the h did you do that ? ” he snorted
to Warner, as that gentleman rushed up.
“I didn’t do it,” said Warner, kneeling down,
and drawing out a handkerchief. “ Where is it.
Mr. Morphett?”
But Morphett never spoke again.
“ He’s dying,” said his Ex. “ Mr. Warner, if
you value your peace of mind and other people’s
safety, never handle a gun again.”
There was no suggestion that it was anything
else but a most unfortunate accident. His Ex.
didn’t associate with murderers, and a merely
formal inquest ended the matter. The shooting
party broke up, and Mrs. Morphett publicly
acquitted Warner of all blame in the matter.
Then she came into Violetville and ordered some
most expensive mourning.
I was back at Violetville, hard at work in the
office of Holt and Macpherson, who had annexed
most of the business of my late employers, when
I heard, about sixteen weeks after the shooting of
Morphett, that Warner had married the widow.
It was spoken of in the social column of the papers
as “a very quiet wedding.”
The whole of the property had been bequeathed
to Mrs. Morphett by a will made a few days after
her marriage with her late husband.
That was sudden enough, and, somehow, I
wasn’t surprised—except at the rapidity with
which events moved. People said loudly the
inquest ought to be reopened.
Meanwhile Warner rode proudly through the
streets of Violetville. His stirrups and mouth-
pieces were silver-plated, and the great bay
stallion he rode had the small, thin, tapering
head, the clean limbs, and the hairless heels that
bespeak the thoroughbred.
He* was devotion itself to the woman he had
widowed and re-married. People who saw his
(Continued on next 'page.)


RHEUMATISM,
Sciatica, Neuralgia, Etc.
AS an Embrocation for Rheumatism, Sciatica, and all deep-seated pains,
Zam-Buk Balm possesses many superior merits. The refined vegetable
essences, of which Zam-Buk is composed, are so pure that they penetrate right
through the tissues, get at the very root of the trouble, and, once there, simply
drive the pain out. There is no waste —one of the many advantages of a Balm
over a liquid. With a liquid preparation half of it is wasted through running
olf the part to be massaged on to the floor. With Zam-Buk Balm you take out
with the finger the exact amount you may require. Under the friction and heat
of the hand it soon liquidises, forming an Embrocation of unequalled efficacy.
These excruciating pains usually occur about the joints of
the lumbar region, and may be caused through cold or
damp. Neuralgia, of course, affects the head and face.
Zam-Buk Balm should be freely and vigorously rubbed in
for several minutes each night and
morning, when the pain will be
soothed, and the muscles so stimu-
lated that in future they will be
better capable of resisting cold and
damp.
Mr. Carnell, of 31 Mair Street, Ballarat, Vic-
toria, says : —“ Rheumatism in my left arm,
from the shoulder to the elbow, has been a
source of pain and inconvenience to me for the
past couple of years, hut, thanks to Zam-Buk
Healing Balm, is not so any longer. It used to
keep me awake for hours at a time, which quite
unfitted me for my daily labors. I tried so-
called remedies, hut to no purpose—l could
never get rid of the dull, aching pain. At last
I began to give up hope of ever being free from
rheumatism. I commenced using Zam-Buk
Balm last winter, which drove out the pain and g ive me immense relief. My sleep is never disturbed
now, and I am sure it never will be so long as I have Zam-Buk Balm by me.”
Rub Zam-Buk IN to Rub ALL Pain Out
Zam-Buk, the great herbal-healing Balm, promptly cures Boils, Eczema, Bruises, Cuts, Burns,
Scalds, Ulcers, Barber’s Rash, Bad Legs and Ankles, Sore Backs, Eruptions, Piles, etc. As an Embro-
cation for Gout, Rheumatism, and all deep-seated pains, Zam-Buk is unequalled. Zam-Buk is a
household necessity—a ,family safeguard— because of its marvellous range of utility. Sold by all
Chemists and Stores at i/6 per pot, or 3/8 Speoial Family Size (containing nearly four times the 1/6),
or direct, post free, from the Zam-Buk Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
Mm
r j
9
9
• M •
tmd /aM) dM&d d
courtly grace took back all they said. He was
evidently doing his best to atone for the sad acci-
dent by life-long devotion.
Six months later, Holt and Macpherson were
favored with instructions from Mrs. Warner to
draw up deeds, making over to her beloved
husband, Herbert Lloyd Warner, the whole of her
property. Holt, whom I had always regarded as
a man whom nothing on earth could shock, swore
vehemently. Macpherson was so distressed at
the prospects of young Morphett that he went
out and took to drink. The deeds were executed
at the station, and no one had any opportunity to
urge the claims of the little boy, who was away at
college.
Then retribution fell on that foolish, infatuated
woman. Warner threw off the mask and scoffed
at the woman who had dragged herself in the dirt
for his profit. He sent his own son to Oxford
University on her dead husband’s money, and her
son he sent to a third-rate boarding school in a
southern town. He ceased to take his wife about,
or to accompany her anywhere. Society cast her
forth, and every house in the country was closed
against them both. Warner didn’t care. Society
was not one of his cravings. He revelled and
rioted round hotels ; he took select parties out to
Oreti Valley ; the old station homestead was
given up to the wildest orgies, and Mrs. Warner
was flouted in her own home by vulgar half-castes
and arrogant adventuresses of her own race. It
broke her heart and drove her to drink. That he
did not deny her. In the matter of liquor he
was liberality itself, and less than a year saw her
dead of alcoholic poisoning.
Oreti ceased to be mentioned in polite society,
but its owner was a power to be reckoned with.
Wild as his life was he looked after the station,
and worked it for all he was worth. Immediately
his mother was dead young Morphett left school
and started to earn his own living somewhere —•
we hardly knew where.
• * • •
It was seven p.m. on a wintry evening that I
arrived at Oreti Valley homestead, in response to
an urgent summons, and was conducted to a room
packed from ceiling to floor with elegantly bound
volumes. A wood fire burned in the big chimney,
an old-fashioned clock ticked drowsily, and
shaded lamps threw the light on the table imme-
diately beneath. Hid in shadow was the figure
of Warner lying on a couch, with a Maori girl
kneeling beside him. The atmosphere reeked
with the smell of drugs. I crossed over and
looked curiously at this unutterable scoundrel.
Strange to say, his face was not so repellent to
me as in those far-off days when he had entered
the old office seeking employment. I had heard
that he was ill, but he looked worse than ill.
There were deep moraines furrowed by mortal
agony on his face, and the aspect of suffering
roused sympathy.
“ I want you to draw up a will. There’s all the
material you require at that table. Hurry up,
for I want to get relief from this agony. ’
“ How do you want to divide the property ? ” I
queried.
“ I don’t want to divide it. I leave everything
to my son, Herbert Lloyd Warner, at present of
Oriel College, Oxford, England.”
“ What about young Morphett ? ”
“I am not concerned with the prospects of
young Morphett.”
“But, you infernal robber, do you mean to
leave him none of his father’s property ? You’ll
have to die someday, and how do you think you’ll
feel if you commit such a crime as this ? ”
“Look here, do you know that I am as good as
dead already. Hurry, hurry, man, I must get
relief.”
“ Well, get relief, and I’ll draw the thing up
afterwards.”
He looked at me curiously.
“ I am afraid that when I get relief I shall take
no interest in wills or anything else.”
“Why, will you be unconscious?”
“No, you fool! I’ll be dead."’
“ You don’t look like a man about to die.”
He threw back the rug that covered him, held
from his body by a wire screen. And I’d sooner
look into the unveiled face of Death any time
than even think fully on what I saw. Maori
leprosy in a white man is awful beyond words.
I recoiled. I started for the door. A big
Maori stepped out of the shadows and caught me
round the neck, dragging me to the ground. I
was hauled back.
His face hardened, and a look of ferocity over-
came the stamp of suffering.
“Look here, if you haven’t got that will drawn
up in proper form in ten minutes, just as I require
it. I’ll have you inoculated with this. These
Maoris here will do anything I tell them. Than
this nothing can be worse—-and besides, in half-
an-hour I’ll be dead. Will you do it ?”
“Yes!” '
“ Put down that I am in my right mind, that I
am capable of reasoning, and that, being abouttodie
by my own hand merely to end my sufferings, I
have had this will drawn up to render impossible
any action against my son, Herbert Lloyd Warner,
for recovery of the whole or any part of the
estate. Put that down in the correct legal jargon—•
unless you want to die a leper.”
I was young, ambitious and dreadfully in want
of money, and I took the risk of my life. I sat
down at a table and drew up a will in the most
concise and lucid form, but not exactly the will
he directed. I read over to him what should have
been on the paper, and witnessed his signature,
trusting to the shadows and Warner’s failing
sight—and luck. Then he handed the paper to a
stalwart Maori, and said something to him in the
native language.
The Maori went out. I asked if I might follow
him.
“ No, I don’t trust you. Anyhow, stay and see
the end.”
The Maori girl, who had never stirred from his
side, rose, went to a desk, and returned with a
small bottle of colorless fluid.
“ Aconite, my friend—most painless thing.
Heart just slows down and—then, the bliss of
freedom from all suffering. Take it if ever you
come to anything like this.”
He poured the contents of the tiny bottle into
a champagne glass, which the Maori girl filled
with wine, and gulped it off. He drained the
last drop and threw the glass on the floor.
“ You’d better not stay. These Maoris don’t
understand, and they might think you’d some-
thing to do with it. Ride for your life.”
I was out of the room before he had finished
speaking, and climbing on my horse I tore away
through the rain.
♦ * * *
When the will was read, it divided the pro-
perty equally between young Warner and Harold
Morphett. At an early opportunity I explained
to Morphett at what desperate risk his name had
been put in the document, and then stood around
in a picturesque attitude waiting for my reward.
And Morphett, after deep consideration, told
me that if the story was true I had committed a
most remarkable breach of trust, and if it wasn’t
true I was something quite unusual in the way of
a liar.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
"Malua.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the gem-like, scattered islands
' I ’ that, bestnd the warm seas by us,
JL Thrives a comfortable doctrine, with a
strong appeal to me ;
It is differently titled, in clashed dialects that try
us,
But sounds music, as “Malua,” to our neighbors
of Fiji.
’TistheGospel of “To-morrow,” “Hasten slowly,”
nothing hurries ;
If we live too vehemently we shall all the sooner
die.
Let things slide along untended, if their siblings
banish worries,
There’s a time for all things coming ; but it’s
coming “ by-and-bye.”
By-and-bye may bring us trouble, but we need
not half-way meet it;
Let all dreary speculations with “ Malua ” be dis-
patched !
By-and-bye may gift us pleasure, then more gladly
shall we greet it,
Having counted not our chickens ere the little
birds are hatched.
Then “Malua” to the hustler, who, all “ waste of
time ” begrudging,
Feels a call to set me working with a “method”
and a “ will ” ;
And “Malua” to the parson, when he bids pre-
pare for judging;
To my creditor, “Malua,” when he wants his
-- “ little bill.”
Maybe some day in the future, I shall waken
from my dreaming ;
Maybe some day I shall mingle with my brothers
in their strife;
Learning duly to distinguish actuality from seenV
' ing,
Bmt at present, here’s “Malua” to “realities of
life”!
Yes, “Malua’s” evanescence to all sermonising
strictures!
Though my attitude be torpid, can my mind not
swiftly move ?
And the dreamer dwells his fancies in a dozen
vivid pictures,
While.the, strenuously struggling may not jump
one narrow groove. •
By-and-bye shall bring nepenthe to the resterand
the rover,
To the Marthas and the Marys, for their tracks
together trend.
All alike, we find one level, by-and-bye, when life
is over ;
And “Malua” all are waiting, for “Malua” is
the end.
And if yet we rise immortal, as we keep so fondly
hoping,
We are fatuous if fretting lest we waste our lives
away; ....
For Eternity must find us lots of leisure time for
coping
With the lessons and the problems that wc put
aside to-day.
So “ Malua ” be my password ; sound philosophy
I borrow
From the sea-wrapt hills and corals of the isles of
far Fiji.
And our wisest might find teachings in these
slack lands of “ To-morrow,”
For “the heathen in his blindness ” sometimes sees
what we don’t see.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
Maconochie’s Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f is the story of Maconochie, as told
by Jackandrew, of Winterfield, via Boor-
ingaboot. Maconochie was a shrewd and
a frugal man, and was always putting by the
bawbees for his old age. When Mac reached the
age of 77 he was still saving and accumulating
that he might be well prepared for that lament-
able time when he would be stricken with years,
and incapable of wielding axe and hoe. Then
Maconochie had the misfortune of his life—he died.
The event was wholly unexpected by Maconochie.
Jackandrew found him lying in his hut awaiting
the services of the undertaker, and the doctor from
Booringaboot gave a certificate at the solicitations
of the only surviving relation, Maconochie of Wag-
tail. The funeral was a very good one at the
price. The hearse had two horses, glass sides,
and four plumes, and the coffin was polished oak,
with nickel embellishments. Maconochie of
Wagtail had found £143 in his deceased friend’s
hut, in addition to various bonds and deposit
receipts, and he was disposed to do the thing well.
The ride from Winterfield to Booringaboot was
long, hot, and trying, but the burying-ground was
reached in fair time, and Mac was unloaded beside
the fresh-made grave. Then a strange sound was
heard coming from the beautiful and expensive
coffin.
“ Man,” said Maconochie of Wagtail, “ what’s
yon ? ” And his face blanched with terror.
The sound was repeated. The coffin was tick-
ing like a great hall clock.
“ It’s the corpse ! ” said Jackandrew.
“And whyfor?” asked Maconochie, tremu-
lous with awe. “For why wad a corpse be doin’
sic foolishness ? ”
“ Maybe he wants to get out,” said Jackandrew
at a venture.
“ Na, na,” cried Maconochie, “I will na have
eet. Yon’s irreleegious.”
But the kicking became more violent, and
despite the protestations of Maconochie of Wag-
tail a pick-point was inserted, and the lid was
prized off.
Maconochie of Winterfield sat up in his coffin,
and blinked his eyes for two minutes. He looked
about, while the mourners stared at him in blank
wonder, and Maconochie of Wagtail uttered low
lamentations in quaint dialect. Mac of Winter-
field looked at the coffin, at the open grave, at
the splendid hearse, the plumes, the two black
horses and the mourning coach, and then he
spoke, and his voice was hoarse with emotion.
“Losh, man,” he said, “hoo mickle did it cost?”
“ Twenta-five poond ! ” answered Maconochie of
Wagtail. “ Twenta-five poond and saxpence, t’
be precise.”
“ Twenta-five poond ! ” ejaculated Mac of
Winterfield. “ Twenta-five poond ! It’s a peety
t’ waste it! ”
And then Maconochie of Winterfield lay back
in his coffin, and died in real earnest.
E.D.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened, took
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Some time ago I had a very
severe attack of influenza which
left me greatly weakened. I lost
flesh rapidly, and was in a very
bad way. I took quantities of
medicine, hut grew constantly
worse. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and began to im-
prove from the start.
“I took about six bottles and
was perfectly cured. I have used
this remedy in my family a great
deal and I know it to be a thor-
oughly reliable, health-giving
compound and family medi-
cine.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. You
ought to profit by it greatly; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S
Sarsapar ill a
There are a great many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap'
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DK. J. O. ATE It & CO., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
IP*© IP 12 s
r M&sLsiL'
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Bond us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing: 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
hwe sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
ofour cards you can earn a Ladles’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
Wwit to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
Wo take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
E
E
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
m
Wm.mm\
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
. ELECTRIC Ba. |_T
n M, mos t perfect and complete ever invented
« will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico
' le '/“digestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid
ney, Liver, and St >mach Complaints, Nervous
ess , a “d all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free SrtV"
w “ s . on e copy of our beautifully illustratec
Medical Book, which should be read by al
del an “ Women. If you are weak in any way
dia 6 no Emger. but write to-day for our splen
la Bo °k and Belt Free. Write to-day
The Dr. Austin Co.,
«17 COLLINS BT., MELBOURNE, VIC.
_ leas<; mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
OLD RELIABLE
English remedy
••FOR.
?° Ut ’ Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Ur °bago, all pains of
Head » Face, or Limbs.
Fe Pared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
' 01,0 ke NT road, LONDON.
*lsT?, lned at Cb “”‘s‘s l‘
tr *lia and New Zealand.
Health
, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
©£ R ICORO's
tSS€.^ cE y.\ F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essenoe of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
had lost all hope before reading this book,
l APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
3TITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
persons whc
SENT FREE o
BOTANIC IN
street, Sydney
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERG Y and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Torn Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. Cd. ; The Southern Garland 4s. Gd.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of Australian
books.
m
mm
m
yOU will not have far to go before finding a friend, acquaintance, or neighbor who can tell you
from personal experience that BEECHAM’S PILLS are the most efficacious medicine known
for the cure of all forms of
Indigestion, Bilious Disorders, Sick Headache, Poorness
of Blood, Nervous Debility, and General Want of Tone .
Such unquestionable testimony can be obtained by almost anyone anywhere. Those
who have taken BEECHAM’S PILLS have realised the immense benefits derived
from their use, and have recommended them to their friends.
Sold Everywhere In boxes, price 10\d. (36 Pills), 1/1$ (56^Pllls), and 2/9 (168 Pills). [l.
If You wisH to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your . . •
Rabbit vSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
~TO
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
\VnLL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
venlence.
Capsule bears the name p m~
MM
MEN
NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. & e .
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: to to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“ The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Btd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronio, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been published.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ’’(the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Houser 151 Elizabeth -St.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO | KEEP YOU WARM
AND DRY
USE OUR-
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30/-, 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List ol Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution-—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLISBROWNc
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS Of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of s’mple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
The bulletin post cards-Now
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & LEMPRIERE. 506 L ' T J LI i COLUNS ST., Melbourne
*w# cx we LcinrniEnE| And at 64 pitt st\, Sydney.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND. *'
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNiVES
ASTHMA CURE
I GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES!
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Comjhs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediateiv
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Soid by all Chemists.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-K nives»
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
MARK-
®O©SI©
The Beaver ferand has stood the test of time.
<bhi£
Abb
JA
0?
AX
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street
Also At SYDNEY M
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUR]
PROPRIETORS
J, & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
KNOWLES STEA
Low Price, High Efficiency.
Pump Guaranteed.
FOR ...
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shai talking,
Cyan?Wß|y orks,
Tanneries, etc.
wsm
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA!
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.
Selling Agents s BEVAN & EDWARDS PROP,, Melfeonme? SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUIION & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK- SOLE AGENTS- M
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and *oi*%rs.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, shafting:, Hangers, <fcc., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users j
Requirements- Correspondence Invited. , j|g
telephones
FOR FASTORAIiIST, STOCK, aj
STATION WORK TELEPHONED F |HOW ToV
Silvertown Telegraph Works
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
SAVE YOUR OIL!
SAVE YOUR OIL
RAPID, SIMPLE
By using WILLIAMS’ PATENT OIL FILTER.
— EFFECTIVE AND CHE* r
In Six Minutes it will make Five Gallons of dirty oil perfectly clean and
fit for use again. The WILLIAMS FILTER will save 70 per cent, on your Oil Bill*
Si
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sole Licensees, Sydney and Melbourne.
\■ > •
