

w
WATKINS SSj 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-•TOR— < , ~
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Direct Steam Driven HYDRO-EXTRACTOR.
■ —-wit)
Radley s Orient RoteL
PIONEER
LEATHER
if B E LTI SSI G
every belt guaranteed.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
Are used by Leading Squatters, Wool Scourers, Meat Works.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ft
Take it back,
I must
HUTTON
PincApplc Brand
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
linolite
(LINE 0' LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sole Agents for Australia:
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co-, Ltd
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE
OM , fa)(Lt/{&cd u i%e, fyfrt.
IQIPM RABBIT skins & MARSUPIAL skins, wool,
UUllOluN HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO. LTD., Sydney.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent.
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
C lAS. B'JR.IILL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famcus Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
3*
mM
it; .
S
As supplied to the ‘ P. & O.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS,
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereaph Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.“a® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combine's made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tklkhi'o.vk 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
*
•e*
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c„ & c
(Wholesale and Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
ELIDON SPA.
/ AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW
t THAT SPARKLES IN THE LILY CUP.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1432.]
[Thursday, July 25, 1907.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLERHACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Upton Sinclair, Journal of Arthur Sterling-, 3sfid, posted.
Moatressor. The Burning Torch, cloth 3s (Id, post (id.
Richardson, 2835 Mayfair, cloth 3s 6d, post fid.
Belcher, Essentials in Architecture, (is, postage fid.
Twelvetrees, Concrete Steel Buildings, 12s, post fid.
Walker, Rocket Book Electric Ligh l ing, 9s, post (Id.
Strickland, Petrol Motors and Motor Cars, 21s, post 9d.
Power, The Making of an Orator, 6s, post (id.
Itoyal Academy Pictures, wrapper 3s fid, cloth Os, post Is.
Saleeby Dr. C. W., Worry, the Disease of the Age, 6s, p. fid.
Garviee, Where Love Leads, 2s fid & 3s 6d, post fid.
Orozy, The Tangled Skein, 2s fid & 3s 6d, post fid.
Henson, R. H., The Mirror of Shalott, 3s fid, post fid.
An Observer in the Near East, Os, post Bd.
Gl.vn, Rhythmic Conception of .Music, 4s, post fid.
Baring, A Year in Russia, 7s fid, post fid.
Bl.vth. The Canker, author of “ Amazement,” 3sfid p fid
Wright* Life of Togo, Is 3d, postage 4d.
MacCunu, Six Radical Thinkers 7s fid, post (id.
Jennings, Field Paths and Green Lancs', 3s, postage fid.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
G.VUiDSOW.
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR- HUDSON’S—TaKe no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from tne »o
Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswichj Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any fetate.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
THE RED PAGE
TWO NOVELS
f INHERE is a formula, for which George
I Meredith is probably to blame, much
affected by the modern English
novelist. You take a rather prosaic and un-
ornamental young man, and bring him and
your heroine together, preferably in child-
hood ; then, after ten chapters, add a
brilliant but rather rococo hero, in whose
splendor the somewhat prosaic young
man is completely obscured. Then mix
romance and catastrophe with the girl and
the brilliant hero, and, after ten more
chapters, you dispose of the brilliant hero by
death or marriage, and the patient and
plodding friend of her youth gets the reward
of his waiting in a somewhat emotionally-
damaged and rather middle-aged heroine. It
is an easy formula to work upon, allowing
you to get within one book two qualities not
usually found conjoined in one individual—
romance and hard work, the herbic and the
plodding. You throw your limelight fipon
your brilliant man, knowing, of course, that
limelight will show up all his defects ; and
you keep the solid man in the background,
with the defects of his qualities carefully
hidden. Thus you give the reader her
romance, and point the comfortable middle-
class moral that—in the end —solid merit
wins the, as aforesaid, somewhat shop-soiled
prize. Occasionally you transpose the sexes,
and let your hero strut for a brief act in the
limelight with the brilliant heroine, while
the sad and trusting girl, who kissed him as a
child,/darns socks and receives him—not so
very much damaged after all—as the curtain
falls.
Sidney Royce Lysaght’s Her Majesty a
Rebels (Macmillan, per Lockley Library)
shows this formula logically extended by the
use of two heroes (brothers), one brilliant
and weak, the other plodding and strong;
and two heroines, one English and the other
Irish. Yet, despite the obviousness of the
formula, Her Majesty's Rebels is a book
that is worth the reading. Lysaght has
taken the career of Charles Stewart Parnell
as a model for his hero ; but there is little
resemblance in the characters of the two
men. The book is an intimate and illumi-
nating study of the Irish temperament.
There is a tendency in modern novels to
build the framework of the plot with too
great attention to detail. The novel, as the
Americans are happily showing, does not
require so elaborate a basis. The author
should allow the reader to take for granted
the preliminaries he so meticulously details
he should suggest, not painstakingly describe,
his atmosphere. Yet once the "reader of
Her Majesty's Rebels begins to “ feel ” him-
self among the characters, the story becomes
an interesting one.
Lysaght’s explanation of Ireland is that
she is the feminine sex to England’s mascu-
line. The English heroine sees something
analogous in the relation between Ireland
and England to that between men and
women.
She admitted, saw as inevitable, but resented,
the man’s dominance, the woman’s dependence.
She saw that woman conquers him, not by her
own strength, but by taking advantage of his
weaknesses; and while, perhaps, ready to adopt
such a course herself, she despised the neces-
sity. ...
“What emancipation we have has been won in
the same way as Ireland’s, and we’re neither of us
satisfied. . . . We are your Irish question. We
stand in the same relationship to men as Ireland
does to England. You have taken advantage of
our weakness in the past as England has done
with Ireland. You have overcome, but never
conquered us. You have alternately wooed and
ill-treated. You have made penal daws for us,
which do not apply to men.”
Desmond and Corinna areneither heroesnor
saints. The character of Desmond is drawn
with an unfaltering hand; his sincerity,
courage, and high purpose, his weakness and
cowardice, build up a character very human.
Best of all the crowding incidents we like
that when the final disgrace comes, and he
shakes himself free from despair, and with
nothing more to conceal, nothing more to
hope, even from the woman he loves, he
cries : “ Thank God for my enemies ! ” Yet
Lysaght has not been able to free himself
from the feminine device of rounding off his
story in order to end with wedding-bells.
There is nothing final in wedding-bells : they
are usually but the summons that rings up
the curtain on the first act of life. Lysaght’s
fine story, which may be confidently placed
high up in the class, F 2, ought to have ended
with Desmond’s encounter with Costello by
the wayside :
“Now, me pathriot,” said Costello, “we’re
quits—and here’s one more for the cause of ould
Ireland.”
He placed the muzzle of the revolver over Des-
mond’s heart and tired again. Then he dragged
the motionless body into the ditch and fled west-
wards across the country.
A curiously stimulating book, yet one
which just misses its intention, is M. P.
Willcocks’ The Wingless Victory (John Lane,
per Dymock’s Library). Keen observation
of life and much cleverness of phrase are the
marks of Miss Willcocks ; but, despite all her
cleverness, she fails quite to visualise her
characters. The story is the old one of the
discontented wife ; yet Miss Willcocks, who
by this work places herself as one of the
foremost woman writers in England, has
stated the old theme in a satisfying way.
We have here no heroic husband, no mere
sinful wife. Miss Willcocks has avoided the
snare of the melodrama ; her characters
cannot bd labelled hero or villain ; they are
not sorted out in sizes of virtue and vice.
The husband is a very human compound of
heroism and compromise, and the wife sees
the mark of the gradual soilure of his ideals
as he labors to bring in a new water-supply to
the little typhoid-breeding village, Clialla-
combe, “where many strict ladies avoided
express trains as indelicate, since so many
men travel by them.” The situation is re-
markably like that in one of Ibsen’s plays.
Miss Willcocks shows us the inevitable re-
lapse that comes after a moment of heroism ;
she insists upon the fundamental humanity of
her characters. Though devoid of the sense of
style, she gives us the woman’s point of view
with almost ingenuous frankness. The wife’s
weakness is cleverly indicated :
She had the longing that has more to do with
women’s folly than any other emotion, the long-
ing to know herself just for or.ce among the
world’s lovely things. To be more longed for by
a man than daylight by a watcher ; this desire it
was that she felt, not passion ; still less love.
J*
Miss Willcocks is an apt phrasemonger,
not without humor ; and Iter book is full of
observations like these :
The chief difficulty between one generation and
another is, not the adjustmentof abstract opinions,
but of daily habits ; a difference of opinion on the
doctrine of the Trinity is a mere trifle, for practi-
cal purposes, compared with different views on
shaving, hair-cutting, and the opening of windows,
in those who have to live in the same house with
one another.
Every new child a woman gets is like a new
patent medicine : she always thinks it will do
something wonderful for her, and it never does.
The woman and the snake were over-intimate
with one another in the old Edenic days to have
entirely lost the connection now.
It was the old, tragedy of middle-age that has
no “situations,” and knows nothing of melo-
drama, but has sacrificed its zest of life, not to
the forward-looking service of child-bearing and
rearing, but to the backward-looking care of the
past generations. For, between the service of
the withering fruit and the ripening, woman’s
life is passed ; whence, indeed, her small show of
produce in the market-places of the world.
The feminine touch is felt throughout,
nowhere so evident as in the repentant wife’s
confession, “You gave me too much liberty!”
And The Wingless Victory is spoiled, and in
a greater degree than Her Majesty’s Rebels,
by the woman’s inveterate habit of marrying
on the subsidiary characters. Miss Willcocks
grabs even the doddering aged and forcibly
couples them ; and, as even then there is a
marriageable man left over, she promptly in-
troduces a nice girl for him. But, despite this
last infirmity of feminine minds—the coersive
impulse both in literature and in life to
get everybody, including herself, married—
the novel is a noteworthy one, and may be
bracketed with Lysaght’s work high in the
class F 2. It ends—as all women’s stories
end, or begin—with a baby.
*- :
Of all the “color books” that Chatto and
Windus have produced the most interest-
ing to date is The Color of London , by
W. Loftie (205.) Here, as in the ideal color
book, the chief interest is in the pictures,
and these have a special artistic quality
not found in the earlier works of the series,
the artist is a Japanese, Yoshio Markino.
It is the fogs and mists of the city that
have captivated his eye, and the result is a series
of charming impressions of night effects and win-
ter greys. The work is remarkably uneven ; but
at his best the artist has succeeded in capturing
certain aspects of the London atmosphere that
seemed beyond the limits of his or apy other
painter’s art. This is a London seen by an out-
sider, and the only chance that London lias of
ever being depicted to the world is through the
eye of an outsider. The Londoner hasn’t the
power or the time to see London ; the fog has got
into his soul—and he has to catch his train.
W. IT. D. Le Souef, the director of the Mel-
bourne “ Zoo,” has produced what should serve
as a handy reference-library for the “Aborigin-
alities ’ liar. His Wild Life in Australia, (with
portrait, Whitcombe and' Tombs, Melb.) is a
gossipy narrative of expeditions made for the
study of the wild life of the continent, illustrated
by excellent photographs. Some of his yarns
read like the product of the variegated imagina-
tion of the hardened “Abo” correspondent; but
Le Souef’s statements are the mere matter-of-
fact observations of a trained naturalist. He
knows, for instance; exactly where the pelican
builds its nest, and gives a photograph of the
rookery.
“Nothing will convince me that Americans
really believe time to be money while they think it
necessary to be personally present whenever their
shoes are being blacked.”— Ur. Lorenz.
THE ROMANCE OF MURIHIKU
A very interesting human document is Robert
McNab, M.A., LL.B., Maoriland Minister of
Lands, and author of Murihiku and the Southern
Islands (Win. Smith, Invercargill, M.L.).
McNab’s life has been swayed by two hobbies
the raking over of historical records, and the
governing of his own country. For along time
the former hobby held him ; he was so keenly
interested in unearthing the early history of
Murihiku—“The Last Joint in the Tail” of
Southern Maoriland—that he twice refused
cabinet rank under the autocracy of Seddon. For
Murihiku kept him busy: his quest for informa-
tion led him into strange corners of the earth, and
for nine years he .dived into musty documents,
went laboriously through ancient newspapers,
scrutinised and tabulated forgotten shipping
lists, scraped among the mediaeval records in Aus-
tralasian libraries, searched for ships’ logs in
Australia, America, France, Spain and Russia—
and left Seddon to run Murihiku and the rest of
Maoriland.
“ Nothing has surprised the author more, {lur-
ing his long search (he writes) than the great
mass of discovery work found placed upon record
in books, but never translated into our language,
arid the number of great explorers scarcely
known to our writers even by name. With two of
these we are brought into contact in the present
work : the great Spaniard, Malaspina, and the
equally great Russian Antartic explorer, Belling-
hausen. . . . Yet, with the exception of Cook, we
have produced no navigator greater than either
of them.”
MeNab’s account of his discovery of these ex-
plorers shows the keen zest and dogged patience
of a detective on the trail of an undiscovered
crime. And he was rewarded by one remarkable
find. In Salem; U.S.A., he found the MS. of
the logs of the “ Britannia” which deposited the
first sealing gang on the Maoriland coast in 175)2,
of the. “ Endeavour,” wrecked in Facile Har-
bor in 175)5, and of the “Providence,” the
first vessel built in Australasia, that sailed out
of the yard in which she was built in Dusky
Sound in the same year. This combination of
remarkable logs was due to the fact that the author
of them all passed from the fourth mate of the
first ship to third mate of the second, and finally
became captain of the “ Providence.” McNab re-
marks that the mystery of Dusky Sound vanishes'
with this valuable find. As illustrating McNab s
devotion to his hobby, it may be mentioned that
eighteen months ago his book was ready for the
public, when fresh discoveries in America necessi-
tated the destruction of theeditipn. And now the
author is in power, devoted to his other hobby. In
his preface the Minister of Lands regrets his
seduction from his first love, as he has the material
ready for a continuation of his history, which
stops at 1.825), to cover the gap, “ almost down
to the time when our present histories take up
the thread, on the-recognised settlement of the
country.”
McNab modestly deplores his lack of literary
ability ; his sole purpose is to gather the inform-
ation out of which other writers can make his-
tory. And Murihiku, poorly bound, brist-
ling with corrigenda and overlooked misprints,
confirms MeNab’s disclaimer of literary powers.
But the value of his book depends on a greater
thing than-style—the wealth of romance that he
has painstakingly unearthed about the beginnings
of our civilisation in the Pacific. When he gets
tired of cabinet rank, he can have any appoint-
ment he wants in any historical research depart-
ment of the world.
This patient investigator has proved that Cook’s
“Endeavour” ended her days, not at Newport,
U.S.A., as is frequently asserted, but as a hulk
used as a receiving ship for female convicts upon
the Thames, and that the “Endeavour” whose
wreck still lies at Dusky Sound was a later
vessel that had an equally adventurous voyage.
Murihiku is crammed with ad venture and romance
—romanceintheraw, extracted from dry ships’ logs
and paragraphs in forgotten papers. He tells of
Spanish arid Russian explorers, of American
sealers, of convict escapees, of great fishing and
sealing and flax-manufacturing schemes, of priva-
teers and Spanish prizes, of captures by American
cruisers, of fights between sealing gangs, of piracy,
of wrecks and disappearances at sea, of marooned
sealers upon inhospitable islets, of murder and
cannibalism by the Maoris, of mutual head-hunting
—the European seeking the preserved heads of
the Maoris, arid the Maoris seeking the. fresh
heads of the Europeans. And all these in language
as dry as the dusty records that gave them birth.
A curious fact recorded by McNab is that the
early sealers had to contend with the East India
Company, which alleged it possessed a monopoly
of all trade in the Pacific. Another fact mentioned
is that, in 1791, a gang of desperadoes seized upon
the brig “Harrington” in Farm Cove, Sydney,
and as pirates disappeared from history, unsuc-
cessfully pursued by the armed vessel “ Pegasus.”
But of all th'e voyages detailed none gives more
promise for romantic treatment than that of the
“ General Gates.” Romance was in her name,
and what dare-devil things might have been ex-
pected from the riame of her commander—Captain
Abimeleck Riggs ! There is here a ballad that
almost writes itself: —
“ The General Gates," she sailed away,
Under Captain Abimeleck Riggs!
And Captain Abimeleck Riggs, as McNab re-
marks, “made history.” From Sydney he enticed
five convicts on board, and allowed another five
to stow awav ; and these ten happened to be the
very best mechanics in the Government employ.
But H.M.S. “ Dromedary ” caught Abimeleck
in the Bay of Islands, and, finding that
the stowaways had been cruelly illtreated,
placed Riggs under arrest and sent the
“General Gates,” her commander, and her
convicts back to Sydney, in charge of a British
crew. There the American captain was tried, aud
pleaded that he had left sealing gangs on islands,
who, if not relieved, must starve. The Judge, in
sentencing him, said that Abimeleck had "acted
more like a pirate than the subject of a friendly
civilised nation; he had gone about “ into
low public-houses, seducing some of our best con-
vict mechanics.” Abimeleck was fined in twelve
penalties of £5OO each for taking away convicts
without the Governor’s permission—so we may
assume that, allowing for wear and tear, every
convict was valued by his masters at, say,
£373 17s. 4d. This will be good news to many of
our best families. It isn’t every one of us who
can boast an ancestor officially valued at
£373 17s. 4d. The “General Gates ” was detained
nine months in Sydney, till the £OOOO fine was
paid. Then she set off in quest of her sealing
parties and further adventure. Six of her
crew engaged in sealing were captured by.
the Maoris, and what happened is thus
quaintly described by one of the survivors:—
First the Maoris killed John Router. “Then
they cut off his head and buried it; the rest of
the body these inhuman people deposited in a
kind of oven, and roasted it as a person would
roast an animal—of this they gave us to eat, and
having nothing else we partook of it, which tasted
very much like roast pork. Consider, dear
reader, what a state our mind must be in at those
awful moments. They tied the remaining five of
us to a tree; the next day James Webster was
killed and roasted ; the day after this William
Rawson, of New London, was killed and roasted ;
and the following day William Smith, of New
York, shared the fate of his unhappy companions.”
It is probably due to a course of the Bab
Ballads and of “Hop’s” caricatures, but the
deplorable fact is that this sad and pathetic
account will probably raise a smile from nine out
ten readers. A perverted sense of the ridiculous
is the most unhappy of human possessions—
and W. S. Gilbert and “Hop” are to. blame.
For the anxious reader’s benefit it may be
stated that the last two of the men
escaped owing to a heavy storm which frightened
the natives, and after three days in their open
boat were picked uu. Meantime the “General
Gates ” apparently forgot all about another of
her sealing gangs ,she sailed for China, but
seventeen months afterwards returned, and found
that four men out of eight in that gang had
been eaten. The whole of a third gang was
massacred. Abimeleck seems to have had a care-
less habit of leaving liis sealers about ; buf the
souls of the roasted sealer's must have grimly
smiled at the revenge their captain took. Meet-
ing at sea a fleet of Maori canoes belonging to the
tribe that had eaten his men, Captain Abimeleck
Riggs deliberately sailed them down one after
the other. It must have been a pretty sight—
for Abimeleck.
“ What became of this vessel that commenced
by stealing convicts, that experienced arrest by a
man-of-war, that ultimately had her gangs eaten
by the Maoris or kidnapped by. captains of sealing
vessels, remains a mystery.” McNab does not
know. We do. A ship like that, and under such
a commander, could never come to an end. She
is sailing yet, sailing the seas of romance. . . .
“ The Oencral (rates, ” she’s sailing still ,
Under Captain Abimeleck Riggs !
In Ron tledge’s one-shiiling ‘ ‘Universal Library,”
Hori Grey’s Polynesian Mythology and Ancient
Traditional History of the New Zealanders is a
handy and welcome reprint that should be in the
library of every Maorilander.
Re the character of the Australian, S. J.
Mclirath forwards from Pretoria the reasons
given him by a non-Australian as to why the
Australian is disliked dn S. Africa. “You
fellows,” this critic said, “ may be broadly divided
into two classes—the crooks and the grafters. In
the towns, the crooks predominate: in the coun-
try, the grafters. The crooks have demoralised
sport, shown the dlicits of all kinds (gold,
diamonds, and liquor) points which, whilst increas-
ing their power for evil, demonstrated their
previous poverty of invention ; whilst the Aus-
tralians’ ingenuity and fertility of resource in
roguery and rascality is such that the president,
of hell himself must have conceived a high
respect for their genius. The grafter, on
the other hand, is (occasionally) sober, always
industrious, thrifty, resourceful, and impelled by
so fierce a desire to succeed in all he undertakes
that his ambition is apt at times to blunt his finer
scruples—that is, if he ever had any. Neverthe-
less, he supplies a type of man badly needed in a
country whose industrial grit is conspicuous by
its absence, and where Britishers, from the Home-
land show a fatal readiness to adopt the dictum
of the Dutchman, ‘ To-morrow is also a day.’
This energy and push of the Australian (which
closely resembles that of the Yankee hustler),
accompanied, as it frequently is, by a harsh
brusqueness of speech and manner, largely
accounts for the unpopularity of the Antipodean
colonist among people whose ingrained Conser-
vatism is rudely outraged by the novelty of his
methods and manners. Still the Australian
leaven is pregnant with possibilities for good,
and it will inevitably work greatly to the ultimate
advantage of the State. The crook will event-
ually be eliminated. The dilatory Dutchman
and the Englishman, whose capacity for
thoroughness shows a tendency to weaken
in a colonial atmosphere, are spurred on to
more energetic ways by the example of
the go-ahead Australian ; and as angularities are
rubbed off, and aseerbities softened, it is only
reasonable to suppose that the Australian will
assimilate whatever desirable traits his fellow
colonists possess, and he himself at present lacks.
There is a sphere in which Australians of all sorts
hold unrivalled and undisputed sway. In South
Africa the average man was never a purist in
matters of speech. His language was always "
somewhat freer than that allowed by the standard
sanctioned by the conventions of nice society;
but, until the Australian taught him differently,
the capacity of the English tongue as an instru-
ment of violent abuse and picturesque profanity
remained to him a hidden mystery. Infected by
his example, the Africander and the British
colonial is following bravely in his footsteps—but
at present it is a long, long way behind.”


ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Famous Low Prices
For FINE FURNITURE
,
im !- .' ’’ .• v iu'
•
tmm t
\
i'srr
ro
*»s
No. 67.
Of 3 pieces, upholstered in a good wearing tapestry, the seats and backs have special soft springs, Kapok stuffing; special spring edge, good silk cord and silk pom-pom fringe.
(JNo. Gi) Single Chair, 755. ; Settee, £6 lOs. ; the three pieces complete, £l4.
'.~s.£ w -if
ft
■;■ r J;
v/"' -s* >• '\-■. ■V : *?- <• A .‘
tSk
•\.;
■'V
m
i
No. 75.
Eugene Couch, very soft spring scroll and seat, upholstered in good
Cretonne, length over all 7ft. x 2ft. 3in. wide (No. 75) £4, 17s. 6d.
wearing
TERMS :
Spot Cash.
L:. •:
mx
LESfi»r
mtm :
y
1 •
No. 72.
Square Tub Arm Chair, upholstered in new
Art Cretonne, soft spring- seat, best finish (No. 72)
655.
No. 68.
Easy Chair, in rich saddle bags and XJtrecht
velvet, best springs, Kapok stuffing, good cord
and fringe, and first - class workmanship
(No. 68), £3 lOs.
When ordering', quote
Numbers and Price.
No. 62.
Chesterfield Loung-e, both ends adjustable as shown, spring seat with large box
underneath, length over all 6 feet, upholstered in good wearing tapestry
(No. 62) .£9 IQs.
No. 73.
Patent Spring 1 Lid Box Ottoman, very roomy box, soft spring seat and scroll,
TT 1., , . length over all 6ft. 6m. x 30in. wide. (No. 73).
Upholstered in good Cretonne, £5 lOs. Upholstered in new Art Velveteen. £6 lOs.
Anthony Hordern (& Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
JULY *5, 1907.


BY SELLING
YOUR
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WBNCHCGMBE, CARSON & 00., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER^
FREE TO ALL
Solid
Gold.
In order to introduce the Dr. SIMS’ LAXATIVE PILLS into every home,
and as a hu»e advertisement, we are
GIVING AWAY £5,000 IN PRIZES,
FREE
We Make You a Present of either a
Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch or a Gent.'s
Solid Reliable Nickel Silver WATCH
and Handsome DOUBLE ALBERT
For Selling for ns only ONE DOZEN BOXES of our PILLS at 1/- per BOX-
SEND NO MONEY
Simply send a post card with Full Name
and Address, and say you will either
sell our Pills or return them to us if
~ card or letter we will post you the Pills When sold, send us the
? °r receive i°forsame and we will at once send you Absolutely Free the Watch and Chain
1 G rSTii h ’ „ m , other Prize you may choose from our Premium Lists we will send with the
or Solid Gold Brooch or We do exactly what we say, our object being
In I 't t o,Wp > Tnd advertise the Dr Sims’ Laxative Pills all over Australia and New Zea-
asswsaws s? .issrA s.. <*»■««< »—*«*«*■*. >*« ■* -
invaluable HOUSEHOLD remedy.
These Pills are nurelv VEGETABLE in com position, and we GUARANTEE them as such. They
are and cure dUeases and conditions such as are caused by over-eating, sluggish liver, and by
are active, and cure o ne 01 . tW o Pills at bed-time are positively certain to relieve and cure
deficient mtestinal secretions Headache> windi Heartburn. Dizziness, Sallow Skin. Pimples,
Loss°of * Appetite, Vain in’the Stomach after eating, Heart Palpitation, and all Kindred Ailments.
Thev act on the Bowels gently, without anv gripe, and it will be found that their Tonic action so
strengthens the Stomach, Liver & Bowels that these Organs will soon perforin their dnty without assistance.
If you are unable to sell the whole 12 boxes we will send you a Gold Shell
" Ring for selling 6 bixes, but you will have no difficulty to sell our Pills, as
“ their medicinal high quality recommends them wherever introduced.
WRITE TO-DAY,
THE SIMS REMEDY CO. (Reg.)
4 Martin Lane, Sydney, N/S.vv.
C.R. TAILOR-MADE P.D.
e U CORSETS. V U
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
in 50 different
styles-
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Obtainable in all styles from all
Progressive stores in Australasia-
ns any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney. Melbourne.
J. Bunting-, Hobson Street, Auckland.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON GOMPOUNBS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 29S Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DiiFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best *2”* onlv ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Sent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprrpe ~ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polisii-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Od posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, 1 s. Scientific Wrestling, Is. 3d. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color,because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival’’Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.,
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
Who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a Weeh
Given
Away
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-'See Capsule marked ENO'B 'FRUIT tACTS Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fitparad only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON. ENQ.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
ARTEHi
rngMATg flnwllf CPOtLtL
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
F%n biliousness,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
once with CAKih-Kb 1-1111- resist the wonderful
Complaints never have and never can resist tne w
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are
Carter’s Little
cautioned to observe that genuine
Liver Pills Must Beir Signature oi


17
/L
“I—l
“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
lifer's
'Cherry federal
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
<9
In consequence of
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
fresh supplies arrive
we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or.Pinlt
Powder for 2/6
Agents:
CLAUDE HEALY.& Co.,
63 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10t{.
“I cannot praise
SCOTTS
The
Evidence
from
116 Bowman Street,
Pyrmont, N.S.W.
August lsth t 1906.
“ My two sons—George, aged
five, and Thomas, aged three—
suffered severely with chest and
throat trouble, and it was no
uncommon thing for me to be
up night after night attending
to them. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and shall always be
glad I did so, for from the first
I noticed an improvement, and
now the change is simply mar-
vellous, for they are both the
picture of health. I cannot
praise Scott’s too highly.”
(Mrs.) M. Fletcher
The Reason WHY
they arc Healthy
The splendid Norwegian cod
liver oil in Scott’s, helped by
the valuable hypophosphites of
lime and soda, quickly soothed
and healed the little chaps’ raw
tissues. That done,
Scott’s set to work
to build up solid,
sound flesh all over
the body—and suc-
ceeded, as Scott’s
always does.
But make sure it is
really Scott’s you
get —j ou can do so trade mark
by seeing “the fishman with
the lish” on every package.
scorrs
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS & DEALERS
IN MEDICINES
IRISH
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold, £•
Annoying Influenza **
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. PF“Sekd for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE
Beautiful Home Decorations*
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” I‘T,OOIt STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOBIN” AUJMIVIIM KMIIEI, gives unsightly P'pes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease o£ application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and sat isfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
Br
Royal Waekan
PORVEYORS TO
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In heimetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
MANY LIVES.
WORLD S CURE
m
Mb wor
■ Coughs, Colds,
W Bronchitis, Asthma,
0 and other
I Lung Troubles.
QttMge.
lungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbndge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
j It is nice to do the
; necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its j
pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
freshness left in the mouth, and of <
course you will soon see how J
splendidly, how easily, and how )
thoroughly it cleans. ?
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. \
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
The name
l aSmOA
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kisses.
You have tasted them all in the days of your
manhood ; some brought you satiety, some but
regret,
Have you found that the kisses a man best
remembers are also the kisses a man should
forget ?
She stole out in the dark while the others were
dancing. You waited in silence that needed
no speech,
And the cheeks and the lips that seemed further
than Heaven were suddenly brought within
intimate reach.
Was it fear made her heart beat, so close to your
shoulder, lest one stepping after, cautious and
low,
Should blare forth a truth that seemed hid in the
shadow, and the pack of the Scandal hounds
suddenly know?
Was it sweet? Was it bitter? Out on the
verandah, the sob of the waves and the wind
in the tree,
And the black of the laurels beyond the grey
paling, and further the reach of the fetterless
sea.
You can picture t still, all the sweep of the
ocean, the one far red light hanging low in
the south—
Did your arms hold her close while you silenced
the protest that leapt in a laugh and a sigh
to her mouth ?
With a crash the finale rang on the piano, the
“Last Waltz” died down in a shudder of
pain—
Then the tap of high heels on the wooden
verandah, and the strong arms that held her
were empty again.
You have tasted them all in the days of your
manhood; some left but satiety, some but
regret,
Have you found that the kisses a man best
remembers are always the kisses a man should
forget ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Morning Song.
0 lift thy lids of snow, dear heart,
From thy sweet eyes of violet,
For on the purple eastern hills
His feet the God of Day hath set 1
O hasten down to me, dear heart,
The young wind cries in ecstasy,
And clear above the song-birds’ cal’s
I hear the streamlet’s rhapsody !
Arid we will climb the sun kissed hills
Above the quiet vales of sleep,
Where, ’gainst the army of the day,
The sentry mists their watches keep.
And we will cross the singing stream,
And through the dim green woodland stray
And hear all Nature’s harmonies,
And steal from Time one perfect day.
One perfect day, that to the end
Our parted souls will not forget ;
So lift thy lids of snow, dear heart,
From thy sweet eyes of violet.
N.s.w.
R. BOULTON.
Compromise.
It takes the major portion of a week
To cross the run on Yangaralla Creek,
And all the “scenery” the traveller sees
Is sage-bush scrub, and stunted myall trees.
It wouldn’t run a jumbuck to the mile,
That stretch of kopi country, wholly vile.
The wild goats shun it; emus keep away ;
And self-respecting pigs refuse to stay. ■
And yet our dear old friends, the rabbits, there
Under the spongy soil their homes prepare;
While mounds and burrows mar the scanty sward,
And warrened hillocks hold the happy horde.
Mankind is represented by a Chow ;
He lives there, but I often wonder how.
There, in a hut, exhaling Northern smells,
This almond-eyed Celestial hermit dwells.
You and your Mongol friend are hand-in-hand,
Oh, Bunny ; Botlf would over-run the land
We’re fond of planting pests, so he and you
Provide some food for thought and work to do.
But, though I love my country from my heart,
Bunny and John are welcome to a part.
If they’d confine themselves therein to live,
All Yangaralla Run to them I’d give.
VIC.
A.B.C.
Gone to the Dogs.
“ Oh, he’s gone to the dogs ! ” so they shrug and
sneer
At the name of one in the whirlpool sunk.
Well—l wish him liquor and all good cheer,
And I trust he is not too drunk.
Yes, he “went to the dogs,” as the worldlings say;
So I hope the canines will treat him well,
And our friend may rise and come back some day
With a humorous tale to tell.
And the Fates may decree, when the son comes
back,
That he brings the comrades who shared his
fate.
So he’ll come in rags with his yelping pack
And he’ll bang on the outer gate.
And the fatted calf in the stall will foam
When he sees the flash of the thirsty steel,
And there’ll be great times when the Lost comes
home
With the Hounds of the Damned at heel.
VIC.
KODAK.


sase
&
i
4
IT
IS
lS'tcyndsFor
Wunderlich
f C/iP //ejr/ />v
_ METAL
Cei lings
Your Horae and Your Business Premises should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting. May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and buildings.
Send for Catalogue “ D.”
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co*, Ltd*,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 FITT STREET. N.S.W. Postal Address:
Victorian Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne. BOX 474, G.F.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
THE TIE THOT BINDS.
CADBURY’S COCOA can be obtained in every corner of the British Empire
everybody agrees that for Strength,Purity, Flavour & Economy it is unequalled.
HRS’ Vr, \ •'!">
BRITISH fe
IH Jfc ,SLES -#V
l"({ r V®
NtWFOUmUNO -.J®
asm
l!H^
0*
- v—- BRITISH ■ HfM. Ml' It
’•js&er
THE GIFT
FROM
THE
MOTHER COUNTRY
to her COLONIES
NEW
ZEALAND
TASMANIA
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U. s.a. BY hand labor.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF .
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers—
Lams & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
BJS
*.*'syy;.^oc
* 69 \V '«««
\e*' VV 1892 /r e^3
%■ f /
Sr
ftOTHEC HAnS
m
a
Sold bv
All Jewellers
/Vntr to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate Given With Each Watch.
Estab'
175 a
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SPECIM. LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
m
W£
A
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is a true food and contains Albumen and Fibrine which go to
form Blood, Bone, Brain and Muscle. Beef-teas and Meat-Extracts
. are stimulants only.
BOVRIL is liquid life.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
m
o
&
pc 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
»nd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
3EE
BJI
SB
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
B
»
©
RUBEROIP IS SYNONYMOUS
WITH DURABILITY.
If you want your Roof
to last as long as your
house, use
RUBE
the kind with the word
RUBEROID stamped
every 4ft. of the roll.
E. Rich & Co., Ltd
Sydney & Brisbane
J
‘f
• fW,,,
lil
f® LRWtt,®?
m
w
»
m
Some Firms Sellinj’
RUBEROID.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Holdswortii, Macpherson A Co.
W. Cary & Sons
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co.. Ltd.
Grace Bros.
Marcus Clark, Ltd.
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.
Fredk. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle
F. Braund & Co., Armidale
J. F. Utl & Co., Glen Lines
T. J. Treloar & Co., Tain worth
Fred. R. Hall, Cooiamon
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Bourke & Brewarrina


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. No. 1432.
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 1907.
Price Gd.
IN THE PUBLIC EYE.
The constant sneer or curse or lamentatlon of the two Sydney Foreign-trade morning papers about "Victorian Manufactures,” while N.S.W.
manufactures are never even mentioned by them, is at last leading the outside public to believe that the Ma State has no factories of its own.
The Herald and Telegraph tell the world every day about “Victorian manufactures” as if they were the only ones in Australia. As “natural
consequence the outside person begins to see with his mind’s eye things similar to the above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bullktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bullktin ivould oblige, the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. tvhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nut tears in lllaele anil white.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which hcis to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those'
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
(Bitch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, IF. C.
South Africa. —'The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. —lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong .—Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
Agents ’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x tlein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TT^^'alZetz/ri.
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 1907.
OUR BADLY PAID FEDERAL
POLITICIANS.
The decline in the quality of the Australian Par-
liament is a matter that has become obvious
enough to all who care to study the situation, and
the fact that the quality of the State Parliaments
is lower still furnishes no real consolation. The
second Australian Parliament was mentally poorer
than the first, and the third shows a deterioration
compared with the second. Itispathetictoconsider
the leaders who have dropped out, and the men
who, though not leaders, were still taller in
mental stature than the average. Barton,
O’Connor, Isaacs, Higgins, Downer, Higgs,
Bonython, M'Millan and Turner are a few
names, and though the owners were, politically,
a mixed lot, still it is indisputable that they were
conspicuous men. It is pathetic, also, to con-
sider the names of the big men who never entered
the Australian Parliament simply because they
couldn’t afford to give their services at the
price; and those of the few men of
size who are still in, but whom rumor
freely mentions as being tired of the unprofit-
able game and likely to drop out. The
standard of Parliamentary intelligence continues
fairly high, but it is lowering ; and then it must
be remembered that something more than mere
knowledge and intellect are wanted to make a
statesman. He requires initiative, courage, the
power of organisation, and the capacity for
leadership. It might be possible to get together
75 men of brilliant intellect, and with enough
knowledge among them to make an “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica ” (new edition), and yet find not
one real leader in the crowd, nor even a man with
the orderly mind that is required to make a suc-
cessful hack administi’ator of a department. And
it is to a great extent the men with the capacity
for leadership and organisation who are dropping
out, simply because they are also the ambitious
men, and the men who have the best chance
of success in other walks of life where there
are big prizes to be gained. But if there
is something pathetic in the list of the
men who have gone, there is also a heap
of profound melancholy in the catalogue of those
who have not gone. Wilks remains, also
Kelly and Clemons and Pulsford and Dobson
and Simian Phraser and J. Cook and Johnson,
and many more whose absence would leave a
grateful vacancy. 9 „
The tendency is towards a division into two
classes. One consists of a few rich men to whom
the miserable pay of £4OO a year is a matter of
indifference—men who like the distinction of
membership just as they might like to be knights
or mayors or potentates in an Ancient Disorder of
Buffaloes, or who are there strictly on class busi-
ness, to hinder any legislation that may threaten
their privileges and monopolies. The other class
consists of men who reckon the £4OO a yeai —or
the £2OO or so a year which remains when
election and other expenses are paid—about as
much as they could earn in any other occu-
pation. In between there will always be
the men who are worth £lOOO a year or more
at a steady job, but who are content to put up
with a loss of £BOO a year and a very precarious
job, through sheer love of their country. But
these men wili always be few. If it was merely
a question of the loss of money in the immediate
present there are probably many who would take
on the work, but there is a future to be con-
sidered which is even worse than the present. In
very few cases is a politician able to run a business
successfully along with his Parliamentary duties,
unless he attends to his Parliamentary duties
only in name. The business almost alwaysleaves
him. And some day or other—probably when he
is too old to make a fresh start—his Parliamentary
position also leaves him. Then—well, there is
the Salv’artny doss-house in the perspective, and
an uncivil Hallelujah person at the door, and there
are other considerations. The kind of patriotism
that can face death is fairly common ; the kind
that can deliberately face the Norfolk Howard
in a doss-house is rare, and it is to be hoped it
will long continue so. Australia has a reputation
for cleanliness to keep up.
* * • *
Unfortunately, certain silly and wooden old
prejudices and catchwords stand in the way of
adequate payment for the most important class of
men in the community—the men who steer the
country, and make it a success or a ruin, accord-
ing to their capacity or lack thereof. There
is a shibboleth much used by bagmen and superior
persons to the effect that legislators should not be
paid at all, or, at least, should receive bare
expenses, and that they should serve their country
from motives of pure patriotism. This gag was
invented in England, and imported here. England
is a rich country in which 12,000,000 people live
constantly on the verge of starvation, and about
9 per cent, of the people own almost the entire
wealth of the British Isles. There is no difficulty
in finding, out of that 9 per cent., a sufficiency of
legislators to whom £4OO, or even £lOOO a year, is
really a matter of no importance. These men
devised the wild joke that they serve without pay
and from the noblest and most disinterested
motives, because it pays them to serve without pay.
The absence of payment shuts out 99 possible com-
petitors out of every possible 100, and these 99
are just the men who, if they got into Parliament,
might commence an attack on the stupendous
land monopoly system, which is pleasant for the
ruling classes, but which lies like a pyramid on
the country’s chest. If the men now in possession
in England established payment of members,
the position would be that (1) the payment would
make no serious difference to many of them ; (2)
very many of them wouldn’t get the payment
because they would lose their seats in the rush of
new democratic candidates; and (3) in addition
to not getting the payment and not keeping their
seats, they might lose many other things when the
new class of members commenced to legislate.
Therefore do the bulk of the men in possession in
England believe firmly in gratis legislation
done from pure love of country. But this has
nothing to do with the case of Australia,
which hasn’t, and hopes never to have, the
vast inequality of wealth which alone can create
a class like that from which Britain draws the
bulk of its legislators. Moreover, the wooden
jest about the person who ought to serve his
country gratis in Parliament, and who should
feel himself defiled by remuneration, or by suffi-
cient remuneration, carries its own answer. If
the man who serves his country in Parliament
should only receive his bare expenses, or not even
his expenses, there is equally good reason why
the king, the governor, the general, admiral,
judge and civil servant, who also serve their
country, though in far less important positions
than the member of Parliament, should likewise
receive little or nothing. But because England
never found it necessary to have unpaid judges
or monarchs in order to keep the proletariat
from rushing the bench or the throne, the infirm
old jest was never applied in those cases.
» » * *
There is also a familiar complaint about the
danger of encouraging the class of “professional
politicians.” As a matter of fact, it is just that
class which Australia desires to encourage. It is
tired of the young amateur politician like Willie
Kelly, who regards the work of governing a
continent and shaping the destinies of a nation
as an afternoon tea joke; and the elderly amateur
like the late Robert Reid, who devoted the fag
end of his tired mind to steering a nation after he
has spent the bulk of his gigantic intelligence on
the sale of a quantity of sixpenny socks. And
another difficulty in the way of any serious con-
sideration of the question of reasonable pay for
politicians is the curious affectation of contempt
for the politician class which is one of the fashions
of the hour. Of course there is some ground for
this affectation. The country has always paid for
the poorest kind of political mediocrity, and it has
sometimes got what it paid for. The bagman or
admiral, at £1 a week, would be apt to be worth
only £1 a week, and the same rule holds good in
a nobler sphere. The remedy is to offer a better
price for better men. When the softgoodsman
finds that his bagman at £1 a week doesn’t bring
in orders, his remedy is not to scoff at the whole
bag tribe, but to pay a better price for a better
bag gentleman. And though the humblest variety
of political life is immeasurably higher than the
best kind of the sordid bagman existence, still the
parallel holds good.
Therefore, The Bulletin suggests that £lOOO
a year, or £l5OO if Parliament feels so inclined,
should be fixed as the salary of a private member
of the Australian Parliament, and that the
salaries of Ministers should be increased to cor-
respond. It is time to get away from the theory
that any cheap variety of intelligence is good
enough to rule a nation ; that one must buy a
brighter intellect to manage a softgoods de-
partment than to manage a country; and that
25 law-makers are only equal, in a monetary
sense, to one cocked-hatted figurehead who lays
foundation-stones and opens bazaars. In every
other walk of life good service to the country is
supposed to be paid its salary regularly (even
Washington and Nelson reached out for ade-
quate remuneration), and it isn’t safe to have a
cheap, scratch mob of men at a laborer’s wage to
give Nelson his instructions, or to decide what
sort of fleet Nelson will have. Australia, as the
White Man’s furthest outpost, has huge problems
ahead of it, and it wants to buy the best possible
brains to deal with them. Of course a country may
pay for men of brains, and yet at times get fools (as
a case in point, Britain has before now hired a
lunatic king at about half-a-million a year),
but on the other hand the country that
only pays a fool’s wage gets fools almost
all the time. The wage of the politician should
be sufficient to make politics a career which
young, able, and ambitious men will be willing to
enter with the firm intention of sticking to it as
long as there is a constituency left which will
stick to them. Australia requires the professional
politician of the best type, just as it requires the
best type of professional engineer, and it should
pay a price which will make really good men
compete for the job. At present it pays just
enough to buy the cheap kind of professional or
the very inefficient amateur. Now and then it
gets, as an act of charity, the services of the
efficient professional, but a country of this size
should be above the receipt of charity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bounties Bill.
The Rural Bounties Bill, just introduced to the
Representatives, offers £530,000 during the 15
years from July, 1908, to encourage producers of
cotton, flax, jute, hemp, copra, cotton seed, lin-
seed, olives, palm fruit, peanuts, sunflowers, rice,
rubber, coffee, tobacco, preserved fish, dates, and
certain dried fruits. Mostly the bonus runs for
10 years, and amounts to 10 per cent, on the
market value of the article, though jute gets 20
per cent. ; copra, palm fruit and peanuts, 15 per
cent. ; tobacco, 2d. per lb. on the leaf; and rice,
20s. per ton. The maximum that may be paid
for flax, hemp and jute is £23,000; it is £23,500
for oil materials; £6OOO for ginned cotton and
for dried fruits; £lO,OOO for preserved fish; and
£4OOO for tobacco leaf. The goods must be of
merchantable quality ; must have been produced
by white labor only (aborigines are whites for this
purpose); and standard wages must be paid. The
proposals are good, as far as they go—but they
don t go far enough to drop from exhaustion. A
bonus of £lOOO a year won’t encourage many rice
growers, for instance. Nevertheless, a properly
Protective duty will be an additional incentive to
the primary producers and the secondary ditto.
The worst danger is that the Foreign-traders in
the House will seize on this measure as an
allegedly-unanswerable reason why the new
Customs duties on these products should be
kept low, lest the pioneers of the new in-
dustries become millionaires too rapidly. Against
the day when they will probably argue to
that effect there are a few memories to cherish
up. There is hardly one of the anti-bonus
Foreign-trade crowd that hasn’t declared the
growing of rice, rubber, cotton, coffee, and most
of the other things, to be out of the question
without cheap colored labor; wherefore if the
articles are to be grown with white labor, paid
full rates, then, on the showing of the discolored
labor advocates, these industries will have to be
subsidised heavily for a start or there can’t be
any industries. Moreover, the Tory Foreign-
traders allege that financial institutions think so
badly of the prospects of tropical industries with-
out colored labor that they won’t finance them
far if they will finance them at all; so on
that ground also there is a call for something
special in the way of Federal aid. If the Foreign-
trade crowd had taken up the attitude that
tropical and sub-tropical Australia is so marvel-
lously rich that it can grow things and pay high
wages and attract population in spite of all draw-
backs, it might have scoffed at the bonuses and
the duties. But it knocked out all the arguments
it might have used against bonuses and duties
when it joined the colored-labor party and said
that the white boss-producer, in order to succeed,
must have special encouragement. The anti-
Australians want to encourage him with cheap
labor. The Australians propose to encourage him
with bonuses and High Protection. And if the
anti-Australians say he doesn’t need the High
Protection then what did they mean by saying
that he needed the cheap labor ?
--
Grandmother Moaning by the Fire.
One of those hazy leaders in which the S.M.
Herald delights appeared last Friday, under the
title of “ The Federal Capital Bill.” It set forth,
in a general way, that N.S.W. had a grievance,
but, curiously enough, it quite forgot to say what
kind of grievance it was. The following are the
salient features of the Herald’s yarn
The House of Representatives is now engaged on the
consideration of the Federal Capital Site Bill, and the
best that can be said in favor of it is that it gives the
Parliament another chance to do justice to New South
Wales in this matter according to the terms of the pre-
Federal agreement.... What with Mr. William Lyne and
Mr. Chapman on the one hand, and the See Government’s
attitude on the other, New South Wales has been virtually
gagged on the subject, and her claims to fair considera-
tion stifled in the interests of party politics....
Federal good faith has been in no resp ct more seri-
ously impeached than in connection with this unfor-
tunate matter of the Federal capital. The history of the
question is humiliating to us as Federalists, and a reflec-
tion on our reputation for mutual fair dealing as Aus-
tralians. The procedure has been unsportsmanlike, to
say the least of it in the most popularly intelligible
way. Perhaps the present Parliament may act differently.
It is asked to “ determine the seat of government in the
neighborhood of Dalgety,” but if that neighborhood is
distasteful to New South Wales and not central enough'
for the other States, we may presume that Parliament
will have an opportunity to express an opinion on that
point, if our representatives are able to present the case
forcibly enough. Then it empowers Ministers to obtain
a grant by this State of the territory “in the neighbor-
hood of Dalgety,” but surely we may be permitted to
indulge the modest expectation that before this act of
virtual expropriation is approved, the just claims of New
South Wales will at least be heard. . . . The oldest and
wealthiest State in the union has a right to demand more
respectful treatment than that, even if there were no
specific pre-Federal bargain in existence. Webelieve that
on this occasion, if Federal Ministers and the Federal
Parliament are sincere in their protestations of good
faith, and.if our representatives do their duty, the mother
State will get that full and sincere consideration of the
whole issue which will conduce to the settlement of this
capital site question on fair lines.
This sort of old and toothless grumbling is so
vague that one is tempted to ask the Herald to
define its grievance. Thus :
(1) In what way has justice not been done to N.S.W. ?
Are the proposed Federal capital and territory not in
N.S.W.? Are they not at least 100 miles from Sydney?
And doesn’t the proposed territory cover at least 100
square miles? If there are any other conditions relating
to the capital in the Constitution, whatand where are they?
(2) What are N.S.W.’s “claims to fair consideration”
that have been “ stifled ”? And what is “fair considera-
tion”? Have not N.S.W.’s Federal representatives been
allowed the same share in the discussion of the matter as
any other representatives? If they haven’t, when and
how did it happen that they were refused the right to
speak ? If they have, then what other grievance is there ?
Does the Herald demand that each N.S.W. Federal
member should have two votes on this question, or what?
Or does it consider that the N.S.W. State Parliament
should fix the capital of all Australia, and if so, on what
clause in the Constitution does the querulous old paper
base the demand ? Is it proposed that because one
N.S.W. Government obtained, as a concession, that the
Australian capital should be in N.S.W., that gives another
State Government the right to demand, as a further
concession, a special voice in fixing the site of
the capital? A N.S.W. State Government having suc-
ceeded in securing the disqualification of all the other
States as possible capital sites, is it claimed that they
should pay it for that disqualification by giving it special
privileges in the way of deciding whereabouts in N.S.W.
the Federal city shall stand ?
(3) When or how did N.S.W.—the people of N.S.W. ;
not a few Sydney newspapers—state or hint that the pro-
posed capital on Monaro was “distasteful ” to them? Was
there a referendum or a general election on the subject,
or did Johnson simply write a letter to the Daily Tele-
graph ?
(4) What are the “just claims” of N.S.W.? Where,
exactly, does the lack of “respectful treatment” come
in? What “pre-Federal agreement” has been broken,
and who agreed to the agreement ? In fact, what are
the details of the trouble, anyhow? And what’s wrong
with the selected site ?
These questions call for an answer, because the
Herald has the effrontery to profess to wail on
behalf of the State, and the State has a right to
know why it is being held up to ridicule as a weep-
ing old party with a flannel round its head and an
unexplainable grievance in its mouth. The present
position of things justifies it in being specially
anxious for information about these matters. The
S.M. Herald’s friend, Premier Carruthers,
solemnly promised to give N.S.W. a chance to
vote for or against Dalgety as a capital site. He
afterwards became so convinced that N.S.W. had
little sympathy with his petty and snarling atti-
tude, and so much assured that the referendum
would be a grievous mistake, that he dropped the
whole silly business. That leaves nothing but
the S.M. Herald’s doddering assurance that
Dalgety is in any way “ distasteful ” to the
people of N.S.W. And what value does the
Herald put on its doddering assurance ?
♦
The “ Herald’s ” Anti-Australian Slander.
S.M. Herald of July 16 ignorantly or maliciously
taunts the Commonwealth Parliament with
cowardice, with regard to the deportation of
Kanakas. In its leader, “ Murder in the Islands, ’ ’
it printed this :
There has been little courage shown in dealing drasti-
cally with helpless islanders, since we dare not pursue
the same policy with Chinese and other Eastern races,
which are backed by national power, in posse or in esse.
The obvious meaning is that the Commonwealth
Parliament bundled out the Kanakas merely
because they had neither army nor fleet behind
them, but temporised with the Chinese and Japs,
because those people are backed by land and sea
forces. The statement is one of the mean little
anti-Australian slanders into which the Herald,
apparently, can’t avoid dropping, despite its
occasional revelations of an Australian national
spirit. The Kanaka was brought to this country
under a contract which provided for his return to
the islands after the expiration of his period of
service, and the Australian Parliament simply
decreed that he should be returned as per agree-
ment, and that no new contracts of the same
character should be entered into. The Chow and
the Jap, however undesirable they may be, are
not here under contract; they are here as ordi-
nary citizens, on the same basis as the Frenchman
or the German. Therefore they are not sent
back. The position is the same as that of the
proprietor of the Herald, who has the courage
to sack his own office-boy because that youth is
his contract employee, while he hasn’t the pluck
to rush out into the street and promiscuously sack
his fellow citizens and political equals. While
it was on this subject the Herald might have
said something about the British Government’s
lack of courage, and the way it also differentiates,
with much less j ustification, between the Polynesian
and the Jap. When anything goes wrong with a
British subject in Polynesia, the most adjacent
British warship bombards the village where the
trouble happened, without even giving the
islanders a chance to state their side of the case.
But if a British subject is maltreated in Japan—
well, at the most John Bull makes respectful
representations to the Japanese ambassador.
Who ever heard of J. Bull making a respectful
representation to the Polynesian ambassador?
Has Herald so little courage that it dare not
speak to Bull about this?
♦
How the Sydney Press Throws Mud
at N.S.W.
The usual yap to the effect that the present Aus-
tralian Government is a Victorian-controlled
Ministry, which is trying to pass a new Protec-
tionist tariff in the interests of “Melbourne
manufacturers,” appears with its usual regularity
in the Sydney Telegraph, and there are smaller
and subsidiary yaps to a similar effect in the
Evening News and one or two other loony pub-
lications. And, as usual, the effect is to persuade
the casual reader that poor, wretched N.S.W. has
really no manufactures, that being the only con-
dition under which a tariff that applies to all the
States alike can benefit Victoria and the Victorian
capital so exclusively. The fact that Victoria cut
itself adrift from N.S.W., and for a number of
years got ahead of the older and bigger State in
wealth, population, and importance, created in the
old Cabbage-Tree Mob of Sydney a frantic
hatred that breaks out in all manner of unex-
pected places. To the Foreign-trade-cwM-Orange-
lodge push of Sydney, “ Melbourne” and ‘ ‘ Pome”
are two bogeys of about the same size, and they
wear a very similar number of horns. And this
unpatriotic, anti-Australian party doesn’t mind
whom it hits —it doesn’t mind hitting Ma State
itself—so long as it can swipe blindly at Mel-
bourne. The constant cry about “ Victorian
manufacturers,’’ and the huge advertisement it
gives to Victoria, as if that State alone of all the
Australian communities was advanced enough to
have manufactures, is a case in point. A few
days ago, while the seedy old lamentation was
going on as usual, the latest batch of N.S.W.
Statistics came to light. They set forth that
N.S.W. has now employed in its manufacturing
industries 77,758 people. This isn’t half or a
quarter the number that should be so employed ;
still it is something. It means that N.S.W. has
now almost as many hands employed in its fac-
tories as Victoria has, and it has rather more male
employeesthan Victoria possesses. With its abun-
dant coal supply, which Victoria lacks, it is bound
under a policy of High Protection to get far ahead
of its southern com petitor. In the valueof its manu-
factured products—so greatly have things im-
proved even under the present ineffective Protec-
tionist tariff of the Commonwealth —it already
claims to be level. The number of employees in
N.S.W. factories increased last year by 5583,
which was something quite beyond the average,
though the increase should have been ten times as
great. Since the beginning of the Commonwealth
they have increased by almost 17.000. During the
last ten years they have increased by 27,918. The
increase per cent., during the last ten years, in the
number of people employed in N.S.W. manufac-
tures has been three times as great as the
increase per cent, in the whole population of the
State, and the wages paid in N.S.W. factories are
equal, in an ordinary year, to the value of the
whole agricultural produce of the Stale, despite
all the coddling that agriculture receives. Last
year, in fact, the area under wheat diminished,
but the factories of the State showed a growth
which, though only a fraction of what it should
have been, was something almost unprecedented,
and that growth counterbalanced the tailing-off os


the “ great natural industry.” Yet anyone who
reads the unwholesome and distempered Tele-
graph on this subject would depart with just two
clear impressions: (1) That Victorian manu-
factures are, for some reason or other, utterly
accursed, and (2) that N.S.W. and the other
•States have no manufactures at all, except, per-
haps, such aboriginal arts as they had when
Captain Cook first happened this way. Also
that N.S.W. and the other States are so ignorant,
backward and aboriginal that they have no hope
or expectation of having manufactures, and will
always have to send to Melbourne for their boots.
At present there is in office an Australian
Government of seven salaried members and one
“ honorary.” Of the seven salaried members
three come from N.S.W., and one each from
Victoria, Westralia, Queensland and Tasmania.
South Australia is left out, and N.S.W.
has an absurdly large proportion of the
portfolios. This Government draws about
one-third of its direct support, and a large
proportion of the indirect support it gets through
the Labor party, from N.S.W. And it is striving
to pass a tariff which will enable N.S.W. and
Queensland, as the two States which have coal
and iron in abundance, to become the great
manufacturing centres of the southern hemisphere.
(Victoria and S. A., which have to bring most of
their coal at great expense from the other States,
haven’t the semblance of a chance in the race
when once High Protection sets the wheels of in-
dustry revolving in earnest.) And when the
manufacturing boom really comes, N.S.W. will
owe no debt of gratitude to the Sydney Freetrade
dailies, which have consistently advertised “Vic-
torian manufactures,” as if old Ma State was
merely an old gin named Mary, whose art hadn’t
got any further advanced than the making of a
dilly bag.
♦
The Women’s National League Horror.
During the recent Federal election campaign at
Echuca,(Vic.) the blatant so-called Australian
Women’s National League was much in evidence.
Since C. H. Chomley’s libel action gave it so
extensive an advertisement, this crowd of pluto-
cratic females has completely lost its balance, and
lia.s broken out in a perfect saturnalia of lies and
misrepresentations. If, as is declared, 15,000 Vic-
torian women have pledged themselves to sup-
port the hysterical offshoot of the Employers’
Association, so much the worse for the State and
the majority of those 15,000 women. That 15,000
could be found to support such a that of
the League speaks badly for the national sanity,
and the question arises : “ How are. they gathered
in ? ” The appalling fact can be explained in two
ways. Knowing little, and caring less, about
politics, Mrs. Jones is asked by her crony,
Mrs. Smith, to join. “They give afternoons,”
she explains; “and last time there was
lovely singing. Only a shilling a year,
and there’s an entertainment every month.”
Mrs. Jones joins. Mrs. Smith herself was
probably the victim of that hard-faced sister-
hood known as “ branch officials.” The perti-
nacity with which these branch-official women
pursue the Is. would put to shame a professional
cadger. One of them complained that after 17
visits to a struggling lodging-house keeper, with
a sick husband on the premises, the money had
not been forthcoming. The average suburban
woman is not proof against this systematic
persecution, and joins to get rid of the nuisance.
Once enrolled, she unconsciously adopts, without
investigation, the politics of her associates, and
unwittingly assists in the betrayal of her own
best interests. But that, from any cause whatever,
the womenkind of Australian workers, men
whose daily bread depends upon the maintenance
and extension of Australian industries, should be
induced. to join this plutocratic and Freetrade
league, is a disgrace to their intelligence and a
reproach to their class. From the Cliveden
dowager down to the verbose secretary,
Grace Watson, there exists among the crowd
of leaders not one atom of patriotism, to
Australia. “Loyalty to the Throne” is the
screech upon which they expend their ungram-
matical hysteria. Australia, or as much of it as
would not affect their personal interests, may go
to the devil. “ State Socialism,” as misinter-
preted by them, is another outlet for their crazy
fanaticism, and probably more plutocratic lies
have been circulated through the League on this
subject than on any other. The third illusory
plank in their precious platform is “The Educa-
tion of Woman in Politics,” and the Ass’s mode
of dealing with it is amazing. Ninety per cent,
of the leaders are grossly ignorant of anything
beyond the superficial clap-trap and patter
acquired at League meetings. Here are some
instances : Previous to the last Federal election
a loud-voiced office-bearer in a suburban branch
told the meeting, “ I told Mrs. Blank that, on
account of her husband being in the Lands Office,
neither he nor she will have a vote for the Federal
election. They were very disappointed, but it can’t
be helped; civil servants can’t vote, you know.”
The same personification of wisdom informed
the members of another family that, as they had
previously voted in another electorate for a candi-
date for the State Parliament, there was no need
for their inclusion in the roll of Federal electors.
Yet another leaguer declined enrolment on the
ground that “she didn’t need to be on the roll
which included her servants,” and stated that her
name was on “The Ladies’ Roll in Collins-
street.” Another opined that “ If more Protection
is really wanted for local industries, the police
are a most efficient body of men.” (N.B. —This
was before the recent crime wave.) A voluminous
female informed the writer: “As I was
sayin’ to me ’usband, this yer Socialry may
do well enough for common people, but it’s
no good for the likes of us as goes inter
serciety, and knows the Best People.” Then
the “Protection of the Purity of Home Life” is
avowedly a source of much concern to the Leaguers.
But beyond abusing the Labor party the League
does nothing, either to prevent women being
sweated and driven to walk the streets, or to
rescue them when they have been thrown down.
No patriotic or humanitarian movement has re-
ceived any assistance from this weird collection.
On the face of things 15,000 women out of a popu-
lation of a million and a quarter ought to be a
potentiality for good. Yet the body to which
they belong does nothing to make existence more
easy for the weak and heavy-laden, neither does it
make any attempt to diminish the appalling loss
of infant life. The fact that it does not even move
in such matters proves it to be a fraud and a callous
lie. As a matter of fact the husbands of many of
its leaders are interested in sweating—by it they
get the means to keep their useless females in fat
eating and soft idleness, and the useless females
in return devote a little of their time to trying to
hoodwink the women of Victoria into bolstering
up the present state of affairs which is so profit-
able to the sweater. If the membership included
only women whose interests are involved in sweat-
ing and monopoly, the existence of the Women’s
National League would at least be logical. But
the great bulk of its members belong to the classes
on which the capitalistic belongings of the leaders
prey. Why on earth do they stay in it and
nourish it with their hard won shillings ?
Parliament and Some Persons.
Alfred Deakin comes back to Australia
“winded.” Nervous exhaustion follows his great
efforts in London, and he is forced to rest for
awhile. At least he is ordered to rest, but does
not. Deakin’s usefulness is painfully limited
by his virtues. He is so conscientious that he
tries to attend to everything of any importance
himself (in London he would go to bed at 1 a.m.
and rise at six to write letters). He is so polite
that to anyone who can claim any acquaintance
at all he writes in holograph, instead of dictating
to a secretary. He is so many other things,
altogether admirable in a private gentleman
but out of place in the rough work of politics,
that there is just now actual danger of his being
lost to public life unless he will consent to shed
some of his undesirable virtues. Somebody
should entrap his conscience out for a night, and
bring it home drunk and disorderly. Some god
should thunder in the cream of his kindness, and
make it sour. Just now, Australia wants Deakin
to rest, and to come back to public life refreshed ;
for his London campaign on behalf of Australian
nationalism has given him a new value in our
eyes ; and it is apparent that he is necessary for
the big work ahead. This, the third Australian
Parliament, is curiously knit by its personalities.
The party arrangements in it are simply
absurd. There is the Labor party, which,
to the close observer, shows a line of cleavage
that threatens to separate Moderates from
Extremists. There is the Deakin party, composed
in the main of devoted personal adherents, such
as Austin Chapman, but still containing disrup-
tive elements—such as John Forrest, who wants
to be a Tory. There is the Reid party, led by
Joe Cook, composed almost entirely of the rem-
nants of the N. S. Wales State Frights party, and
resolving itself, for all practical purposes, into the
Willie-Willie-Willie party (Willie Wilks,
Willie Kelly, and Willie Johnson— whom the
alligator wouldn’t eat). There is the Vic-
torian party, led by Irvine when Knox
isn’t looking, and pledged to Protection
and Anti-Sosh. And there are several other
groups. In this welter of parties two personali-
ties make for cohesion, Deakin and Watson.
Deakin unites all the Liberal and pseudo-Liberal
Protectionists, and Watson all the Laborites,
and the mutual attraction of the two men makes
business possible on the curious basis of one party
holding office but halving power with another
party. Two personalities help business by
acting as forces of repulsion—G. Reid and J.
Cook. Whilst they act respectively as titular
and real Leaders of the Opposition, it is im-
possible for the Opposition to recruit its
strength. The lesson of the last elections
makes this Parliament very shy indeed of
G. Reid. He went before the electors in
the rdle of a politician who had been betrayed,
full of curious charges of “ treachery ” against
his previous allies. He was answered by the
defeat of all, save one, of his ex-colleagues, who
went before the people. The profound unhealthi-
ness of being associated with Reid is thus one of
the fixed traditions of this Parliament. Reid
himself recognises the position, and now announces
that he is willing to “efface himself,” presumably
if an affluent billet, such as the High Commis-
sionership, is found for him. But while he is
nominal leader of the Opposition, with for his
deputy J. Cook, who is even more impossible
as a rallying point than himself, G. Reid is
far too valuable a factor in public business
to be cast aside. Were he replaced by a
capable leader, with a power of attraction instead
of repulsion, the Government, situated as it is,
could only have a day-by-day lease of office. As it
is the position of Parliament is that the elimina-
tion of either of the two personalities of cohesion
would lead promptly to chaos. There is a clear
call, therefore, for Alfred Deakin to go away
and rest —to try fishing or rabbit-trapping, or just
plain unvarnished loafing, for a few weeks. He
must not let his nerves drive him out of harness
as yet.
*
The “ Trade ” Superstition.
During the week some figures have been widely
published to show the remarkable progress
N.S.W. has made in the past 10 years. There
has been great prosperity, no doubt; yet many
of these published figures don’t prove it. What
they do prove is that N.S.W. has neglected
its opportunities in an amazing way, and has been,
guilty of the most cruel waste. It is shown, for
instance, that what is called the total trade has
grown from £43,571,858 in 1896 to £80,303,751 in
1906. Now, as a standard by which to measure
prosperity, such figures are absurd. If a man
grows wheat at Wagga and has it made into flour
at a N.S.W. mill, which employs N.S.W. men, and
if other N.S.W. men are employed making bricks,
bread, clothes and boots for the N.S.W. farmer
and miller and for one another, and thousands of
people are employed selling these N.S.W. goods
to N.S.W. people, still all that they produce, and
all the work they do, and all their buyings and
sellings, are not “trade.” The N.S.W. farmer
gets just as much for his wheat as if he exported
it, yet what he gets isn’t included in the figures.
Also, what he buys from the local bootmaker and
tailor, who have bought their leather from an
Australian tannery, and their cloth from an Aus-
tralian woollen mill, are just as much real boots
and clothes as if they had been dragged out of a
ship’s hold, and ten rats which had been nesting
there had been disturbed in the process ; yet the
price of those boots and clothes don’t figure in the
“ total trade ” returns. “ Trade” figures merely
represent the business done with the foreigner;
and the business done with the foreigner is very
frequently shocking business. For the past year
the “total trade” figures are made up of
£45,638,388 worth of exports and £34,665,363 worth
of imports. People who go out these cold nights
to hear George Lauri caper in “ The Spring
Chicken” have laughed over his sing-song de-
scription of the ass who fatuously “walked right
in, and walked right round, and walked right out
again.” N.S.W., which laughs at the ridicu-
lous person who didn’t know how to employ his
time better, is itself the ridiculous ass. It sends
its wool and its crude ores and its hides and its
tanning barks to Europe to “ walk right in, and
walk right round, and walk right out again,” and
while they walk round the foreigner picks at them
and gets fat out of the pickings. Apart altogether
from the fact that the foreigner gets work which
ought to be done in Australia, this hauling back-
wards and forwards means a sinful waste of steam
and human power ; and Australia pays for it.
Altogether, then, the vastness of such “trade”
figures are not necessarily anything to be joyful
about: they are, rather, to a great extent, the
dazzling record of Australia’s folly and fatuity.
The Struggle to Support a Joss.
Here is another cry in the wilderness, declaring
that “Private Enterprise” could do the thing
better. President Merivale, of Sydney Chamber
of Commerce, at a meeting of engineers, “ thought
something should be said for Private Enterprise.
Australia would be much better off if the railways
had been left to Private Enterprise; they would
have been further extended into Australia than
they were.” This is another sample of the
rubbish these Commerce people talk when they
think they must say something on behalf of their
Joss. According to the last issue of Coghlan
(“Australia and Maoriland, 1903-4”), the Com-
monwealth had a mile of railway for every 272
people. No other country in the world had so
much. The United Kingdom, where the Private
Enterprise Joss rules in railway affairs, has only
one mile to every 1913 people. In France, where
the lines are run almost wholly by six great
Private Enterprise concerns, there is one mile
for every 1607 people. Italy, where the State
finds the money and Private Enterprise sup-
plies the mismanagement, has one mile for every
3309 Dagoes. In younger countries the pro-
portion of rails to people is larger, but nowhere
else even among young countries is it so large as
in the Commonwealth. Argentina has one mile
to 457 inhabitants, and Canada one to 285 —as
against Australia’s one to 272. Australia has, in
fact, not too little, but too much railway for its
population. It has rather pushed its railways
out too far than not far enough ; it has sent them
out into the mulga and the saltbush to oblige the
selector, to whom the State would have been
doing a better turn if it had obliged him with
land closer to markets and to the region of reliable
rainfall, instead of allowing the coastal country
to be held against the settler by Private Enter-
prise. Leaving out of consideration the fact
that the making of Australian railways was left
to Private Enterprise at first, and that the State
only took a hand when Private Enterprise broke
down—on the few recent occasions when the
country has lost its head and let Private Enterprise
into the railway business, Private Enterprise
has either demanded a huge bonus from the
country in the shape of interest-guarantees or
land concessions ; and when it hasn’t got them it
has mostly sucked its customers dry. Not once,
but half-a-dozen times, the Broken Hill mining
companies have been driven to practically bail up
at the end of a gun the Private Enterprise freak
railway which serves that field, and to threaten to
blow its life out if it didn’t bring its rates down
to something nearer the charges on the S. Aus-
tralian State line. It has generally yielded, but it
still makes a poor little 70 per cent, per annum on
its actually paid capital. It may be a good thing for
the Sulphide Corporation and the other companies
which Merivale, of the Chamber of Commerce,
ought to know something about, to provide the
carrier with 70 per cent, profits; but if the State
lines, which the same companies also depend upon,
likewise charged freights to show 70 per cent,
profits, there would be mighty little mining at
Broken Hill, and coal-miners, coke-makers, and
machinery manufacturers would wonder what had
happened to them. Also, Mr. Merivale, as
being somewhat interested in this aspect of the
matter, might wonder what had happened to
himself.
♦
The Impudence of the Victorian Shire
Councillor.
At last one of the slow, incapable Victorian
shire councils has decided to move in the matter
of stinkwort. For years and years the councils,
whose duty it is to obliterate vegetable pests,
have turned the glazed eye of laziness and inca-
pacity on every kind of weed that pervades the
landscape. Now this particular weed has spread
so much that you can hardly see the councils for
stinkwort. Consequently Bet Bet shire council
has decided to ask the Government to obliterate the
weed on Socialistic principles, with a firm hand
and a violent hoe, and it suggests the appoint-
ment of Socialistic Government inspectors to keep
an eye on the thing regularly. It also asks all the
other councils, which can hardly be seen above
the stinkwort, to join in the cadge. For immen-
sity of cheek the devil isn’t a circumstance to a
Victorian landowner when he gets on to a shire
council. The landlords run the councils. They
refuse to tax themselves beyond about 4d. in the £
(they profess that it is Is., but then they value £1
worth of land for tax purposes at about 6s. Bd, so
that the figure comes down to 4d. in reality), and
then, for want of money, they have let the once fine
roads of the State degenerate till they look like
the caravan track across the Gobi desert. Also,
for want of money, and brains, and cleanliness, and
decency, they have allowed every weed that cares
to come along to take possession of the country,
and they have refused to enforce the laws relating
to sanitation, adulteration, the sale of diseased
meat, and so on—in fact, one filthy shire wretch
recently boasted of the quantity of diseased meat
he had eaten, and almost urged others to do like-
wise. These.councils of affluent farmers and land-
lords are brazen and disgraceful mendicants,
begging for grants for every purpose under the
sun, which grants come, to a great extent, out
of the pockets of city artisans, whose own
local rates run as high as 2s. fid. in the T. The
latest idea of getting the toiler of Colling-
wooa, Richmond and Footscray to help pay for
the obliteration of stinkwort is only an item
and a casual feature in a long career of boundless
and illimitable cadge, There is no city worker so
poor that the rich Victorian country landlord
won’t beg or steal from him. And these same
landowners, in their other capacity as members of
Water Trusts and sucli-like, have been thieves and
defaulters on a gigantic scale, and are planning
further schemes of theft and default. Yet they
organise Kyabram “Reform” movements, and the
amount of advice they give to the State Parlia-
ment about how to run its business is illimitable.
If the Victorian Government is worth its salt, it
will decide that what the shire councils require
now is not mere Government interference with
their valuable stinkwort. What they need is
the total suspension of local government for
ten years in some of the worst cases, as
an example to the others; and the appoint-
ment, in lieu of each suspended shire council,
of three State tyrants with orders to make
true valuations, to levy sufficient rates on these
valuations to enable roads to be put in repair, and
all other necessary work done, and old debts paid
off, and with rigid instructions to obliterate vege-
table pests, to clean up insanitary towns, and to
enforce the laws against adulteration, diseased
meat, dirty dairies, and the other foul things that
the unclean councillor loves. The Victorian shire
councils have asked for State interference so often
that it is time they got all the interference that
is coming to them, and got it in a lump.
♦
Satisfactory Prices.
The following are extracted from a recent issue—
and from the one column—of the Age :
Donald : Land in this district is still on the up-grade.
Mr. L. F. Danahkr has just completed a sale of 478 acres
of the Banyenong station to Mr. P. Finn, at £6 per acre.
This is the highest price paid, for unimproved land in the
Donald district. The same agent also sold 160 acres in
the parish of Oarrow at a satisfactory price.
Warrnambool : At a land sale here, on Friday, three
acres at Southern Cross were sold at £95 per acre ; and
nine acres in the same estate brought £69 10s. per acre.
[The report doesn’t say that the prices were satisfactory ;
but lets the fact be taken for granted.]
Ararat : Land continues to advance in value in this
district. Mr. Mat Coopkr has purchased 1000 acres on
the Mt. William estate at a satisfactory price. On the
other hand, a number of tenant farmers are away in Hew
South Wales looking for land, as their leases at Mt. Wil-
liam expire after next harvest.
There is nothing that the country correspondent
enjoys more than adding the customary tag about
satisfactory prices to his report of a land sale.
Invariably the satisfied person is the seller. The
unfortunate buyer, who has to find the prices,
and who has in the meantime to earn a living, is
never, apparently, thought of. If the demand for
land is slack, and the buyer gets it at anything
like its fair value, the affair is alluded to gloomily
as a “shrinkage in land values,” or as an “un-
accountable fall in real estate.” The paragraphs
quoted above are typical of those appearing almost
every day all over Victoria. The good seasons
have made money fairly plentiful, and for every
decent bit of land that is offering there seem
to be a dozen hungry buyers. Attend-
ing one of these land sales, one would
imagine that the population of Victoria was about
20,000,000, all farmers; or else that there were
only about 20,000 acres of good land in the whole
State. For example, the land at Southern Cross
alluded to as being sold at £95 and £69 10s. per
acre, will be used to grow the homely onion
and the homelier spud ; and the buyer will have
to toil and sweat for most of his life to make the
purchase money out of the soil. It is owing, to a
large extent, to the inflated value of the soil that
farmers are leaving Victoria and going to Queens-
land and New South Wales “looking for land.”
And yet, if the farmers mentioned in the report
quoted, as being away in New South Wales for
that purpose, had, before they left, climbed
to the top of Mount William, they would have
been able to see soil sufficient for a thousand
farmers lying practically unoccupied. The
Mount William estate is on the western edge of
the Western District plains, and there are at least
2,000,000 acres in that district, admirably suited
for wheat-growing, which have never seen a
plough. On a good portion of the area the em-
ployees haven’t seen a plough, and wouldn’t know
one from a harrow. It is becoming more abso-
lutely evident every day that nothing but a solid,
progressive land-tax will bring these big estates
under the plough and stop Victoria’s dreadful
exodus of population.
♦:
The Beast of Burden and His Bag.
The humane and sensible proposal to limit the
weight of loaded wheat bags to 2001 b. has
aroused a storm of shrieks from the Victorian
farmer, and the Akgus teems with letters stating
that the present style of sack, weighing from
2501 b. to 3001 b., is by no means too much for a
man to lift and carry ; also that the slight extra
expense entailed by the change (dwelt on at great
length in an Argos leader) will be the last straw
to break the Vic. farmer’s (not the lumper’s) back.
If any body of unprejudiced men were asked to
say whether human beings should be expected,
under the pressure of poverty, to carry weights,
ranging from over 2cwt. to nearly 3cwt., all day long,
and often over slippery hardwood floors, and on
the polished sheet-iron bottoms of railway trucks,
and the umpires were made to carry one 2501 b.
bag for only 100yds., there would be small doubt
of their verdict. Yet the Vic. farmer says the
outcry against the present bag is absurd, and
“harmful to the best interests of the State,” etc.
Apparently the very large number of men who
are made permanent wrecks by handling huge
wheat bags at a comparatively small remunera-
tion, is not at all inimical to the interest of
the State whose citizens they are. The Kerang
Grain Shed Association has declared that the
change will be “unnecessary and tyrannical,”
and a number of independent, Anti-Socialistic
farmers are demanding that the Government
should offer a large bonus for the invention of a
cheap and effective wheat-lifting machine, to save
the poor hardworking farmer, who doesn’t lift
his bags himself, the expense of handling the
wheat bags. It wouldn’t be a very big thing
if the prosperous Victorian farmer would
demonstrate his stern and unyielding Anti-
Socialism, and at the same time rescue him-
self from the utter ruin impending, by offering a
bonus of, say, £5OOO, himself; but he prefers to
stand back and denounce anybody as a Socialist
who objects to seeing wheat lumpers handling
weights that a bullock would denounce as cruelty.
If the controversy now raging doesn’t lead the
Heritors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You, who were bred of the pioneers, hold fast to
your fathers’ lands,
For these were won in the toilsome years, the
work of their hardy hands ;
They took their right of the idle soil, and made it
to bloom and bear,
And, as result of the years of toil, you have
something of worth to share.
There are covetous eyes to East and North (they
make to themselves a law).
Watch the ships they are sending forth, and
’ware of the Monkey’s paw !
It’s well if you learn to shoot and ride, for it’s
every man for the Race,
And it’s each to stand at his comrade’s side, and
each be fit for his place.
Get what you can of the goods of life, so it be fair
and just,
But shun the snare of the inner strife, lest all be
brought to the dust.
We all are brothers beneath the sun, brothers to
stand or fall,
And the brotherhood is weaker by one if one be
pushed to the wall.
Though we were bred in the gentle days the
build of our frame is hard ;
Though being fain to the peaceful ways we all
shall leap to our guard ;
And this sure thing the world may know—what-
ever a foeman’s grace,
We could not live by the grace of a foe, nor bow
to another race !
And that you better shall grip your lands, see you
be fit to ride,
To hold a gun in unerring hands, to walk at a
comrade’s side;
That, having something of worth to guard, you be
not weak in the wrist,
That your blow may be swift and sure and hard
whenever you use the fist.
VIC.
O. G. A. COLLES.


Dust-laying Experiment.—A number of
representatives of the railways, tramways, Harbor
Trust, and other Government departments, and of various
municipal councils, were present at a dust-laying- experi-
ment on Wednesday, conducted by Messrs. Tyree Ltd.,
with the Tyree Spray. The street selected is one of the
■dustiest in Sydney—the thoroughfare running from
•Circular Quay to Flood’s wharf. A 40-gallon sprayer was
used. The machine covered 600yds. of road with a fine
-coat of tar in 15 minutes, and then covered the same area
with another coat in the next 15 minutes, making 1200yds.
in 30 minutes. The cost of the carbide used was Is. Mr.
Tyree, managing director, explained that for big jobs
larger machines could be used, and still better results
•obtained. With tar at 3d. per gallon, and carbide ac 2d.
per lb., the cost of spraying is I-10th of a penny per yard
for a thin coat, and l-sth of a penny for a thick coat,
plus cost of man, horse, and dray. These figures compare
very favorably with the cost of spreading tar in Sydney,
which varies for different work at from 4d. to Bd. per
yard.*
The Showman’s Moneymaker. — The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
general public to correctly size up the humani”
tarian, democratic and Christian principles of
the Victorian farmer and of the papers which
barrack for him, the general public deserves to
carry 3001 b. wheat sacks itself for the term of its
natural life. It is about time for the creature
who regards human life and health as things of
no importance to get a severe shock.
♦
Three in a Row.
Justice Hodges (Vic.) has parted from brother
/•.’Beckett, and indicated his own queer ideas of
decency. It was in the case Aldked v. Aldeed.
The man, it was proved, had been an habitual
drunkard, had frequently beaten his wife, and
had deserted her (and two small children) in
1901. She was clearly entitled to a decree,
but—soon after her beautiful husband left
her stranded, an acquaintance befriended her,
and subsequently they had “kept house”
together. In fact, they were dwelling as man
and wife right up to the present time. This
friend came into court and assured the Judge
that he had a genuine affection for the petitioner,
and wanted to marry her ; that was, in fact, the
sole reason why the divorce was asked for. Mr.
Hodges considered the matter for about three
months, and then opined that “at the moment
that petitioner came into court to ask for relief
she was indulging in a connection which was an
outrage on public decency, and was utterly disre-
garding the fundamental obligations of the
marriage tie” —and he said no word about the
husband’s prior disregard of the said tie. So, in
the interests of public decency, his ’Onah, instead
of making it possible for the lady to become a
“decent woman,” practically ordered her to
return to a disreputable wastrel of a hus-
band and be beaten some more, or to
continue her “immoral” life with the man
she is willing to marry, and who wants
to marry her but can’t. This world is a
bitterly cold place for the deserted wife who has
to fend for herself and two small children,
and keep up for three years the cast-iron
respectability that will lead Judge Hodges to
reach her down a divorce from the cold atmo-
sphere of that lofty and isolated judicial pinnacle
on which he and the Scribe and the Pharisee sit in
a row and freeze. Sewing at home, and the taking
in of the precarious wash, are about all the things
left to her. Mr. Hodges never tried to live by
plain sewing, and never took in the precarious
wash. If he had done so he might be more
human. It is possible to live in an atmosphere of
such very lofty morality that one becomes more
callous than many people with no morality at all.
Great is the power of the sup-Press. On July
15 the S.M. Herald supplied its readers with a
long article about the alleged dangers and horrors
of a Government note issue, and spoke eloquently
(for it) on the depreciation of the U.S. greenbacks
during the war over 40 years ago, and of the
French assignats during the Revolution, over 100
years ago. Yet it never even gave the slightest
hint that in Queensland, Canada, India, Ceylon,
and the United States there is a currency of
Government notes which don’t depreciate. These
are matters of to-day, and of more importance
than the depreciation of French Revolutionary
Government paper the century before last. And
though the Herald fished for depreciated Govern-
ment paper in the troubled waters of the century
before yesterday, it somehow never mentioned the
much more recent time when Bank of England
notes sold at 15s. in the £, and the paper of about
200 other English banks could be bought in a
panic-stricken market almost by the pint. In
fact, the Herald had the front to say :
We know of no case in which a bank note has been
dishonored or has proved to be worth less than its face
value in gold.
The Herald leader-writer never heard, then —to
quote a few examples—of the Merchants and
Mechanics’ Ba.nk (IJ.S. A.) which paid 77 cents in
the dollar on its notes; the Farmers’ Bank (85
cents), the Eighth Avenue Bank (94 cents), James’
Bank (91 cents), and the Bank of New Rochelle (81
cents), all in one State and in one year. These
were only a few instances among many, and if the
person who is responsible for the Herald leaders
never heard of them, it is up to that paper to hire
someone with a wider range of information. The
U.S. greenbacks, which the Herald quotes as a
dreadful example of the worthlessness of Govern-
ment paper, were paid in full, and are worth 100
cents in the dollar to-day, but the Tory paper
didn’t mention that fact either.
The Argus, a few days ago, got the shocking im-
pression that the Federal Banking Bill would con-
tain a provision for a Treasury note issue. The idea
is not at all new. Canada has had the system for
years, and it is in full blast at our own doors in
Queensland. But, with dim eyes and tremulous
voice, the Argus rose hastily to say that
Such a provision meant tearing up a system that had
stood the test of time, and supplanting it with something
that was'not likely to be generally approved of.
Doubtless, in the hurry of going to press, the
Argus remarks were over-condensed. What it
meant was that the old system had stood the test
of time, simply because it had to do it, like the
dog that climbed a tree. It had no choice in the
matter. Then the Argus seemed to grow sus-
picious that the public would sniff at its reasons
for opposing the Government note issue, so it
wound up as follows :
The real reason for the provision must be that it is
thought that large profits are to be made by the issue of
State notes. This is very problematical. Even if there
be a profit, is the gain such as can be set against the risks
to be faced ?
If the gain is so dubious, and the risk so terrible,
surely the Government does well to relieve the
banks of the terror and the burden. The note
issue is a public convenience, and why should
bank shareholders be ruined or kept awake at
night over the matter while the rest of the com-
munity gets its bank notes and its proper rest ?
♦
The man on the land has been struck in the
middle of his butter by the hand of Private Enter-
prise. When it became evident that the new
mail contract would lapse, the British-owned
shipping companies which carry the huge butter
consignments to London combined to elevate their
prices. The steamships going by the Suez Canal
raised the tariff 50 per cent, and the ones going by
the Cape 33 per cent. This staggered the cow-
men, and concerted action is being taken to resist.
But the exporters find themselves powerless to
fight the shipping ring, so the trade has fallen
back on Federal interference, and the Foreign-
trade party is making a strenuous effort
to force the Deakin Government to include
compulsory refrigerating conditions in the
new mail contract. Hitherto the present mail
companies have had the moral support of the
N.3.W. Anti-Sosh party, and the Orient Co. has
been regarded as a deeply-injured concern because
it isn’t allowed to carry the Australian mails at its
own price. Now the Orient Co. has suddenly lost
its popularity, and the butter-men want the Austra-
lian Government to lend them its boots, so that they
may tread on their old friend. Of course, if the-
new mail contract is to include provision for cheap
butter and rabbit carriage, the subsidy will have to
be higher, which means that the community will
pay part of the rabbit freight and the butter
passage money. But the Anti-Socialists don't
really care a straw who pays for dragging their
rabbits and their butter, so long as they can shift
part of the responsibility on to somebody.
»
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Association
gets fairly ropeable when anyone suggests that it
is bossed by squatters and big land sharks, and
uses a lot of loud language to prove that it is
purely an association of small, bona fide fanners.
And, by way of showing the genuineness of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, these things
happened at the Sydney Conference, the other
day. A motion, put forward by the Coonabara-
bran branch, prohibiting persons owning more
than £5OOO worth of land from holding office on
the executive, or acting as delegates, lapsed for
want of a seconder; and Stoekinbingal branch,
seeing how the cow jumped, thought it a mere
waste of time to move its proposal excluding from
membership persons owning more than £lO,OOO
worth. It is from little things like these that one
realises why this association of “small” owners is
so bitterly hostile to the Labor party, which wants
to break up big estates by a progressive land-tax
and supply land for small owners.
The N.S.W. Government has put £150,000 on the
Estimates “ to remedy the deplorable condition
into which a large number of country school
buildings have fallen.” The remarks of the
Department upon the point show, in part
at least, how “Reform” Governments make
their surpluses, and how “ Reform ” Trea-
surers get a reputation for being financial
geniuses. The S.M. Herald announces that
“so urgent are some of the cases that the
Department has this week communicated with
between 20 and 30 of the lowest tenderers for jobs
which were tendered for six or twelve months ago,
but which were not gone on with for want of
funds, asking if they will now proceed with the
work.” It is, however, explained that, as there
has been a big advance in the price of materials,
it isn’t likely that they will ; so fresh
tenders will have to be called and bigger prices
paid. Moreover, the premises have been neg-
lected so long that “ what would have cost a few
shillings if taken in time will now cost pounds.”
In other words, very necessary repairs to build-
ings paid for out of loans were neglected in order
that the Reform Treasurer might be able to show
a magnificent surplus and make a halo out of it
to wear when he went electioneering. Meantime
the cost of materials has gone up, and the leak in
the roof has got bigger, and the rain has got in
and spoiled the ceiling and washed the paper off
the walls, and probably a few youngsters have
got bronchitis and other things. But Carruthers
has got his surplus and his halo.
♦
The N.S.W. Premier has apparently dropped
three articles of luggage in his flight to the
country. His proposal to hold a purely N.S.W.
referendum as to the site of the capital of all
Australia is gone. His resolve to hand over
Sydney Observatory to the British Government
as a site for a Mint, rather than let the Australian
Parliament have a chance to acquire it for
meteorological purposes, has also dropped. And
now the ridiculous, useless, costly and inaccessible
three-legged bridge across Sydney harbor, which
Joseph projected, seemingly for the mere joy of
making a row with the Commonwealth over the
possession of Goat Island, appears to have been
slain in a blast of ridicule. Carruthers himself
hasn’t spoken, but Attorney-General Wade has
declared in favor of a direct bridge from
Sydney to North Shore, and Joseph’s silence
gives assent. Carruthers completely over-
rated the anti-Federal feeling of Sydney
if he thought it would spend £3,500,000 on an
almost useless bridge (when it could get one
where it was really wanted for £2,000,000) merely
for the sake of being sour and horrid to the
Commonwealth over the ownership of an island
that is named after a billy goat. But now another
question arises, and fish-like is the odor thereof. If
the proposed three-legged bridge had been con-
structed, the Rocks areas would probably be worth
little more than their present value, but with
direct connection with North Shore they should
be absolutely the pick of the city of Sydney, and
within a very few years might reasonably be ex-
pected to provide the most valuable sites in the
State. The Carruthers Government, it seems,
is going back to the direct bridge scheme. At
the same time it has been selling a good many
bits of land here and there in the resumed area,
and quite a shovelful of unearned increment must
be departing in that way.
The poor Australian, who can’t run his
own railways, or smelt the dirt out of his own
ores, or wash the grease out of his own wool, or
build even the beginnings of a fleet for his own
protection, is, nevertheless, doing some more
things. A South Australian youngster, W. C. Addi-
son, from the up-country townsh p of Orroroo,
has won the King’s Prize (medal, badge, and £250)
at the Bisley meeting, beating the 1500 other
crack shots from all parts of the British Empire.
Addison is the first Australian to win this biggest
of all rifle-shooting prizes ; but a couple of Cana-
dians had done it previously.
That furious Foreign-trader, Senator ’Siah
Symon, is back in Australia with two yarns:—
(1) He is horrified at the conduct of Deakin and Lyne
in advocating Protection in England; but, anyhow,
England wasn’t such a fool as to listen to them and make
itself poorer by Protection. (2) In Canada “ the popu-
lation is increasing by leaps and bounds,” owing to the
stream of immigration ; “ prosperity is abounding;
everywhere are evidences of great enterprise and develop-
ment.”
In brief, England is such a paradise under Free-
trade that people are clearing out of it in a stream.
and settling in the country of High Protection ;
and ’Siah Symon is horrified because Deakin and
Lyne advocated for the country which is losing
the population the policy of the country which is
gaining the population. That is the advantage
■of being a lawyer; he can be horrified at a
moment’s notice for six-and-eightpence.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy.”
Koval “The Beautiful Fiend.”
Palace Empire Pictures Co.
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter."
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall Blanche Arral.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Blue Moon.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Ragged Earl.”
Royal “ The Cotton King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
«
From “ The Spring Chicken, ” roosting at
the bottom of things, the J. C. Williamson Comic
Opera Co. climbed up to “Dorothy” on Saturday
night. It was a high climb. “The Chicken ” is
one of the poorest of a poor clutch ; “ Dorothy ”
in tunefulness, and in the harmony of its effects,
is one of the best of a better season. It is so easy,
of course, to talk about “ modern musical-comedy
rubbish ” ; it is so easy to forget that the Past is
long and the Present short, and that if the Past
hadn’t produced some things which the Present
might envy, it ought to be ashamed of itself.
There is no reason, then, after all, why the Pre-
sent should feel called upon to go and bury itself
in disgrace at the cross-roads, whenever anybody
says there were giants in those days. Perhaps we
are better engaged. When you come to think of
it, there is not one carpenter in a dozen who
knows how to build you a decent row of stocks or
a gibbet, and the art of driving bullocks has
almost died out in Pitt and Collins streets. And
yet, why be sad ? Morris chairs are more com-
fortable to sit in than stocks any day ; and Bill,
who contrived the gorgeous symphonies as he
flogged his bullocks across the Tank Stream, is
now driving a penny tram.
* * * *
All of which profound observations the
world would never have had if a man coming out
of Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night
hadn’t said that it only showed what the world
was coming to. It wasn’t a particularly lucid curse
on the present generation, but it apparently illus-
trated that the very littlesatire which B. C. Stephen-
son allowed himself in “Dorothy” was wasted.
Mostly it is the conventional story of the maid of
high degree who, having to marry a cousin whom
she doesn’t know, wins his not too reliable affec-
tions as a simple country maiden showing more
lower limb than a maid of high degree is ever
supposed to own. The one bit of satire is that
quaint fancy in which a group of bonneted old
dames quaver that, though they are bent of back
and stiff of limb, they can still shake a better leg
than the modern ballet; and with the help of
their crutches they proceed to show how. In one
respect comic operas are thus like sermons. When
there is pepper in them, it is for your neighbor;
when there’s jam, it is your own jam.
* » * *
This is the fifth or sixth revival of
“ Dorothy ” in the course of 19 years, and the
third at least in which Florence Young has
figured in the front row, originally as Lydia
(a part now taken by Miss Nina Wood, a
new and promising arrival in leading parts),
now as Dorothy, who becomes Dorcas when
she shortens her skirts for the purpose previously
mentioned. It is very doubtful whether Miss
Young ever sang better than she did on Saturday
night; she roused the audience from her first
number—scored a double encore—and kept it
roused until it reached the top of its enthusiasm,
when her clear, powerful soprano rang out in the
“Tally-ho” chorus. In “The Spring Chicken”
she had most thankless songs to struggle with;
and she seems to revel in the change. Reginald
Roberts, on the other hand, though he puts a lot
of expression into his part, has the misfortune to
strike, in “I Swear I Never Loved Before,” a
song abounding in those irritating nasal notes of
his—tinny notes which make you believe that he
has taken on a gramophone for a singing
master. He is Geoffrey Wilder, of course, the
cousin whom the country maid enraptures.
Arthur Crane makes a very favorable impression
as the other young man with the uncertain
affections; on the first night he fell short
only in the “Queen of my Heart” song,
and in that the standard for comparison has
been set by Wallace Brownlow and William
Pauli, and set extraordinarily high. Yet, though
Pauli did sing it, Crane’s ranks as an excellent
performance. Bantock has the agreeable part of
a pompous squire. Lauri clowns Lurcher.
There’s an essay waiting to be written on “The
Evil Influences of G. Lauri on Art.” Having a
man with a large capacity for genial fooling,
audiences won’t have the capacity wasted, and
are quite content that “ Dorothy,” as Cellier and
Stephenson wrote it, should be hung up while
Lauri finds a misplaced finger to fit into his glove.
Miss Clara Clifton being ill, Miss Preston, who
took her place in “ The Chicken ” during its last
nighcs, also takes the other broad comedy part of
Mrs. Privett, and presumably hasn’t yet had time
to grasp its requirements. The chorus is, as
usual, highly satisfactory, the ballets likewise,
and the scenery (Gordon and Little’s) deserves
more praise than there is room for now.
* * *
“The Squatter’s Daughter” has run a
long-distance race at Sydney Criterion, and
now, still moving as freely as ever, the lady enters
the straight for home. Saturday week sees her
departure from Sydney, after which the regions
where real water has been flowing nightly, and
real powder burnt, and real “damns” uttered in
every scene, will be given over to the Willoughby
Ward Co, in “Mr. Hopkinson.”
* * * *
West’s pictures continue with never a
flicker at Sydney Lyceum. The “ All Blacks ” are
now shown defeating our best and bravest on a film
700 ft. long. The spectacle has the painful in-
terest that attaches to all genuine tragedies, and
attracts large and depressed crowds in conse-
quence.
# * * #
If Meynell and Gunn wish to establish
themselves in the Commonwealth as regular pro-
viders of melodrama they will need to give to the
public better stuff than “The Beautiful Fiend,”
with which they opened an Australian season on
Saturday at Sydney Royal. “The Fatal Wedding,”
with which this firm scored so well, was frankly
bad, but it had some charm of novelty and was acted
with fair success. “The Beautiful Fiend” as a
story is trite and commonplace. Its absurdities
are ridiculous without being startling. The
mounting is poor, and the acting worse than poor
in most places. And the comedy consists largely
in drunks and others colliding with high officials
who never resent the concussion. There seems
no reasonable hope of competing against Bland
Holt and Anderson with stuff which doesn’t even
approach their standard, unless, indeed, it is to be
established as a fact that in melodrama the
poorer the quality the greater the success. Of the
new co. Miss Maud Hildyard, the “ star,” suggests
no valid re.ison why she should have been imported.
Her clothes are magnificent, her appearance
graceful; and that is all. Her ideas of acting are,
so far as Sydney has had a chance to judge,
quite elementary. Miss May Congdon, in a
virtuous and damp part with a lot of misery in it,
is a fairly effective note of anguish, and Conway
Wingfield—suggestive in many of his mannerisms
of Harcourt Beatty—makes a good leading man.
Charles Bovis and Willie Bovis share the “comic
relief,” and overdo it considerably.
* * * *
On the whole, “ The Beautiful Fiend ”
doesn’t live up to its fine posters and the fine gar-
ments of its ieading lady. It gives no adequate
reason why its welter of absurd and ghastly horrors
should be condoned. It pretends to be a story of
the Russian prison system, and represents that
system as starvation punctuated with floggings.
As a matter of fact, the Russian prison system is
infinitely more humane in spirit than that of
England or of Australia. In practice, a less
complete civilisation and a more rigorous climate
make for greater hardships in individual cases,
but the permeating idea is humane. For instance,
when a man is sentenced to a long term of
imprisonment, he is allowed to work for his wife
and family; and his wife may, if she choose,
follow him to Siberia, and there the State helps
her to work. That, however, is beside the case.
Melodrama need not stick to the truth, and on the
British stage there is no harm in libelling a white
race so long as the susceptibilities of the Brown
Man are respected. It is within the scope of fair
criticism, though, to object to the needless brutali-
ties of the floggings on the stage in view of the
audience.
** * #
The Svengalis are still printed in the big
letters in Sydney Tivoli bill, and the little letters
spell the same varied lot of people as they did last
week.
** * *
“The Cotton King,” for two or three
weeks, is feeding the Melbourne Royal ex-
chequer what time “The Bondman” is being
prepared to take the stage. “ The Cotton King ”
is notable as a ’brelladrama, in so far that it gets
caught at the outset in a heavy shower of stage
rain, which symbolises clouds of adversity and
tears of sorrow for a confiding mill-owner and his
own best girl. This sudden descent of simple,
visible wet is said to be followed by a rainbow,
placed in the “flies ” by Providence to indicate the
triumph of virtue in the last act. Apart from this
prophetically figurative item of stage effect, the
drama’s principal novelty is a lift sensation. The
persevering villain pushes the good young woman
into a place where she would get flattened out by
the falling lift if she were not rescued at the
critical moment. But the rescue comes to pass,
and a loud clapping of cotton-mill “hands” com-
pletes the villain’s discomfiture. Previously the
bad man has been baulked in an attempt to dis-
pose of the lady by means of an infectious fever.
He makes arrangements for her to visit a fever
patient and be fatally germ - stricken, but
his accomplice backs out of his contract and
warns the intended victim of the infection
that lies in wait for her. Mingled with
the wild improbabilities of “The Cotton
King,” there are numerous false accusations and
misunderstandings, which happen casually and
end in smoke. Also there are working-man
picnics and other comic reliefs that have very
little bearing on the tale of woe. Moreover, the
virtuous hero suffers his worst misfortunes during
a temporary retirement from the scene of action.
He goes to America to become a King of Cotton,
and when he returns to the dear old mill, with
long white hair and untold wealth (like Wilfred
Denver), he explains that he went mad in America
through being robbed, and was restored to reason
by a lucky accident. A brick fell upon his head,
and then his long-lost memory came back to him
as good as new.
* * * *
Styan plays the baffled miscreant. Max-
well (vigorous in the first act, but weaker in the
others) stands where Baker stood of yore. Miss
Ross clings to Maxwell for himself alone, and
Miss Ireland is the poor girl whose little indis-
cretion is freely spoken of. At one time or other
all the members of the company speak about the
unfortunate result of her misplaced confidence.
Albert Norman has a good gloomy part. Bland
Holt frivols at large, and there are others who
will help to keep business together until the new
drama is ready for production.
& * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) they are
still harping on Erin and shouting “Hooroo.”
“ Arrah-Na-Pogue,” with Andrew Mack in the
foreground, and the wrongs of Ireland not quite so
conspicuous as of yore, is appealing to Hibernian
sympathies for six nights. The programme de-
scribes Boucicault’s well-worn story as “im-
mortal,” and it certainly has a long career of
usefulness behind it, and a fair prospect of
longevity in the future. But if “ A.-N.-P.” is to
live on through the ages, it will have to be some-
times better acted in its minor parts than it was
last Saturday. A general policy of acting up to
Andrew Ma k, instead of playing the characters
for what they are worth, gives a neatly-built drama
the appearance of a one-man show. The one man
is an attractive comedian, and he sings in
his pleasing falsetto a couple of sugary ballads, in
addition to the “Wearing of the Green” (which
belongs properly to the heroine), but his undue
prominence spoils the Boucicaultian story. The
Trial Scene, always erring on the farcical side, is
now made utterly ridiculous by sticking the
Srisoner’s dock in the centre of the stage, so that
lack may face the audience as a parson faces his
congregation, and “cheek” the noisy English
majah over his shoulder. “ Arrah-Na-Pogue ”
will be followed on Saturday by “The Ragged
Earl,” for the first time in Australia. This country
has hitherto thought of the earls of modern
dramatic fiction as persons who depended largely
on their clothes for impressive effect. A ragged
earl will break the monotony.
** * *
Concerning “The Blue Moon,” at the
Princess’s, a thoughtful management has broken
gently the news of its forthcoming withdrawal by
announcing “Last Twelve Nights.” The twelfth
la it night will arrive at the end of next week, and
meanwhile the dilatory citizens who never jump
to conclusions are strolling up to look at the
“ Moon ” on account of its six weeks’ character.
Everybody comes to the show that can wait.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Ihe new self-developing plates, recently intro-
duced by the Baker and House Proprietary, are increasing
in publio favor, as shown by the sales. This plate, called
by the makers “ VVatalu,” strips photograph of its last
remaining terror for the amateur. He takes his picture,
and has only to immerse the plate in a dish of clean water
—just plain water—to get his individual reward of merit.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report The wool
market during the past week has been quiet, many of the
buyers being away attending the Brisbane sales. Latest
advices from London go to show that there is a keen de-
mand for good greasy and scoured ; faulty descriptions,
however, are selling irregularly. Our next sale in this
centre will take place on Tuesday next, 23rd inst., when
we purpose offering about 1000 bales.*
Next Saturday night (27th) the much ex-
pected Besses will Band at Melbourne Town
'Hall ifor the first time, and every night next week
old-established body of conspirators will
'blow the bubble reputation even from the cornet’s
'mouth, not to mention the necessary assortment
Sf other and larger wind instruments. The
Besses o’ th’ Barn have had so many advance
notices and preliminary puffs that a successful
season in Melbourne is practically certain. A
brass musical boom is already in the air, and will
find audible expression on Saturday morning,
when an amateur combination band, 300 strong,
is to meet the Besses at Spencer-street railway
station, and give them a triumphal entry into
the city.
* * sfc *
The Cats and all the other ingredients of
Hast week’s entertainment at the Opera House are
still ingrediating as before. But the force of
J n flPflers will be diminished before Saturday, and
Melbourne looks for ample compensation in the
'appearance of somebody who will not be a
.juggler, or a contortionist, or a coon songster.
-Just now there is a vacancy at the Rickards
house for a “turn” that contains ginger, and is
'hot i'the mouth. The Cat performance travels
on a new track, and may be cordially recom-
mended to spinsters of uncertain age, but it is a
somewhat tame delight for the general public—
the good old General—whose appetite for hotter
stuff demands instant satisfaction.
** * *
Melbourne’s assortment of distractions is
'exceptionally large this week. Ice-skating at the
Glaci&rium seems to have revived the ancient
'custom of roller-rinking elsewhere. Also, two
distinct streams of populace are flowing up
•Collins-street. There is the gentle stream that
’turns into the Athenaeum Hall to murmur its
■approval of West’s Pictures and the Bresciaris,
'whilst f ln eager brawlsome stream pours into the
Masonic Hall, and foams excitedly around a plat-
form where the bantams, lighc-weights and welters
of the V. A.A.A. are stousliing and wrestling one
another in the interests of Art.
* * *
John F. Sheridan having danced and sung
himself out of Adelaide Royal in the triple
capacity of bailiff, footman, and millionaire, in
the “ Lady Slavey,” “ The Coal King ” has come
in, with its strong mining sensation-scene. Ade-
laide is having a kind of underground-suffering
week, for the Town Hall enlivens its “Living
Scotland ” flickergraph with ingeniouslv-faked
films, showing the diver’s rescue of Varischetti.
The Tivoli has a star turn in Emil Amiel, whose
contortionist act is clever to the verge of grue-
someness ; and the latest phenomenal youthful
soprano from Melbourne—Lizzie Newbold—has
been entertained at a Town Hall concert.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Gracie Grahame is tearfully packing her bag, with a
view to starting for South Africa on July 27. She doesn’t
go direct to England, as reported, but after a season at
Jo’burg and another at Cape Town, she expects to reach
London in November—the month when the fogs are
thickest, and when an unusually large proportion of
bodies are found in the Thames ; and then, if she doesn’t
get lost in the thick atmosphere, she will open at the New
Hi, podrome, Putney, and the Middlesex Theatre, Drury
Lane. Unlike the legitimate actor, who never Dlays
“Hamlet” at more than one theatre at a time,' the
variety demoiselle thinks nothing of opening at two
places on the same night. But the fact that her immedi-
ate destination is Africa instead of England makes no
difference in the fact that tears are falling copiously into
Grade's partially-packed bag. Still, she hopes to come
back some day.
«J 1 Outback : I regret to notice that the success of
The Squatter’s Daughter" is making Miss Eugenie
Duggan rather plump. If she continues to put on adipose
tissue as she has been doing lately, she will not be able
to acquire the proper Camille contour, without training
arduously. I beg to recommend an Outback diet—goat
and galah. If the German sausages (singers, I mean)
could only be induced to try the said diet for three
months, they would lose the barrel-like rotundity that so
tickles the risible faculties of me and mv mulg'a mates
My address for the next 12 months will be Sunset station!
past Hungryville, on the road to the duststorm and the
devil. I can supply goat and galah on very reasonable
terms.
. Pannikin ” r Can’t the flickergraph people give us
a view of a Barrier duststorm, a dance of the brolgas or
something cheerful and aboriginal? Even a view of the
boiled goat and water we get at some of the outback
pubs would be an item.
Ada Ward was in Melbourne in the ’seventies, when
Henry Yarley, the more or less reverend denouncer of
the playhouse, swooped down on the city from London.
Perhaps she made a note then that the game seemed pro-
Stable, and that a worn-out actress might do worse than
let down her back hair, and light up her tired eve with
the glim of a great resolve, and buy a tub to put the
collection in, and go it strong.
A “ Pov. Point” (11/7/’O7) remarked on the granting of
copyright registration to Edward Savral, professional
pugilist, of a sentimental song, “ I Have Eorgiven You
Dear Sweetheart, but I can Never Forget. ’ Edward
now forwards a complete list of his compositions; also
the precise moment the afflatus hit him in each case
tuned with ring-side accuracy. Here they are :
“I Ain’t Agoin’ to Gamble any More.” (Commenced
Sunday, May 5, 11 a.m. ; completed Monday night, May
6, 10 p.m.)
“Keep That Promise, and You an Example will
Make.” Descriptive ballad. (Commenced Tuesday, May
7, at 5.40, in Bourke-street; completed following Thurs-
day at 2.40 a.m.)
I Only Live to Eat, Yes Just to Eat.” (Commenced
12.30 a.m., Sunday, May 19 ; completed 3.25, Tuesday,
May 21.) * ’
“ The Song is of the Writer and Seldom of the Singer ”
Descriptive Ballad. (Commenced Tues., 6.20 p.m. • com-
pleted following Thurs., 2 a.m.)
“ Why Don’t Australia make Ready ? ” (Commenced
Sun.. June 9, on board s.s. Kanowna, at 2 p.m. ; com-
pleted at Adelaide, while in bed, June 14, 5 a.m.)
“ We will Miss You Sweet Tittell Brune.” (Commenced
2 a.m. June 11; completed same night 11.57 p.m.)
All of which convinces The Bui.letin that the pugilistic
gentleman is some shucks as a song writer. Probablv
the conviction would be even deeper if he lived in Syd-
ney, for the gentleman is very indignant over something
and he might call personally and insist on singing all his
songs. (N.B.—Nothing in this is to be taken as a reflec-
tion on the fighting gentleman’s songs. It only means
that Tup, Buiaetin doesn’t like comic songs in office
hours.)
Melbourne has lately witnessed the annual show of
“The Victorian Railway Employees’ Poultry, Dog
Pigeon, Canary and Art Society.” Poor old Art arrived
as the train was moving, and just managed to cling on by
its whiskers.
At last there is a movement to do something with that
forlorn concern, the Little Collins-street (Melbourne)
cyclorama. There are two places in Melbourne called
cycloramas. The first, in Victoria-parade, opposite the
fire brigade station, was built for the Waterloo spectacle.
This proved splendidly remunerative. Yet the cyclo-
ramas of Jerusalem and Gettysburg, which followed
when people got tired of Waterloo, was neither of
them very payable. The place hung out in hard luck
until the idea of Sunday concerts was struck. The
concerts have been immensely remunerative. Wren has
leased the establishment for week nights, and so it does
well enough. The.other cyclorama,known as the “Siege
of Paris” one, in Little Collins-street, had a different
history. It was built on the strength of the Waterloo
success, and opened with “ The Siege of Paris ”
as good a show as Waterloo, but it never
took. The opening ceremony was a great shivoo.
Premier Patterson made a happy speech. As an auc-
tioneer, he expatiated with comic gusto on the large
expanse of new territory opened up in Melbourne City.
Then literary banker H. G. Turner said it was the best
forgery he ever saw. The frost started immediately, and
was complete. The building has been blank and vacant
during" many past years. It is now being* knocked down,
and fine business premises will replace it, in emulation of
those just put up by Rickards, at the back of the Opera
House, not far off. YVhat chapters might be written on
the unaccountable failures or unaccountable successes of
show speculations ! Musgrove and Williamson have often
expressed their puzzledom on this head. The most extra-
ordinary thing, that way, on record in Australia is the
money made out of a tattered old American Civil War
panorama, known as Rainer’s. Better panoramas failed
time after time.
A tablet has been placed in the Adelaide Unitarian
Church in memory of Wybert Reeve, who was a pro-
minent member of it during all the years when he was
lessee and manager of the Theatre Royal. An old friend
wrote out from England that Reeve helped to found the
Unitarian Church in South Shields when he was a man-
ager there, years ago; and, ever since he struck Aus-
tralia (chiefly as Count Fosco, in “The Woman in
White”) in the’seventies, he kept up the connection of
church and stage in a way which ought to stagger Ada
Ward. But perhaps Ada wouldn’t regard the Unitarian
tabernacle as a church. A great manv people shudder at
it, as if it were a kind of Sunday drinking.
Dan Barry’s bioscopic fake of the “ Daylight Diamond
Robbery ” having been suppressed in all the licensed
halls of Victoria over which Sandy Peacock has control
the show was taken to Melbourne Waxworks, which re-
quires no license, but after a few displays the long arm
of the law seems to have got at the waxworks also, and
the film is “ off.” Yet it was in this establishment that
Deeming was faithfully portrayed in wax in the act of
perpetrating his hearthstone atrocity, and A. Peacock
entered no protest against the horror. The Broumit’s
belief is that Aiick wished to justify his Department by
giving the Melbourne police a chance to suppress a rob-
bery and murder, even if it was only a pictured one.
How they chop about! The last mail from London
tells of Norah Kerin, remembered here as Titania, and
Norman Partridge, also popular here in the “ Midsummer
Night ” ; they are playing in that remarkable and shriekv
melodrama, “The Midnight Wedding,” which has at
last reiched London. Meanwhile, Winifred Fraser, the
dainty modern maiden of Brough’s final season here,’ has
dropped into “The Merchant of Venice,’’presented “as in
Shakspaare’s playhouse no scenery, Shylock in a
comic red wig, and so on. And Louis Bradfield, the
mercurial, youthful hero of old Gaiety shows, is prominent
(with photograph) in the advertisement of a patent hair-
restorer. So presumably age is coming upon him and he
is in the bald and autumnal leaf.
“ J. A.C.” : Last week there died, in Sydney, John George
Kelly, opera singer. In an unassuming way, few were
better known in the inner circle of the Australian
operatic profession. He was born, 54 years ago, in Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, and w’as thrown ashore from the
wreck of the Ontario, at the tender age of 15 months on
the beach near Queenscliff (Vic.). Kelly maintained
that the corpse of Fiis lost ship was the mysterious wreck
the subject of much conjecture, discovered last year at
Queenscliff. Over 30 years ago he joined Lvster’s opera
co. as a chorister, and continued at that work, and play-
ing minor parts, until within recent years. He was
burLd in Waverley Cemetery. By the way, why are the
gates of the cemetery not opened until 4 p.m. ? This
usually occasions a congestion of funerals about that
hour, and interments cannot take place before half-past
four or five o’clock. I have asked many people the
reason, and have always received the same reply—“ God
knows 1 ” Is it in perpetuation of some ancient barbaric
custom, or pagan rite, or is it merely economy ? It surely
cannot be a desire to push business—yet that is what it
amounts to. On a cold winter’s evening there are few
bleaker places for a hatless mourner to stand about in
than Waverley Cemetery. So, when the ceremony is
over, the mourner goes home and dies himself, and there
is more business for the cemetery, and another job for the
undertaker, and the tombstone-maker is rushed with one
more order.
, Yankee sensation in the show line is an
at Coney Island, New York, fearfully and
th^ der n U ii y entltled “Night and Morning, or a Journey
£lO 000 T e h a :? n HelL ” The production has cost
a room°Lh o T h ®i e er ,!, n search of sensation first enters
ri-irk GXaCt a coffin, and correspondingly
h K 0 ?- my - u When he S lances U P trough the
fsannlnnr 6 ? 0 i tICeS the n ' ouUl °f the grave above, which
the£ P n P y surroul) ded with wreaths. The glass lid
„ de f ends se 'l eral f eet, tilting and shaking in a
manner to suggest that the coffin is being lowered into
to the tnn th £, sound of earth being shovelled on
• °R. 0f j th , e coffln eontmues for some minutes. A
voice in the darkness announces that a guide is necessary,
and a man is immediately placed in a small coffin. In an
instant he is transformed into a luminous skeleton. This
sKeieton disappears, and gives place to an animated one
that delivers a short lecture on the horrors that await
the visitors. The discourse is accompanied by the clank-
ing. of chains, while a number of imps offer for sale,
against a time of need, fans and pieces of ice at greatly
ad j at J ce< *.P. rices ' Cne side of the huge coffin now opens,
and the visitors start on a personally-conducted tour of
the lower regions. A twentieth-century Hell, lined with
janitors tied to red-hot radiators and Trust magnates
l ying in pans, is first visited. Furtheralong is a chamber
of skeletons, who are very animated. They ask imperti-
nent questions, and insist upon shaking- hands. Then
comes a River of Death, which shows a great stream of
dismembered bodies being carried along in a torrent of
fire. You pass on to a graveyard, that suddenly dis-
appears to give place to the figure of a young girl clinging
to a cross, while angels descend from Heaven to
appropriate music. In a twinkling the graveyard is
transformed into a bower of roses, beneath a blue sky,
and the journey is at an end. This show has done tre-
mendous business, probably owing to the fact that the
Yank is anxious to become acquainted with his inevitable
destination after death.
INFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT.
“ You’re one of them Mcthody blokes."
“I ain’t.”
“ Then wot d’yer mean by ’aving a face like
that?"
“ Edyson ” : It was an amazingly funny play, but such
was not the author’s intention, and the players them-
selves were in deadly earnest. Considered as an effort of
art, the show seemed just about adapted to the instincts
of an audience of Bosjesmen ; but a section of the Aus-
tralian people laughed and wept. In one act the hapless
heroine was called upon to ride away on an untamed
steed. The fierce and fiery nature of the animal was
insisted upon in preliminary dialogue. It had bucked
strong men up to the Judgment, and clawed down the
stars in its passionate evolutions. The fiendish cruelty
of the villain in forcing the fragile heroine to ride this
incarnate devil drove the gallery to make a demonstra-
tion of great loathing. “ They are bringing in the mad-
dened brute,” said the sympathetic elderly female. There
was a hush. The characters fell back, giving the fiery
steed a clear stage. Limelights were switched onfiUE
awaiting the unbroken Arab stallion. Enter Fiery
Steed, R.U.E. Tableau ! In all my life I have never
seen a more respectable middle-aged horse than
the said Fiery Steed. It was literally towed on
and one saw the two hands of the stage assistant push-
ing behind. Having arrived, it stood in stout middle-
aged contemplation, and did nothing except wear a kind-
hearted expression and look affable. It was a most
affable horse. Yet people spoke with terror of its fiendish
disposition, and enumerated its victims, and no man
laughed. The frail heroine was assisted to its back.
Exit fiery steed on its mad race, still towed, the heavy
villain giving a kindly push behind. For the next minute
or two the characters struggled nobly to work up the
excitement to fever heat. They were watching the
mad race, they described the sensational gallop thev
cried out, “They’re down! My God, they’re down'”
More hush! Silent agony! Painful wait! The victim
was being carried back on a stretcher. Room for the
afflicted one! Enter supers carrying female figure on
stretcher ! At this point came a voice from the audience
that saved the situation : “ Ah, garn ! ” it said, “ Why
are yercarryirT ’er? I thort it would be the ’orse ! ”
ONLY ONE “ BROMO QUININE”
That is LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine. Used
the world over to Cure Colds in One Day. E. W.
Grove’s signature on box. Is. l£d.*
An excited young man rushed into the vestibule of a
Melbourne theatre the other night and descended upon a
gentleman in evening dress, sitting on a settee, toying
with a plump cigar. The excited young man had a
hectic flush, his collar was broken, his hat 6tove In, and
his clothing bore traces of a tough struggle. “ Look here,
mister,” he said angrily to the gentleman on the settee,
' I’ ve been chucked out.” The gentleman betrayed a
faint surprise, and said gently: “Indeed?" “Indeed,
yes. You can take your oath on it. I was in the gal Ty.
I’d paid me money fair ’n’ square, ’n’ they hoisted me
out.” “ Tut, tut, tut, tut,” the gentleman clucked ih
Sad depreciation. “ And they woh’t gimme ine money
back,” vociferated the youth. " Bless my soul,” said the
man in evening dress. “No, ’Twa.s like this : I was up
there, had a good perch ill the middle iv the gai’rj\ but
a Woman in front wore one o’ them 'ats as big as a Chow’s
gamp. I arsked her perlite t’ take it off, and her bloke
sed he’d hit me in the eye if I insulted his missus. I said
he wasn’t it, and he got at me. VVe had a bit iv a dust
up, ’n’ the next thing I knows I’m bein’ chased
down the steps, ’n’ flung inter th' street bj’ the hired
chucker.” “ Dear, dear, dear,” said the gentleman,
mildly. “How very distressing!” “Now I want me
money back.” “I’m not surprised at it.” “ Well, what
’re yell goin’ to do about it, mister ?” “ I—oh, nothing-
nothing whatever.” “But yiv got to, see.” “Really,
no.” “ Ain’t yeh? Well, let me tell yeh, yer no
Yer a lot o’ robbers here. That’s what yeh are —sharks
n’thieves!” The gentleman held up his palm in bland
remonstrance. “My dear young friend!” he said.
“Are—yeh goin’—t’—give—me—me—money? N > ?
Then I’ll take it out of yer ’ide.” “1 wouldn’t. ’Pon my
soul, I wouldn’t, if I were you,” said the man on the
settee. But the youth charged, and fell into the hands
of the doorkeeper and two ushers. “ Whv don’t he act
honest, ’n’ gimme me money back?” he cried. “What
has he to do with it?” said the Cerberus. “What? Why,
ain’t he the manager?” “No,” said the man on the
settee, sweetly, “I’m a total stranger.” Then the dis-
hevelled youth was fired again.
“Mahout”: Charley Bates and the Artful Dodger
would have to sleep out if they had to compete with the
“egg-flip” brigade of this city of Melbourne. For in-
stance, I was one of many anxious to see the “Goose,”
the other evening. Before the ticket-box was opened
my attention was drawn to a better-attired person than
myself, who was leaning on.' me in a very caressing
manner. Born suspicious, IHt my cash pocket, in a
don’t-mean-to-insinuate way,, ainud ftmiiimid everything O.K.
Noticing my suspicion,, tUh* gexuttwntlMLat me knowingly,
arid transferred his attention to hahmeigtulwr on the other
side, a typical “cow ’’’man, and when tthelfeox wasopehed
the incident went out of my mind. But when I had
bought my ticket and was backing out of the crowd, by
some inspiration I felt, and lo ! all my belongings had
vanished, even to a door-key. Glancing round, I saw the
well-attired person unhurriedly leaving the porch. He
caught my eye at the same time and made off. I pursued
him through several lanes into Latrobe-street, followed
by a large concourse. As he was handicapped with a
Chesterfield, I eventually caught him, and was struggling
with him, when some of the crowd got him away—-con-
federates, the police say. To make matters worse, some-
one set the rumor circulating amongst the crowd that I
had got the young fellow’s si.-ter into trouble, and only
for the police arriving a little later, I would have had a
bad time. One lydy in particular kept saying, “ The old
reprobate—ought to be ashamed of himself 1 ” Wheh I
got home, I found a silver watch in my coat-pocket,
which, the police informed me next day, had been stolen
from the same place the same night, probably from the
“ cow ” man. Now, how did that watch get there ?
Died suddenly, under the shadow of Kos-
ciusko, this week, Frank Myers, one of the
eloquent writers of Australia. Myers knew and
loved the Australian Bush, and therefore loved
well the Monaro country, which is the coping-ridge
of our great continent. It inspired some of his best
work. It will fitly shelter his bones. First dis-
covered by The Bulletin, Myers flashed sud-
denly into a great place among Australian writers.
His work was distinctive, vivid, picturesque,
with that quality of glowing brightness
which Streeton’s Australian canvases show.
When journalism in Australia began to drift out
of the hands of writers, Myers lost heart, and
newspapers knew him but little for some years.
He was fencing in the bush when the foundation
of The Lone Hand offered him a chance (he had
always been a welcome contributor to The Bul-
letin, but his gifts were not best suited for that
paper). For the new magazine he did work—some
of it has been published—equal in distinction to the
best of his youth. At the time of his death he
was on his way to Mt. Kosciusko on a snecial
mission for The Lone Hand. He passed out at
the age of 53. Myers leaves five orphans, three
of whom are mere youngsters.
N.S.W.’s dissatisfied State Premier found
another Federal grievance on Monday ; he wants
the Federal Quarantine Bill hung up ‘•till the
States have been consulted.” But the States are
being consulted—through their Federal members.
Nobody else is being consulted. Not only are the
States being consulted, but it was they who drafted
the Bill and who are now putting it through.
The States are Australia, and Australia is doing
this job. There is no one else to do it. Car-
ruthers seems to think that the Commonwealth
Parliament comes from Fiji.
An old relic of the dead and gone whaling
days went to his rest last week, at the age of 88
years. This was Captain Thomas F. Verney,
who had resided at Balmain for 53 out of his 88
years. He was in the employ of Captain
“ Bobby” Towns, a pioneer of the whaling indus-
try in southern waters, and afterwards he sailed
for Captain Charley Smith, of McDonald, Smith
& Co., in the South Sea trade. Subsequently he
entered the China tea trade, having in charge
vessels belonging to the late George Richard
Dibbs. Captain Verney was a Warwickshiie
man, born in 1819, and came to N.S.W. in 1840
as a marine apprentice.
Australian politics seem to be obsessed by
a demon of Inertia. The spirit of Progress was
not in our Federal politicians last week—in other
words, the Parliament House refreshment bar
had run out of D.C.L. Whisky, and the intellect
of the Legislature was at a standstill. Daily, but
moderate, consultations with the inspiring Spirit
—the Whisky of the Wise—is essential to the
political well-being of both Houses.*
The Australian Historical Society has a
scrap on with the N.S.W. Empire League over
that flagpole in Macquarie Place, Sydney. The
League wants to emblazon upon it: “This is
where Australia was first proclaimed a British
possession.” The Society maintains that Captain
Cook came along 18 years before Phillip, and pro-
claimed, on Possession Island, that N.S.W. was
British goods. What’s the matter with a com-
promise? One of the finest things this paper can
imagine is a flagpole in front of the Treasury with
the inscription : “ Here N.S.W. first paid off its
public debt.” Suppose the two societies drop
their present squabble, and give their flagpoles to
the poor for firewood, and combine as an Anti-
Borrowing League.
SUNDAY CONCERTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Another protest has been entered against the letting’of
’Sydney Town Hall for Sunday concerts. . . . Alderman
Catts moved “ that only sacred music be allowed.”—
Sydney Tklegrapii.
Oh ! the Sorrow and the Pity—
In this sordid, sinful city
They have let our civic hall unto a sacrilegious band,
And the notes of “ Swannee River”
Send a sudden, frigid Shiver
Down the back of Reverend Longface as he shuffles to his
stand.
While the sacred bells are dinging,
They are singing, singing, singing,
And the old, old songs are ringing,
Making golden for a moment some sad life that's mostly
grey ;
Whilst adown the street, a choir
Chants, in doleful strains and dire,
Psalms, that threaten with hell-fire
Those who strive to make life happy in a simple, harmless
way.
But the shameful thing no longer
Can be tolerated. Stronger
Efforts must be made by those who fight the battles of
the Lord,
And emphatic protest entered,
’Gainst the interest that is centred
In the Sunday Concert movement, with the Aldermanic
Board.
“ Annie Laurie ” tolerated
Cannot be. “ Ben Bolt ”i§ stated
To lead men to drink. The hated
“ Did Bill Bailey” should be put down by an Act of
Parliament;
On the Sabbath bright and cheery
Music should be dull and dreary—
Something mournful, lest we weary
Of the love and light and laughter and the sunshine God
has sent.
It’s a most important matter,
For the seeds of sin may scatter,
And the congregations dwindle, growing less and less
each day ;
And the widow’s mite is offered,
When the plate is dumbly proffered,
Far more often than a sovereign, so the meek church-
wardens say.
If in spite of all our drivel
Folk will still go to the devil,
Well, we’ll meet their wishes civil—
They can have their Sunday treats if they but sacred
ditties sing ;
And to show they’re not offending,
We’ll be there with sinners blending,
And when the affair is ending
We will take up a collection as they play “ God Save the
King.”
N.S.W.
VELDT.
THE USUAL THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the grand ecstatic choir
That sings in realms supernal.
Its impulse high and lyric fire
We mortals hold eternal.
But there was trouble in the air,
Commotion most discordant.
The pale conductor tore his hair.
His fierce, Teutonic comments were
The sort a worldling might declare
Sensationally mordant.
The music ceased, and there arose
A blare of disputation ;
The basso cried his vocal woes
In guttural oration.
A tenor grand, whose chins were plain
In three successive creases,
Declared that if he sang again
A special fee he must obtain,
Or else the long continued strain
Would tear his voice to pieces.
Sopranos squabbled and abused.
You’d hardly call them sainted
To hear the Dutch remarks they used.
A brace of mezzos fainted.
The manager, with holy ire,
Spoke two brief, bitter sermons :
“ I give it up,” he cried. “ I fire
The co. and chorus, shawm and lyre.
Archangels couldn’t run a choir
With these infernal Germans ! ”
vie.
SILAS SNELL.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
vou incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the mo 3t obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (0. 26), Sydney, N.S.W
m
n
>
I
iT
Something New
in Cameras • • •
The Postcard “Centura”
FOR DAYLIGHT ROLL FILMS
and GLASS FLATES.
No. 3A.
Size of Picture, 5J x 3Jin. Rising and Cross Front.
Rack and Pinion Focussing, BECK LENS. Double Extension.
A PERFECT CAMERA.
The Double Extension allows back combination of
Lsns to be used as a single landscape lens.
The POSTCARD CENTURA No. 3Aisour New Season’s Model,
and contains ail the
Newest Improvements.
Price £6
CAMERAS from the Best Manufacturers from 7/6 to 20 Cns.
PHOTO. MATERIALS in Large and Varied Assortment.
HARRINGTON & CO., Limited,
386 GEORGE ST. (near G.P.0., SYDNEY ; Branch, 93 Queen St„ Brisbane
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A man with a habit of hanging himself
, , . , T , .
passed out the other day at Botany joyctneyb
His wife had cut him down five times in the
course of their troubled domestic career, and
seven times he had taken poison without success,
Perseverance was rewarded at last, however, and
he died through a large dose of arsenic. He was
an eccentric person, according to the evidence,
ANY SIDE YOU LIKE.
"I wish you wouldn't be so positive. There's
two sides to every question."
“ But it’s so annoying to find you always on the
wrong one.”
Under the heading “Cases of Distress,”
Melbourne Argus says: “Case at North Carl-
ton : Previously acknowledged, £2l ss. 3d. ; also,
6s, ss, 2s. 6d., 2s. 6d., and 25.” “Case at St.
Kilda : Previously acknowledged : £lB 12s. fid. ;
also, 55., 2s. 6d., and 2s. 6d.” Immediately below,
under the heading “Mr. Panton’s Portrait,” it
remarks: “Amount previously acknowledged,
£69 65.; also, £lls., fills., fills., fills.” Appar-
ently, while 2s. is a fair donation to help keep an
invalid worker just clear of actual starvation,
nothing under a guinea is allowable for the pur-
pose of perpetuating Mr. Panton in oil.
This is the sad, eventful history of Victor
W. Carter, of Melbourne. At 16 he commenced
as a farm laborer, but in 1900 he had progressed
to be a tramway gripman in Melbourne at 375.
fid. a week. Leaving that billet he bought a
registry-office, but was too honest or something,
and had to sell out at a loss. Then he tackled
the sewing-machind-selling profession, and was
getting along nicely at £2 a week when cranky
Fortune recklessly smiled on him to the tUtie of
£9l0 —an alleged £lOOO prize in a Druids’ gala.
Apparently Fortune intended him to put the
money into some simple gamble like a two-up
school; instead, he sank £3OO in an engineering
business, which, with the existing mongrel tariff,
was a most reckless chance. The £3OO stopped
sunk; when Mr. Carter tried to haul it up he
found the line had parted. Then he started as
auctioneer and estate agent in Collins-street, and
he dropped another hundred or two. Next he
commenced dealing in jewellery with a£3oostock;
and being neither jeweller nor spieler, he dropped
some more. He was next stock and station
agent for a while, but had no luck there either ;
and then the retail boot trade took his fancy, and
nine months of that left him another £lOO on the
wrong side. In between whiles burglars twice
helped on the shrinkage, and a fire pretty well
cleared him out. After the boot disaster he went,
with his wife, to a friend’s house to recruit his
health. The friend pressed them to stay for six
weeks* he presumed as visitors j but when he re-
turned to Melbourne he was handed a bill for £l6
for board and lodging. This broke him altogether
and he filed his schedule. The Insolvency Judge
said Victor seemed to have had a tough time,
taking it generally, Ahd proffered his sympathy,
also a dispensation. This paper doesn’t know
what to recommend him to tackle next. He
might perhaps get Judkins to run him as an
example of the evils of gambling. Also, this
writer knows of a paper that is looking for a
financial expert, and Mr. Carter has had a lob of
financial experience.
* * * *
u Hamei' ” holds forth 1—»
I was only a king once iii my life, but the remembrance
of it makes me smile with disdain when I hear remarks
about the discomforts of a Royal billet. It was on the
West Coast of M.L., where I made an aristocratic friend.
I knew at once, by the color of his nose, that he was
aristocratic. Late in the evening he confided to me that
he was an earl in disguise. He needn’t have mentioned
the disguise ; I saiv that. I felt called upon to make
a personal admission, and I told him, in strict
confidence, that I might be a duke any day. He
took two drinks to recover his breath, and then
said that, as a matter of fact, though he hadn’t
liked to mention it before, he was, if he liked to claim a
title that the French Revolution had robbed of its splen-
dor, a prince. I clasped his hand with emotion, and
claimed him as a brother. I explained that, in a round-
about way, I was a Stewart, and entitled to the throne of
Britain, but I preferred to be just a plain man, and free.
He called me “ Sire ” with reverence, and asked me to
have a drink ; and we had long beers, because, on the
West Coast, they are exceeding ly long, and you sometimes
get two for ninepenee. We explained one another’s
grandeur to the barman, and insisted on being
given our titles. The barman seemed to have circulated
an awe-inspiring account of our importance,because people
came in and stared at us, and asked about our crowns
and coronets, and volunteered to bear arms in our train.
It touched me deeply to observe this devotion, and in a
kindly address I thanked them, and ordered the lackey to
attend to their wants. The menial, however, demanded
payment; and on searching our noble trousers we found
that we had spent all our royal cash. Then, in spite of
my offer to pledge the Crown of England for the amount,
the barman pitched us out. Still, it was a very pleasant
reign while it lasted.
* » * *
Even those people who gibe most
contemptuously at grandmotherly legislation
have to admit that State
interference has effected a
wonderful improvement in
Melbourne’s food supply.
Lately the authorities have
been zealous in enforcing
the various Acts, with the
result that almost anything
in the nature of a foodstuff
offered for sale is edible
nowadays, even the sausage.
A year or so ago Melbourne
sausages were abominable,
not for their alleged mystery,
but because of the too-
obvious preservative. They
were so loaded with boracic,
or some similar chemical, that
they were fit only for dogs
and people without palates.
Now the law bears very par-
ticularly on sausages, and the
sausage is rapidly regaining
flavor and favor. Mel-
bourne bread and cakes
show a similar improve-
ment, and if you try
cake in a tea-room now,
the ammonia in it will
not make you sneeze, and
you realise that it owes its
complexion to eggs, and not
to saffron or aniline. Mel-
bourne milk, too, has a sub-
stantial coating of yellow cream
on it these mornings, and the jug is
no longer slimed with preservatives that
make the cow product as indigestible as white-
wash, and less nutritious.
Captain Svensson, the man who is sup-
posed to know more about the Solomon Islands
than any other white man who has kept himself
out of the cooking pot, lets some light into those
“punitive expeditions’’ that the papers now and
then talk of pleasantly when a warship goes for a
cruise in the South Seas. Five years ago, he
recalls, a Queensland recruiter was killed at Atta,
and a few months afterwards there was the usual
“ punitive expedition,” and the usual shelling of
villages. “ The actual culprits,” says Svensson,
“ escaped any injury, but a shell dropped into a
native hut and killed an innocent woman and two
children.” And ever since then that tribe has
had a money reward on offer for a white man’s
bead. Svensson feels an interest in the matter
because, as one of the rare white men who wander
around those parts, he has an idea that he would
feel hurt if anything happened to his head.
Ex-detective O’Donnell, of Melbourne,
recently worked out, by a Sherlock Holmes pro-
cess of induction, the identity of the murderer of
diamond merchant Bauer. It was the method of
the animal that gave him away; all great criminals
seem to have their peculiar methods, just as they
have their footmark and their gory finger-print.
’Tec M’Manamny also recognised the gory hand
of this same notorious offender in the matter, and
the monster of iniquity was run down. It proves
that he is just finishing a two years’ spell in Syd-
ney gaol. One would imagine the Yic. ’tec force
would have learned that fact at least a. year ago.
•* * *
Painful corns or bunions speedily cured
with Handy Corn Cure, cleanly, easy to use.
Every box guaranteed, 9d. or three boxes, 2s.
If unable to buy locally, send stamps to Sunset
Drug Co., 612 Harris Street, Sydney.*
“ Janor ” : Yet another Melbourne fatality
through the use of kerosene as a fire-kindler.
Why does the lazy or hurried female persist in this
practice, knowing all the time what it is loaded
with, and in spite of the fact that she has a per-
fectly safe and equally efficient substance within
her reach —sugar ? I figure that every school-girl
should be taught that a tablespoonful of sugar
thrown on a newly-lit fire will make it burn like
Shed, without exploding and disarranging the
furniture. All kitchens should be adorned With
neatly-mouflted printed statements to that effect.
They woidd look every whit as well as the weary
and frequent notice “God Bless our Scullery,”
and the like. Also as an additional reminder to
Merely Mary Ann, the virtues of sugar as a fire-
kindler should be legibly printed on the belts of
all “ Johns.”
WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
RACHEL (the jilted one): " If everybody had their rights that would be my baby crying."
Architect T. HASmeaton, one of the curios
of the S. Australian Labor party, is a verra
gradual Hielandmon. He has produced a Bdl to
do away with barmaids in 1917. MacSmeaton’s
idea is that no new Tottie should handle the beer
pump, and he gives every existing Tottie 10
years to pick out her Johnny and marry him. If
she can’t hook one in 10 years, McSmeaton’s idea
seems to be that she isn’t fit to pump beer. But
can’t the gradual reformer, with the best
W.C.T.U. intentions in the world, see what it
will mean ? Can’t he see that Tottie will honey
her smile, and add another 11 inches or so to her
appealing bosom, and sedulously kindle Reggie’s
infatuation with Derrink? Think of the peril to
a godly community of turning every female
behind a bar into a desperate siren with the
motto, “ Aut seize him aut nullus ” / When the
W.C.T.U, realises what M’Smeaton has done, it
will —Heaven only knows what it will do to him.
* > * *
“ E.D.” : I have contended that the great
heart of the public is only stirred to all the finer
emotions in sympathy with the victim when a
mining accident is built on melodramatic lines.
The Yarischetti business in Westralia offered the
thrilling features of a Bland Anderson play, and
the generous public responded with enthusiasm,
beer, and coin. Harry Hill, the miner who was
entombed at the Lyell Blocks mine at Gorman-
ston (Tas.), was a bad stage-manager, and
neglected to put his accident into attractive
dramatic form, with the result that it remained
his own particular disaster. The papers gave
it a two-inch report without enthusiastic
frills, and the public hadn’t a second thought for
Harry and the plucky men that went in to dig
hitn out of rotten country, in defiance of further
falls, and at the imminent risk of their own necks.
Hill was entombed from Friday morning till
Wednesday noon, and all that time the rescuers
were hard At it in circumstances which called for
just as much daring as was exhibited by the diver
who pursued the Dago to his lair. Hill had the
misfortune to be dead when dug out, so tne
apathy of the multitude will not concern him
much, but, had he stage-managed better, his
widow and orphans would be enjoying the gate
money.
* * * *
Mr. Biard d’Aunet, in his book on Aus-
tralia, declares that our people, through their
devotion to athletic sports, are acquiring enor-
mous hands and feet. Also they get an enormous
head occasionally.
Inspector Shakemup dropped in at a
Victorian school lately, and, as it chanced to je
Arbor Day, went out into the garden to watch
the tree-planting operations, which were in full
swing. Ihe youngsters were hard at it putting
in good Australian flora, such as eucalypts and
wattles, bhakemup inquired, in a cold and
injured tone, why they were not planting pines
poplars, or e ras, as other schools in his district
were doing. Ihe alarmed teacher replied that,
by cultivating the foliage of their own country,
he thought the kiddies had love of country in-
stilled into them. All the same, when bhakemup
left, the following report was m the school
register: “Arbor Day arrangements were duly
carried out under the supervision of the teacher,
Mr. , but trees other than the common
Australian varieties should have been planted.
The 12th of July went off very quietly in
Sydney this year. The dailies didn’t give the-
ceiebrationinorethanhalf-a-colunin,andWoolls-
Rutled an( j Dill Macky were conspicuous by
thejr a g sence _ A Newcastle parson did the day’s
orat h is chief point being that 33,000 or 50,000
Austrians (the figures were rather mixed) had left,
R Q chur(jh and turned Protestants. The in-
formation f e p fl a t. I n the first place Austria is
j off _ Then even if 33,000 or 50,000
Romfn Catholics have been ’verted in the
Austrian empire, that still leaves over thirty
mill | ons to be ’verted. Moreover, the correct
thing on July 12 is a terror-stricken statement
aboi g the - encroachments of Rome,” and to be
told instead that Protestantism is getting along
. n i ce ly put the Boyne-water crowd rather
h j r
om: 01
* , * . . ...
“Aural : Minyip (Yic.), which once
f ked tke member for the district to resign
because he was one of those who pro estecl against
the introduction of Chinese labor to the Rand, has.
a remarkable monument to commemorate The
fallen heroes who perished with a burnt Loer
farm in one hand and a loud cheer m the other,
It is a tree guard bearing a brass plate, and a
statement on the plate to the effect tnat this
tree was planted to commemorate, etc. And inside
the guard is a huge, neglected crop of milk thistles,
The tree perished m infancy and wasn t replaced,
so the railing and the brass plate and the lnscnp-
tion mount pompous guard over the asss food,
even as a brass band might play at a mule s burial,
* * *
The lady help has had her status knocked
f rom un der her by the callous law of N.S.W.
jr V( > r since she was iwented she has been an ill-
paid drudge, who did ty.e work of two slaveys for
a s ] avey ’ s wages, and her one satisfaction has
j. )een s [ ie wasn’t realry a slavey. Socially she
o [ adued that she and the s\ul who struggled with
beetles in the kitchen were far apart and not
a ] c ; n . But the other day a lady-help left her iob
on the premises of a solicitor at Warren (N.S.W.)
w jth undue suddenness, and the solicitor proceeded
under the Master and Servants Act, and the law
sa id it would be 50s. or 14 days. The lady ap-
pealed, on the ground that she wasn’t a paid
servant hut a lady who assisted in household
duties for an inadequate remuneration, and the
Judge Said The two were the thing, and t
the 50s. or 14 days would stand. So it isn t worth
while being a lady-help any longer.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN HOWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians cannot bear criticism, not even that of
their compatriots in England. Whenever any is passed
... on anything that is Australian, a howl of indignation
at once arises.— Biard d’Aunet, translated by the Argus
(6/71’07).
When, sniffing, our compatriots stroll down Australian
tracks,
And note, in divers accents droll, how much Australia
lacks;
When, missing minerals in their beer, they call for
English grog,
And pfate of things unknown oiit here—the deaf old
Londoh fog,
The hewteous snow at Christmas-time, green trees that
lose their leaves.
The quaint East-Ender iii his grime—wheii thus the
llome-bird grieves
And blunders on his talky \kay, ft blind, uproarious owl,
Heat now the Great Australian Howl !
When mfeh with crass, imjirudfent pens romance in Eng-
lish jifihts
Of gHirt dteds done iri dingoes’ dens, and murmur horrid
hints
Of native hears that roam by night to snatch the cradled
child,
Of Labor, in its law-made might, blood-mad and running
wild,
Of armed Democracy aflood across a blighted land ;
Of Capital, whose name is Mud, ruled with a crushing
hand—
When Plain Bill hears across the seas these sounds of yelp
and yowl,
Wot price the Great Australian Howe !
When now the ten-day traveller tells of fearful days he
spent
In strange, out-back Australian hells, where coves,
irreverent,
Cursed Culchaw with improper force, and talked when
they should toil;
When now the absentee goes hoarse, a-roaring that his
spoil
Of good Australian land will make food for a Socialist;
When now the Truth begins to shake beneath his thump-
ing fist;
When Bill, the straight-Australian bloke, hears how these
carpers growl,
Lorbli’me ! The Great Australian HOWL l
VIO ,
FRANK HENTY.


The white man’s burden continues to grow
heavier up North. An Afghan was the co-
respondent in a recent Brisbane divorce case, in
which the petitioner was a pretty prominent
business man.
* * * *
EXPOSURE.—Exposure to the cold
nearly always brings on a cough or some lung
affection, and the medicine that will cure you
promptly and effectively is Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.*
Since Adam delved and poor Eve span,
Since first the human race began,
Mankind has suffered countless ills,
But suffered most from coughs and chills.
Foundations they for all disease,
But now the hacking cough must cease,
for science now makes all secure
With W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
The I°£ie Hand
Bulletin readers already know that the August
number of The Lone Hand is to be an “Art
Number tnat one of its features will be a criti-
cism of the Royal Academy and Paris Salons,
190/. They know, too, something of the stories
in store for them. Let us now talk of the articles.
The Lone Hand for August is going to be retnetn
bered for its articles.
“Windmills, gaols, and the gallows were the
first objects sighted within Sydney Heads, ahd
often enough the gallows’ beam . . , had huinata
pendants.” That from a monograph on John
Dunmore Lang by Frank Myers, who shows how
the man Lang, “ a veritable atom of Deity,
stepped into the hideous ferment of vice and
crime ; and writing, preaching, fighting—and
dying—conquered.”
The sudden death this week of Frank Myers,
one of the most brilliant writers Australia "ever
saw, gives a pathetic interest to these and other
articles of his written for The Lone Hand. The
coming of that magazine restored him to the front,
rank of journalists, and he was again giving of
his best to Australia. His pathetic death ends
untimely a bright renaissance.
The Northern Territory has a climate in which
the white man can live and work, and the white
woman rear a healthy family. So says Mr. J.
C. Watson, M.P., writing of “ Our Empty
North, an Unguarded Gate,” in The Lone
Hand for August. On his recent trip to
the N.T., Mr. J. C. Watson, with a special
commission from Australia’s monthly, inquired
fully into the resources and capabilities of the
Territory.
A fascinating contribution is M. L. Mac-
Callum’s “Oxford to an Australian.” The writer
is a Rhodes scholar from Sydney University, and
his article shows keen observation and humor.
“With great graciousness Carreno consented to a
medical interview, and to ‘sit’ for hands and
arms only to a photographer.” Dr. J. B. Nash
thus opens the result of an unusual interview—a
muscle-analysis of a great pianist.
But that’s far more than a shilling’s worth
already. For the rest, see the magazine.
The Hand
214 Georg 1 e Street, Sydney.
The Melbourne “crime wave” has given
the girl with the lively imagination a new chance.
According to one Merely Polly Nancy’s veracious
narrative, she was proceeding to South Yarra, the
other Saturday evening, when horrible things
happened. She had entered the front gate, she
said, and passed up the garden, when two con-
summate villains, whom she, unfortunately, could
not identify, garrotted her and robbed her of a
purse containing two sovereigns. She screamed,
and staggered to the door, where her employer
met her with his mouth open, swallowed her tale,
and raced to the adjacent police-station. The
’tecs listened thoughtfully to this story ; observed
that the damsel had little jewellery, and looked
no millionairess; learned that she had walked the
few yards between the tram and the house at a
smart pace ; noted that'the garrotters might have
garrotted her on a vacant block of land, but pre-
ferred to do the fell deed in her employer’s back
yard—and set the pump to work. The instrument
presently brought a shower of tears, and the ad-
mission that—well, her boy had just been very
ardent, and she had screamed, and then she
thought that somebody might have heard her, so
she invented the two garrotters on the spot.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE TRUE AMERICAN HAT !
PRICE,
17f 6
EACH.
Postage 9d. Extra
’ | r HE True Type of the American
Hat at half-price, British
majle. .
The illustration is a Photo-
graphic reproduction of the hat,
but it falls far short of showing’
you the beautiful material of which
the hat is made.
It must be seen.
The quality of the fur is
absolutely first grade—
the shades are light grey
and fawn.
The brims are 2J inches.
We will refund money to any
man who thinks he hasn’t got the
fullest possible worth of it.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.. Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A GOOD HUSBAND— UNDER COM-
PULSION.
DANNIE: “Billo used to be no end of a hard
case. Has he made you a good husband.
Sis? ”
SIS: “No, I've made him a good husband."
HIS COLLOQUIAL WAY OF PUTTING IT.
MENDICANT : “ ’ Are yer got an old pair o' trousers on yer, lady ?”
The Law, the other day, bumped against a
Melbourne woman who was willing to let any-
body else who liked have the last word. She was
a friend of an alleged spieler, and the Law per-
suaded itself that her evidence, in a charge against
her “bloke,” would be useful, so it asked her to
say what she knew. The truth would probably
have been damaging, and the other thing might
have meant a charge of perjury, so she firmly
declined to say anything. The P.M., after com-
mitting the “ bloke,” remarked that her evidence
would probably have been of little value anyhow,
but gave her a couple of hours to think it over.
The damsel’s thoughts during those two hours
may be gauged from the fact that when she was
again called on at the Supreme Court she
once more courteously, but firmly, declined to
say anything. His Honor Cussen came to the
same conclusion as the P.M. as to the value of her
evidence —as the “bloke” was convicted he was
probably correct—but this time she was handed
seven days’ imprisonment in which to.practise her
great gift of silence.
If the Maoriland prohibitionist can get
comfort out of his cold tea, he ought to
fly to the pot; for he certainly won’t
be able to get any comfort out of
the Dominion’s drinky figures. For 10
years past the beer bill and the spirit
bill have both been mounting up.
Leaving the Maori out of the count,
the Customs handled enough beer last
year, either for Customs or Excise, to
provide 9’569 gallons all round, as
against 8'220 gallons 10 years ago ; that
is to say, for every eight pints which
the average Maorilander buried in 1897,
he got rid of something over nine
pints in 1906. And the flow of spirits
down Maoriland’s neck has grown
faster even than the rush of the beer
cataract. The bill for the imported
bottled curse has moved up just 70 per
cent, since the year when the first no-
license polls were taken; and—alas for
man’s prejudice against his own medi-
cine—the increase in the tea bill in the
same time has been less than 28 per
cent.
* * * »
In a room of that old, ugly
structure in Chancery-square, Sydney,
which was erected in the days of
Governor Macquarie (1817), and which
contains the Bankruptcy, Equity, and
Probate Courts, is a melancholy col-
lection of articles. They formed the
property of men who died intestate,
and left behind no relatives to ad-
minister their estates. They comprise
trunks, portmanteaux, baskets, clothes,
papers, and a long list of etceteras.
Some of the trunks have names on
them, and places of destination of
passengers. There they wait in a
musty-fusty atmosphere, appropriate
for dead men’s things, holding their
life secrets until Gabriel overhauls the
contents on the last day, or till the
first fire blots out them and the old
building in which they moulder.
A JN.S.W. life assurance society
has received this curious evidence of
how we are converting the Chow
heathen •
Dear Sir Mr Brown
I get a letter from you office wanting me send my
address house to you if your change office me pay in Tas-
mania office I like been every country better for me So
you are family very well for the God loved the world the
lord Jesus Christ!
The Chow wished to explain that he had removed
from Victoria to Tasmania, and would pay his
premium in the latter State ; but, like the Orange-
man, he could n t leave religion out of the argu-
ment.
A few people with a proper regard for
their stomachs are moving in Melbourne to estab-
lish an Australasian College of Cookery. The
idea is to educate, examine and certify the com-
petency of cooks for hotels, restaurants, ships,
etc., as well as private families. Good! The
human race requires the doctor, engineer, chemist,
even the lawyer, to be properly educated and
tested before it lets him practise; even the
engine-drivers and the boiler-attendants have to
show their ability to do their work. Yet almost
any person who can boil a spud or grill a cabbage
may practise his craft on a man’s innards, and it
is almost the hardest thing in the world for a man
to get a second lot of innards when his first lot
have been spoiled.
* * * »
A curious point was raised in defence of
the Melbourne Cold-tea Lodge trustee, who
lately, it is alleged, burgled the Temperance Hall
and annexed £l5O. The point was that, the
money being vested in the trustees, they could
not prosecute one of their number for stealing
what was in law his own money. An obtuse
P.M. failed to see the point. He was probably
wondering what would happen if Tait broke into
Victoria, and burgled the railways, and sold them
to somebody for £50,000,000. The Bulletin
doesn’t know whether this is the first time a
lawyer has raised the point that a trustee can
prig the trust money with impunity, but if it
isn’t, that simply means that previous lawyers
haven’t thought of it. A lawyer, in a general way,
has cheek enough to raise anything.
* * ♦ ■*
M'aldemar Sax, a recent arrival from
Russia, has been sent to prison for a month by
the foolish Solomons of Melbourne City Court
for saying disloyal things about Gov.-General
Northcote. Waldemar’s Yarra-bank remarks
were not at all dreadful, unless the prosecuting
bobby suppressed the really bad observations.
He said the Gov.-General got £lO,OOO a year for
merely riding round in a carriage, with “a white
slave in front on horseback.” “He and many
like him are living on the poverty of the masses,”
added Mr. Sax. Nothing worse than that was
alleged against the Russian, but he got it hot
from a righteous Bench, which was anxious to
demonstrate its veneration for the insulted
Gov.-General and its views about the outraged
dignitary on the horse. “If you are not satisfied
with the kind of government you get here, you
had better get back to Russia,” said Cohen, P.M.
That is the sort of remark that seems brilliant to
dull dogs like Cohen ; yet, regarded as an intel-
lectual effort, it ranks no higher than the street
boy’s retort : “ Garn ! Get work ! ” Next time
Cohen, J.P., is found objecting to the minimum
wage law, or the early closing law, or the anti-
adulteration law, or the immigration law, or the
graduated land-tax (when it arrives), or to any
other statute whatever, the natural retort will be
that if Cohen isn’t satisfied with the kind of
government he gets here, he had better get back
to Jerusalem. There would never be any reform
anywhere if everybody who was dissatisfied with
anything, just proceeded somewhere else, as the
brilliant Cohen seems to suggest.
An individual who will either have to
practise severe thrift for a while or hustle for a
better job was presented at Prahran (Vic.) Court
lately in connection with an amazing tangle, The
lady, who wanted a little from him by way of
maintenance, said she had been deserted by her
husband in ’9B, and had then returned to herfflother
and stepfather, with her two children. Presently
the defendant also came to dwell with then!; and',
in ’O6, her stepfather, Who Was also his father!
reckoned they had better hurry up and get
married. So she got married, notwithstanding
the missing husband. After the child was born,
defendant assured her she was not his legal wife
—which was quite likely—and departed casually.
Also he presently married another woman. The
Court sorted things out, and then asked defendant
how he thought he stood. He said the tale was
quite true that he had married another woman
all right, and that he was getting 15s. a week,
without keep, at scrub-cutting. Whereupon the
humorous beaks ordered him to pay his pseudo-
wife ss. a week for herself, and ss. a week for the
child—which leaves him ss. a week for himself
and his present wife after they have paid off the
£2 7s. which the costs came to.
THE NATION-BUILDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We ... showed how the nation might be enriched by a
vigorous policy of investigation and experiment in
!i*S.„£j' ricultural Department.— Anti-Socialist Argus.
26/6/ 07.
Mr. Swinburne spoke upon the farmer as a Socialist.—
Argus, same issue.
The wind among the whirring wheat goes whispering
Socialism,
Amd swift a frantic farmer-bleat comes from the black
abysm
<of gloom wherein the Backbone dwells—with wild fear
in his eyes
The farmer lifts his voice and yells for Private Enter-
prise.
'Cheap-freighted phosphates underfoot, and State wheat
springing green,
The farmer sees where sense has put fat crops on pas-
tures lean ;
But still he harks to murmurs grim, to frenzied curses
hissed
By dreadful Things that threaten him behind a blood-
red mist !
He roars, “ Here—help an Anti-Socialist! ”
He of the honest, horny heart puts faith in Gover’ment
Which helps to push his cabbage-cart and pay his braz-
ing-rent.
iNo Socialistic robbers can befool the kindly State,
Hor(make the toiling farmer-men give way to men who
wait
Tn strong, concerted idleness around his lucerne-land—
Leaders of draggle-tailed distress who stretch a ready
hand
To w'orlc their loafing legions’ will ! The grasping
anarchist
Can ravish no poor farmer’s mill nor grab his scanty
grist.
The State will help an Anti-Socialist!
The farmer is a brainy lot—with State brains helping him
To ponder on the rust and rot, the riddles, great and
grim,
And mysteries that lurk in Purple Pip and Piebald Straw !
No brainless crawler may usurp his lordly right to draw
Good cheques, State-aided, and to grin when local law
would kill
The stinkwort and the thistles in his pastures on the hill.
There is no meanness in his mind—he has an open fist
To seize on what the State may find to pleasure or assist
His nibs, the hide-bound Anti-Socialist !
The plodding farmer likes to keep his special pastures
nice
And green, and run a flock of sheep with expert State
advice—
A bag of State seed grass will make his gentle soul re-
joice ;
State-adulating tremors shake his strange, tremendous
voice
When neighbors call and stay to tea and linger late to
yarn ;
When Jimmy staggers wearily to slumber in the barn.
And while his wife goes pottering round, slung lantern at
her wrist,
The farmer states his views profound across a game of
whist—
He is an all-wool Anti-Socialist 1
And though the Fates his efforts bless, and though his
bushels bounce,
His wife must wear last winter’s dregs and turn the tat-
tered flounce ;
Though Jimmy, long and gaunt and thin, goes naked at
the knees,
Poor father’s “short”—he’s putting in some State-
assisted peas !
His willing women work all day, lank slushies ground
with toil,
And go their unproductive way across his pregnant soil ;
The long man-milkmaid, sleepless, slack, no birth-rate
can assist:
A shambling slouch, with doubled back—he is no hedon-
ist !
His sweater is an Anti-Socialist!
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DADETV’Q English Machinery, vi*. s Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
RQPCT O Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’sf,"®. P “To™^^
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. i ramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
USA GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
ATFS —UK., 31- ; Canada and U.S.A.,
from2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southpo t.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable
grams per word, “VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices. Qrwl
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
115=117 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; or
Southport, Queensland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, 1901 £51,228 10 p.c. = £50,000 £1,228 £1,032,889
Dec., 1901 51,249 10 „ „ 50,000 1,249 1,034,138
June, 1902 51,254 10 „ „ 60,000 1,254 1,035,392
Dec., 1902 51,455 10 „ „ 50,000 1,455 1,036,847
June, 1903 58,768 10 „ „ 60,000 8,768 1,045,615
Dec., 1903 64,649 10 „ „ 50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904 65,555 10 „ „ 50,000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904 65,570 10 „ „ 50,000 15,570 1,091,389
June, 1905 65,204 10 ~ „ 50,000 15,204 1,106,593
Dec., 1905 65,263 10 ~ „ 50,000 16,263 1,121,856
June, 1906 66,022 10 „ „ 50,000 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906 67,982 10 ~ „ 50,000 17,982 1,155,860
Premium on new shares .. 42,713 1,198,573
June, 1907 71,800 10 „ „ 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
During the half-year this bank increased its capital by
the issue of 20,000 new £l2 10s. shares at a premium of
£2 10s. : on these, as on the other 80,000 shares, there is
also a reserve liability of £l2 10s. The shai eholders had
the right to prepay all the instalments by June 29, and
the accounts show that, up to the following day, £213,566
of the new capital (out of the total of £250,000) had been
paid in, ready to start earning a full half-year’s dividend
»3 from July Ist. This arrival of new money makes the
cash position of the bank stronger than ever. There was
actually on hand in cash and liquid securities on June
30 an amount equal to tlo less than 52 per cent, of all the
debts to the public (deposits, etc.). Assuming that 35
pet cent, is a fair arid safe holding under ordinary cir-
cumstances, this means that this bank alone has some-
thing like £2,800,000 available for financing industries, if
the industries were available, and by means of Protection
against outside competition were put ori a safe eriough
basis to appeal to the banket.
With this very large proportion of the public’s
money held in coin or in securities that give small
interest, the return on the basis of capital and reserves as
at the beginning of the half-year is naturally not very
large. Some recent results
Dec., 1903 .. £6 6 5 p.c. I Ded., 1905 .; £6 3 10 p.c.
June,1904.. 6 7 3,, June; 1906 ~ 6 4 6,,
Dec., 1904.. 6 6 4,, Dec., 1906 .. 6 7 3,,
Junb, 1905.. 6 4 8,, | June, 1907 .. 613 8 ~
There is nothing poof about a £6 13s. 3d. per cerit. re-
turn, of course ; still, when it is remembered that the
tank has the use of £16,456,962 of the public’s money, or
£6 15s. for every £1 of its own (notwithstanding the re-
cent increase of capital), the return is by no means
glittering. But, by maintaining so large a proportion of
liquid assets, the risks are reduced. And when banks
take deposits, etc., running to seven times the size of the
shareholders’ funds, the risks are a very real thing.
There is a curious idea afloat that the more
deposits a bank has the stronger it must be.
Certainly the more deposits it has the bigger the
profits ought to be ; but depositors are only interested in
profits to a minor degree—their business is to see that
their deposits are well protected by capital and reserves :
and, generally speaking, the bigger the capital and rej
serves in proportion to deposits and other liabilities, the
better they are protected. Hence the wisdom of the
Commercial of Sydney in getting in more capital; hence
no doubt also the policy of reducing, as far as possible,
the risk which very big deposits involve, by keeping a
large proportion in liquid and gilt-edged securities.
In some details the present balance-sheet com-
pares with that of 12 months ago like this :
June, 06. June, ’O7.
Notes .. .. £492,418 £558,328 Inc. £65,910
Bills .. .. 1,255.818 1,047,073 Dec. 208,745
Deposits .. .. 13,571,143 14,851,561 Inc. 1,280,418
Liquid Assets .. 8,307,762 8,605,097 Inc. 297,335
Advances .. 8,745,658 9,875,819 Inc. 1,130,161
Premises, etc. .. 460,450 467,375 Inc. 6,925
The liabilities to the public total £16,456,962; and the
liquid assets are £8,605,097, leaving £7,851,865 of debt to
be represented by £10,343,194 of non-liquid assets ; and
that works out at £1 6s. 4d. of these assets for every £1
of debt. That leaves a much smaller margin for depre-
ciation than some banks show; but in any sdch com-
parison it -has to be remembered that some banks’
pound’s worth (book value) of assets is worth a good deal
more than some other banks’ pound’s worth. You can’t
tell for certain whether any bank keeps its securities
written down to the hard bedrock of market value ; but
there are banks where prudent management seems to be
written all over the published accounts ; and this is one
of them.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria :
Dividends.
,• — ’ 1 Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. 3 p.c. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £31,399 £10,419 £15,919 £5061 £138,506
Dec., 1901 33,136 10,419 15,919 6798 145,304
3i p.c.
June, 1902 33,323 10,419 18,572 4332 149,636
Dec., 1902 33,715 10,419 18,572 4724 154,360
June, 1903 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec., 1903 34,354 10,419 18,572 5363 160,172
June, 1904 34,555 10,419 18,572 5564 165,736
Dec., 1904 34,583 10,419 18,572 5592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905 34,260 10,419 21,225 2616 173,944
Dec., 1905 34,524 10,419 21,225 2880 176,824
4£ pc.
June, 1906 37,212 10,419 23,878 2915 179,739
5 p.e.
Dee., 1906 42,912 10,419 26,531 5962 185,701
June, 1907 43,739 10,419 26,531 6789 192,490
The profits continue to expand ; and, as the next com-
parison shows, advances (and, therefore, profit-making
power) expand too :
June, ’O6. June, ’O7.
Notes in circulation.. £124,417 £126,370 Inc. £1,953
Bills, etc. .. .. 686,811 780,531 Inc. 93,720
Deposits at Interest.. 3,606,067 3,862,770 Inc. 256,703
Free deposits .. .. 1,541,541 1,594,860 Inc. 53,319
Liquid assets .. .. 1,981,665 1,939,843 Dec. 41,822
Advances .. .. 5,243,311 5,715,996 Inc. 472,685
Premises, etc 425,906 416,142 Dec. 9,764
Still it is the improvement in the conditions rather than
the increase in the volume of business which has made
such a change in the Profits column. A very substantial
increase in advances has taken place in the 12 months,
certainly ; but up to that time there had been nothing
striking in that way. Ten years ago advances totalled
£5,162,173 ; five years ago, £5,107,064 ; 12 months ago,
£5,213,311—n0 great difference in the figures there. In
the last 12 months, however, nearly half a million has
been added. There is money in that, of course ; also
there is risk. We can’t expect present conditions to
last; the future has to prove whether bankers learned
the lessons of Australia’s erratic past, and, in making
large advances in a time of great prosperity and high
values, allowed sufficiently for the inevitable time of
drought and depression.
Whether a bank discloses all its profits nobody
who dissects a balance-sheet can tell; but at any rate, if
it does not show the exact results in any one term, it
can hardly avoid showing the aggregate result, taking a
series of years. True, there may be actually more im-
provement than such a table as the one above this
shows ; the management, for instance, may be providing
now for losses which it is pretty certain the future will
show in spite of its care. The disclosed profits may, there-
fore, be accepted as at any rate the management’s idea of
what the actual profits are, after providing for contin-
gencies. And this is the return chose profits show on
the basis of capital and reserves :
Dec., 1903 £4 4 2 p.c. Dec., 1905 £4 3 7 p.c.
June, 1904 4 4 4 „ June, 1906 4 911 ~
Dec., 1904 4 4 2 „ Dee., 1906 5 3 6,,
June, 1905 4 3 1 „ June, 1907 5 5 4 „
There is nothing very striking about that. There are
cases, no doubt, in which a smaller return is shown, but
in those cases the market generally assumes that some
of the capital has been lost. In this case the market
values the ordinary shares at a shade over par and the
preference shares at about 10 per cent, over par. As for
the depositors’position, the public’s money in the busi-
ness amounts to £6,364,531, and there is £1,939,843, or
30 per cent., of it represented by liquid assets, which
suggests that the advances cad’t be pushed much further
on present resources. Against the £4,424,688 of public’s
money not represented by liquid assets there are
£6,132,138 of non-liquid assets, or £1 7s. Bd. in the £.
One thing has to be remembered : it will take
more to increase the dividend in the future than it has
in the past, since in any further increase the preference
capital will have to share ; so that to add a half per cent,
will call for £3695 instead of the £2653 required to pay
the last extra half per cent, given on ordinary shares.
The preference ends after the preference shares have had
7 per cent, in 10 half-years.
* * # •
The Commercial Bank of Australia, from
the date when the new general manager revalued the
securities:—
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p.c.) Writ- Added
on Assets on Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves. serves.
June, ’Ol £16,917
Dec., ’Ol £42,460 £31,758 £10,702 27,619
June,’o2 38,434 31,758 6,676 34,295
Capital forfeited .. .. 143,000 177,295
Dec., ’O2 39,194 31,759 7,435 184,730
Capital forfeited .. .. 3,000 187,730
June, ’O3 37,442 31,769 5,683 193,413
Capital forfeited .. .. 2,500 195,913
Dec., ’O3 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. .. 1,500 206,292
June, ’O4 38,746 31,759 15,521 197,758
Dec., ’O4 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June, ’O5 39,470 81,760 6,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’O5 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June, ’O6 41,055 31,760 6,000 4,296 225,234
Dec., ’O6 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June, ’O7 46,423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,488
The profits are shown above “ less loss dd Assets Trust,”
When the puffed-up bank burst with the rest, it turned
over the worst-looking assets to this Trust. The Trust
was to pay 3 per cent, interest on the old deposits, and
the bank guaranteed the Trust, the guarantee, however,
ranking after all new liabilities. On account of that,
guarantee liability, the bank created an Assets Trust
Reserve ; this is included in the reserves shown above,
and accounts for £239,000 of the total. It is really a
reserve td safeguard capital, for the bank’s preference
capital is ridt preferential as against the old deposits. In
additiori td payments to this reserve, the bank appro-
priates large amounts out of profits towards the manage-
ment and 3 per cent, interest payments of the Trust, and
possibly aisd to a small extent towards writing dowri
Valdes. In 1901, when general-manager Heron took
charge, he revalued the assets ; and the results of that
revaluation and subsequent movements are shdwrt
next: —
Dec.,’ol Dec.,’o6 June,'o7
Liabilities of Trust .. £3,334,903 £2,719,044 £2,616,751
Assets ol Trust .. 1,800,000 1,330,000 1,230,000
Deficit of Trust .. £1,534,903 £1,389,044 £1,386,751
Less Bank Resefves 27,619 237,825 247,488
Net Deficit .. .. £1,507,284 £1,151,219 £1,139,263
Six months ago it was stated by the chairman that
£24,186 had so far been realised over the valuation on the
sale of properties valued at £479,566. That £24,186 is
nowhere shown in the accounts—in fact, no balance-sheet
of the Trust is issued. It presumably, therefore, exists
as an internal reserve, to protect the general manager’s
valuation. Presumably, also, as the assets are reduced
and the deposits paid off, the cost of management will be
reduced along With the interest bill, and therefore
the aid called for from the bank will either be reduced or
will be available to write down the assets by paying off
further deposits.
As these old deposits carry only 3 per cent.,
they are quoted under par. Three years ago and for a
long time previously they were worth about 13s. ; and
the bank, "seeing good business in wiping out a debt of
20s. with 135., announced itself a buyer. What it has
done with the money it has made by these repurchases is
also unknown ; presumably that is an internal reserve,
too. Still, there is less money to be got from such dis-
counts now ; the improvement in the bank’s position
(which means an improvement in the value of its guaran-
tee), and the willingness of the public to accept a lower
investment return, have sent up the price of the deposits
to about 17s. 6d. There are three points, then : (1) So
far as the realisation has gone, the valuations have been
exceeded ; (2) there must be an inner reserve, consisting
of the “profit” on these sales ; (3) there is probably a
further reserve, consisting of the profit on the repurchase
of depreciated deposits. The actual deficit is, therefore,
probably smaller than is shown above.
As to current business :
June, ’O6. June, 'O7.
Notes, bills, etc. .. £937,107 £741,347 Dec. £195,760
Deposits at interest 1,909,609 2,202,721 Inc. 293,112
Free deposits .. 2,855,252 2,443,511 Inc. 88,259
Liquid assets .. 2,819,642 2,517,873 Dec. 301,769
Advances .. .. 4,411,937 4,915,663 Inc. 503,726
Premises, etc. .. 445,015 451,110 Inc. 6,095
The debts to the public amount to £5,387,579. The liquid
assets, in spite of a growth of advances, amount to
£2,517,873, or nearly 47 per cent, of the public liabilities.
Certainly, the deposits at call are large ; but, even so,
this is a very strong cash position. It may be maintained,
perhaps, mereiy with a view to fully restoring public con-
fidence in the bank ; it may be part of a policy to prepare
for some transactions with regard to the old deposits.
Certainly, a bank which has these reminders of an ancient
and disastrous jamboree constantly before the public
must be prejudiced; but what is possible in
the way of dealing with the old deposits only
those can tell who know the real position of
the Trust. At the best, however, there must still
be a very big hole to fill up; and, unfortunately, no
mere juggling will do it. The solid fact is that the bank
has guaranteed payment of £2,616,751, and “ the assets
of the old Bank are estirnated to be worth about
£1,230,000,” and no possible undisclosed reserves can fill
up that hole. Moreover, the Trust called for £27,986 of
aid from the profits last half-year ; and that is eloquent
testimony of a very large hole. From the point of view
of the new depositor, the position is different. There
is enough cash, etc., to pay 47 per cent, of public debts ;
and, for the rest, of non-liquid assets there are enough to
pay £1 17s. sd. in the £. The profits before making the
appropriation for the Trust were at the rate of £6 Is. sd.
per cent, on capital and reserves ; after making that pro-
vision they showed £3 15s. 9d. per cent.
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):
Profits by
Purchase
Bank- of Depre- Writ- Added Nominal
ing ciated ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Deposits. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1901..£13,465 £21,947 £ll,OOO £24,412 £220,460
Dec., 1901.. 3,584 12,663 16,247 236,707
June, 1902.. 2,043 20,840 22,883 259,590
Dec., 1902.. 3,463 17,559 21,022 280,612
June, 1903.. 4,190 18,384 22,574 303,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,166 21,760 22,926 326,112
(Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £154,529)
June, 1904.. 2,459 326,112 2,459 2,459
Dec., 19G4.. 2,964 2,964 5,423
June, 1905.. 2,144 —■ 2,144 7,567
Dec., 1905.. 1,421 1,421 8,988
June, 1906.. 1,523 - 1,523 10,511
Dec., 1906.. 2,423 2,423 12,934
June, 1907.. 1,450 1,450 14,384
The new business of this bank is a small thing, as far as
figures go, compared with the old ; and not much can be
got out of’the published accounts to suggest how the
winding-up of that old business is proceeding. Here,
however, is a comparison between the present situation
and that at June, 1900 :
June, ’OO. June, ’O7.
Capital .. ..£1,168,041 £154,570 Dec.£1,013,471
Inscribed stock .. 788,034 796,071 Inc. 8,037
Old A& B deposits 4,581,256 3,006,769 Dec. 1,574,487
Accrued interest.. 88,038 63,301 Dec. 24,737
New deposits, etc. 1,471,554 1,680,226 Inc. 208,672
Liquid assets .. 1,150,054 1,260,495 Inc. 110,441
Advances .. .. 6,719,518 4,088,084 Dec. 2,631,434
Premises .. ~ 400,888 366,742 Dec. 34,146
That is seven years’ progress, so far as it appears. The
A and B deposits and the inscribed stock represent the
old troubles ; they have been reduced by £1,591,187 in
this period. This money has actually been paid off
(all the A deposits haye now disappeared); and it is
obvious that the debt has not been paid offi with new de-
posits. Realisations have been effected ; but in order to
keep the accounts square the whole of a reserve fund of
£326,112, with £1,013,513 of capital—or together
£1,339,625 —has been written off. That, however, doesn’t
help us to gauge the value of the assets that have not
been realised ; for the assets that have been realised may
have been written down to a greater extent than those
that remain in hand.
Formerly the profit made by the repurchase of
deposits at a discount was shown ; latterly, though the
purchases have been continued (the deposits are worth
from 13s. to 155.), this profit is not shown; apparently
it is being used to write down the old assets. These old
assets, it will be observed, are not distinguished from the
new. To what extent the old securities are still over-
valued it is, under all these circumstances, obviously im-
possible to say. The discounts on the basis of present
market value of deposit receipts and inscribed stock
amount, however, to about £1,200,000, or very nearly
one-third of all the old debt that is left; but that valua-
tion is probably based merely on the fact that for the
present the inscribed stock only carries 3£ per cent, and
the deposits 3 per cent., though both may get an extra
1 per cent, after the shareholders have had a small bite.
The bank is handicapped in making a recovery by the
comparatively small volume of new business ; though all
new creditors are very fully protected, new deposits
amount to only £1,463,389, and the machinery to
carry on that business is large and expensive. The
present ought to be a very favorable time to really face
the situation and have a final eleaning-up. It is all very
well to go on nursing the assets, to try to get them back
to 20s. in the £ ; but nobody is really the better for it.
The old depositors are not; even if they were to get 20s.
in the £ eventually, they only mostly get 3 per cent, now,
and won’t get any more for years to come. Meantime,
while the nursing process continues, profitable new busi-
ness stays away enthusiastically'. It is evidently no use
printing in black letters that new' depositors are fully
protected ; it is evidently no use maintaining in coin and
other liquid assets a vastly greater amount than is
really necessary. The people who might supply the
new business mostly take no note of these things:
what they do note is that people who formerly lent
the bank money are now accepting 13s. or so
in the £. If the bank continues to carry on it
will eventually have to get in more capital; at present it
has only £154,570 paid up, while even now it has
£1,68(1,226 of new public debt. That is nearly £ll to £1;
and the Bank of N.S.- Wales and the Commercial of
Sydney felt themselves Called' upon to get in more capital
when their liabilities ran in the proportion of £7 to £l.
Money is plentiful now'; and it doesn’t seem likely that
there will be many better chances of doing what will have
to be done sooner or later. The people to turn to natu-
rally are the old depositors ; if an arrangement could be
made with them, so that a cleaning-up could be
effected, the bank might face the world withoutits handi-
cap, and get some profitable business, and avoid some
waste.
* * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Writ- To
Profits. Dividend and ten Re- Re-
Dividend Tax. Off. serves serves
£ £ £ & £
June, ’Ol 8,657 21 p.c 5056 3601 55,402
Dec ’Ol 8,758) (6080 3000 55,080
June, ’O2 9,024 Ord. 3 „ „ 6700 2324 57,404
Dec., ’O2 8,646 V J 7223 1423 58,827
June, ’O3 9,052 Pref. 3£ „ „ 7227 1825 60,652
Dec., ’O3 9,455 ) 17227 - 2228 62,880
June, ’O4 9,182 3|- ~ ~ 8422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9,569 Si „ „ 8427 1142 64,782
June, ’O5 9,673 34* ~ ~ 8463 1210 65,992
Dec.’ ’O5 9,898 3J „ „ 8468 - 1428 67,420
June, ’O6 10,016 3| ~ „ 8468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’O6 10,933 4 ~ ~ 9711 1500 68,690
June, ’O7 11,246 4 „,, 9790 1456 70,146
The movement of the figures issued by this bank inspires
confidence. The management seems to be feeling its
way carefully, and to be gradually strengthening its
position and its profit-earning power. It seems to be
anxious to lay the foundations for a big business later on,
rather than to show' large earnings at once. Thus,
though it had at the time but £2 Is. of the public’s money
for every £1 of its own capital and reserves—and only
one other bank in Australia has a smaller proportion than
that—it lately invited shareholders to subscribe more
capital. The appeal was certainly not a very strong or
convincing one, and only resulted in increasing the
capital from £458,042 on December 31st last to £467,581
on June 30.
In proportion to the size of the business this is
a large amount; it means that the shareholders have
£537 727 in the concern, while the public has £1,127,634 —
that’is, £1 for every £2 2s. The shareholders’ funds
are the public’s insurance fund, and from that point
of view the public is very well protected indeed.
Whether it is quite as well protected as it looks from
these figures is another matter. Some of the capital may
have been lost, for instance : the public apparently has
some idea that it is so, judging by the fact that the shares,
£6 10s. paid, are worth about £4 18s., which would mean
in ordinary circumstances (and these circumstances seem
ordinary enough) that the public writes off £112,000 of
capital as not represented by assets, as well as all the
reserves. It is worth looking into the matter on that
basis. If, as the market seems to say, £112,000 ought to
be written off as well as the reserves, then the share-
holders’ interest in the business is about £355,000 instead
of £537,727 ; and on the former basis the profit was at the
rate of £6 6s. 6d. per cent. In other words, the business is
giving a return of £6 6s. 6d. per cent, on the market’s
valuation. According to that valuation, as said just
now, the shareholders’ real interest in the business is
about £355,000 ; and even on that basis the bank has £1
of its own to safeguard every £3 3s. of the public’s. The
market, however, doesn’t always know. Still, consider
this statement of the return on capital and reserves (as
at the beginning of each half-year) shown by profits :
Dec., 1903 .. £3 13 0 p.c. Dec., 1905 .. £3 15 7 p.c.
June, 1904 .. 310 7 „ June, 1906.. 316 4 „
Dec 1904.. 313 5 ~ Dec., 1906.. 4 211 „
June, 1905 .. 314 1 „ June, 1907.. 4 5 5 „
There is a very good improvement certainly ; but, as a
w'hole, the fig ures suggesteither that some of the assets are
not very profitable, or that book values are still high.
Whether the market does not write them down too low
when it writes them down so as to show a return of £6
6s 6d. per cent., is another matter. Of course, a deal
depends upon whether the full profits are disclosed, or
whether too much or too little is provided for contin-
gencies. Considering the improvement in Queensland
conditions, the improvement in the return is not so large
as to suggest that full credit has been taken in the ac-
counts for the larger profit that should have come the
bank’s way.
As for current business, this shows some
details: —
June, ’O6. June, 07.
Bills and notes .. £42,621 £58,870 Inc. £16,249
Denosits .. •• 986,907 1,068,764 Inc. 81,857
Liquid assets .. 357,792 420,183 Inc. 62,391
Advances .. .. 1,143,123 1,191,195 Inc. 48,072
Premises, etc. . • 63,663 63,773 Inc. 110
The liquid assets are £420,183 ; the total debt to the pub-
lic £1 127,634 ; the total non-liquid assets (book value),
£1’254’968. Thus there is £707,451 of debt to the public
not represented by liquid assets, and against that there is
£1,254,968 of non-liquid assets. Which means that the
latter could be written down Bs. 9d. in the £, and the
depositors would still be provided for.
* » • *
The City Bank of Sydney :
To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
June, 1901 ..£BlO5 4percent. =£Booo £lO5 £109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8157 4 „ „ 8000 157 110,081
June, 1902 .. 8016 4 „ „ 8000 16 110,097
Dec., 1902 .. 8108 4 „ „ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 transferred to Contingent a/c .. 1,205
June, 1903 .. 9351 4 per cent. = 8000 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903 .. 9052 4 „ „ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904 .. 9045 4 „ „ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904 .. 6158 2£ „ „ 6000 1158 5,811
June, 1905 .. 6060 24 „ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905 .. 6068 2| „ „ 5000 1068 7,939
June, 1906 .. 6066 24 „ „ 5000 1066 9,005
Dec.. 1906 .. 6049 2£ „ „ 5000 1049 10,054
June, 1907 .. 7066 3 „ „ 6000 1066 11,120
The balance-sheet figures published by this bank are of
very doubtful value. For instance, there was nothing
whatever in the accounts to explain the jump in profits
from £BlOB to £9351 in 1903, or the fall from £9045
to £6158 in 1904, and there is nothing to explain
the spring that is reported now. The directors seem
to have come to the conclusion that in this time, of
general prosperity it was up to them to put up the divi-
dend a fraction, and the fraction called for £lOOO, so the
profit was declared to be precisely £lOOO more than it was
in the corresponding half of 1906. The City Bank is badly
in need of a larger share of public confidence, and this
sort of balance-sheet certainly isn’t the sort to win what
the bank needs. Thai its position is better than it was is
very likely ; but the public has no chance of knowing
what the improvement (if there has been one) really
amounts to.
A dissection of the items doesn’t help much
either :—-
June. 'O6. June, *O7.
Notes .. .. £85,839 £93,449 Ino., £7,610
Deposits, etc. .. 1,126,623 1,234,305 Inc., 107,682
Liquid assets .. 322,116 451,737 Inc., 129,621
Advances .. .. 1,160,805 1,148,542 Dec., 12,263
Premises .. .. 144,596 144,696
The City is one of the very few Australian banks —almost
the only one—which shows no increase of advances. The
management may, however, have its own view of the
outlook ; and it is quite possible that the view is right.
The chances are that money will presently command
higher rates, and the bank may be nursing its resources
while rates are low and risks are, nevertheless, consider-
able. Moreover, the character of the advances may have
changed considerably. If it has, it may be a better thing
for the bank than a mere increase in the size of the figures.
The action of the directors in putting up the dividend
ought to be an indication that this is what has happened.
In spite of the shrinkage in the advances, and the
increase in the deposits, the bank’s liquid assets still
represent no more than 34 per cent, of the liabilities to
the public—nothing extraordinary, but generally regarded
as a good, safe proportion. The same matter can be
looked at in another way : after paying depositors and
other creditors with the available liquid assets, there
would remain £1,293,136 (book value) of non-liquid assets
with which to pay £876,017 of debt; and that is equal to
£1 9s. 6d. in the £, which allows for a good deal of infla-
tion in the book values. The investment market certainly
reckons that there is a good deal of inflation. Instead of
£400,000 of capital and £11,120 of reserves, the market
values the whole concern at £178,000 ; in other words, it
writes the assets down by £233,120. Writing down the
non-liquid assets to that extent, there would still he
£1,054,017 of these assets to pay £876,017 of debt. But
whether the market bases its valuation on anything
beyond the fact that such and such a dividend is paid is
another matter. The return shown by the declared
profits on the capital (£400,000) and reserves was last
half-year at the rate of £3 Bs. lid. per cent, per annum.
a ® * »
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Vic.):—
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. mises. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £3542 6p.c. = £2550 £225 £767 £60,484
Dec., 1901 3629 6„ „ 2550 300 779 61,263-
June, 1902 3689 6„ „ 2550 1139 1 62,402:
Dec., 1902 3627 6„ ~ 2550 500 577 62,979'
June, 1903 3474 6„ „ 2550 250 674 63,653-
Dec., 1903 4004 6„ „ 2550 250 1204 64,857
June, 1904 3977 7„ ~ 2975 1002 66»859>
Dec., 1904 3974 7„ „ 2975 999 66,858:
June, 1905 4028 7,, ~ 2975 1053 67,9131
Dec., 1905 4040 7„ „ 2975 1065 68,976
June, 1906 4050 7„ „ 2975 600 575 69,55!
Dec., 1906 4098 7„ „ 2975 1123 70,674
June, 1907 4129 7„ „ 2975 1154 71,828
Mining in Ballarat has for years been going down hill;
even so, this bank hasn’t made the progress that it should
and no doubt would have done if the district bad made
better use of the extraordinarily fertile land which it
comprises. Ten years ago (June, 1897) the advances
totalled £263,961; even in this time of general prosperity,
when people in most places have been launching out, they
amount to only £313,627, or but £49,666 more—a very poor
10 years’ progress indeed. The Ballarat Bank has no
branches, and its expenses are very modest; but it works
in a district where there is no expansion and little demand
for money, and so its profits are comparatively poor. On
the basis of capital and reserves, they show up as
follows: —
Dec., 1903 ..£5 7 9 p.c. Dec., 1905 ..£5 5 8 p.e.
June, 1904 .. 5 6 2 „ June, 1906 .. 5 5 2 „
Dec., 1904 .. 5 5 4 „ Dec., 1906 .. 5 6 1 „
June, 1905 .. 5 6 1 ~ June, 1907 ..5 6 1 ~
Its total debts to the public (deposits, etc.) are £238,658:
and its capital and reserves combined are £156,828, so
that, in spite of its good reputation and its undoubted
position, it has the use of only about 30s. of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own, as against a proportion of
£7 to £1 in the case of some of the bigger and more pros-
perous banks. No doubt this means a remarkable degree
of safety for depositors, and it reduces the risks also of
shareholders ; but there are no big profits that way, and
no likelihood of them.
* * * 9
Fitzgeralds’ Brewing and Malting Co.
(Oastlemaine, Vic.):— ~. , . _
v Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897.. £4735 10 per cent. =£4ooo £735 £8,681.
1898.. 4701 10 „ „ 4000 701 9,382.
1899.. 6457 10 „ „ 4000 2457 11.839'
1900.. <353 10 „ „ 4000 2353 14,192:
1901.. 7107 10 ~ ~ 4000 _ 3107 _ 17,299/
£lO,OOO of Reserves added to Capital, making
it £50,000, and reducing Reserves to .. <,399'
1902.. 6814 10 per cent. = 5000 1814 9,113.
1903.. 6268 10 „ „ 5000 1268 10,38 L
1904.. 6250 10 „ „ 5000 1250 11,631
1905.. 6423 10 ~ ~ 5000 1423 13,054
1906.. 6741 10 „ ~ 5000 1741 14,79 a
£lO,OOO of Reserves added to Capital, making
it £60,000, and reducing Reserves to •• 4,79 b
1907.. 6778 10 per cent. = 6000 778 5,5<3


1 he Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British arid Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i aridling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lainpriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* *• * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * »
Felton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, ■ an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* * » *
One set of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, is at present being constructed for the Berry United
Gold Mines, to the order of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
Company. The set will consist of 3 lifts, each of 200 ft.,
the total lift being 600 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in
diameter and 10ft. stroke, and the discharge 2,500,000
gallons per day. The valve.boxes are made in separate
pieces, instead of forming part of one H piece, and the
valves are of the compound fl ip type. The total weight
is 110 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
this work in hand. This Company has constructed and
erected most of the big volume, deep alluvial plants now'
working in Victoria.
* * * *
The Insurance India (London) in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue writes:—“We have to congratulate the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society' on a remarkably
excellent report for the year ending 31st December, 1905.
From a new' business point of view, the year was the
most successful that the Society has experienced for a
longtime, the new policies issued numbering 3687 and
assuring £922,401.”*
Maps showing the Orange Plains Mineral
Leases are obtainable from H. B. Pinnington, Authorised
Draftsman, Box 60, Dubbo, at 5/- per copy.*
* * m m
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Analytical Chemists, Mining
Companies, etc. Taylor and Colledoe, Limited, Brisbane,
Laboratory Suppliers, carry full stocks of Balances,
Crucibles, Chemical Glassware, Merck’s Reagents, Purest
Chemicals and all Laboratory requisites at lowest rates.
Catalogue on application.*
• * • *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company', and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* *• » *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X- * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * # *
D. H. DuNlDp, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Her midale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West, On the Field.*
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * ■+
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
■*•***
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said : —“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras.”*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field fot
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-streei,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* '* ‘ * -X
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work ci-
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* X * #
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained,
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
«**•<•
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond:
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
Previous to this year the capital had been £50,000 in
40,000 shares of 255. each. On this latest transfer
’ reserves to capital, the capital was put up to
£lOO,OOO in 80,000 shares of 255. each ; in other
words, 40,000 new shares were created, of which
SOOO were issued. In 1901 the distribution of reserves
was made by paying up the uncalled ss. per share on the
existing shares. The new shares lately isstn d were at once
worth about 325. ; so, as for five old shares one new' share
was issued, the distribution meant a bonus of about 6s. 6d.
per share. Reckoning upon the basis of capital actually
paid, according to the balance-sheet of 1901, the present
dividend is a very handsome 15 percent. The strength
of the co. lies in the fact that it was not loaded w ith pub
properties at boom values, and, though it was born in
1887—which was a very risky year to be born in—it kept
out of the danger, and avoided the g eneral wreck. Latterly,
as formerly, the business appears to have been highly
profitable, and values stem to be kept written dow'n
firmly. As this show s *
1900. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Overdrafts, etc. ..£B,OOO £6,500 JS : il Nil
Freeholds , ... .. 20,644 26,966 £25,016 £23,949
Advances .. ~ 17,045 22,617 19,871 18,483
Stock an<4 plant .. 13,929 12,827 12,153 11,704
Sundry debtors. .. 10,477 8,469 7,698 7,681
Cash balances .. 2,098 1,175 2,556 6,757
dross trading profit.. 9,223 8,849 10,294 9,150
Management.. .. 2,870 2,426 3,553 2,372
“Management” jumps about a good deal, probably
because provision for bad debts is lumped w ith this item,
rhe management is evidently pursuing a go-slow policy
in the matter of advances, being not too sure how
the teetotal cat will jump in Victoria. The issue of
the new shares also provided those shareholders who are
doubtful, and feel inclined to “ hedge,” with a handy
means of doing so.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne), which w'rote £42,000 off its reserves in
1898
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1901 .. £2795 5 p.c. £2250 £545 £8,858
Dec., 1901 .. 2783 5,, ~ 2250 533 9 391
June, 1902 .. 2436 5 „ „ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902 .. 3168 5 ~ ~ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903 .. 3699 7„ „ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903 .. 3226 5 ~ ~ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904 .. 5352 5„ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904 ... 3332 5„ ~ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905 .. 3768 5 ~ ~ 2250 3518 17,722
Dec., 1905 ~ 5577 6.,, „ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906 .. 5466 6„ „ 2700 27(36 23,365
Dec., 1906 .. 7061 8,, ~ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907 .. 4432 6 ~ „ 2700 1732 28,558
The remarkable increase in the business has not been
sustained ; it was too much to expeot'that it would be.
The directors, at any rate, when thev paid the previous
half-year’s dividend at the rate of 8 per cent., called 2 per
cent, of it bonus, so as to hint, that it might not be con-
tinued. As the comparison printed lower down show's,
old estates have lately been w'ound up faster than new
ones have arrived, so the revenue and the profits have
suffered; for, though it is understood that this co.
doesn’t take credit for the whole corpus commission when
an estate comes in, it naturally takes a percentage of it,
leaving the balance to be taken into revenue as the
estate is gradually liquidated. This co. doesn’t show the
amount of commissions thus reserved ; but it is, at any
rate, better to have them and not show them than to
take credit for the lot before they are really earned. As
far as the published accounts show things, the movement
has been like this :
. Dec.,’oo. Dee.,’o6, June,’o7.
Commissions .. .. £9,176 £13,066 £10,104
Interest 649 1,037 1,088
Expenses .. .. 5,611 6,209 6,516
Profit on Funds, p.c: .. £7/14/9 £l2/9/3 £7/11/9
Trust Estates .. .. 6,326,344 8,754,551 8,664 061
Expenses p.c. of Estates 3/6 2/10 3/.
The expenses are very small, the result of the large con-
nection which the co. has now got. Of the capital
(£90,000) and reserves before payment of the current
dividend, £36,318 was in public securities and deposits,
£18,220 in mortgages and other advances, and £65,000 in
freehold.
* * * *
Some Westralian results for June :—-
Value
Ton- Re- per ton.
nage. venue. Profit. s. d.
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,014 £43,854 £21,014 46 1
Horseshoe .. .. .22,728 52,152 21,194 45 10
Fingall 22,302 35,202 14,314 31 6
Great Boulder .. 13,243 45,793 23,787 69 2
Kalgurli .. ... 9,178 26,616 13,779 58 0
G.walia 13,152 19,044 5,867 28 11
Perseverance . 16,610 29,316 11,855 35 10
Lake View'Consols .. 11,079 13,197 1,504 23 9
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 10,850 30,032 16,947 55 4
Associated ... .. 9,986 19,015 4,916 38 1
Ass. Northern .. 3,619 14,188 9,979 78 5
Golden Ridge .. 1,144 2,690 814 45 3
North White Feather 1,977 2,643 194 26 9
Inglisßtm Ex. ... 1,500 1,960 22 26 i
Q. Menzies .-. .. 1,332 1,210 13 18 2
Losses for month included South Kalgurli, £971 ; Boulder
Main Reef, £9l, and Vivien, £64. In the case of the first-
named co.,- however, the excess of expenditure over
revenue was due to the fact that charges for pjant re-
construction and repairs were incorporated in the
month’s bill of costs.
The Westralian Chamber of Mines has asked
the State Government to smite the gold stealers before
they do any more damage to the reputation of the honest
miners and mill-hands of the fields. The police are eager
enough, but until the law is amended they are as power-
less-as a corose. The illicit buyers are fully aware of
this, and, under cover of alleged g.old-bearing : leases and
ramshackle treatment plants-which they run, they are
making money hand-over-fist. One notorious dealer has
disposed of nearly £30,000 worth'of bullion since January
last, while -the turnover of another equally well-khowh
“ fence ’’ does.not fall far short of this amount. Most of
the stolen stuff is believed to come from above ground in
the form .of gold slimes and,amalgam, but, of course, that
is only supposition. , Anyw'ay it is stolen from somew'here.
* * .* *
Lecturing before the Prospectors’ Association
at Perth, recently, Westralian Minister for Mines Gregory
made some remarkable, istateraents anent the mineral
possibilities of the black and brindle Nor’-West. As an
instance of the surface richness of, the Roebourne copper
deposits, he Cited 1 the Whin! Well mine," which, although
going begging a year or so ago, had, during the past four
months, produced ore to the value of £25,340. Turning
to Marble Bar and Nullagine, he said that, as the result
of superficial,mining, the?e two .outlandish districts had
produced an. aggregate of 68,0000 z. of gold from 34,000
tons treated. He predicted a great future for Marble Bar
and Nullagine, but opined that gold mining at the latter-
centre would only be a secondary consideration to tin-
mining. Tin, he said, was spread overthe country almost
everywhere, and would prove a lasting source of w'ealth
to the Nor’-West. Mica, asbestos, and diamonds had also
been discovered, and generally he summed up that part
of the West as a country of big things. Discussing the
reason why mining was so slack in this apparent land of
great mineral wealth, Minister Gregory stated that the
dearth of mining timber and firewood was the “fly in the
ointment.” It was; he said, absolutely impossible to get
mining timber on the spot, and that brought from a dis-
tance cost from Is. to Is. 6d. per foot, while w'ood for fuel
purposes cost about 30s. per ton.
* » * *
The Golden Link Cb.’sEclipse lease (W.A.) has
been sampled by 8., M. & Co. for a London concern,
known as the Share -Guarantee Trust. .Assays have -mod
yet been made public, but it is extremely unlikely that
they will show the gaudy results reported from time to
time. There is a little bit of good ore in the property,
but there is far more poor stuff. To date, £90,000 won
from ore treatment and £140,000 taken out of subscribed
capital has been spent by the Link, but, as in the case of
the Hannan’s Star, no dividend has been paid. The co. is
making its last stake upon the Eclipse lease, and the
chances are it will leave Kalgoorlie with its pockets empty.
* * * *
The outlook at the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is
brighter than for some time past. Six months ago the
ore in sight u'as considered sufficient to keep the mill
going for two years. Since then good developments in
the bottom workings at No. 14 level, coupled with the
opening up of the Gw'alia South shoot at the 7th level
and its subsequent intersection at 9th and 13th levels,
have probably added another two years at least on to the
life of the mine.
* * * *
Black Range Go. (W.A.) has lately installed a
new 20-head mill, and is now busy putting up a cyanide
plant. Shares look attractive, provided that the returns
promised by the management are forthcoming and main-
tained ; but a loud prophetic whisper is heard that thev
won’t.
* * * »
Great Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) still appears to be
on a good wicket in regard to its newly acquired St.
George leases at Magnet. There is an immense body of free
milling stuff in sight, and, as costs ought not to average
more than 12s. per ton, big profits should be made on the
treatment of 6dwt. or 7dwt. ore. So far the mine has
only been proved to a vertical depth of about 90ft. ; but
the great width of the lode, bulging in places to 100 ft.,
augurs well for permanency.
* * * *
General-manager Delprat, of the Broken Hill
Prop., was at latest in Europe, “giving particular atten-
tion to the iron and steel industries of Germany and
Great Britain." In the Iron Knob, whence the co. gets
flux for the Pt. Pirie smelters, the B.H. Prop, has a vast
body of good iron ore ; and it looks as though the co. has
thoughts of an auxiliary iron and steel enterprise. With
its resources and organisation, the co. would start out
with almost unequalled qualifications, so far as Australia
is concerned.
* * * *
When Broken Hill Block 14 directors decided
to disburse £25,000 among shareholders this month, they
must have been “cracking hardy.” Just now the
management is preparing to enter on what may prove a
prolonged and certainly will he an expensive exploratory
campaign, and meantime there is little besides the car-
bonates to keep the pot boiling. Being well aware that
there is now only a very remote chance of the main ore-
shoot—Block 14’s one ewe lamb below the 300 ft. level —
living to the 700 ft., the management is continuing the
600 ft. south drive beyond the point where the ore cut
out, in the hope of picking up something. Diamond
drilling below the 600 will also be resorted to. The B.H.
Prop. Go. i 3 at present drilling east from Block 14’s 500 ft.
level to try to pick up the eastern vein, which is supposed
to traverse the block adjoining on the east. If Block 14
has luck—and it needs some—the Prop.’s drill
may strike a stray shoot inside the boundary,
in which case Block 14 will jubilate, and probably pay
another dividend and bonus, and hang the consequences.
The vexed question whether the B.H. Prop.’s
Block 13, or northern section, is comparatively barren at
depth (say below the 400 ft.) is much nearer an answer
since the western crosscut at the north end of the 1200 ft.
level, Block 12, proved the lode 24ft. wide, with no hang-
ing wall in sight. This crosscut is certainly a good way
from Block 13, but the size of the shoot is regarded as a
good sign that development northward will not draw a
perfect blank. For the work of sinking Delprat shaft
below 1200 ft. the contractors have been guaranteed 15s. a
shift.
* * * *
After clawing one another through several
courts, and calling one another everything but perfect
gentlemen, for the last two years, the Broken Hill Prop,
and the Potter’s Zinc Process Co. have come together in
a more-or-less friendly way, and a new Potter Process
Co. is to be formed, with the B.H. Prop, taking half the
shares.
* * * *
The little Allandale mine, at Waukeroo, 30
miles north of Broken Hill, got oflf the mark fairly well
when operations were started several months ago. But
an Adelaide manager didn’t fit in very well, and there
have been some ructions. A crazy mill was another
difficulty ; it got the manager into deep water and the
Board into a bad temper. Changes in the directorate
have been made, and reorganisation is going through the
usual slow process.
* * * *
Last fortnight the Great Cobar, with 958 hands
on its wages sheet, distributed the biggest pay in the
mine’s history.
* • * *
Appearances in the bottom level of the Harden
(N.S.W.) are still unsatisfactory ; but the mine has nine
months’ reserves, and that gives the co. room to hope,
and time to look for better things.
* * ■* *
The last lot of 90 tons from Baker’s Creek
(N.S.W.) returned 120 oz. The battery has now been
hung up until more stone arrives, and that shouldn’t be
long, as No. 17 can send out a fair quantity, and the shaft
is down to No. 18. No. 17 has been driven over 300 ft.
north and south ; and assays available gave 23dwt.
at the north end and 15dwt. at the south. There
is’ a fair quantity of payable stone developed
below No. 16 —which is just as well, because
to feed a big mill with a 6in. leader calls for
almost continuous development. The co. is fairly well off
for cash, and there is no immediate prospect of calls.
Baker’s Creek has for years past been a market horse for
Adelaide, with Sydney clinging to the tail. The same old
crowd pulls the strings now, and Sydney always plays
into its hands by crying off the scrip at low prices.
Mt. David, near Hockley (N.S.W.), is an
isolated show on top of a high ridge. The co. has a.free-
hold covered by stones and scrub ; also a tramline down
the ,hill, and a battery. At the start, when there was
plenty of payable stone to keep the mill going, the
management spent a lot of money in pursuing imaginary
benefits. The battery was carefully lowered into an ex-
cavation near the creek ; and this “economy,” and the
aerial line, and the Sydney office, ate up everything.
The co. has now got down nearer to ordinary' condi-
tions, and can work with some degree of economy.
The last return (300 tons for 2640 z., also 90oz. from tail-
ings) is exceptionally good, and shareholders are selling
on the strength of it. If these people believe in the re-
ported Bft. reef of payable stone, it is pretty evident that
they don’t believe in “the crowd.” The new make is in
the. No. 2 level from the winch winze—say, about 400 ft.
* ■* * . *
Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W.),.'which, as reported
lately, lost the ore-vein in the main level, regards that as
of no great though in a mine it certainly is
better to have ore than mullock any time. Still the vein
throughout the mine is irregular in size, pinching and
making ; but as shaft sinking is work that the co. must
do, that job was proceeded with instead of extending
the level in order to pick up, the vein further on. More-
over, there is no room for stacking ore on surface, and
the present management isn’t inclined to send crude ore
away at great expense for freight, as tl'ffi prospectors
have done hithei to. The co. still owes ,£2,100 co the ven-
dors, and a call of 25.. 6d. to pay it will be,, made next
month. After that there will be a rest till about the
end of the year, when the other 2s. 6d. will probably be
got in to pay for equipment. There is a fair quantity of
second-class ore. available—some of it on surface—and
arrangements for experimental work in concentrating
this have already been made,
To import sentiment into mining is generally a
fool’s trick ; yet if the Long Tunnel Extended iolk had
not believed so ardently in their mine they would
never have defeated the “bears,” and enriched them-
selves. There was a reef that for 1900 ft. had gone
down, level after level, with an average underlie of
15ft. in 100 ft. Then when it seemed sure that it would
underlie out of the claim into the Long Tunnel, it
made down almost on the perpendicular. So, as the
Extended has got the reef at 2700 ft., with an underlie
of only 3ft. in 100 ft., the Board has ordered new ropes
to carry down to whore it will be too hot even for the
“ bears ”to sun themselves. It is not fair to anticipate
chairman Finlayson’s eloquence at the half-yearly meeting,
but one can at least think of the expansiveness of his
smile, and his cheery “ I told you so.” It does one good
to see such faith rewarded. In the same spirit, there are
now two items Finlayson might attack vigorously. The
first is th cost of mining. It is undeniable that the
value of the stone has diminished in the last twelve
months. Still, the mine is even now a loz. proposition.
But for easy milling stqff to take 365. 3d. per ton to mine
and treat iiieans that possible divs. are escaping. Then
the measurements over, the crosscut, which were touched
in a lady-like way in the Argus, demand an
explanation. To. drive from 362 ft. to 396 ft. in
the interval between the issue of the usual report and
the striking of the reef is pretty smart work. Finlayson
ought to investigate that record. As a postscript, which,
after all, is liable to be the best part of any communica-
tion, it isn’t safe to swallow the Age opinion that there
is five years’, work in sight. Put it at three when the
next crosscut hits the reef, and you are not far wrong.
* * * *
Another mine that is dying very hard is the
Lord Nelson,' St. Arnaud (Vic.), and from the look of
things at the bottom level, Zeb Lane, sen., was not so
very far wrong when he said that all the good stone that
went into the Lord Nelson North you could put into the
crown of a tall hat. Machinery which gave the late
manager trouble is now working O.K.—even a
dour Board says it is doing “most satisfactorily.”
Machinery doesn’t, however, make a mine, and with the
.Lord Nelson the bottom and the upper levels are the
points of interest. At 1800 ft. the shoot of stone is 321 ft.
lonfr, but as the two ends are poor 30ft. has to be cut off.
Inis stone is low grade for 20ft. up; and, as nearly a
third of the crushing dirt last half-year came from that
level, it accounts for the average being under 6dwt.
ouch stone leaves little margin of profit for the next
level, and if the mine had to depend solelv on depth,
things wouldn’t look well for the co. or fpr the folk that
are holding on next door. So work is being hustled
ahead in the upper levels, where a number of blocks of
from low to average grade dirt are-being mined. New
manager Nichols won’t speak beyond the next half-year
—wise man ! —and he builds his hope very plainly on the
higher stopes at 1810 ft. and on the upper ground. The
co. is still working off its dead horse of a debt incurred
on the battery. Therefore, profits amounting to £3098
went last term to the banker, whose debit now stands at
£4283. Another half-year should see this liquidated.
The co.’s trouble then may be to find a good supply of
profitable stone.
* * • «
Nemesis has followed quickly in the steps of
those that did the deep-lead flutter in London ; the
central claim in theMoolort (Vic.)firmament, tlieLoddon
Valley Co., is now so much; on its financial beam ends
that the State is asked to aid it with, a,grant of £20,000.
The late share gamble in London was based on the fact
that the wish had been entered in the mine, and calcula-
tions that would beat an adding-up-machine were made
to prove the yardage of the wash and the tonnage of the
gold that was to come out of a lode 1000 ft. wide and good-
ness knows how many .feet deep. There has always been
a mysterious sort of ignorance about mining in London,
save of the Stock Exchange kind, otherwise this sort of
pap would not have been swallowed. Whatever happens to
the application, it will reflect badly on Victorian mining,
and that is just the point the State has to consider. In
the Loddon Valley, Moolort, and Victorian Deep Lead
mines, Bull, at one time and another, has put nearly
£600,000. Probably the same stage would have been
reached under the best Australian management for little
more than half the sum ; and if there had not been such
a lot of cocksureness about 8., M. and Co.’s crowd, more
sympathy would be felt. There probably isn’t a man in
Victoria that doesn’t w 7 ant to see the mines going ; but
they would like the work done by locals. Any stipula-
tion in that direction, and the £20,000 would be voted
with a smile.
* * * *
New Dempsey, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.), has hit
the gold all right, and so the “outs” are sad and the
“ins” full of ardent expectation. Well, they deserve it;
for the Nolan-Egan combination don’t make a fuss, but
plank up the nimble thrippenny when calls are wanted
better than most men. With water to do cheap work
and a shoot of stone once proved, the divs. ought soon to
flow as freely as in the old Dempsey days, when Nolan hit
it so rich.
* * * *
“Waanyarra”: Bulletin (6/6/’O7), commisera-
ting with the co. which lately tackled the Magenta,
Chiltern (Vic.), said “No. 1 level did not come up to
expectations, and there was no guarantee that the blanks
there would be filled at No. 2.” The old co. did not,
however, get deep enough to reach the Magenta reefs ;
besides shaft-sinking, all it did was a little work on the
Glasgow’ reef. The Magenta reefs are large bodies of
stone ; they have been worked profitably to a depth of
200 ft. by co-operative parties, and, as other cos. on the
same line have proved that the reefs improve and are
payable at a greater depth, it is reasonable to expect the
Magenta to do the same.
‘ * * *
Something which needs explanation is why, a
few days ago, Star of the East, a Ballarat stock, sold
down to Is. in Melbourne, while in Ballarat the market
held at 2s. Several thousand shares changed hands in
Melbourne, and it would be interesting to learn who was
selling. Spiteful people have been accused of knocking
the market out, but there may be an even less satisfac-
tory explanation. The directors in this co. may be above
suspicion—one has been accused of beinga philanthropist
—but if a director was the vendor, what’s up? The
public should be assisted to the bottom of the little
mystery.
* * * *
From the Gordon Gold Mines, Ballarat district,
50 tons gave 48oz. The stone came from a sft. lode, in a
drive at 150 ft. The ground thereabouts has been pros-
pected for 14 years or so, with varying success. The
deepest point at which gold was struck previously w'as at
80ft., and the recent development has aroused local in-
terest in the probability of the Gordon Gold Mines return-
ing some of the investors’ money.
* * * *
Charters Towers’ dividends for the first six
months of the year w 7 ere only £10,284 ahead of the calls.
The real state of things at the Tow’ers can best be gauged
by the Stock Exchange sales : only 253,229 shares were
sold in the six months, as against 505,151 in the first half
of 1906. In good or f ir times nearly every Towers miner
has his flutter on ’Change. But he is “ putting it in the
sock ” at present.
* * *• *
With “Joe” Millican at the helm, a move-
ment has been started at Charters Towers to form the
principal cos. into groups for the purpose of carrying
through deep-level exploration. It is the best proposal
that the Towers has listened to for many 7, a day, and the
best man for the job has got it in hand.
* * * *
“Johnny “ The Man f rom Cairns ” (B. 13/6/’O7),
re the Chillagoe smelters, says there is ore stacked all
along* the railway 7 line, waiting its turn to be taken up to
Chillagoe. Rubbish ! If he made further enquiries he
would find that ore was stacked to be sold, or is already
sold, to other ore buyers. In the last 18 months we have
sent over 300 tons up to the smelters in lots ranging- from
three to 50 tons, and we never had to wait longer than
three days after the trucks were ordered. But "we have
found, like all other prospectors, that it pays better to
sell our higher grade ore to other ore buyers, as we get a
larger assay value shown. The Chillagoe smelters are glad
to get ore, and they will be gladder yet. The real trouble
is the smelters are run by cheap and incompetent labor,
consequently the furnaces are in a continual state of upset,
and that’s where the losses and the small returns come
in. So the outside prospector finds it pavs him better to
pick his ore up to a much higher standard, and sell to
foreign ore-buyers. The smelters lose ; so does Aus-
tralia. Tiie co. talks big about the ore reserves of the
Etheridge. Still if the co. treats the Etheridge stuff-
raisers as it has the local article, it will find tile ore from
that source will make little difference to the co.’s
returns. If the three furnaces could be kept
going continually, they could treat approximately
4000 tons of ore per week. That would be as much
ore as they could expect to get for many a year to come,
and in itself would give a very handsome profit, consider-
ing the tariff charges. But, unfortunately, there is little
hope of that unless there are drastic reforms. If the
shareholders knew the losses they have sustained during
the last 18 months (the period of highest metal prices)
through the employment of cheap, and incompetent
abor, they would weep for their lost dividends.
* # * *
“Quartpot”: “Mainshaft” (B. 27/6/’O7) is
very emphatic that the Queensland Freeholds “ never had a
general manager,” and that he “ never started to sink
anything.” The fact remains that the general manager
of the Exploration co. was acting in the same capacity for
the Freeholds co., and that he had let contracts at both
Arg.vlla and Just-in-Time to sink main shafts. Mr. Hill
however, arrived just as the contractors were starting’
and stopped both, substituting two prospecting shafts at
each place. No one disputes the size of the Arg.vlla out-
crop, but unfortunately there is too much “ white oxide ”
(quartz) and not enough of the red metal. As for there
being no developments, the two shafts at each place are
down between 50ft. and 100 ft., and the developments are
not so encouraging as “Mainshaft” and many others of
us would like to see.
* * * *
West Cloncurry (Q.) started a new shaft on its
South Argylla lease, and at 24ft. is on a lode 6ft. wide
and reported to bulk 8 per cent.
* ■* * *
Hampden Consols, Ltd., formed by William
Orr to work the old Hampden Block 15, does not show 7 up
too well on developments. Orr floated the co. privately ;
£BOOO cash w r as put up for prospecting—mostly his own
cash. Flotation was taken in hand on good evidence too.
Work done—the sinking of two shafts and crosscutting
therefrom—was good mining, although the levels w 7 ere
too shallow and the shafts too far south. There are good
prospects on the northern end of the blocks, and work is
to be resumed there.
* * * *
Copper took a header the other day, and the
market was down to about £9O before the men who have
been nursing copper scrip could get to their brokers’
omces. Wallaroo and Moonta suffered badly ; the fall
came on top of an announcement that, in consequence
of the trouble over the hack income-tax, the co. wouldn’t
be able to carry through the proposed issue of bonus
shares. At their top, Wallaroos were at £6 9s. during
the first half of the year ; they are back now to £5. Their
position always has been rickety ; but there has been a
fashionable crowd behind the stock, so the public rushed
the shares, and didn’t stop to consider that it cost the
co. £72 11s. per ton last year and £6l Xls. in 1905 to pro-
duce its smelted copper. The metal got from the old
dumps by cementation certainly costs less, but there is
no great quantity of that; and, anyhow, the dumps will
be done in a very few years.


If you have a bad cough don’t rely upon
ordinary soothing cough mixtures, but take
Angier’s Emulsion, which not only cures the most
obstinate cough, but promotes appetite, aids
digestion, and benefits the entire system. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
Sing a song of Peppermint,
The cure that’s made by Woods,
For one and sixpence worth of cost,
A sovereign’s worth of good.
When the bottle’s opened,
It’s praises all people sing,
*Tis certain such a sovereign Cure
Would set up any King.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents.
A DRINK TO BE
GRATEFUL FOR
zx>
£7
FEjschnatcs
ntv
A Medicine as veil as a Beverage. *
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Barb ” : The story of the unhappy lady
at Katoomba (N.S.W.) who wanted to see
the spot where the tragedy occurred, and
who became a tragedy herself, brings to my
mind a remarkable series of events. A circu-
lar saw-mill was in full whirr, and a man, careless,
perhaps, had half his finger sliced off by part
of the workings. He left for treatment. When
the inevitable yabber had subsided, the mill was
set going again. Presently, a late arrival turned
up, and it was necessary to tell him about it, so
the voluble idiot of the establishment proceeded
excitedly to show just how it happened. The
result was that he lost half a finger. He also left
for repairs. The double event came to the ears of
the boss, and he blustered along for an explanation.
The day was young and the job long, and the mill
had once more been set in motion. A man
approached the fatal spot. “ Yer see,” he said,
“the blanky fool ’e comes up to it like this, and
the blanky thing” And the “blanky thing ”
took his half finger. After that no one wanted to
show how it happened.
THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
This picture represents a N.S.W. half-time
school in the Ben Lomond (N.S. W.) district. It
did duty for 13 years, and was closed in 1905,
not because the Department had lost confidence in
the premises, but for lack of scholars. The full
teaching staff and the bulk of the pupils are
visible in the foreground.
Again the quaint Broken Hillite rushes to
the paper with his wail of toe
pHALLENGE.—It having come to my ears that a
W man called FRANK, living near the Mulga
Hotel, said that the first time he caught me in the
above-mentioned hotel he would kick me out,
through my action in the controversy of the late
Sadeek. To allow him to carry out his threat I will be
in attendance at that hotel at the following times :
Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week from
10.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. ; next week, Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday, from 4.45 p.m. to 5.45 p.m. ;
and the following Monday, Wednesday, and Friday,
from 8.45 a.m. to 9.45 a.m. and 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Turn up, or shut up. —J. J. SMITH.
Seems that the patient Smith is going to wait 12
hours for the express purpose of being kicked.
“ 8.A.P.” : Listen to my condensed
gohanna yarn. Camping in Gippsland, we left
the pickle-bottle of butter on a log. It was gone
when we came back to camp. Next day left another
pickle-bottle of butter in the same place. It was
absent when we came back, but a big gohanna was
present. Gohanna fled up tall tree, but was shot.
Hell. Great sound of smashed glass. Contents
of gohanna, one sound bottle, one broken bottle,
and sundries. No butter found in gohanna.
* * * * I
“ Black Soil ” : The coldly indifferent
emus that “Agricola” (B. 13/6/’O7) knows must
be quite unlike those bred in this district (Coo-
namble, N.S.W.), both in habit and appearance.
Often when doing a job in the paddocks I have
been surprised to see six or seven big birds in-
tently watching proceedings, circling around in
slow and stately fashion, and gradually approach-
ing close enough to satisfy themselves as to what
was being done, and that it had the union label
on it. The other day I was breaking in a heifer,
and the cries of the calf brought an audience of
nine emus, who stood round the stockyard like so
many jaekaroos—only, unlike the jackaroos, they
didn’t advise me how to pass the rope over the
heifers, horses, etc. Emus seem to have more
manners than the jackaroos I have come in con-
tact with. Anyhow, I’m satisfied that the birds
are nearly as curious as women, and walk a heap
more gracefully than most of them.
* * * *
“ Bromide” on Brown Brother :
“G. Morton ” (B. 6/6*07) skites about the industrious (?)
Maori. Did he meet a special breed of them, or is he so
poor a judge of work that he doesn’t know what is a fair
day’s graft? After over two years’ knocking about in the
King and Queen Countries, and the Patea and Poverty
Bay districts, the opinion I formed was that the Maori
was a cowardly, shiftless and dirty waster, with an un-
doubted talent for shifting porter-galf and smoking fags.
He’ll take on shearing, crutching and dagging, because
these jobs don’t last very long, and he is able to earn
enough while they last to keep him in idleness for a long
while, but as for sticking to a steady job with a bit of
manual labor attached to it—not he. If he is hard
pushed for a bit of tucker —and the Maoris in the districts
I have mentioned are often hard pushed, despite their bit
of land, rent and rates free—he’ll tackle a strip of bush or a
length of fencing - , and take a great deal longer over it
than even poor whites would. Wason the Upper Mohaka
one year when a strip of station bush “ came out.” We
tendered ; so did a crowd of Maoris from a neighboring
poverty-stricken pah. The Maoris got the job, and we
waited, reckoning to have another fly for it when
“ G, Morton’s” industrious pets chucked it in, and we
allowed they’d last a week. The first day the whole
pah full, bucks, wahines, and piccaninnies, got to
graft and whaled into it like demons for about two
hours. Then one of them got tired and wanted a spell, so
he called out, and they had a korero for about an hour,
planning how to spend the cheque when it was earned.
At it again for an hour, then kai and smoke for an hour
and a-half. Graft again until about 3.30, when a halt was
called, and an excited discussion took place as to whether
the job was paying. The great mental effort was not
concluded at dark. Next morning only half of them
rolled up early, the rest dropping in casually by ones and
twos until near dinner time. After dinner there was
another korero as to the financial success of the job, and
it was decided that it was paying splendidly. Then they
pegged away in great style until about 4 p.m., when a
howl of “Damn te job, it not pay,” was the signal for
another korero. It also lasted far into the night, and the
eloquence was tremendous. Next morning the chief
went to the station manager, and told him that Brown
Brother was full up. We cut out that strip of bush,
averaging 18s. a day right through it. I have seen
plenty of other jobs started by Maoris, and it was almost
the same course of procedure in every case, the job
generally being finished by whites. Would “G. Morton ”
inform me how much of that Maori station was cleared
by full-bloods, how long they took to do it, and how
many of them were at the job? If he takes the trouble
to find out these details, I think he’ll discover that a
small camp of whites would have done the job in less
time.
* « * •
“ Wood B.” : During last vacation, I was
staying with a cocky friend who was puzzled to
account for damage inflicted nightly on his
“ spud” crop. The field was enclosed with a sub-
stantial log fence. On
examining same, he
found that a neighbor’s
porker had been in the
habit of crawling
through one of the
logs which was hollow.
The log was of a half-
moon shape, and my
friend hit upon the
idea of turning it, so
that both ends opened
out on the unculti-
vated side. I decided
to camp and watch de-
velopments. His hog-
ship strolled up about
dusk, and, in a confi-
dent manner, entered
the log at the usual
end. When he came
out he looked puzzled,
and grunted “Most
extraordinary, must
have reversed in the
log.” So he tried again.
On emerging the second
time he seemed slightly annoyed, and charged the
opening again, with an “ Tll-see-this-through ”
sort of air. After making the round trip half-a-
dozen times he began to bristle with rage, and in
the end he ran clean amuck. He saw it through
39 2 times, and then stopped in the middle from
sheer exhaustion.
* * w *
“Quartpofc” : “TheProoshan”(B. 6/6/’O7)
says bunny cannot dodge a hawk. Well, if he
can’t the hare can, and easily, on level ground.
When pursued, however, the hare tries the same
tactics as when chased by a dog; that is, if a hill
is handy, he makes for it. Going up a steep
hill the dog has no show, but the manoeuvre is
right into the hands of the hawk, which from be-
low swoops up hill ; and, though puss dodges for
a time, the proceedings generally end in victory
for the hawk. By the way, one of the prettiest
sights I ever saw was a match between two hawks
and a parrot on a plain in S.A. The parrot
managed to dive into a clump of scrub just in
time to save his feathers. The evolutions of those
birds while the chase continued were a study in
military tactics, and would also make a good
design for an oilcloth for a suburban residence.
“ Polstan ” : Be “ Revolo ” and his cham-
pionship of the fragrant stinkwort (B. 27/6/’O7).
This plant certainly dies away in the winter, but
it springs at harvest time, and its growth is so
respecting stock near it. If “ Revolo’s ” animals
are so fond of the stuff, they certainly must be
starved. *
* * *
A colt shot himself on Ockwell’s estate,
Killara (Vic.), the other day. It reads like a case
of suicide while in a state of unsound mind. A
loaded gun was left against a stable wall, and
Ked Wind, a two-vear-old and a local trotting
celebrity, put his head over the closed half
of the stable door, and picked up the gun by
muzzle This showed & l&iiient&ble luck ot
her" Tense, for the pm explode;!, .pd Rod
Wind got the charge in his mouth. Had his
dying deposition been taken, he would pro .ably
have said he didn’t know it was loaded.
* ’ * *
From “ F.L. :
“ P'uto ” (B. 11/7/’O7) raves re the age of stalactites.
We ,ave the authority, not of irresponsible and much
ridiculed cave guides, but of eminent geologists, that
stalactites and stalagmites in underground caves occupy
centuries of time in their formation. “Pluto,” if he in-
formed himself better as to the nature of these crystal-
line lime growths, would not attempt to draw a compari-
son between them and the stalactitic growths sometimes
evaporation, and it is manifest that the process oi evapora-
tion is incomparably slower in a below-ground cavern,
where the atmosphere is still and the temperature low and
almost invariable, than in sewers or tunnels which are
readily affected by changes of temperature, and often by
currents of warm air Again, the proportion of I.ne ,n the
clear water drop which forms the cave stalactite—white
as crystal and hard as flint—is not so great as in the
thick muddy stuff which exudes from the interstices of
a tunnel, and which forms a stalactite about as thick as a
radish, and of the consistency of chalk. In the Jenolan
Caves there are a stalactite ana stalagmite forming
directly one over the other. The space between them
When the caves were opened, over 40 years ago, was a
quarter of an inch, and to-day this interval, as far as any
sensible measurement can discover, has not diminished,
Those are the real article, and have no relation to the
hurried temporary fungus that “ Pluto ” finds in a sewer,
where man has supplied the raw material wholesale in
the form of mortar. One is an oak, the other a mush-
room.
“ Moanui I have had some experience
with Maoris in Poverty Bay, Hawkes Bay, Bay
C) f pi en ty, and numerous other bays, also in, on,
around or beside various plains, hills, rivers and
• better knowledge 1,,,. deepen., the
earlier impression that to term the Maori a
good worker,” one would need the imagination of
that eminent Chinese scholar who wrote the
monumental work upon large and small devils.
As a sprinter, he is worthy of a little considera-
tion, for he is generally willing (when stiff) to
accept a short job ; hence his aptitude for shear-
ir.g, grass-sowing, and such like, but as a “ con-
sistent grafter,” he is “ right out of it.”
* * * •
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Another Outback
. . T a. n* r m■ v.
shanghai I was travelling from Tib-
ooburra to White Cliffs with Coolibah Charlie,
Wg reached Cobham Lake at 10.30 on Sunday
night. The Hotel Mulga had changed hands,
and was henceforth to be “under entirely new
management,” as the inferentially insulting
j- Q s j gns say i n Sydney. The new proprietor
5 A hotel over at midnight. Why
was to take tne notei over at uuuiiigiit.
that hour was chosen I cannot say; there be queer
hours in the Saltbush Spaces. In one room was
a sor t Q f prayer-meeting-cwm-liymn-singing
so j ree< l n another room a party of men were
„ amb ij ne hard and earnestly. C. Charlie, some
room near the bar. Ihe dining-room was given
U p to dancing. A ping-pong tearabout was
tournamenting m a big parlor. The bar was full
of lnen - n ab s t a ges of intoxication. Lying in a
ner was a shearer with the greatest foghorn
™™® r fever heard . Every time he snored the
siioie x ~, . J ~ , , .
bottles and glasses rattled on the shelves. Across
his chest lay a tank-sinker just as full. Ihe ab-
normal snore annoyed him. Thrice he sat up,
witb difficulty and determination, intending,
o uy„ t 0 m ake rude remarks to the snorer;
prooa i y ,w i« v . p „ t } IV hnnve He
but each time he fell back beaten by booze, ne
made a fourthand desperate effort to Sit up, and
succeeded. He looked at the shearer s mouth,
eyes, ears, nose as if puzzled ; then he shook the
sbearer fiercely and yelled out, “Shay, matey,
j, tired a hearin’ ya snore. Carn’t ya git
£ “ ra ch ? T,
r .
WILD BEES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, where the' Earth is still divine—
Hear the magpies calling !
Where the Sun’s our God, and the air’s like wine,
And the honeydew is falling 1 ;
Where yellow box is blossoming,
And wild bees buzz, and wild birds sing,
And we know not care or anything—
Hear the magpies calling !
.There is a hut upon the hill,
Hear the magpies calling !
And there the Bush is strangely still
When the shades of night are falling 1
The soil’s unbroken by the plough,
Birds slumber on the swaying bough,
And primeval peace is round us now:—
Hear the magpies calling !
We yield tired hearts to Nature’s spells—
Hear the magpies calling !
Her space and freedom, her wild flower smells,
When the silver rains are falling.
When skies are blue, and days are sunny,
We’re happy, nor dream of work or money,
With our apples and meal and amber honey—
Hear the magpies calling !
We dip in the sapling-shaded pool—
Hear the magpies calling !
And her body’s brown and beautiful
Through leafy waters falling ;
Of sweets each day’s like a brimming cell
In a busy hive, and we know full well
Each day’s but a dream, but a moment’s bell—
Hear the magpies calling.
Come, where the world is a dream of peace—
Hear the magpies calling !
With the birds and butterflies and bees,
Where the hours, like dew, are falling.
The Creek of Change winds, yea or nay
By hill and plain, but she sings alway
To-day is sweeter than yesterday—
Hear the magpies calling !
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.
CHOPPIN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHOPPIN’ in th’ dawn at early mornin
Choppin’ while th’ dev: is on th’ grass ;
Choppin’ in th’ day-time t’ keep th’ pots a-
boilin’,
Choppin’ after sunset when th' day begins t' pass.
Day by day it’s iust th’ same, nothin’ but
a-choppin’,
Grindin’ axe in moments spare t’ start th’
game again ;
Choppin' logs and feet and toes, with both my
hands a-blister,
’S if I’m keepin furnaces aglow for Tubal
Cain.
N.S.W.
When I seat myself at night, still I hear the
choppin’.
Stiflin’ ev'ry other sound, and throbbin' in my
brain,
Till th’ boss looks in and glares—a sign th ’
heap’s a-vanishin’,
And I rush from out th' house to ply the axe
amain.
In my dreams at midnight all the world’s
a-choppin’ ,
Choppin’ stumps and people down, choppin’
iron bars ;
Choppin’ ev’ry bloomin’ thing, from snakes to
wooden houses,
And the axemen up above are choppin! down th!
stars.
THE BATCHER.


David vStorer (Si Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors s
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by .. .
ALL MERCHANTS
(Bb STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OK
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
WE
BUY
Choice Diamonds, £24.
All Diamonds, £45,
DIAMONDS.
We want to buy Diamonds or other of the precious gems—from deceased estates—from those wanting to
realise. We only buy unset gems. If the gems are in settings we will take them out and return the
settings, or buy them as old gold. We pay cash for all purchases. Large or small lots we desire.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Pick”: Re “Jailor’s” contribution (B.
11/7/’O7). It is easy enough for a doddering old
bullock to fall over a cliff, but on Governor’s Hill
near Kiandra (N.S.W.) there hung for years, sus-
pended 15ft. from the ground in the fork of a tree,
the dried carcase of a horse : and, as there was
nothing above, save the clouds, from which it could
havefallen (and it seldom rains horses), the animal’s
position was a mystery. The site became a
popular picnicking ground, and is still known as
Dead Horse Point. The most reasonable expla-
nation was that the late steed had got there while
plunging over a frozen snowdrift.
* * * •
“Mouse ” upon love :
The bloke and his “bit of skirt” were sitting out a
darnce on a paling stuck across the corner of the fence on
the second rail, when Cupid’s arrow struck them.
“Say, Gerty,” he murmured, “ they reckon you can
do yer nine in ’alf-an-hour, eh ? ”
“ Yairs,” assented the lady (modestly).
“ I kin do me ten, Gert ” (suggestively).
“ Yairs ” (interestedly).
“ Say, Gert, ole gell, I’ve got nineteen milkers of me
own."
“ Yairs ” (laconically).
“ Wotto, ole gell, ’ow’s it fer a bail-up ? ”
“ Yairs, orright.”
“ Rhaupo ” : “Itan’s” idea that oyster-
shell deposits above high-water mark in a lot of
coastal inlets are relics of prehistoric suppers par-
taken of by flea-tormented aboriginals is as far-
fetched as water at White Cliffs in drought time.
About Port Stephens (N.S.W.), for example—one
of the biggest oyster grounds along the coast—
these deposits are noticeable in places only, but
their appearance is accounted for in quite a
natural fashion. Some 12 years ago a grub or
disease attacked the oyster deposits—mud oysters
—and in about six months the last bivalve of
summer had faded and gone. It bloomed no
longer like the rose. Trawlers’ nets dragged
many hundred weights of shells to the shore, while
tides and currents were possibly responsible for
the ultimate landward journey of the remainder.
Our black brother Bill was out of it; in fact, he
was deader than Carruthers’ secesh movement
before the shells got there.
* * *
“Ossy”: “One night after the races,”
said old Bill, “ there was a lot o’ coves at the pub
talkin’ sport. The rum ole Peters uster deal out
ih them days to the log-getters ’ud make ’em talk
anythin’—’specially fight. But this ’ere night
they was talkin’ swimmin’ an’ divin’—long dis-
tance divin’. There was a bloke called Squid
wot reckoned ’e came from the Clarence, w’ere ’e
sod ’e’d beat everything round them parts divin’—
boat ’em easy. ’E gotskitin’ about it, an’ wantin’
to dive anyone for a ’undred quid. ‘ Well, ’ I ses,
quiet like; ‘ I don’t think you can dive, an’ I ain’t
got no ’undred, but I’ll take you on for five quid.’
’E jumps at it, an’ gets excited bad ; ses ,’e’ll dive
me, swim me, an ’ fight me. Then they all gets goin’
at once, but after five fights was settled, an’ all
the broken glasses and the furniture gets squared
up, we makes a match for a fiver in the mornin’.
Y’ see, I knoo the river, an’ ’e was strange there.
In the mornin’ we goes down to the river, Paddy
Ryan ’ad a bit of a wharf w’ere ’e uster tie up ’is
boat, an’ this was w’ero we was to take off. I
was to go fust. We was all on the jetty, an’ I
gets ready an’ I’m standin’ at the end ’avin’ a look
at the water, when all of a sudden the rotten
timber give way under me an’ in I goes. ‘ Well,’
I thinks, ‘ now I’m in, I’ll stay in, an’ I starts to
swim away under the water like mad. It was
about fifty yards acrost the river, an’ I makes for
the other side. Presently I comes into them
reeds under the bank, then up I gets’id by the
reeds. I sits down quiet an’ ’as a squint. They
was all lookin’ for me under the wharf. They
looks an’ looks an’ can’t see me, an’ they gets a boat
an’ pulls all about, an’ there was me sittin’ calm
and ’appy in the reeds, an’ thinkin’ of the five
quid. The only thing I missed was me pipe !
They all thought I was drownded ; they gets the
p’lice and they brings the draggin’ gear—’ooks
an’ things, an’ starts fishin’ for me dead body.
After waitin’ about three hours I slips in again,
quiet-like, an’ swims under till I gets to the
jetty, when up I comes blowin’ ’ard. The fust
one I sees is Squid starin’ in the water; when ’e
spots me ’e starts back like as if ’e seen a spook.
I spits out some water, and then I ses to ’im,
‘ It’s your turn now!’ ’E couldn’t speak. The
easiest five quid I ever got! ”
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : In the recent dis-
cussions re Outback gates no mention has been
made of the most interesting ones the
imaginary gates at which the weary western
travellers drink “Happy Days” to each other.
During the long driving trips the monotony is re-
lieved by the hospitable habit of having a snifter
at each gate to wash down the dust. When the
visible gates are few and far between, the kindly
Outbaekers pull up, and make gates of such
features of the landscape as a bit of saltbush, and
if there isn’t a saltbush, a cloud in the sky will do,
or a mail-change humpy, or the place where the
opal was stolen. These are the best Gates-o’-the-
West. They give no trouble in opening or shut-
ting. All you have to do is take out the stopper.
* * *
“ Flinderino ” : Be gold-specking. A
favorite pastime of the kiddies at the Golden
Point State school, Ballarat East, is specking in
the school ground. The school is built near the
spot where gold was first discovered at Ballarat in
the early ’fifties. Being near the Chinese quarter
of the town, a large percentage of the children
attending this school are half-castes, and these
hawk-eyed nippers always find the most specks.
The State school enclosure was worked to death
by the miners in the roaring days, and was
reckoned as stripped. Then the Chinamen came
along and swept up. Yet, after all these years,
the school kiddies can always rely on getting a
few specks after a shower of rain. What is the
cause of this inexhaustible supply of gold ? The
specks are not washed down from higher levels,
because the school is situated almost at the top of
a hill.
HARDLY FEASIBLE.
OVERSEER : "Here, Jacky, where's the post-holes you're dug?”
JACKY (caught napping): “Mine link it some plurry pfeller bin shook it, boss.”
“Nulla”: “ Quidam ” needn’t have any
fears that the mud-flavored English carp will
play Tommy Burns to the Murray cod’s Bill
Squires. The Macquarie bream and perch, per-
haps, but not the cod ; he is the fresh-water
shark, with a mouth and kit of tools that would
knock out the carp in one round.
* * * '*
“Agricola”: Re “Milky White” (B.
4/7/’O7) and his remarks about magpie drought-
prophets. I think I must plead guilty to start-
ing the discussion last summer re magpies attack-
ing human beings. I wrote from the Wagga
district (N.S.W.), and it was generally remarked
last year that the mags, were extra-ferocious,
though no one prophesied dry times on that
account. However, lam unfortunately in a posi-
tion to give “ Milky White ” a leg-up in the way
of corroboration. This year, so far, has been one
of the worst on record in Eastern Riverina. Few
places have scored more than one-half their usual
heavenly drippings. Up to date, Wagga has
received 6in., as against 13in. last year ; Tumut’s
share is 9in., while last year it got 22in. to the end
of June; Batlow has collected lOin. instead of its
last year’s 33in. ; and so on right through the
district. Cattle and sheep have died in thousands
in spite of the money spent in hand-feeding ; the
lambing has been a complete failure ; and the
wheat farmers can’t raise a smile to the hundred
acres. I hate to help prove any man’s prophecies,
as it tends to make him conceited, but feel com-
pelled to pass in this testimony to the cow-
product gentleman.
THREE OF A KIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Jones loquitur : “ Look here, Brown,
I know who I’m talking with—
I never yet drunk when I’m in town
Except when I meet Jim Smith !
I don’t say poor old Jim’s to blame ;
We can all keep straight if we choose.
But, nevertheless, and all the same,
Jim Smith is a beggar to booze ! ”
Jim Smith loquitur: “ Brown, old boy,
I don’t want to throw no stones,
But never do I get too much joy
Except when I meet Bill Jones !
My mate for years, and a good mate still,
And a mate that I would not lose ;
As straight as a die is good old Bill,
But a bit of a beggar to booze ! ”
Joe Brown, soliloquy : “ That’s the way
With both of ’em, Bill and Jim !
Bill Jones says Smith leads him astray
And Smith says Bill leads him !
There’s neither of them wants leading much ;
And we all like a drink, perhaps ;
But the liquor I very rarely touch
Except when I meet those chaps ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODOE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a, hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Hexham: Your theory doesn’t hold water.
The fact that the Church can’t be trusted to practise
kindness, humanity and fair-dealing towards the folk who
toil in its charitable laundries, and needs to be put under
the Factories Act, is a discredit to the Church, because
that institution exists to teach kindness and Christian
charity. But if it was necessary to put the Church’s
orchard under the Fruit Pests Act that wouldn’t neces-
sarily be a discredit , lor the Church doesn’t exist to teach
about beetles, or even to know about beetles. The
suspicion about ill-treatment in Church institutions is a
suspicion that the Church doesn’t know the rudiments of
its own job ; but you wander aw'ay on to other jobs
W. Bennet: Thanks. Reckon some of these names will
come in handy... Cap Mort: You “ wrote the first chapter
of your novel under the influence of whisk}’, and when
you read it next morning it was a shriek of madness.”
Write the other 24 chapters under the influence of brandv,
revise it under the influence of rum, publish it as a book
with a beer-tinted cover, and you may be as brill.antly
incomprehensible as Browning Dimchuroh : Wbv(just
as a matter of curiosity) did you say that item was
from a Maoriland paper, when the advts. on the
back of the cutting showed that it was from a
Sydney journal? Can’t see what you gain by it
Bob Williams : The direct line to California is off,' but the
Union S.S. Co., of Maoriland will book you through via
Vancouver for £4O or £25 or £l6, according to class. After
that the railway journey will cost £3 or £4. ...A. J. :
“ What is the color of a native Australian ?” Well, fully
2.800,000 of them are white. Most of the others are
black—as black, that is, as any other race on the face of
the earth... .A.E.V. : “Shattered Idol” poor. The at-
tempt to rhyme “ States ” with “mistakes” is dreadful
Stanley E. : No new ideas in “Phantoms.”
Bruno: “Matter of Complexion” commences well, but
doesn’t keep up R. and G. : 16th January, 1884, was a
Wednesday Growler: Certainly E. M. McK : Well,
commit suicjde and your share of the responsibility will
be over Whipcord : Never knew that there were any
real alligators in Queensland. Thought they were ail
crocodiles E. Read: You say it is “against reason ”
that a kookaburra should fly through the air carrying a
load heavier than itseif. ' May be. But is it also
against reason that a vessel should rush through
the water carrying a load heavier than itself?
Alan See : Same “Christmas Wishes” said in just about
the same words thousands of times. And it was hardly
worth saying that way even the first time. Yarn, also
has been told with 97 variations J.B.R. :It is best
described as ornamental balderdash H.B.K. : Your
“Song” would be quite unsingable A.M.W. :It em-
bodies an important truth, but the style is fiat and
ineffective Latchkey: We don’t fancy any of them
... .A.K.C. : Goodin places, but unsatisfactory as a
wh01e.... Tenia :It doesn’t fulfil our literary requirements.
... .P K. : Your statements, that “ there are many cases
where the victim was self-inflicted or by a true friend,”
and “such intelligence is strongly prohibited bv all in-
tent on good, a work that should be tackled by all,” are
too mysterious... .E.L. Sinora : “Maiden and the Cow ”
declined.... Alphonse de Nero : No. The men vou name
do not appear in the “ Without Our Gun ” picture in the
Christmas number of 1887 Nonplussed: If the force
is irresistible, then the object isn’t immovable. If the
objectis immovable, then the force isn’t irresistible. Any-
how, if an irresistible force metan immovable object, this
writers opinion is that it would climb over, just as Alex
the Great climbed over the Gordian knot....Autolycus :
The pars hadn’t enough in them. Sketch suggestion
8X)0 ,IV F ‘ N ’ : Such a rh yrae as “jaw’’with “more”
would have knocked “Bill ” out in any case Pompey :
Funny in places, but too roughly thrown together....
Martin H. : Too much shell for such a very small kerne
T. W. McC.: Very stilted and artificial Wanda :1
You are on the right track. With experience anfl
practice, you should arrive Phil W. : The
same idea was much better worked out on the
Red Page, B. 13/6/’07... .D.W.D.: Two of the verses
are good, but they won’t carry the rest,
Kelpie: You didn’t append your address ...
Demo : “ Crawler” is the best, but is rather clumsy and
long-winded... .Dew W. : “ Sydney ”is worth recasting.
“Fascinating” and “compete,” for instance, are in-
appropriate words Myrotto : Picturesque, but rhetori-
cal and unconvincing Archie L. : Well-versified, but
wearisome....A.H.G.N. : Sorry they are too stiff and
wooden for print... .Nemo.: One may respect the decent
Chow, at the same time profoundly disrespecting the
indecent Australians who fawn on him for gifts. Tub
Bulletin doesn’t preach cruelty to the Chow : quite
the reverse; but holds that he should be kept strictly
outside our white pale W.E.W..: Tired of parodies.
Valhalla: Might have been much better handled.
. ...Dit: Neither had the ghost of a chance... .Nym :
Weather-Lore ” might have been worth printing if
you hadn’t couched it in such stiff and awkward
verse Sawdust I£.: About the best of a bad lot
of “pomes” received about Squires Cerise: It has
nothing to recommend it T.D.W. : You don’t throw
any additional light on ti e subject Tony B. : It
bristleswith faults....R. McC. : Well thought-out, but
ver\ obscurely presented.... Dinah : Rang’es from very
middling to very bad....0.W. : You haven’t a light
enough touch for verse of that kind... .D.A. : Itmusthave
been a very young Jew that that very old trick was played
on . .F.G.G. : We’ve jibbed on jibbing horses for the
present... .Cavendish : Good arguments but poor verse...
I'.VV.F. : Some strength, but little skill Joan: De-
ended promise in it. Try again... .Fanny D. : Your
sonnet” isn't a sonnet, and it is weak and ineffective an v-
how J.C.: Interesting ; but you don’t make the
point clear enough ... .Rangitira M. : Not so very bad for
a first try G.L. : Has an easy lilt and a few good lines ;
rest mediocre.... W. Wiesner : Too much tangled-up in
the telling... .Packsaddle : Absolutely tired of the gates
between Broken Hill and ililparinka; also the camel
pads and the hotel menu of that God-forsaken trac..
Our opinion is that when the Lord forsook it He knew
what He was about.... J.J.A. (Oorinda) : Firm named
has been in business some years, and runs what
looks like profitaole ag*encies. Queensland stamps stuck
on an addressed envelope to be posted in N.S.W. are no
ff P,°f:." Kowree; “ Gossip ” is probably just how the
old ladies would gossip. That’s why it’s unsuitable....
J.A.b.; Pact that you trod on a cat’s neckduly noted..
J. Russell: The yarn you send is a ridiculously biassed
statement by an interested party. The syndicate hoped
to make big profits by hiring- out the discovery. The
profits are off, and the syndicate is wild and un-
reliable Carroo: Good material, but the literary
deficiencies are too great... .Machete : Your “rondel'”
is spoilt by several unpoetical expressions. The triolet
is better, but hardly better enough... .P.F.B. : The
incident is too slight for celebration in verse The Pro-
digal : Not good enough G. : Chiefly remarkable
tor a champion mis-spelling—“ equalebriei'.”. HHO •
“ For publication or otherwise.” “ Otherwise ’’ has it.
Lantana:» Only a negligible section shuddered at
• Omda s ” works—the same people who rushed the
early doors later on to get a good view of the assault
scene in “ The Sign of the Cross.” Growler : Yes but
one swallow doesn’t make a summer. Honestly what
keeps that writer and many others from political life is
that there isn t a living vvag-e in it. Under present con-
ditions politicians must boodle or absolutely sacrifice
theii pi i vate interests.. ..That Bill : A private subscrip-
tion battleship idea would only provide an excuse for ti.e
lazy and the mean. Defence is a matter of enforced
taxes not voluntary charity Alpha: There have been
whole columns of indignation published about the black-
mailing horse-owner.... P.J.B. : “ That Surplus ”is patri-
otic Sentiment, but the verse is like the rush of a hansom
cab, with a bear in the shafts, over huge boulder-;
Euroa: It may be, as you say, that Palmer
won at Eehiica because the Age took up his opponent’s
cause with “ injudicious zeal.” Still the statement is
very improbable. But if it is true, it is a heap better to
show injudicious zeal in the cause of a good Australian
like Palmer than to be a cold judicious paper holdhw the
balance with a hand like a dead iisli Silica: Item in
defence of cruelty to animals received Ethel \V •
Very simple and sweet, hut a little lacking in skill..!
J.B.M. : Too trite and obvious. ..A.L.S. : Style too verbose
and indirect....H.A.M.: There’s a flavor of originality
about it, but the treatment is too jerky and incoherent..
Potter: Not good enough, but they show promise..!!
A.J.B. : You throw no new light,on the Squires-Buins
controversy. All you do is to say badly in brown ink
what had been said earlier and better in black ink
E. H. Milier: It is his son’s portrait. That conundrum
has come to the office regularly foP2I years or more, and
it grows to be a blighted weariness ...Banool: Spoilt by
the attempt to rhyme “daughters” with “quarters.”
You might amend Gul.v : (letter have stated the case
in prose. Lame verse is no help to it B.P. : Too
trifling for print Allan L. :It doesn’t say anything
new, except that “ There’s health and wealth and jollity
quite free for one and ail”—which isn’t true Chuca':
Racy, but rough and inartistic M.M. : Very’ stiff and
wooden. There ought to be some flow and glow in the
treatment of such a theme C.A.B. : Correct in form
but void of all vigor and grip W.H.W. : You have
imagination, but you can’t handle your literary
tools Olive M. : Too great a flux of 'words. You
could have said it all better in half the space
A.C. (W. A.) : The “ dream ” device is very old and weary.
C.H.B. : Indifferent workmanship Teddy E. :
Rather well written, but we don’t care for a series' of that
sort.. ~W.H. : Thanks fer your lrind instructions as to
how to run The Bulletin. Sorry to say your verses are
awful Rouseabout : Evidently from experience,
but not skilfully enough presented A.M. : Veri-
weak and ineffective... .Monaro: All that can be said for
them is that they are not absolutely bad Bailiff : Not
enough in it.... Unsuitable : Haere Ra, W.O.D.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) OONTRIHUTOKS
S.G. : “ Hard task ”is a poor drawing and a joke that
perished long ago in the wilderness of repetition
Steak and Oyster: Walked all round sketch, boih
personally and by deputy, and failed to get the
hang of it Kia-Ora : There are seven good reasons
for rejecting your drawing. The fourth is that it
isn’t good enough N.G.S. ; Picture of a reverend
gentleman dragging a girl along by the hair de-
clined Argent: You can’t draw George Reid any-
how, though your picture of a Dry Hyena (or is it’a
dog?) is really good T. : Drawing unfit, and that
chooky-hen joke is tired Clay: Doesn’t absolutelv
scintillate, so to speak L.O. : Quaint, old-fashioned
style of tame art. The girl looks like a careful copy of
the picture-book maiden of 50 years ago Pic : Threw
one out with enthusiasm. Giving the second one another
chance.
“ Quartpot ” : In the Northern Territory
there is a hawk that will follow a horseman all
day when grasshoppers are plentiful. As one
rides through the long grass, the big “hoppers”
rise and fly perhaps 15yds. to 25yds. before light-
ing—if they have the luck to light. The hawk,
hovering above the rider’s head, makes a sudden
dart as the “ hopper ” shoots up into the air.
Then, holding the game in his claws, he eats it
while flying, and presently resumes his place in
the procession.


'Vic C|oV + Will irfl? o Jace*
A 'Pi II brovi ilfcr
tgreort r " lSM tt t ' en+ T / ,
VW irCT
° f l
pie
HeL
Ewarts IjKe
tonic, in -tfk °f
I - (Ary*)
fondle Dooley y«< *\«?/ "I**"
o'
The ‘ "
(hie) Voa ? “
Only Jf««y
n?e WesK»^•
"The gf ,c,^J
c throM^H
-
sW.Kme S+V& of - ,c
Avyl“*ns I"
out" li (tie rnore Ijobe.
"TiitTv'K (°f which Jolm QuicKi-. cl,vr^4
o!!s oil V,V-m *•<*• *"** I
done yef (A^*)
Q^kK-
Qf»itk::-”Alv'iqJi+'! - jig
C|iv*. do j/~
drav/ our Screwy
“jVw-4 VkSl*tePetr WWei V £
Co«sc<3 > weo'My' liffle. B°y in i'je.lbeot'nQ <2^ajfs
-fo
OVcr||oWi*jp Tnere h V>n> been
A word ajportt' re«?isyon /
+v<?s *
(A*K-TA*- pr*rt) Z/Mm z
United Kiir^dom
"boys should
Jed in I?eir School
days +o f«d
in)A?in*t»orr
\ ilfflu^Vs
Gt'i.rtqie.' Well l Wo'tclfcK 1° Jo touf’iT !
6.- " Ct-r* >ig»r !
x |j\ Sf>iff.n! SeTTer even De^^wood
pscKr.
A LOOK ROUND VICTORIA.


ALL BLACKS' VICTORY.
FAST AND SPLENDID DAME.
VISITORS WIN BY 11 POINTS TO 3.
GREAT DISPLAY BY N.S.W. IN
FIRST HALF.
KZ. FORWARDS WIN THE MATCH.
ENORMOUS ATTENDANCE.
6.M. Herald, 15/7/’O7.
RIFLE SHOOTING.
A QUIET DAY.
Sam* P.\i*kr. S.vMt Dat*.
It impossible to know who
ought to be in gaol- (Laughter)-.—and
he knew that his political opponents
thought he ought to be . . They actually
made fellows work for their tucker
(Great laughter ) He thought this was
one - of the simplest tests they could
apply to a poor fellow who was hard
up -If H Reid , at Salv’army meeting
persistently ’ f “ been '° U " d ° f wi,fu "> and
try nor baCnUC ' ttg the welfare of Tour adopted coun-
tenced rich e " riCh yOUr f ° reig " ,riends ‘ You are *«»-
to chop wood for your tucker for an indefinite period »
A N S \V judicial decision is that a
la<Jy help is a domestic servant within
the meaning of the Masters and Ser-
vants Act.
The Unhappy Lady-help : ** A domestic
servant 1 And it is for this I take
half-wages and sleep in a kennel I’*
The captain of the Fido, which was
wrecked at Tweed Heads, reluctantly
killed his valuable dog before coming
ashore. He had been informed that
Australia objected so much to linmi
grants that there was a ruinous
penalty for bringing even dogs ashore
THE SALVATION OF KOREA-
JAPANESE METHOD.
ANOTHER MA STATE GRIEVANCE.
Queensland Growing Larger
G H. Knibbs, Federal Statist ; “It
way be noticed that the area of Queens-
i&nd has beep very recently re-corn-
i puted, and is found to be 670 500
} square miles, while formerly it ’was
given as 668,497.“ 1
Joe Carruther, : •• What I Queensland
Zf n, j <lde b| g*er! | won’t have it ,
ft’s robbing N.s. Wales. Secesh!
AUSTRALIA’S BLINDNESS, AND OTHER FACTS.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Ig now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
—Draws out the inflammation, kills the germ of
disease, strengthens the mucous membrane.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CEKNERT, 20 Bua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
An item of interest to anyone with a bad
cough is that which tells him of an almost certain
cure. Angier’s Emulsion cures the most obstinate
cough. There is nothing equal to it for the lungs,
while it is a great aid to digestion and a splendid
tonic. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheuhiatic
RILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, lie
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as tne
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
51- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mr. Francis Benson William Woolrych,
who died at Croydon (N.S.W.) last week, aged
81 years, was for a long time Metropolitan Dis-
trict Surveyor. In 1887 he retired on a pension of
£2OB 11s. per annum, and set himself to prove the
truth of the theory that pensioned men live long.
The Jubilee of the Sydney Grammar
School (as such) will be celebrated on August
10th. Long before the Sydney Grammar School
was established the main building on Hyde Park
was known as the Sydney College. In 1832 Chief
Justice Forbes was president; Samuel Terry,
treasurer ; and George Allen, secretary. At the
same time there was an Australian School Society,
on the committee of which were John Tawell
and Samuel Terry.
Died in Melaide lately, Wesleyan parson
Joseph Berry, whose life was something of a
tragedy. Fifteen to 20 years ago he was reckoned
the brightest and cleverest Methody preacher in
Maoriland, and was kept trotting between Christ-
church, Wellington and Auckland. Then he got
a transfer to Adelaide, blazed in the chief taber-
nacles there for a while, and suddenly snuffed out
—a case of general paralysis. He was nine years
dying by inches.
Wm. Kitto, who pegged out a frontage
beyond Jordan lately, was something like a
pioneer. He was tank-sinking out in the Mulga
when he found horn silver going IS.OOOoz. to the
ton. That was at a place called Umberumberka.
On the strength of it, up rushed W. ft. Wilson
and some others, and Silverton was soon founded.
To celebrate it, Kitto’s daughter got married—the
first wedding on the Barrier, unless the oldest
inhabitant is less reliable than usual. Broken
Hill didn’t “ arrive ” till about three years later.
It used to be wondered how a Labor Pre-
mier when he arrived would manage for a lawyer
to act as his Attorney-General. But Kidston isn’t
troubled that way. Four of Queensland’s seven
portfolioed Ministers pursue jCosts—Bell, Blair,
O’Sullivan and Hawthorn. Kidston is an iron-
moulder ; Barlow is an ex-banker ; Kerr, the new
Minister for .Railways, is a blacksmith. Price,
in S. Aus,, isn’t troubled either : but then he gets
along without any lawyer in his Cabinet. Peake,
his Attorney-General, knows something about
municipal accounts, but nothing about law. He
doubles the part of Treasurer and Attorney-
General, and buys what law he wants.
THEIR RELATIVE PROPORTIONS.
A Reidite editor says that Mr. Alfred Deakin has re-
turned from England with an enlarged head, but Mr.
Geo. Reid may be trusted to reduce the swelling.
GEORGE : “ Yah! You're not as big as you
think! ”
ALF.: “And I trust you are not as small as
you look.”
“Melb.” writes: —
The late Judge Hickman Molesworth was a particularly
good fellow. He was born with, at all events, an ivory spooil
in his mouth, as son of Justice Robert Molesworth, who
had another son and daughter. The celebrated divorce
case of Molesworth v. Molesworth and Ireland, 40 years
ago, will be remembered. It tore up some social founda-
tions. The grand old Judge went on working. He
created mining law. What fights there used to be before
him, in Equity, over mines, squattages and banks ! The
chirography of his written judgments was a spider
crawling out of an ink-bottle. Robert Molesworth was
the best judge Melbourne ever knew. Greater men, like
Higinbotham and Fellows, were not such good judges.
Probably, in that respect Holroyd ranked next to
Molesworth. His son Hickman never seemed to have
grown entirely out of boyhood. Eminent men cow
their sons. The fathers overshadow them. Hickman
had just enough capacity to take advantage of good luck.
He never had the brains of that other judge’s son,
Hartley Williams. I expect he has left a pot of money.
Judge Hickman Molesworth, of Victoria,
who died the other day at sea, was a sufferer from
jaundice and kindred complaints, and was on his
way to Cairns (Q.), to recuperate, when he passed
out. Beyond the fact that he was 65 years of
age, and that he had plodded through the usual
routine to the bench, there is nothing much to
say about Hickman Molesworth. When a young-
ster at the bar, he was the favorite junior of R. D.
Ireland, Q.C., and was with him in all his big
cases, although Ireland was the co-respondent
when old Father Molesworth, also a Victorian
Judge, sued for divorce.
Dr. W. H. Perkin, the man who discovered
coal-tar colors, is dead. It was while experiment-
ing to find a substitute for quinine that he hit on
the aniline mauve, and other colors followed.
Even the quinine substitute, which he failed to
find, has been found since. But, though it was
an Englishman who found out about the dyes, the
business of making them soon left it for Protec-
tionist France and Germany, and stayed there,
Great Britain still manages to hang on, more or
less, to the industries which v'ere mostly estab-
lished under Protection ; but gradually the new
ones slip away from it. They may make a start;
but presently the Protected factory hits at the
British industry, and the other fellow’s tariff stops
the British industry from hitting back.
“G. Elb.” on Symon :
By those who know Josh Sytnon, K.C., his can-
tankerous snarl against the sturdy Australianism ex-
hibited by Deakin and Lyne is thoroughly understood.
Josh has achieved much eminence of a kind at the Bar.
He is a jockey who has saddled-up many prominent
murderers and other criminals, and he has always made
a good race of it. In most cases his homicide has won,
and, if he didn’t, Symon said it was no race. But Svmon
has always yearned for eminence in politics, and his
failure has made him savagely jealous of those who have
eclipsed him. When in London recently Symon’sgliminer
didn’t penetrate the fog, and he grudged the limelight
thrown upon the Prime Minister and his colleague. If
Symon, who is a flunkey at heart, had represented this
country, he would have been a mighty caterpillar before
the lord, ambling on his stomach upon the stately floors
of Britain. Deakin and Lyne were perpendicular, and
the gorge and Billingsgate of Symon rise in consequence.
A Bay of Plenty (Maoriland) township
has got a new J.P. He is caretaker and washer-
out of the Government buildings, which include
the Magistrate’s Court. This J.P. scrubs out the
court room and shakes the mats in the morning,
and, presumably, later in the day ascends the
bench to fine the infrequent drunk. And if the
caretaker and washer-out is honest and intelligent
The Bulletin can’t, for the life of it, see what’s
wrong with the arrangement. Many a man who
is qualified to be a Judge remains a washer-out
through lack of ambition ; and often a man who
is qualified to be a hog becomes a millionaire
because he rushed furiously with his snout at the
door marked “ Success,” and burst it in by sheer
dead weight of pork.
There are many ways of getting your
throat cut, and a young S. Australian metallur-
gist named Bice, son of one of S. Australia’s very
few Liberal M’s.L.C., has found another method.
Pie was bossing the unloading of machinery at
Blinman, when a heavy boiler came away too
fast, the edge struck one end of a stick, and the
other end flew up and gashed Bice’s throat so badly
that he died in a few minutes. The young fellow
had previous bad luck. His first big job, after
he left the Adelaide School of Mines, was to run
the S. Australian State smelter at Port Augusta ;
but the copper market went back on it after the
management had made pretty large ore purchases,
and the Government promptly scuttled out of the
dangerous business.
“What will they say in Hingland?”
Well, this is what they do say, through the
National Review, concerning one Australian
Among their number [the visiting Ministers] was an
irresistible orator. It is no disparagement to our Parlia-
mentarians to say that not one of them could or would
have attempted'to emulate the feat of the great Aus-
tralian statesman who led public opinion during these
strenuous weeks. Day after day, in addition to his
Sisyphean labors in Downing-street, and impossible social
demands leaving no single moment by day or night for
preparation, Mr. Deakin conducted that wonderful cam-
paign of education which, as an oratorical achievement,
has’been not inaptly compared to Mr. Gladstone’s great
Midlothian campaign nearly 30 years ago, in its vigor, its
versatility, its enthusiasm and elan.
And Cabbage-tree wailed because G. How-many-
stone Reid was not there instead. In a contest
between 18st. 51b. of Tory negation and list, of
elan, you can put 3 to 1 on the French horse.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes
(no attempt has been made to sub-edit the par or
to sort out the Oakes family):—
A girl with a long Australian pedigree was quietly
wedded at St. Mary’s Parish Ohurch, Horsham, London,
on June Ist. Miss Vera Muriel Oakes was married to Mr.
John Bradstock, of the 21th Regiment, son of Rev. J. R.
Bradstock, of Rosebank, Haspford, South Devon. The
lady is the daughter of the late Dr. Arthur Oakes and
Mrs. Oakes, the Farm House, Tower Hill, Horsham,
London, and Dr. Arthur Oakes was the son of George
Oakes, who was a Parramatta native, and son of Chief
Constable Oakes, who married Miss Small, a daughter of
Sergeant Small, a first fleeter, and said to be the first
white female child born in Australia. Great-grandmother
Oakes died at her old home, in Church-street, Parra-
matta, in 1883, aged 95. Her husband, Francis Oakes,
was amongst the first missionaries sent to Tahiti in 1792,
but the natives drove them off, and Mr. Oakes, with
others, came to Sydney and got into State employ. His
son, George Oakes, M.L.A. and M.L.0., was the first man
killed on the Sydney tramway, at the corner of King and
Elizabeth streets.
Ib seems that, some of the time, anyhow,
it was a very sick Premier who amused Victorian
audiences with comic songs and humorous yarns.
For a good while Bent has been suffering from
nervous derangement, which evidenced itself in
'riduralgia and fainting fits. Sometimes he
would collapse at home in the morning, but,
on coming to, would bustle breezily down
to his office, and speak his mind to a
begging deputation or two. Occasionally,
he would “go off” while at work, and,
on recovering, would pull the blinds down,
and take it easy for a while on a couch.
Seemingly Bent’s trip to London has done him
little good. He was horribly sea-sick all the
way over; prickly-heat smote the large area of
liiiti hard in the Red Sea, and the sun hit him some
more at Port Said. The latest is that his friends
4re uneasy about him. The cause of the trouble
seems to. be the living of the too-strenuous life,
aggravated by the poisonous atmosphere of ill-
ventilated Parliament Houses.
THE CAUSE OF STRIFE.
FIRST ARTIST: “I suppose you got all these
beautiful green colors out of your own head!"
Speaker Jenkin Coles (S.A.) has never
missed a sitting of the Assembly since his elec-
tion to the chair in 1890. This week he presided
over the 1250th consecutive sitting of the House.
This is probably a world’s record. There is no
apparent reason (he is still well under 70) why he
should not put up a record of 1500 days, unless
the advancing tide of democracy wipes out
Jenkin.
Yic. Acting-Premier Davies was a chilling
exception to the general public of Melbourne on
that Friday when the Bottom Fell Out. Of
course, everybody knew Davies was different, but
exactly how different Davies was they didn’t know
till then. A Herald man told him of the
disaster, and Davies gazed placidly over his specs.
“Who is Squires?” he queried. And Davies
was quite serious. He takes no more interest in
the doings of “the ring” than a cat does in the
binomial theorem.
“L.E.” writes :
Spruce Myth, who lately bleated to the Reps, for 5J
hours hy the official suu dial, lamented that Prime
Minister Deakin and good old Bill Lyne had the bad
taste to set themselves up against English statesmen, and
talk straight to the people of Fogland. They were
insolent and arrogant, and Deakin’s preference speech,
which was a “ miserable, low whine,” was calculated to
bring about the “ disintegration of the empire.” This
bad taste was a breach of international courtesy. Spruce,
who should have been ambassador, would have received
medals for etiquette. A fine picture the sage would have
made, meditating in a boiled shirt and immaculate pants
among the Freetrade tombs, and with his gloved hand
on his huckaback vest telling the cheap laborers of
England what fine allies and laundrvmen the Japs are,
and how Australia would soon learn to know its place.
Would it not be possible to silence Spruce with a well-
paid billet as dancing-master and clothes-horse to the
Commonwealth ?
Premier Price, of S.A., will have to look
out that he doesn’t talk for the sake of talk-
ing—which is a complaint the local preacher
is always liable to develop. At any meeting that
is not absolutely businesslike, he obliges with
anecdotes of the strap which his father used, or
of his long-deceased grandmother. Lately he
prattled on about Dick Turpin, who “was not a
wicked chap, because if he did take anything he
took it from those who could well afford it, and
gave to the poor.” Now, of course, all the people
who are not Price’s friends are saying that there
you have the Socialistic programme of Labor, and
that is just what they would have expected.
Price really ought to leave the Dick Turpin sort ,
of cheap nonsense to the people who write Kelly
Gang melodramas.
Emil Resell, a younger brother of the man
who makes the lager beer that Sydney is proud
of, has the tough job of general-managing the
new Melbourne Brewery Combine’s business.. He
got his first Australian tanglefoot experience
moistening the dry throats of the men who rushed
to Silverton and Broken Hill, while brother
Edward was doing similar service for the rabbit-
trappers of Wilcannia, in the same droughty part
of N.S. Wales. If Emil hadn’t gone into the
beer industry, his very fine voice might now have
been on exhibition in Musgrove’s German opera
co.—he had leanings that way. There is a charac-
teristic yarn about the brothers. Edward, in
spite of‘ the fact that he is something in the
amateur-Consul line, has no use for frills of any
sort; Emil likes the shiny appearance. “If
Emil was making: my money,” said Edward there-
anent, “ he’d sleep in a silk hat.”
About a whaler of parts :
William James Merriman, who was fatally burned the
other day through smoking in bed at his residence, Lower
Fort-street, was a Sydney native. His father, who was
born at Parramatta, was thrice Mayor of Sydney. W. J.
Merriman served an apprenticeship to a Sydney cooper,
and when out of his time went on a whaling voyage. The
life suited him, and later on he whaled for himself. Then
he added pearling and beche-de-mer hunting to the
business, and worked in partnership with a couple of old
salts, Captain Benjamin Jenkins and Captain H. Fair-
clough. In addition to his trade in marine products, he
was landlord of the Whalers’ Arms Inn at Miller’s Point.
This was about 1850, a time when the whaling industry
was a source of wealth to the community on the
Rocks, and the whalers could afford to have “ Arms.” A
son, George Merriman, was articled to Richard Driver,
solicitor, and in time became solicitor to the Sydney
Corporation. He died a few years back under painful
circumstances. The recently-dead W. J. Merriman was
for years Registrar to the City Transit Board up to the
time of its abolition.
From “ 0.K.” :
There was something of poetic justice in the bitter
poverty of poor old “Ouida,” now relieved by a tardy
Government dole of a £l5O pension. “ Ouida,” in her
most popular novel—“ Under Two Flags ’’—did her best
to suggest that a lordly contempt for economy in money
matters was the root of all virtue. She posed as the high
priestess of the waster. And she wrote some amazing
purple nonsense re the maintenance of a vast expenditure
on a small income. Probably a few hundred, or a few
thousand, young men were incited, more or less, by the
romantic hero of “ Under Two Flags ” to go to the devil
in a blaze of glorious insolvency. They couldn’t hope to
rival Beauty of the Guards, but they could follow him at
a respectful distance. Beauty was the very glass of
fashion and mould of form in military prodigality. He
had a younger son’s allowance of £3OO per annum or
so, and for many years he was able to keep a yacht,
a few racehorses, and an expensive actress or two on the
strength of the enormous debts to which his £6 a week
entitled him. “ Ouida’s ” knowledge of ways and means
among the darling aristocrats she wrote about must have
been absolutely nil in her young days. Her novels
were the merest modern fairy tales dazzling in the
splendor of their absurdity. She has survived, it seems, to
know the foolishness of an authoress trying to live up to
her ideals as regards £s. d. The gloomy shadow of an
unsatisfied landlord darkened her declining days, and
the butcher and the baker gloated over the ruins of her
magnificence when she was turned out of her Florentine
villa to rest on damp ground under the cloudless canopy
of an Italian sky. Her only friend in affection was a
milkman with whom she found shelter ere her old-age
pension came to hand. Perhaps she used to pay; the
milkman until her funds were exhausted.
BOSS OF THE ROAD, OR WAITING TO GO.
Important measures have had to be side-tracked.
Argus.
Writes a man from the spot :
The miners in the mountains of thenorth-eastofVic-
toria have just been celebrating the jubilee of the Ovens
goldfield. Next to Bendigo and Ballarat', this was tne
largest and most permanent diggings ever found in the
State. Within 14 years of its discovery it had sent
3,121,9080 z. to Melbourne by escort alone ; and it subse-
quently added another 590,1500 z. The most fortunate
digger was a man named Johnston. He was a determine
fellow, who deserved his title of “King of the wool-
shed.” When working on Reid’s Creek, he always had
an idea that there was gold in the Woolshed Valley, a
little low r er down the stream, and he backed his opinion
with all his savings. He took over six men and started
to sink, but it was wet ground, and week after week tne
water beat them back. At last, one Saturday night, ms
money was exhausted and he said : “I’m done, boys,
can go no further.” “Well, you have been always tai
to us,” they replied. “We’ll give you a weeks work
free.” That week they bottomed .on absolutely tne
richest part of the field. In a few weeks Johnson made
between £50,000 and £lOO,OOO. He always paid these
men £9 a week each while they were in his service.
Strange are the vicissitudes of the gold digger. A * e
years afterwards, this same Johnston was wandering
about homeless and penniless in Melbourne.


RISIST
OI
RESISTS VERMIN and VAPORS.
Permanent Roofing
Effective Dampcourse
Ideal Building Paper
Economical Floorcloth
Useful Non-Conductor
RISISTOID ROOFING fills all requirements as an Economical, Durable, and thoroughly Waterproof Covering.
RISISTOID is a non-conductor, so a building roofed with RISISTOID is Cool in Summer, and Warm in Winter
RISISTOID will resist the heaviest rainstorm, or the most scorching rajs of the sun.
W&wM
Mao
wmm
How to Fix Risistoid Roofing over Wire Netting.
With the assistance of SAPLINGS and WIRE NETTING,
Risistoid Roofing' becomes the friend of the
Man on the Land.
RISISTOID is not affected by Frost Or SnOW<
RISISTOID is odorless and hygienic, and resists acids and chemicals.
m
%
Vs
m
m
Of.
RISISTOID LAID ON EVEN BOARDING.
RISISTOID ROOFINQ is WATERPROOF,
WINDPROOF, and WEATHERPROOF.
is sold in. Rolls of 72ft, long', and made in
one width only, viz., 30 inches.
RISISTOID ROOFING
Pwce s s ll ** Ply* 17/6; lin. Ply, 21/6; 2in. Ply, 28/6 ; 3in. Ply, 34/6 per Roll.
Bill
-#.-■ ■•••••:'.. ,••'/.<.*••‘Vj'iisOjG
. .
&P*gS#l
•I'-.-Vv.uV:?
iiC;a
S.‘f»
yc t v> «t y, ?
Vertical Dampcourse.
Risistoid
Damp course
0/61 <-u ifBi
m !SI ( ' u m
0/01 ‘inf 6
0/£
•ipa
j 7
*X??.«?« «u
Made in
ONE QUALITY
Only:
THE
BEST.
Roll.
23in., 22/6
27Jin., 26/6
36in., 32/6
Foundations treated with
RISISTOID DAMPGOURSE make
the Building Healthy and Dry.
m
M
• *••. •.
• • S
. v /r|'
5®
•* «« • *•
a
-A
c r £*'
_> r
«• 3
»* ■.
r . c_»
r c
? 3>>
HORIZONTAL DAMPCOURSE.
RISISTOID
BUILDING PAPER
is put up in Rolls of 336 feet, and
each Roll will cover 1000 ft. of surface.
1 ply, 36in. wide, \S/ m P er Roll*
2 ply, 36in. wide, 21/0 per Roll.
3 ply, 36in. wide, 27/0 per Roll.
4 ply, 36in. wide, 30/0 per Roll.
n m
RISISTO Asphalt FELT,
In rolls of 125 ft., 32in. wide, Ho. 2, 10/- roll.
. . ... 1 American
Risisto Waterproof Paint, Ga]lon -
Black only ... ...
Risisto Special Paint, Damp
Proof, Acid Proof Ho. 2 O/O
Risisto Special Paint, Damp
Proof, Acid Proof, Ho. 3 O/•
Risisto Red Paint, for Roofs 7/.
5 American
Gallons.
19/0 per tin.
29/0 per tin.
27/0 per tin.
32/0 per tin.
RLSIvSTOID FLOORCLOTH
Price, 1/6 per yard; 34/6 per Roll of 24 yards.
Strongly recommended for use in places
subject to hard, street-like wear.
SAMPLES POST FREE ON APPLICATION. •
Anthony Hordern &>Sons
asphalt
FH
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Cmporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY
N.iS.W.


0
0^
-'V'
Cherry Brandy
K
Peter F. Heering’s.
EST. 1818.
The law is a leisurely animal, and has a
magnificent disregard for Costs. The case of the
N.B.W. Law Institute against W. P. Crick was
argued at great length and Costs before the Chief
Justice and two Supreme. Court Judges. Then
they retired to think over it. They stayed away
a long time. Healthy-looking empires have
faded and perished in less time than these three
Judges spent thinking over the Crick case. Then
they blandly intimated that it would be better to
have it heard all over again before fire Judges,
and that tireless animal Costs goes to the starting
point again as fresh as ever.
The Simian Ambassador at Washington
is, trying to make things' pleasant. Says the
c£ft>le:—
[Viscount Aoki, Japanese Ambassador in Washington, in
the course of an interview,, declared that it was a
hideously wicked thing to try to in volve the two powers
in war. ‘He declared that their relations areas friendly
now as ever.
But a party by the name of Willard French, who
has heard those things before, writes in the June
North American Review
Japan says that.war with America is unthinkable ; yet,
with America her only possible prospective antagonist,
in dire national poverty, before the gravest national
problem a nation ever faced, she is recruiting her army
and increasing her navy at tremendous strides.
What Aoki probably meant was that it was a
hideously wicked thing to wake the IT.S. up while
the Monkey was getting ready.
Why shouldn’t beautiful women be always
beautiful ? She has the desire—that is certain, and just
as certain is it that she has the means. You’re not so
sure of that? Well, then, you haven’t used Valaze. Yes, yes,
Yalaze only makes the Complexion beautiful—hut what
more does Beauty require ? A soft, clear skin, smooth to
the touch, .and fresh to look upon—and wherefore sigh,
O Ladies? Nature gave you this in youth and early girl-
hood—Valaze preserves it long into the years. Therefore,
Vive Valaze !—use Valaze, and your complexion will he
like unto the lily, fair, bright, and beautiful. Those
nasty, creeping wrinkles, those insinuating erowsfeet
that gather at the eye corners—they fly before Valaze.
Just get a jar yourself and try—you’ll know then how it
is so many elderly women of your acquaintance seem to
simply defy Time. Valaze—that’s all. Valaze is sold by
chemists everywhere at 3s. 6d. and 6s. jar, or posted 6d.
extra, from Mile. H. Rubinstein and C 0.., 274 Collins,
street, Melbourne.*
FACILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
SEMPER IDEM
By Koyal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King,
and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
Black «* White” Whisky
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 23, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
It seems to have been a fine season for the
marrying Rev. lately. The Voice Breathed 11,307
times in this poor downtrodden State of ours last
year; so supposing the Voice only left off 10
hours a day for sleep and meals, and to curl its
hair. I figure it out with great pain that last year
the palms in Eden fluttered on our account once
every 27 minutes. It couldn’t have been much of
a flutter sometimes, for when the Voice has to
escape through the keyhole of a creaking door that
shuts the world out from a little back office that
you reach by going down a long passage with cob-
webs in it—well, it’s a handicapped Voice. There
are one or two sects that must have married all
their own adherents about nine times each, or else
they roped in some of the other sects ; for there’s
but one Whitefield Congregational pastor, and he
aided the Voice 455 times, and the New Unitarian
beat even that with 519. But I don’t see the
Shaker down for so much as one wedding, nor the
Congregation of the Watch Tower of the Lord ;
yet they both figured in the last census papers as
separate sects. I expect they get the Eranco-
Australian Christian to marry them. I-don’t
know what a Franco-Christian is, but he’s a pretty
good hand at marrying, too —he accepted 95 pairs
of “I wills” last year ; and the blew Thought is
down for 118. I’m not too sure what New Thought
is, either, but have a vague idea that it has some-
thing to do with peanuts.
If the Government doesn’t step in and stop this
wholesale unloosing of the Voice by the nominal
heads of still more nominal sects, who make
a very good but very doubtful living by it, I have
a notion of establishing the Church of the Happy
Thought, or the Eternal Wish-bone, or something
like that, myself. I have found out one thing
about it already : it is as to where you must hang
up your shingle—“ Marriages Solemnized ” (good
word that, but you needn’t spell it properly), “£l.
Ring and Witnesses provided.” Go right up
alongside some place where they announce in the
windows that you can get everything necessary to
make the home happy for £llls. 7jd. Also, it
ought to be opposite a shop where they supply
meals for fourpence. About the best-known
marrying shop in Sydney is opposite a place
where a hoarding says that you can get meals at
that price, or less if you take a quantity, and
sucking-pig on Sundays. Just you and her, and
twice four are eight, and three-times eightpence
is two shillings, and seven times two is 14 shil-
lings—l4s. a week for the pair of you, and suck-
ing-pig on Sundays. So the sign that you can
get all you really need in the furnishing line for
£1 11s. (I wouldn’t be sure about the
ha’penny), and the other sign that proves that
any well-regulated household can fare sumptu-
ously for 14s. a week, and my own sign that the high
priestess of the Congregation of the Happy Wish
Bone is within, and performs marriages for £l—
things working together ought to send the
next statistics up as high as the recent fall in
copper shares turned upside-down.
It has now been solemnly divulged in sundry
newspapers that the gifted pen-woman known to
all readers of The Bulletin as “Tryphena,” and
to her many friends as Miss Eugenia Stone, of
Melbourne, is about to marry Sir George Doughty,
a very wealthy English shipowner. The wedding
is fixed for August 15, at the Brompton Oratory,
London. Although the bride-elect was not her-
self eager to admit the “soft impeachment” until
the Times had proclaimed it to Britain’s world of
Fashion, the bridegroom-in-waiting must have
felt sure of his good luck even so long ago as the
time of the King’s big Garden Party. It appears
that Sir George Doughty, after receiving tickets
for himself and daughter (the wife of another ship-
owner), asked the Lord Chamberlain for a pass for
his fiancee, whereupon a Royal command was
sent to Tryphena, and she had to attend that
Garden Party or be imprisoned in the Tower
during His Majesty’s pleasure—perhaps. Any-
how, she went—chaperoned by her future step-
daughter. Since then she has figured as the Aus-
tralienne of the Day at many interesting functions
in the Big Smoke. For instance, she was a guest
at the recent Authors’ Dinner at the Trocadero.
The social prominence that so many clever women
battle and scheme for seems to have come as
naturally to Eugenia Stone as her high spirits,
amiable temper, warm heart and ready wit.
Miss Stone met her fate on a maritime route.
He got on the liner at Colombo. She was already
on board. Sir George Doughty is, according to
“ Who’s Who,” a merchant and ship-owner. He
was knighted in 1904, and is 53 years young. So
he is a veritable whale in the way of matrimonial
catches. The bride-elect is very tall (close upon
six feet), dark, with coal-black hair, good teeth,
and possessed of an untiring and irrepressible
vivacity. A more intensely alive woman it would
be difficult to discover.
Miss Rose Musgrove, after several false starts
to return to Australia, remains in London. She
had cabled to Mr. Ramaciotti her acceptance of
the soubrette part of Peggy in “The Dairy-
maids,” but a few days ago came a later cable tell-
ing that she had a good engagement in London ;
so Peggy will have to get along without her.
In the Book Monthly appears a fetching
sketch, “ The Literary Fringe of the Colonial
Conference,” by James Milne. “You usually
find,” he writes, “that a statesman of the first
order is also a bookman. Two of the visiting
Premiers, Wilfrid Laurier and Alfred Deakin,
are known as great readers.” He describes
his efforts to see both for a book talk. Laurier
replied to Milne’s note that he never granted
interviews. Deakin replied in effect that Milne
must take his chance of seeing him at the Cecil—
there seemed no pause in the rush of engage-
ments. He also alluded kindly to a book about
one-time Governor Grey with which Milne had
had something to do. When the interviewer did
take his chance at the Cecil he found a crowd
waiting and taking the same thing, and there
wasn’t half enough of it to go round. There was
always a crowd from the day of the Premier’s
arrival to that of his departure. He whirled out,
with his coat tails streaming behind him, to say
“ The idea of talking books—l wish I could think
of it. But later, perhaps later, who knows, it
may be different! ” Then he whirled back again.
Later, Milne took some more of the substance
already mentioned, only to learn that the
Deakins had gone to a tea with royal personages.
He sat down to wait. Presently he was rewarded
by two incidents which had a certain bearing
upon his book mission :
Miss Ward, the handsome daughter of the Maoriland
Premier, brought along an autograph book for Mr.
Deakin to sign. It already contained the signatures of
General Botha and other celebrities, and it will be an
interesting relic of the Conference. Then Mr. and Mrs.
Fisher Unwin arrived to pay their respects to Australia’s
Prime Minister. Richard Cobden’s daughter calling on
the particular champion of Preference—that was friendly
and piquant! But he came not—the royal tea party
must have been long—and we all departed, as the parsons
say in their benedictions, to our several places of abode.
Later he saw Mr. Deakin :
But presently Mr. Deakin appeared, and I had a
moment with hint—a moment in which he said : “ I’m
really very sorry, but it’s no use. I would rather talk
books than business and politics, only I can’t. One must
shunt one’s mind into a siding, as it were, if one is to
talk about literary matters ; one wants quietness. Never
a moment remains to me. You’ll excuse me, and blame
’ circumstances. . . .”
Lord Crewe, who married one of Lord Rose-
bery’s daughters, has been throwing pearls before
the House of Lords. Speaking on the Women’s
Municipal Charter, a Bill to enable John Bull’s
feminine belongings to sit as alderwomen and
suchlike on county and borough councils, Lord
Crewe crowed in this key :
Women are supposed to be devoted to the cult of the
saucepan and the mangle, and must also be prepared to
stand by and wipe the heated brow of the exalted being
with whom it is her privilege to be mated, and, after a
life of blamelessness and barley-water, she is supposed to
retire to the chimney-corner, and there to occupy herself
with making under-garments for innumerable grand-
children. I know it is feared that the woman who is
sometimes regarded as a combination of maid-of-all-work
and ministering angel will devote her days and nights to
breaking up political meetings and assaulting the police.
A silly old earl spoke against the measure,
saying, “itis not the thin end of the wedge, it is
the wedge itself.” Another silly old coroneted
Thing begged the House not to take away from
woman “the place that nature gave her.” If
he’d only send his coronet out here we’d return it
later full of Miss Rose Scott’s written reply to
that last drivelling argument. In fact, it would
be overflowing, for that sort of belted earl takes
a baby size in coronets.
An Anti-Fat League has been started in
Wellington (M.L.). No person over list, is
eligible. The members boycott vehicles as well as
potatoes and sugar, and sprint up Mount Victoria
two or three times a week. Mount V. is a
great weight-reducer. When two Fats who
have been exercising separate, she says
“Adieu, fat man,” and he, “Farewell, fat
lady.” People worry about fat (on themselves)
far too much. If their health and their capacity for
getting about are none the worse for their fatness,
better forget it. There are thin people in this
world—thin, not through poverty, but through
the cussedness of the bony framework—who are
quite as miserable as the fats, and who weep when
they lose another 2oz. Some of them were fat
once, and a too-successful cure left them like the
man who traded off his shadow to Beelzebub.
The just-divorced Earl of Rosslyn is brother to
the beauteous Sutherland duchess who enter-
tained Premiers all last London season. He is a
gay dog generally. The cruel grip of the decree
nasty tore him from the arms of his first countess,
and now the second, “ nee Anna Robinson,
Actress,” as Debrett describes her, has cast him
off on the usual old grounds. This particular earl
has had more experience than most in his short
life. He has been an actor of a sort (stage
name, “James Erskine”), war correspondent,
journalist, yeomanry officer, racehorse owner (in
which capacity he ran through a healthy fortune),
traveller in manures (something of a social drop,
but still appropriate enough, no doubt), chief
member of a syndicate that went with £lO,OOO to
break the bank at Monte Carlo (and got broke
itself instead); also about half a hundred other
stirring things. He has faced the Divorce Court
in two countries of the British partnership, and
only needs now to marry again and get divorced
in Ireland to establish a record for the United
Kingdom.
The upper part of the Queen Victoria Markets,
where the dome-lights play, has been transformed
bv Arthur Streeton into a quiet home of Art.
High above the swirling activities of the mid-city
he is exhibiting the choice remains of many years’
work. At his sale in Melbourne that city
made use of its opportunity, but it mercifully
left Sydney many bright things in oils and
watercolors. Streeton’s work is Art, but it is also
Streeton—on canvas. There’s a beautiful, gone-
to-sleep atmosphere in a noontide picture in oils.
Amongst his water colors is a wind-scene land-
scape, remarkable no less for its driven leaves and
limbs than for the breast-red emphasis of the robin
in its depths. Nearly all of Streeton’s Australian
work on view in this exhibition has been sold
locally.
The Middling Demon, otherwise the Beautiful
Fiend (Miss Maud Hildyard), puts on some strik-
ing gowns in which to do her deadly (comic)
work at the Royal. The high-born Wanda, who
is used to the Court society of St. Petersburg,
wears on her entrance a crimson and grey
gown, and a carriage coat with plumed hat
and sables. But the language with which
she is supplied often suggests the alley
rather than the Court. “ O, but I am a fool
to get into a paddy,” says she to someone.
To an intoxicated man-servant she remarks
something about “a face like his hurting him.”
Wanda is a great failure as a grand-dame Fiend,
but she acts as a stylish bounder, and is un-
boundedly viragoish. She wears her clothes effect-
ively, and a white evening dress —it seems to be a
sheath of silver sequins with a foamy tail—shows
off her slender tall person in unbroken curves and
lines. Amber chiffon is another gown, dazzling
black yet another, and there are fine furnish-
ings, such as bird of Paradise plumes, furs, and
diamond combs. And this scion of the old Mus-
covite nobility puts on these clothes that she may
throw about cheap little bits of cockney and other-
slang that wouldn’t be worth using in a three-
penny variety show.
The girl who determines to take lessons in
dressmaking is often an ingenuous and economical
critter. She may start with some slight know-
ledge of the work, but what has decided her to
learn further is the want of a theatre coat. She
can’t afford to spend eight to anything guineas to
supply the lack, so she studies a model in The
Ladies’ Paddock, and buys materials as closely
related to the masterpiece as possible. The model
is an elaborate thing of silk and laces and insets
of lace, with a collar that alone is a bit of a
line art, to say nothing of the skill and cunning
shown in the cutting of the garment itself.
Then she hies her to high fortune—in other words,
to the unfortunate artistic lady who takes pupils.
Terms are arranged, and to her first lesson comes
the ingenue, not with the makings of a simple
blouse or wrapper, but with the silk, laces, and
chiffon, and the model picture. “I’ll start with
this,” says she to the artistic lady. “ And do you
think I could finish it to wear to-morrow even-
ing ? I’m going to the first night of ‘ The Autumn
Hen.’” The teacher lady studies the model, and
says, “Well, I couldn’t do it in time for ‘ The
Autumn Hen ’—not if I worked from now all
night and all to-morrow.” And the ingenue looks
aggrieved, and thinks that lessons in dressmaking
don’t promise such swift results as she’d hoped.
They don’t slip on orange peel, as it were.
Lady Northcote’s melodious speaking and read"
ing on matters connected with the Women’s Work
Exhibition at her At Home last week was
punctuated with the coughing of listeners.
winter cough is abroad, and it knows nothing of'
the respect due to personages. One lady made •
equine noises in her throat; 1 believe some of her
oats had gone down the wrong way. Other
women looked icicles at her as if her cold was a
Eenian, or a pro-Boer, or some other sort of dis-
loyal influenza. But she had to cough on. Her
Ex. read a long list of royal and titled and plain
undecorated persons, and the exhibits they are
sending. The loans will come by the ton, and
the insurances on some of the articles are con-
siderable. A piece of needlework, by an English-
woman, following Burne-Jones’ “ Pomona,” is in-
sured for £250. Letters from various titled ladies
in foreign parts told of the interest they are taking
in the Exhibition, and it really promises to run
the Cup close for favor. Lady Northcote spoke
of the insight this undertaking had given her
into the many-sidedness and resourcefulness of
the gifted Australian woman in various walks of
life. Miss Rawson, Lady Fawkes and Mayoress
Hughes balanced her Ex. on the dais, and the
best-toothed pair of the two vice-regal staffs
smiled the two hundred or so women into their
chairs. Altogether Lady Northcote is showing
sympathetic cunning, which is generalship of a
high order, in the management of the many
elements comprising the many committees of the
W.W.E.
Yesterday (Monday) Mrs. Mayoress Hughes
held a Women’s Work Exhibition meeting at the
Town Hall. Miss Rose Scott was to have taken
the chair, but owing to the serious illness of her
cousin, Mr. Mitchell (donor of the famous
Mitchell Library), she had to leave the meeting
after making certain arrangements for the loan
collection. Miss Scott and Mrs. MacCallum have
charge of this section, arid are receiving old lace,
miniatures, and needlework. Any antique objects
of interest are welcomed, so long as they repre-
sent women’s work. A lady present showed
bead-work of her own design ; another some work
from the Deaf and Dumb Asylum ; and a couple of
yards of the historic carpet that is to be were
tabled. A black swan on a yellow ground showed
that the worker of the W.A. device had-got there
first.
This afternoon, Miss Rawson will have some 50
or 70 girls in her “ Oran brook ”, drawing-room to
listen to Miss Ackermann speak on the work of
the Girls’ Realm Guild. The. local heads of that
splendid organisation • desire to touch the young
female of the Smart Set species, and quicken
her to a sense of what she might do for
the other girl who has to get her living
with nobody to help her. Miss Ackermann
is travelling for the Westminster Gazette.
The course of lectures she started last night is for
the benefit of the Girls’ Realm Guild. This year
it has been working for the babies of the Woolloo-
mooloo Day Nursery, as well as keeping its
altruistic eye open for signs of promise of some-
thing unusual in young working girls.
Archbishop Saumarez Smith, Miss Grace Bur-
rows, and a Rev. Taylor backed Miss Ackermann
on to the platform. She gave her. lecture, “How
I Earned my Living in the Slums of London,”
frocked and hatted and aproned in the very
garments in which she sold flowers, and crockery,
and drove the costermonger’s donkey.
At the Pianola Hall reception to Miss Acker-
mann, Miss Eva Champion sang “Abide With
Me,” to Miss Frost’s organ accompaniment, and
put so much heart into the hymn that the audi-
ence soaked itself with tears.
The dramatic record of 23 years has been broken
by “ The Squatter’s Daughter.” She did seven
weeks in Melbourne, not out. The houses were
fat from start to finish. When she leaves the
Cri. she will have done 11 weeks there—not out.
The “Daughter’s”runner-up was “In the Ranks,”
staged by George Rignold.
Captain Cheyne, a plain tale from the Hills (of
India), is at present holding the fluffy attention
of Sydney society. He blinks through a monocle,
and the .girls think he’s so nice-looking. He
doesn’t say “ Haw !” or a word about the tigers
he has shot or poisoned.
From a post-card by. Mr. H. N. Southwell
“ We are travelling altogether too quickly through
this beautiful land. All the famous mountains and
rivers pictured and post-carded and penned rush
by as in the flickergraph. We are doing splendid
business. Andrew Black gives the Maorilanders
‘Cameron Men’ every time, and Premyslav is
covering us with glory. Leaving for Sydney,
July 20.”
Mrs. Wilder forwarded me a guinea for the
Child Study Association. The Wilders left
Sydney en route for India last week.
It had to come, and the United States has
taken the lead. At Cleveland, Ohio, they boast
a Cat Club, presided over by the leader of society
in that town. It provides a manicure parlor for
cats, with a competent veterinary surgeon in
charge. The membership of the club is limited
to ladies. The idea of the manicure parlor is to
keep the cat’s claws in such a condition that they
can’t do any damage. But the owners of the
cats scratch as usual.
The brightest show, professional or amateur,
seen in Sydney for a year or more was the per-
formance of “ The Times ” by the B. of N.S.W.
Musical and Dramatic Society at the Royal, on
Wednesday of last week. This is a large assertion,
but I’m prepared to defend it with two hat-pins
against all antagonists.' And it rejoices ■me
that the society will repeat its achievement later
on. If all the players in this amateur co. were
up to the level of Mr. Dickinson, who took the
part of Percy Egerton Bompas, M.P.; Mr. Lloyd,
who played the young cub rdle of Howard
Bompas; and Miss Yera Remee, and Miss Jean
Maclurcan, who were Mrs. Egerton Bompas and
Miss Cazalet respectively, “ The Times ” might
run to crowded houses for an indefinite
term, provided, of course, the B.N.S.W.
people could get the theatre. Mr. Winchester
Ford, with a little more practice, might almost
make the audiences forget that they had seen
Titheradge in the character of the Hon. Montague
Trimble. Young cub Bompas of the show has
the proper football face for the part, but, pro-
bably because some of the bank directors were
present, he failed to be convincingly intoxicated..
(Perhaps I’d better hasten to explain that the
convincingly vine-leaved person occurs occasion-
ally opposite my official lair in Lower Heorge-
street, and after considering him out of the
window I can speak of his aspect as one having
authority.) There are two things that a rising
young banker shouldn’t do on the stage in the
presence of his directors— he shouldn t imitate a
drunk so well as almost to convince the Board
that it is real, and he shouldn’t do a large first-
class stage embezzlement. Even a large sham
embezzlement makes the Board uneasy..
Miss Ramee, in a greying wig and Mack
velvet and lace (poor “Ouida” used to dress
, her proper, solid heroines in black velvet
and Irish point), was a decorative person..
Prettv Miss Jean Maclurcan dressed her novelist-
journalist r6le exquisitely in emerald-green
chiffon, and afterwards in rose-pink chiffon velvet,
opening over an underskirt of something that
looked like cloth of silver. Miss Elsie Prince, as
Beryl Bompas, and Miss Haidee Sedgwick, as
Lucy Tuck who has had a headache for three
years, helped in the clever rendering at the
brilliant Pinero play.
One of the important Royal Germans—Greder,
the stage manager —did not go with the co.. to
Maoriland. He wrote to Mr.. Musgrove, -saying
that he and his wife could not undertake the
journey. He was too sick. It was the first
intimation G.M. had that Greder owned a con-
sort, but G.M. is getting accustomed to surprises
with this co.—one night everything will .go
smoothly, and then G.M. will die of astonish-
ment. Valerie Waller is the lady.
My Brisbane correspondent writes: —
The week has been a strenuous one for the noble repre-
sentatives of our over-lord. His Frailness has been hard
at it tooth and nail, while her Firmness, in much im-
proved health, attended the two annual Hospital meet-
ings, and made on each occasion the most business-like
speech of the day. „ , ... „ . ,
On Tuesday evening a strong vice-regal light was sneu
upon the Grand Lodge hall. Her Ex. arrived a lap ahead
of the Governor, wearing a sombre garment whose cling-
ing folds were caught with heavy festoons of jet. bister
Villiers, on the other hand, was gorgeous in heliotrope
velvet, with the fruit and foliage of the grape emblazoned
in crystal and silver thereon, and Limerick lace panels
and ‘berthe, the latter caught with some handsome
pearls. Sister is worth seeing under the twinkling gas-
jet. It was a great function entirely. The room was a
bower of blue chrysanthemums and greenery. His Lx.,
as Grand Master, was a mass Of gold chain and pinafore,
and was marched into the room in a procession which
faintly suggested the taking of a criminal lunatic to the
dock, only the prisoner didn’t look very fierce. Then the
band hurst out of the Grand March into GorSave. The
Governor made his escape and, later, ambled through the
lancers with Past Grand Master Jones’ gentle other halt.
Most of the women wore clothes of sorts. Two who wore
clothes of other sorts were the lady secretary, who was a
picture of chine silk and turquoise velvet, and Mrs. W. b.
Byrne, in black velvet and point lace. But the costumes
of the gentlemen made ample amends. There was the
Tiler, with what, I suppose, was his tile dangling on I bis
waistcoat- Past and deputy masters and deacons drifted
hert'and there, all ablaze with their respective orders,
and there was one graceless caitiff who said he was ft
Treasurer, but who had left his treasure at home, so
that we got none. _ , ,
At the exclusive Assembly another full-fledged Govern-
ment House party flickered on the scene. Grey satin
and diamonds clothed the Mrs. Excellency, and Mrs.
Villiers draped her graceful person in black lace inter-
woven with gold threads over white silk. The Du ane
n velvet, relieved with white berthe, looked as lovable a
Huguenot as ever, and His Ex. blazed in a plain, ordinary
tail coat, boiled shirt front, and the rest-
The Chief Secretary has been graciously pleased to
forego the tote tax on the Bowen Hospital Race Meeting
gamble, so that impecunious institution is £ll3 to the
good over and above the original £2OO.
Alice, the remaining hope of the Bird family, and tne
only son of the late Hugh Nelson announced their en-
gagement this week, amid mutual rejoicing. The future
Mrs. Nelson is sister to Mrs. Mansfield and Mrs. E. Smith,
and niece of Mrs. Judge Miller.
A merry little hop was that of the Commercial Bowing
Club on Tuesday last, in the O’Connor shed, overlooking
the river. Crossed oars and fields of wattle tempered
the reflections that dissolved themselves in the river’s
moonlit surface.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


THE SECRET
SSE= Of a=EEE=
GRACEFUL
FIGURE.
m
r ■
Swi
m
CORSETS
An Income for 1908 !
£1 per week for
Twelve Months FREE.
Read this carefully.
With the object of increasing the already
enormous demand in N.S.W. for
UPTON S FAMOUS
TEAS
it has been decided to award handsome prizes
in return for empty Lipton’s Tea Packets.
Points will be computed as follows :
AM 1/21b. packets .. .. count 1 point.
All 11b. packets or tins .. count 2 points.
All 51b. tins count 10 po nts.
All 101 b. tins count 20 points.
In the case of Tins—only the TOP LIDS (with
labels) need be sent.
PRIZES.
Green &
Yellow
Pkts.
For 25 points prize valued at 5/-
For 50 points prize valued at 10/-
For 100 points prize valued at 20/-
For 200 points prize valued at 40/-
Larger Parcels will be exchanged for more
valuable prizes.
Besides securing the above handsome prizes,
all persons sending in parcels will lie credited
in our books with the points gained, and will
be entitled to compete for the Grand Income
Prize of £1 per week for Twelve Months'.
Grand Income Prize.
The Person securing the highest
number of points to December 31,
1907, will be paid by us an income of
£1 per week for the whole of 1908.
Important.— All parcels must be accom-
panied with particulars, giving sender’s/' full
name and address, and number and color of
labels enclosed. These particulars should in
ALL OASES BE ATTACHED to parcels.
Address—
‘1 ’*(19(11 ‘S'NOIdll
107 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
No parcels on which carriage has not been fully
paid will be accepted.
Residents in Country may hand their to
our nearest agent, who in turn will forward to us.
Winner’s name and address of the Grand Income,
Prize will be published in the Sydney Morning H krald
and the Daily Telegraph as soon after December 31,
closing date, as possible.
Ask your Grocer for Handbill. ,
scnaiH?
ssaucp
labfH
jyjORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 22, 1907.
Mr Dear Yarbik,—
The gir], whose proud parents take her
“abrawd,” is pretty certain to have her early
contentment wrecked by the experience. She
comes back with a cold shoulder and a cynical
smile for the unassuming young men to whom she
was once half-engaged. The casual admiration,
excited in the epicene bussom of the Anglo-Indian
soldier man, leaves an indelible mark upon her
vanity, and Jiis tropical evening attentions make
local wooing appear pale to her vitiated taste.
The tropical wooer fades into a mere memory
most often. But that’s a detail. She can never
forget that Lord Blankyits’ second son, under the
influence of a full moon, three large whiskies, and
a chiffon yoke, once declared that she was the
pearl of all the world, and, “ Bai Jove!” —
well—something that she might guess, but
he wasn’t explicit about. After such delights,
she remarks that her erstwhile favored “ Gentle-
man One ” would need in effect an Act of Parlia-
ment; to make him fit for “ good society.” So she
prematurely withers on the stalk, with no gayer
prospects than thinking miserably of her single-
ness, and telling her brother’s growing daughters
of the lordling that didn’t come up to scratch.
If she’d never got past Fremantle, it is probable
that her snobbery would never have touched her
heart; it would only have spoiled her manners.
This dissertation should serve as a hint to
managing mammas to keep their beauty in the
homeland until she’s married.
The matinee in aid of the Distressed Actors’
Fund was a heated, overcrowded, expensive
occasion, as far as the audience went, and the
receipts climbed to a record. The programme, as
usual, was a compilation from current shows, and,
as usual, the men among the audience were in a
vast minority. But, of course, very few men go
to see the sta,ge part of a mid-day entertainment.
The few victims go for the joy of being prettily
blackmailed by a star performer in ordinary garb,
who sells them uneatable sweets at half-a-crown
a box. On Wednesday the special footlight event
was a brief reappearance in the * ‘ balcony scene ”
of Missus Juliet Brune and Mr. Tommy Romeo
Kingston. The act was surprisingly ill-done and
well-received. The Brune was much affected by
the applause, and looked sad and pale and in-
teresting. Everyone else play-acted cheerfully,
and unremarkably.
Amongst the crowd, fair pirates cruised, loot-
ing indiscriminately; and offering, as solace for
their spoils, smiles and sweet remarks. Celia
Ghiloni scored top marks in the beauty class, in a
coiling crepe frock of black, and some beautiful
sables. Miss Maud Thorne was ingeniously
ingenue in something fluffy, and pink-and-white.
Mrs. Fred McEvoy, as a prematurely spring-like
apparition, and Mrs. Doi-othy Yane Menzies, in
an elaborately soft pastel get-up, were both suc-
cessful vendors of unwanted trifles. But all the
skirted charmers were outshone by some of the
resplendent actor men, who made late appear-
ances, notably Andrew Mack, who was to be seen
in a glow of well-tailored glory and a wide smile.
Melbourne’s Austral Salon seems to have dropped
its early “sassiety” tone in favor of the more
useful character of a Public Health Defence
League. Anyhow, the members of the Vic.
Trained Nurses’ Association were invited to the
Salon last week to hear Dr. Wilkinson lecture on
“The Portions of Food Stuffs Which are Most
Beneficial to the Body.” The lecture was calcu-
lated to enlighten Salon dames as to the beginning
and end of their duty to Little Mary. Oysters
were specially instanced as being among those
things which are non-requisite and unnecessary,
as Well for the Body as the Soul. But the bour-
geois matron’s faith in oysters is not easily shaken.
Mr. Will Ashton, the S. Australian brush-man,
opened his exhibition at the Guildhall, on Tues-
day. His first day’s viewers comprised brother-
artists and generous purchasers. The pictures
make a notable show. They are, without ex-
ception, solidly painted, and often interesting.
Of his sea pieces, “Hayle Bar,” a Cornish view,
and “The Tide Race,” are the best. The pic-
tures of Paris in winter are also good. The two
most ambitious landscapes are both Austra-
lian, and are the artist’s latest and most charac-
teristic work. “Dewy Morn.” a farm-yard scene,
shows cows being driven to the milking paddock
at the dawn-hour. On the grass their hoofs have
trodden shadows into the glistening dew. This
pleasant aspect of cockydom is almost unfamiliar,
and certainly rather alluring under Ashton’s
treatment. It is full of quiet color, and the sky
is excellently true. “Peaceful Eve” is a rather
Dutch arrangement of solitary gum-trees on a far-
reaching plain. It depicts that instant when a
slender summer moon is sailing through the sun’s
last rays of light, and everything is silently await-
ing night. The suggestion of utt'er loneliness and
quiet is well conveyed. Already many canvases—
which are advantageously framed in dark wood or
oxydised gilt—show the little red patch so dear
to an artist’s heart.
The Vic. Artists’ Society is laboriously debating
the question of its annual masquerade. The
painters and whitewashers don’t know whether
to save money and make it tame by having it on
their own small floor, or whether to spend their
substance in large, riotous hall-rent. Each year,
so far, the entertainment has been like a mirage.
From a distance of time it offered a vista of novel
pleasures—a little naughty, and entirely pic-
turesque. Even the unco’ guid thrilled discreetly
in anticipation of the wild antics and artistic
ribaldry that soulful folk who loathe conventions
would indulge in. The interim bridged, one
found no Bohemianism at theV.A.S. Merely a
mob of fantasies, pushing thro’ overcrowded,
slippery, sultry rooms where there wasn’t space
enough to waltz, much less to discover the flaws
in one’s friend’s fancy dresses.
“ The Croydon coterie ” of painters, who seem
to have won the most definite success of all this.
year’s V.A.S. exhibitors, held novel carnival on
Saturday to celebrate the break-up of the sylvan
camp at Croydon. They gave a picnic— not an
ordinary picnic, by any means. They bespoke a
whole farmhouse, twelve gallons of beer, much
whisky, and four elaborate meals; and thirty
riotous souls bought tickets for Croydon to enjoy
the fun. And it was fun which lasted until the
morning.
The death of clever old Dr. Grey causes sincere
regrets amongst three generations of pals and
patients. He had been ailing for some time, so
his passing-out was not a matter of surprise. The
Grey girls, who have' a fair division of their
father’s brain and their mother’s early beauty,
make about the best show of courage and initiative
among the folk in this hamlet who nave exchanged
Sassiety on a small income for honest graft and
good earnings. Each one has used her peculiar
talent, whether as prima donna or as an architect
of smart hats, with fine earnestness ancl success.
Walter Baker returns presently to this Isle of
the Blest. He is making an attempt in London
to have a Shakspearian co. exported, in whioh he
proposes to star as Lear, Macbeth, Marc Antony,
and Shylock. His worst friends allege that he’s
easily capable of them. His best allies swear
that he’ll be unique.
Gaston Mervale leaves the Brune co. anon, and
becomes right-hand man in the machinations of
“The Beautiful Fiend” for a month or two.
Then he assumes control of the stage effects and
bad characters in Meynell and Gunn’s Harcourt
Beatty co. The experienced portrayer of heavy
villains promises some innovations in stage-
management—the sort that make a play appear a
drama instead of a mere setting for a star per-
former.
One of the features of the “ Block ” tour is the
daily appearance of Mr. Tittell Brune with the
two redeeming features of his awful melodrama
productions—the pretty Pounds children. The
lovely grass-widower satisfies his domestic yearn-
ings by trotting round little Toots Pounds and
the more mature Lorna to sundry lolly-popshops,
and to the tea-room where very sugary cakes and
cocoa are procurable for infant prodigies. He is
becoming as popular as a tenor vocalist amongst
the girl tribe. It is so unusual for a loud actor to
be paternal or motherly like Mr. Matilda Brune.
The’Varsity boys had a wild but quite harm-
less-spree on Friday night. They bought up the
Princess’s and “ The Blue Moon” for one night
only, and things hummed like 400 gallons of bees.
Crocodile-Gourier, the Majah, and all the other
mummers, were chock-full of gags that hit all
round the house and brought out yells of delight.
Conductor Moultan solemnly presented Gourier
with a museum-fed crocodile, which was carried
round, and got considerably in the way of the
scintillating stage tail.
Gourier, of “ The Blue Moon,” is a lucky man.
He is married to the scarlet-clad girl of the
mystic smile who collects the rupees after the
Chandra songs, and who glides about as a peace-
maker among the many jealous lovers.
The icily cold Olive Morrell, of “The Mother
Goose” pantomime, has departed Fogward,
leaving the little motor-owning M.P. still un-
attached, and free to take more girls about in the
capacious yellow auto. And it did so look as
though the frigid Olive intended to take Willie
more seriously than she took her ill-fitting parts
in “ Spring Chicken ” and “ Mother Goose.”
“Tryphena” writes from London :
I saw Maud Hobson in a motor-brougham spinning
through Hyde Park, on Monday. Maud wore sables of
great price, but they didn’t count any beside her colossal
physical charms. She has the secret of perpetual
beauty. At present she’s booked to wed a picturesque
oil-king, who makes his money in Uncle Sam’s Land and
spends it in London every spring. They call this grey-
and-fawn-speckled weather spring. But no poet arises to
chirp from the green bough of his heart’s Arcadia. True,
the crimson and pink may is in blossom, the oak
in leaf, the chestnut in flower, and the lanes are
a riot of green dissipation where passionate beeches
fling their arms out overhead in verdant ecstasies—and
one young oak shyly hugs itself before t’other. But
it’s not spring in an Australian sense.
I motored to Burnham Beeches the other day. The
beeches of Burnham are a more gladdening, thrilling
sight than the boasted chestnut avenues and drives of
Bushy Park. It’s the best joy on earth to leave the
blanket, fog andcold drizzle of the city forthe luscious green
glories of the country. But though Nature breaks forth
into emerald smiles, and the hills rejoice in fresh verdure,
and the meadows wear the daintiest of flowered dresses,
the heart of John Bull gladdens not. It is suppressed by
the dull atmosphere and burdened by the hope deferred
of a blue sky.
London is a Puppy Paradise for any four-footed yelper
built on stylish lines. (Thousands of the unpopular sort
are collected unto the doggeries of the nation, and
butchered annually in the cause of Class.) Shopland has
to allow every concession to the pet pug. Madame either
folds up her .yelper on any exquisite chiffons close at
hand, or lets it 101 l at will on the counter among any
finery that provides an impromptu cushion. And the
salesman daren’t protest. When it’s a Scotch collie or a
Russian wolf hound or any out-size in pets, Madame lets
the chain go, and the pampered beastie roams round the
shop, sniffing at delicate fabrics and oversetting mil-
linery, and otherwise making himself a public evil. The
shopwalker is helpless. He daren’t administer an
effective kick in the victuals, so the animal goes his
beastly devastating way.
In the cafes the same sort of thing goes on. At a
neighboring table you will often find a Dame and her dog
dining pretty well off the same dish. He has a bib under
his chin and gets his nose wiped after every lap of turtle
soup or sip of crSme-de-menthe.
The Essendon Bachelors are publishing due
notice of their intention to give the girls a
treat at their local Town Hall. It is an annual
event, this Essendon Batch Ball, and some of the
unmarried Host have suffered for it in bygone
years. They batch no more. This year the
Enemy’s attack is invited for August 30th.
Miss Bess Norris—the Melbourne miniature
painter who has been flattering the heads of
Personages (on fine ivory) in the Big Smoke for a
year or two —intends to catch this Australian art
boom on the hop. She travels homeward, in a
month or so, with a small but weighty collection of
miniatures for Melbourne view and sale.
“Lovie.” Mueller, the Marshall Hall-Weider-
mann pupil, seems to be getting on. She goes to
add her voice to a Jan Kubelik tour through the
English provinces. “ Lovie ” calls herself “ Miss
Erna Mueller” now, with the additional dignity.
The Carreno husband has other claims to
interest than that of his marital position. His
name, Tagliapietra (which means sculptor), has
impressive legends attached to it, and he can
pursue his forbears right back into the glorious
light of the Italian Renaissance. The first Taglia-
pietra acquired his surname through being a
founder of a guild of architects and sculptors,
which was inaugurated about 1256 a.d. That
worthy, besides being notable on his own account,
wears an additional halo because of his intimacy
with Niccola Pisano, who was great-great-
grandfather to modern sculpture.
Annette Kellermann is ranking high just now
among the Australian women abroad who are
knocking fine incomes out of their professions.
But some of the stay-at-homes are also doing well.
Instance at least two women dentists who are
each making something near a thousand a year.
One woman doctor pays tax on a four-figure in-
come, while a number of other women doctors
run her pretty close. It’s the beauty doctors,
though, who reap the big crops of golden grain.
More than one of these counts her yearly profit
in thousands, while scores of them are making a
comfortable living.
If one indulges in a prosaic cold now-a-minute,
sympathetic enquirers ask if you “have had the
Pink Influenza.” That’s the newest color and
trimming in “ Flew.” It sounds nice and gay, and
should be an immense improvement on the old
kind—which is Blue. The ’flew from which I lately
suffered myself was a Purple variety, I think.
A versatile gentleman one who makes an
equitable division of his spare time ’twixt sport
and society, the pen and the punch-ball—shortly
launches a book of verse, illustrated by our nearest
approach to Norman Lindsay. Some of the frilly
folk who prize his album improvisations, allege
that they’re saving up to buy a copy. But most
of them tacitly invite the bard to distribute pre-
sentation volumes. Never, oh verse-builders,
expect your best friends to purchase your soulful
productions ! Rather rely on the ignorant mob
who don’t know you.
One-time Enid Boyd—a pretty dasher in Mel-
bourne s best whirl—is back in Melbourne, and
occasionally in Sydney, with husband Mahaffy.
Who is Mahaffy ? Why, he’s the Mahaffy. Also
I* e s It. Colonial Secretary for Fiji. He
and the Governor are Us. The islands are sup-
posed to hold some natives and a sprinking of
white trash as well, but for all purposes of real
V?R or l ance they hold only the Governor and
Mahaffy.
Dinners and afternoon teas and regimental
tears fall round the jolly old Colonel Lee and his
wife and her sister, who are leaving the St. Kilda-
road barracks. There is a shifting of colonels
every four or five years, and then this year Death
has been busy among the old dogs of war, which
makes the shifting more acute than usual. The
latest move sends the Lees to Sydney barracks.
The Lieut.-Colonel is transferred from the Vic-
torian Headquarters Staff to the N.S.W. Instruc-
tional Staff.
A tony Melbourne chiffon store has just dis-
patched a fussy, frilly white cot and a sumptuous
piccaninny trousseau to India, to the address of
Mrs. Captain Balmain (the Alison daughter of
the George Fairbairns). The gorgeous outfit
enters into active service some time in September,
so I'm told.
Last ’Murrikan mail brings the outline of a
little tragedy, in which the lady whom Melbourne
knew as Mrs. G. A. Lawson figures. She went
off to the States, and there took unto herself a
second Yankee husband rather her junior. She
married him on the eve of the ’Frisco ’quake, and
their honeymoon, house and happiness were all
wrecked. Her new mate’s reason was also shaken
so that it fell. The wife has joined forcts
with enterprising Mrs. Pete Hughes, and together
they run an emporium, where lingerie fin and
extraordinarily expensive hats are obtainable.
Mrs. Lawson is a cousin of Mrs. Rupert Clarke,
the baronet’s wife who rarely lives within 15,000
miles of her bart.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
There was a copious muster of the suburban com-
mittees of the Women’s Work Exhibition at Government
House last week. Our own special little show is to be
opened on August 17, and kept open till her Northcote
Excellency returns from Westralia (somewhere about the
26th), so that she may see how well we have managed it,
and how sk.v-towering is the intellect of Adelaide. At
the meeting, LadyLe Hunte read a resume of the arrange-
ments already made, and was bombarded with questions
by hordes of inarms, who wanted to know whether their
best Sunday portihres mightn’t get unduly jostled going
to Melbourne, and whether the same jam tart exhibited
here in August might go on to the Melbourne Exhibition
in October.
The sports and physical culture sections of the Exhibi-
tion are being manipulated by Captain Leschen, who has
physical-cultured every damsel in the State. He has
formed over 100 nice girls into a rifle team, takes them
but on a shooting picnic every Saturday, and will enter
them in teams at the show.
The concert of the young Victorian nightingale, Lizzie
Newbold, at the Town Hall, on the 16th, was the most
shockingly attended affair this State has struck within
my recollection. The fact is that the little girl is suffering
from the sins of previous concert-givers, which were many.
Miss Newbold’s voice is undoubtedly a phenomenal one,
and a hundred times more deserving of European culti-
vation than many that have drawn crowded houses.
Also, the audience, small as it was, encored her wildly,
and showered flowers and acclamation upon her by the
ton or two. She gave “ April Morn ” and “ Lo, Hear the
Gentle Lark” (with flute obligato), where the usual
student would have sung only simple ballads, and she
trilled away as naturally as a bird. She has scarcely had
any training, and therefore her artistic success was the
more phenomenal, and her financial failure the more
deplorable. Pretty Nora Kyffln Thomas, Wanborough
Fisher, Oscar Taueber, and other well-known local
musical folk helped the programme through.
An Adelaide scribe, writing from London, adds her
cry to the confusion on the great subject of the girl
with a voice who hies her to the great city. Brains and
exceptional voices they must have, she says, and a good
education, if they want engagements. If they come
merely for study, it is, of course, a different thing, but
few do that. She tells of one Adelaide damsel in London
who left Australia to burn the Thames. She is being
taught gratuitously by some kind person, has only £lO in
the world, and not even a return ticket. Same writer
had just heard Amy Castles, and thinks she has deteri-
orated since her last Australian tour. She says
Amy’s stage deportment and appearance in general
are quite slovenly—this in a place where dress-
ing ranks before everything else; and adds that
she rarely sings in London, and never at con-
certs of much consequence. The Adelaide woman also
tells us a few facts about the Steinway and other halls at
which our local products appear from time to time, to the
accompaniment of much splash in the Australian press.
They are little pepper-box concert rooms in small back
streets, and each of them is about the size of a public-
house, and has a diminutive gallery at the back.
We’ve settled down to rest again now that the repre-
sentative of our huge and gallant navy has departed.
Admiral Fawkes stayed at the Residence for about a week",
and came in for a mayoral ball, three vice-regal dinner
parties, a vice-regal dance, an old collegians’ dinner or
so, an intercollegiate football match, and such intense ex-
citements as Parliamentary' luncheons and the like.
Adelaide’s feeling rather battered after all this rush.
Adelaide has had an attack of bellowdrama ever since
“ Mother Goose ” took to her wings. The latest arrival is
“The Coal King,” with pretty Beatrice Holloway as
leading lady. “ The Coke Monarch ” looks as though it
might be a distinct improvement on the usual bellow
literature.
St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, claims to have the biggest
Old Boys’ Association in Australia, with 1200 members.
It sat 360 of them down to dinner in the Adelaide Town
Hall last week, and dinners were held the same evening-
in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Broken Hill, and half-a-
dozen mining towns all over Australia.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“ Suss,” from Melbourne :
One of the humors of the new House of Reps, has been
the race between Iceberg Irvine and Bill Knox (of the
Big- Hat and the sectarian issue) for the leadership of the
Fourth Party. So far, the Iceberg has won. In the
little one-day session, last February, Knox acted as
- leader, much to Irvine’s disgust. But this session the
Iceberg, by hard leaping, has Got There. He has followed
the other leaders every time. On the Address-in-Reply
Knox was all ready to jump up when Watson finished,
but Irvine leaped first and caught the Speaker’s eye. On
the Quarantine Bill, the two leaped almost simultane-
ously, but Irvine sprang higher than Knox, and
F. Holder saw him first. Then came the trans-
continental railway question. Knox and Irvine were
both waiting till J. Cook would leave off scraping
the broken fiddle of his voice. But over and
over again Knox leaped prematurely, and ex-
hausted himself by throwing his body and soul up in
the air on false starts. Irvine made no false starts. He
had his feet gathered under him and his h nds pressed on
the seat, so that he could bound from all four ends at
the right moment. Cook ceased, and Irvine’s leap was
so prompt that he was already coming down when he
passed Knox going up. Of course he got the first call on
plain kangaroo principles. The Iceberg, half fried
though he be, has beaten Knox. If his legs hold out he
will soon come to be recognised as a sort of leader, and
that may lead to election and a definite appointment.
Nevertheless, some one may spread glue on Irvine’s seat,
and thus give Knox a fresh chance. Things are not really
settled yet, and if Irvine leaped at a moment of supreme
importance and only tore his clothes owing to the glue,
Knox would reach for the leadership with both hands
while Irvine ran home to put on his ether “ clobber.”


PAINFUL BREATHING.—As well as
dangerously sounding cough, indicating congested
lungs, can be relieved and cured by using Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
You often sin# of England,
And of Ireland, too, and Wales,
And the “ Braes of Bonnie Scotland
With her Stirring Border-Tales ;
But don’t forget Aust alia
(No other skies are bluer),
And its famous household remedy—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SHIRTS.
Tor Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
MattalaSse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
:iSi- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A iistr.ilin.
Piitteriis-aiul Measurements Forms on Application.
BL MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
The only argument needed to convince you
of the value of Angier’s Emulsion for coughs and
lung affections is a trial. It is used by doctors
the world over. Send 4d. for postage to the
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.. 7 Barrack Street,
Sydney, for a free sample bottle and give it a
trial.*
k
C 3-0 TO HBiL
IGOIjAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm,-A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. HunterSt.)-
Also at M W.BOUI'.NK.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Long live the Luma,” said British
Prime Minister C. Bannerman. And now India
wants a Duma, and there is the devil to pay.
Strange how many politicians seem to
think of the post of High Commissioner as a dust-
bin. Some of the Deakinites want to give the
appointment to John Forrest as a good way of
getting rid of him. The Opposition suggests that
G. Reid should have it, for to them G. Reid is a
grievous stumbling block. The Labor party alone
does not seem to have a man that it wants to get
rid of.
WHO SAID TROUBLE?
Leading Japanese journals express a conviction that all
trouble will soon be removed.— Cable.
Jessepisto have a fight for the Waverley
seatinN.S.W. Assembly after all. An Onslow,
of Camden Park (where forelock-pulling has been
elevated to a Fine Art), “ will positively go to
the poll.” One of Onslow’s supporters, by the
way, is A. Consett Stephen, the earnest but
impracticable Gent One who didn’t storm the
Sydney G.P.0., and seize the Commonwealth
mails, and carry them to England by a purely
N.S.W. service.
S. Australia touched Carruthers on a sow
place when it decided to shut its ports to N.S.W.
fruit until Ma had learned how to stamp out its
insect pests. So he talks “retaliation” —if S.
Aus. won’t buy N. S. Wales’ grubby fruit, S. Aus.
shan’t get any Murray waters agreement. Which
is the sort of argument one can hear any
Saturday morning in the backyard when the
infants are home from their ABO.
The Australian Stinking Fish party Huns
now a dead dog on its mind. The captain of the;
Pi do, which went ashore at Tweed Heads, had
evidently read in the Argus that all semblance-of
freedom had departed from the land, and believing:
that he would either be hanged or fined £5O if bis.
dog came ashore with him, he reluctantly destroyed
the animal before he left the wreck. Fortunately
the Argus hadn’t gone so violently to his head as
to make him destroy his crew and passengers, buit.
those persons may reckon that they had a narrow
escape.
The United States Government threatens-,
to shift 16 battleships into the Pacific. The*
British flag has now practically disappeared out-
of that ocean ; it doesn’t fly there on one single;
craft that would be worth taking into account in-
a clash of up-to-date fleets. . Britain gathers its
squadrons close around its own shores to guard
its imported food supplies, and leaves Japan and
the United States to argue for the ownership of
the biggest of all the seas. Australia doesn’t really
know which of the two Powers will bombard its
ports first. Under the latest Anglo-Jap treaty,
Britain is bound to assist and protect the Jap in
such a large and general way that it is hard to
say where the liability ends. If Uncle Sam and
Uncle Monkey come to blows over the Californian
disagreement, and Uncle Sam wins, and pursues
Uncle Ape into his own waters, it seems fairly
certain that Britain is pledged to attack the
U.S. on Uncle Tail’s behalf. And if Samuel
in the Pacific hears that a British fleet is bom-
barding New York, he will doubtless try to break
something of Bull’s in these waters by way of
retaliation.
Penrith (N.S.W.), which lately helped to
return an Anti-Socialist member to the Common-
wealth Parliament, and which promises to return
another to the State Parliament, lately sent its
Mayor to the N.S.W. Premier with a small
request. The old, dreary, God-forsaken town
has borrowed some £13,000 from the Government,
and it owes the State £BOOO for interest, making
£21,000 in all. It also owes £ll,ooo' borrowed
from Private Enterprise, on which interest has
been fully paid. The Government lent its money
at low interest and didn’t get the low interest;
Private Enterprise charged high interest and got
the high interest regularly. The Government
loan is invested in waterworks, which are doing
fairly well, and the reason why the Government
doesn’t get its interest is that the profits from
the waterworks, which it supplied, have been
diverted to pay the private creditor. And the
Mayor mildly asked that the Government, which
Penrith has thus robbed, should wipe off £13,000 of
the debt and more, if possible. Also, he seems in
a fair way to get what he asks for, which shows
that cheek is a great asset.
The sleepy city of Geelong (Vic.) isn’t so
slow after all. It is one of the prime movers in
the scheme to hand over to the State the care of
all main roads—every street in Geelong is as
“main” as every other street —on the ground
that it is too poor to maintain its roads, and isn’t
willing to tax its rich landlords s© 1 as to- relieve
the poverty.
The first day the Sydhey-Melboctrne tele-
phone was open to the public, a wild-eyed man
approached the official on duty ,at the Syd-
ney end, and, laying down 65., asked to be
put on to Melbourne. '‘Who to?” de-
manded the man behind the counter. “Any-
body in Melbourne ; it doesn’t matter who,”
replied the wild-eyed man. The connection
was made with some Melbourne subscriber,
and, safe out of the hearing of the telephone
people, but within the ear radius of several
others 'in the office, the stranger
poured out for three minutes; some of
the finest vituperation ever heard out-
side Surry Hills. His subject was
Federal politics, and his language
was terrible. When time was up, he
rang off and put the transmitter on
the nail with a smile of triumph.
“I reckon that’s given them some-
thing to think about,” he announced
to a group of onlookers who hadl
been listening with rapt admiration
to the language. “ I used to write
letters to the D.T., but this is a lot
more satisfactory. It’s worth double
the money.” And he strolled off,,
glowing with the consciousness of
having done a good deed.
A. Gr. C. Hawthorn, who has;
succeeded Peter Airey i s Home Secre-
tary in the Kidston Ministry, thrice re-
fused portfolios offered him by Philp, in the
days when Robert of Townsville was drown-
ing worm’s at a great rate while fishing for-
support.
“ J.R.” writes :
The sudden inclination ol the Carruthers Government
to carry the railway from O’Sullivan’s fool of a railway
station, through Sydney to somewhere not very clearly
specified, looks very like the process by which the privatg.
enterprise railways gradually stretched themselves from
their distant suburban termini into the heart of London,
and beyond. Some of us remember how, arriving- from
the north, passengeis were shot out at King’s Cross, or
Euston Square, in the wild waste of St. Pancras, and the
Duke of Bedford was very careful to doss all the squares
of his Bloomsbury property with gates, so as to shut out
the plebeian mob who travelled by rail. It took 15 years
to teach the people in power that there was nothing
revolutionarv in railways. The upshot of it all was that
trains from the country could not run into the terminus
if they were going through London, but had to be
shunted at a little wayside station further back. Our
big white folly in Sydney has been built in imitation of
the idea which London found so disastrous. There is
talk of shunting the city trains at Eveleigh, and making
the city line an underground one. That will cut out
O’Sullivan’s Pol ly, but it won’t cut outLhe bill.
PROBLEM: WHITE TO MOVE AND WIN,
The absurdity of the party-government
system was shown up once more during the
debate on the Victorian Address-in-Reply.
The solitary amendment submitted was moved by
Langdon, who was pushed out of the Ministry
the other day to make room for Peacock. Up to
that moment Langdon had apparently been in
complete accord with the Government, and if it
hadn’t been necessary to take in Peacock, lie
would no doubt have been in perfect accord with
it still —or would have had to pretend to be. As
it happened, Langdon couldn’t get a seconder for
his motion ; in other words, the man who was in
the Ministry yesterday is to-day, when he can
take his own course, more opposed to the Govern-
ment policy than apparently any other man in
the House. And yet, no doubt, he would cheer-
fully go back to the Government to-morrow, and
carry through the old humbug of pretending to
swallow the whole policy.
It is carefully explained that J. 0. Wat-
son’s proposed new Federal capital site at Can-
berra (N.S.W.) can get its water supply, or a
portion thereof, from the little Cotter river ;
also, if necessary, it can get water from
the Molonglo, the Queanbeyan and the
Murrumbidgee. And it is further explained
that if the Cotter, which is about the smallest
of -these, is dammed, the Federal city will
draw its water supply from a catchment area
of 110 square miles. That is to say, that is the
catchment area of one little stream ; if it
became necessary to take, in one or two other
streams, the catchment area of the Federal city’s
water -supply might easily, run to 1000 square
miles. So the query arises. : What earthly good
is there in 100 square miles, as proposed by some
of the meaner variety of parochialists, for a
Federal territory, when several times that area
may be required for water-gathering purposes
alone?
Sample of the stuff that Reid’s women cir-
culated during Echuca (Vic.) bye-election :
The difference between the Socialist marriage termin-
able at will, advocated by Morris and Bax, and that
practised by the degraded Bushmen of South Africa, is
not great. Morris and Bax allow either party to ter-
minate the compact, hut with the Bushmen only the man
has that right.
Aren’t these gorgeously-furred cats ashamed of
the mean mendacity of this sort of thing when
used as an argument against an Australian
democrat? Perhaps they were born without a
moral sense.
The same old Lamentation of Jeremiah—
from Monday’s S.M. Hun Aim this time
It is understood_that there will he practically an all-
round increase in duties, particularly on such goods as
woollens, cottons, wearing apparel, and machinery. The
Government, as might have been expected, has framed
proposals primarily in the interests of the manufacturers
of Victoria.
Do the pious owners of the Herald regard them-
selves as a credit to their church, or a decoration
to any church, when they allow their paper to
figure in this fashion as a petty stirrer-up of strife
in the Australian brotherhood ? The present Aus-
tralian Government contains three N.S.W. mem-
bers out of eight, and t\i’o Victorians, so that
N.S.W. is better represented than the State that
spoils the Herald’s rest at nights. The new
tariff was drafted by one of the N.S.W.
Ministers. It will protect the manufactures
of all the States alike—even the Herald
hasn’t the courage to say that Victoria is to
have a special tariff of its own. But the dirty-
minded little sneer about “ Victorian manufac-
turers ” has become such a matter of habit with the
Herald that the thing is recited automatically.
And again the idea goe3 forth that N.S.W. is a
poor, dead sort of place with no factories of its
own—with nothing, in fact, but a snuffle and a
.grievance. And the industries of Queensland,
-S.A. and other States are quite forgotten amid
the constant assurance of the Sydney morning
papers that Victoria has manufacturers. Who
wants to hear eight times a day about “Victorian
manufactures ” ?
At the opening of the Victorian State
Parliament it was solemnly announced that the
Victorian debt was reduced during last financial
■year by £1,014,000. If that statement can bear
audit and inspection, then Thomas Bent has gone
so far on the road to honesty that he might as
well go the entire distance and the whole hog,
and pass an Act declaring that borrowing, except
for the renewal of old loans, shall be absolutely
illegal. Then he might pass another Act setting
aside, as a fixed charge on the revenue, a certain
sum for public works and land resumptions,
and a further sum as a contribution to a sinking
fund. Of course some thriftless future Parliament
might repeal these laws, but that wouldn’t make
the glory and halo of Thomas, as the statesman
who passed them, any the less.
The present Australian Parliament build-
ing is a typical sample of the Melbourne boom
spirit. It is magnificent, but useless; with a
thousand draughts, and no ventilation ; wonderful
marble staircases, and no drainage; a dozen fine
halls, and not one comfortable room. One of the
new Queensland members advertises his idea of
the place by en-
tering the Cham-
ber with a moun-
tain of overcoats
and rugs. Select-
ing the least
draughty corner,
•he arrays himself
as if for a polar
•exploration trip,
and faces the de-
bates.
THE SUSPICIOUS BOY.
Mr. Wilks, in his speech last Thursday, suggested that
Mr. Reid should be the first High Commissioner. If Mr.
Reid would like the position, he could easily get it.
There is hardly a member of the House who would ex-
press opposition. The most difficult man to convince
that it was the right course to take would probably be
Mr. Reid himself.—Daily Paper.
AUSTRALIA : " Here , take this tart ; and. for
goodness sake, run away and play.”
GEORGE: "Gam! Wot's wrong with it! You
on'y want to get rid of me.”
It is rumored that the beginning of Aus-
tralia’s sea defence will be a vote of £500,000 for
the purchase and importation of some small
vessels to form the nucleus of an Australian navy.
Should this prove true, it will be a fair thing for
Australia to explain to the Government that it is
a pettifogging, half-hearted and utterly unsatis-
factory way of doing things. First, Australia
ought to build its own ships, and to set about the
work at once; a country that depends on im-
ported ships is only half-armed. Second,
£500,000 worth of small vessels aren’t even the
reasonable beginnings of a navy, any more than
500 men are the fair commencement of an army.
Not “JUST AS GOOD.”—Don’t be lead
astray by taking something else when calling for
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It is pleasant to
take, safe and sure. Always cures.’’
THE SECESSIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I worked awhile with the Anti-Sosh, and I’ve lived "it
the Anti-Truth ;
I shared a room with a saved young man in the days of
my sinful youth ;
I’ve camped with a raving atheist and tramped with an
anarchist,
But I wouldn’t be seen in a public place with a damned
secessionist !
I’ve smoked a pipe with a burglar-man and a man who
was in for life ;
I’ve had a yarn with a murderer (I heard he had killed
his wife);
I’ve had a drink with a petty thief and a “ three-pea ”
specialist—
But I wouldn’t be seen in a lonely place with a mean
secessionist.
Oh, he is as small as Australia’s great, and as narrow' as
she is wide !
Oh, he is as mean as the crimps that wait for ships by the
harbor’s side !
His carpeted office or gaol-like home (where the kids are
coldly kissed)
Are the only spots in this wide, bright world to the
narrow secessionist.
Grandfather, father, and son toiled on, and struggled
from sea to sea,
And not for the sake of themselves at all, but the nation
that was to be ;
And the work of men of a hundred years, and Australia s
chance to exist,
He’d damn for the sake of his insect self, would the base
secessionist.
O, the grand green Bush from the western spurs, and the
farmers firm and fond !
O, the rolling plains to the skyline fair, and the rolling
plains beyond !
O, the rolling blue of the sea all round ’neath the morn-
ing’s rising mist!
But these are things that can never be seen by the mole
secessionist.
By the strength of the Out-Back vote our name as a
Commonw'ealth we wrote,
And the pestering Anti-Australian swarm shall be swept
by the Out-Back vote.
He’ll be cracked as a thumb-nailed flea is cracked, w'ith a
turn of the careless wrist,
And we’ll w'ipe the specks from Australia’s name of the
crawling secessionist.
H.S.W.
HHENRY LAWSON.


Eonisch Pianos
SOLE AGENTS s
These Highly Artistic Pianos
Have been proving their
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To sucH good purpose Have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace witH
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case*
worK is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speaK too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full guarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalog'ues are yours
for the asKing'.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Williams’
Shaving
SticK
“The
only kind
that
won’t smart or dry on the face.”
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the world,
or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.;
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d. (Trial size) of Williams’
Shaving Stick, 2d.
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Russell St., London,W. C.; 4 Rue Chauveaux Lagarde, Paris;
161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South Wales. Head office and factories,
Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
Williams’ Shaving Soap
is absolutely necessary
for a clean, comfortable
shave. It gives abund-
ant lather to soften the
toughest beard;
the lather is
soothing and
antiseptic; it
lasts longest
and prevents
the smarting
and irritation
of the face,
the bane of
most soaps.
steel !
THE PLUM RAZOR is made of highly-tempered silver
steel. It is set and ground by experts, and is used by particular men all
over Australia. The purchase of one means you’re independent of a
hairdresser—and a cool, comfortable shave just when you need it.
Posted Free Anywhere for 10/6.
A FEW EXTRAS—
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Palr in Handsome Case, 30/-
Poat Free to any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITXEN, 654 George St*, Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
.
%
m
m
Congo is “ Never- Leak ” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., r-d London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS 8c Co., Brisbane.
G
O
L
U
M
B
I
A
“SOVEREIGN”
GRAPH-o-phone
MECHANICALLY PERFECT.
EXQUISITE TONE.
SUPERB FINISH . j
Uses all Standard Blze Records and
Speolal “ HALF-FOOT " Reoordsv
Fitted with the Wonderful
“LYRIC" Rep oduoer.
mm
ilfi
*
&
p|}g|
mAV
Price
£l2 lOs.
Write for Catalogue “B,”
which gives a full description
of this PERFECT Machine.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l.
Wholesale and Retail,
1 255 Clarence St., Sydney.
London,
New York,
Paris,
Berlin,
'
St. Petersburg
Eto.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mo ta ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and ” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide. Melbourne and S 'dney.
IS GOOD.—Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is good when you first take cold ; good when your
lungs are sore ; good when you cannot sleep for
coughing ; good for children, too.*
AN ELDERLY LADY
Relates Her Experiences of the Marvellous
Strength - giving and Blood - enriching
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Margaret Ferguson, of Euroa, writing
from North Williamstown, Victoria, writes as
follows ,l lam now 77 years of age, and as one
who has very great faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, I am only too pleased to give you an
account of my experience. For some years I was
a sufferer from liver complaint, which was in-
tensified after an attack of influenza. I had con-
gestion of the liver, catarrh of the stomach, was
severely troubled with constipation, stagnant
circulation, poorness of blood —which caused
eruptions in the skin—also great dizziness and
palpitation of the heart. Indeed, the slightest
effort seemed to upset me. Of course, I took a
quantity of doctor’s medicines, and tried a
number of pills and physics, but obtained only
temporary relief. A friend recommended Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and after a few doses
I began to feel a great improvement, so I stuck
to them, and to-day I am in better health than I
have been for years. Indeed, I regard these pills
as the sole source of ray increased strength and
the improved condition of my blood. I nave
recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to
many friends and neighbors, and I am quite sure
that in every case they have been proved all that
you claim for them. You may use this ! n an .V
way you desire, and I trust many will read it, and
be convinced of the efficacy of your wonderful
remedy.”* _
Missing; Friends.
WANTED present residence of THOMAS
GABRIEL ANDERSON, sometime law
clerk, present occupation unknown; native o
Pollokshaws, Scotland. Was seen in
about six years ago. Information to Omcei m
Charge, Criminal Investigation Branch, Bert i,
W. Australia, from whom Anderson on communi-
cating will hear of something to his advantage.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN. Wanted
the address of above, or if dead, certific
of death. Age 56, height 5 ft. 11 in. Lost sight
right eye. Born at Irthlingborough, Englana.
Reward of £2O for correct information deacl or
alive. Apply to SHARMAN, JACKSON
ARCHER, Solicitors, Wellingborough, Englana.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely pure. no preservatives.
- West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewkky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The All Blacks went out t - . Jnesday’s match
with a premonition of disaster. cy had found N.S. VV.
changed. Also they 1> • l found the Cricket
Ground painfully hard, and Sat....lay’s play had been
willing enough to satisfy anybody. There is a tradition
in Maoriland that Australians do nut know what a touch-
line is for, but this crowd had discovered that the Walers
had at least a fairly visible glimmer of intelligence on the
subject, and it worried them. Moreover, the Maoriland
team was in a more or less damaged state, and carried
the colors of both teams on its bulgy parts. The Walers
had found the advantage of using the touch-line in
preference to making passing rushes down the field ; the
touch-line device kept their backs fresh for assaults on the
goal line when within striking’ distance. As long as they
played that game on the previous Saturday they had kept
Maoriland penned up on the defensive, and they on ly
went to pieces when they failed to make proper use of the
touch-line. It was tolerably certain they wouldn’t make
the same mistake again. Man for man the Cornstalk
pack was the faster, and on paper the All Blacks knew
they were in for a defeat, for they were playing with a
weaker team than that which won the first match.
* * * *
The All Blacks, still suffering keenly from the
defeat by N.S.W. on the previous Wednesday, brought
their most formidable team against Australia at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday. Immediately play began
it was obvious that the Maorilanders were there to win
at any cost. The result was a game that was a disgrace
to both teams. Maoriland’s men played like a lot of
spielers, and cheated and “pointed” in an appalling
manner ; and Australia’s team showed like a second-grade
fifteen making its first appearance before a huge crowd.
The All Blacks had no less than 12 free kicks given
against them in the first half; and even then about
a score of low-down tricks escaped the referee’s
notice, owing to that harassed official having’
only one pair of eyes. The deplorable part of
the business was that there was no necessity for
this disgraceful exhibition on the part of the visitors.
Against the demoralised folk that wore the blue and
maroon colors it was quite unnecessary—any first-grade
club team could have downed them easily. If Maon-
land is going to send such Fiji-uncle sort of footballers
across regularly, some alteration of the rules will be
necessary by which three free kicks shall count as a
goal, or something of that sort. .The whole three
matches have been disfigured by the same illegal
tactics, but on Saturday, when there was least occasion
for it, the All Blacks excelled themselves.
Two of the three Queenslanders who were put
in to transform the N.S.W. Fifteen into the Australian
combination were anything but booming successes. Car-
michael, at full back, was a ghastly failure, allowing him-
self to be bluffed in a way that would have discredited a
Borough grade player, and generally making such a hash
of things that he had to be replaced by Dix within the
first 20 minutes. Watson, on the wing of the three-
quarter line, was regrettably slow, and his tardiness
seemed catching. Although the pack, with the excep-
tion of Murnin, who was replaced by Flanagan
of Queensland, was the same as in the two previous
matches, it failed to show any of the dash with
which it had formerly broken up the Maoriland
backs. Murnin seemed to be able to keep his pack
going at top speed. Burge, who was captain on Satur-
day, did not, and the result was that the Maorilanders got
the leather and got their splendid back machine going.
Tho 'trouble with the Australian team was that its play
was like the hairy chestnut the man took to the editor.
When the weary editor passed it back via the office boy,
the contributor inquired heatedly what was wrong with
it. “ Wrong with it,” said the youthful literary
authority, “ why, it’s no blanky good, that’s all! ” The
backs kicked deplorably, sending the leather over the
heads of their pack into the arms of the Maorilanders,
who promptly found the line, and gained 20yds. or so
every time any Australian back (save Dix) kicked. The
Australians seemed to have forgotten the existence of the
touch line. Dix, although sadly harassed by the swindling,
off-side tactics of the Blacks, found the line every time,
and was a bright and glittering star in a desolation of
bungle and incapacity. That absence of line kicking was
the most serious trouble next to the tardiness of the pack
iii getting down on the leather. Then the Australians
were shockingly slow in the line-out, picking up was
faulty, and of divisional support there was none. The
only forward who played the game was Bow, and he was
soon a marked man. Messenger’s absence was a disaster,
and Waddell and Murnin were also sadly missed.
The Maoriland Rugbyite has an affinity to the
Frenchman and the Afghan. He is much more terrible
on the offensive than the defensive. The way to beat
him is to tackle him—rush him every time, smother his
half-backs, tread on his off-siders, kick like fury for the
line, and save the three-quarters for the final attack on his
, goal-line. When he has been treated to that style of
play for the first-half he will feed out of the hand during
the’ second. But once he gets his cow-spanking, wood-
chopping, eight-bob-a-day backs going, it is almost im-
possible to stop him. tie is as cool as a cucumber, and
passes with the precision of a machine and the speed
of a bullet. Booth, the full-back on Saturday,
played a game that was beautiful to see. His kicking
was superb, his tackling of the lonely Australian who did
occasionally get through the ruck was as certain as Death
itself. Once’ he followed an Australian who had crossed
the goal line, picked him up, carried him back over the
line, and hurled him, ball and all, into touch. It was a
case of sheer brute strength. Wallace and Mitehinson
also played perfect Bugby, using their brains even better
than they did their very considerable legs.
A deplorable feature of the game was the num-
ber of casualties. Every few minutes someone was laid
out. Colman, the Maoriland wing off-sider, got a kick
on the head, while Barnett and Bosewell, of Australia,
! also had to retire from the game. On the other side it
is pleasant to be able to say that the best of good feeling
existed between the teams, and they half killed one an-
other in the most friendly spirit.
* * * #
The moving pictures of their first match in
Australia proved somewhat of a thorn in the sides
of the Maoriland footballers. A referee can be
dodged, but there seems to be no method of evading
the all-seeing eye of the camera, and footballers
who looked at the cinematograph reproduction of
the struggle were astounded to see how many illegali-
ties escaped notice and punishment. The pictures
showed clearly enough that some of the enthusiastic
Maorilanders did not hesitate to grab a man before he
got the ball, and so prevent him getting it at all. One
Sydney importers’ paper, which usually lays incense at
the feet of the visiting team, no matter where it comes
from, actually printed some of the photographs showing
the Maorilanders at this sort of work and labelled it:
“ Maoriland Tactics.” The moral is that all important
matches should be so photographed, and the pictures
submitted to a tribunal armed with power to inflict
disqualification for offences revealed thereby—offences
which had previously escaped the notice of the referee.
« ■* * *
The Maoriland team of professional Rugbyites
for Britain is said to be completed, 54 of the best players
of Maoriland having offered themselves for selection. A
recent cable from Maoriland announced that the “ cer-
tainties ” were McGregor, Pearce and Turt.ill, all of Can-
terbury ; Smith, YVynyard, Todd, W. Tyler, Cunningham,
Francis and Gillett, of Auckland ; Eckhold, and Johnson,
of Otago; Tyne, Cross, Wright, Byrne, Kelly, Baski-
ville and Watkins, of Wellington ; Wrigley, of
Wairarapa ; and Colman, of Taranaki. The six
names in italics are those of players who are at
present in Australia with the amateur Rugby team.
Very naturally, the organiser of the professional team
has denied the accuracy of the list. Whether the men
mentioned are going or not, he could hardli' do less than
deny the statement while they were still playing as ama-
teurs. In the meantime the idea of professional football
proves very alluring to a number of people in Sydney,
and some N.S.YV. capitalists are considering the question
of organising three or four professional teams to play in
and around the big Australian cities.
* * * *
The League which controls the Australian foot-
ball game in Sydney is anxious that the people who have
been gorging themselves during the recent Rugby car-
nival should drop along to the Agricultural Ground on
Saturday and see a match between South Melbourne and
the Combined Metropolitan teams, and honestly decide
which they think is the preferable game. A change of
diet is healthy, and the match will be a good one.
At the present time a lot of people throw bricks at the
national game without ever having seen a match
played under its rules. This is manifestly unfair —
even a football barracker must recognise the fact.
Intending spectators can take The Bulletin’s word for it
that the Australian game is a much more scientific one
than Rugby. It is the dominant form of football in
Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania and Westralia, and
is largely played in N.S.YV. and Queensland, and is also
beginning to be seen in Maoriland.
A biting winter’s wind, following on 12 hours’
steady rain, kept many away from Melbourne’s Satur-
day games ; nevertheless, some 20,000 spectators watched
what was expected to be the most interesting argument
of the day—Carlton v. South, on the latter’s ground.
The football was only third-rate, but the game was
exciting enough in that both teams played all they knew
—and they knew a lot more than the rules allow—and
the result was in doubt up to five minutes of time. Then
the Blues added a goal to their existing lead of three
points, and, staving off South’s last rush, won by 86
points to 27. Both sides made the mistake of kicking
high, across a strong wind, and the ball was con-
sequently out of bounds a good deal more than it
need have been. One small fight between the players
adorned the discussion. Possibly the sloppy ground,
the high wind, and the absence of two of its best
players excused St. Kilda’s downfall, but even with these
drawbacks it ought to have beaten the disorganised
’Roy. Yet the board at the finish showed ’Roy 25 points,
Saints 23. It wasn’t much of a win for the Maroons, but
it puts the others a peg lower on the list. Had Geelong
maintained its recent form and beaten Melbourne, it
would now stand third 1 yet, with a good team, it had
the worst of the deal all through, finishing up with 34
points to 49. The only team which played the proper
game for such a day was ’YVood, which made few at-
tempts to run on the greasy ground, and kicked short and
low throughout. Essendon wasn’t expected to win ;
neither was it expected to assume the position of a chop-
ping-block ; yet the scores—’YVood 70 points, Essendon
23—indicate that catastrophe. The two prettiest
engagements of the day were the Association matches
between Richmond and Essendon (A), and Bruns-
wick and YVest Melbourne. The ex-Collingwood
coaches of the two winning teams have taught
them the wisdom of a system ; consequently, in spite of
erratic kicking, Brunswick, which had been walloped by
West early in the season to the tune of 98 points to 11,
managed to turn the tables on last year’s premiers by 46
points to 43. The Richmond-Essendon discussion was
more strenuous and willing, and, though the latter’s half-
dozen ex-League stars battled all they knew, the con-
certed play of the whole yellow-and-black 18 gained them
the extra goal that meant victory—s 3 to 47. The Bruns-
wick brickmakers still have a chance to get into the
semi-finals if they can win all the intervening seven
matches ; otherwise, the quartette is likely to consist of
Richmond, Williamstown, YY’est and Essendon. Any-
thing may still happen in the League, though the odds
are that Carlton and ’Wood will battle out the final.
* * * *
People whose sporting sympathies have an
odor of stale fish about them fully expected to |see the
Canadian team walk right over the Queensland lacrossers
on Saturday. But it was far from an unequal game, and
Queensland drew first blood with a neatly obtained goal.
The Canadians equalised things by the end of the first
quarter, however. The second saw the home team strike
a slice of bad luck, and the Canadians got ahead. Then
the Queenslanders came again, and by catching a
“ meteor,” brought things dead level once more. They
followed it up by storming the Canadian goal, and
making the score three to two. The final quarter
proved disastrous to the home team. It commenced with
a vicious attack, and kept the Canadians on the
defensive, but the Canuks broke through and drove the
play to Queensland territory, where they scored four
goals in short order, and won the match by six to three.
A very creditable performance for our men, who are
comparative novices at the game.
Queensland’s defence on the whole was equal to
that of the Canadian team. Pyke in goal did good work,
and Morley and Connolly may each be singled out of a
good lot. Hutcheson, the Q. skipper, playing at centre,
was the man who troubled the Canadians most. On
almost every occasion he led the attack, but his homes
could only get in thrice. All things considered, they did
very well to manage that. Slightly stronger homes
would probably have equalised the score. Thorpe netted
the Queensland goals. The Canadians are marvels at
stick work and combination, but they use baggy sticks,
which, under Australian rules, would be barred. Their
passing is very accurate and appallingly sudden, and
they play on "a system that upsets some Australian
theories. They will indulge in a series of short passes
right in front of their own goal and keep possession of
the ball in this manner, even in dangerous territory, till
they can safely begin an attack. The attack commences
in their own defence lines, and then, in a twinkling, the
ball passes from the defence lines, and,.in a series of
short barks, goes to their opponent’s goal without
touching ! the ground or the other fellows’ sticks. Con-
trary to Australian ideas, they never shoot till they reach
within eight yards of goal. Then they crowd in and
indulge in short four-yard passes till an opening for a
shot presents itself,' and in it goes. YVithout a
doubt the visit of this team will result in considerable
alteration of the methods of Australian play.
* * * *
The N.S.W. team, which met the visitors on
Monday, did not make nearly as good a showing, the
visitors scoring four goals to nil in the first quarter. The
second quarter saw the home team lose several oppor-
tunities through faulty passing and throwing, and the
Canadians made a couple more. The third quarter was
disastrous, the Canadians scoring five,more goals, after
which they settled down to hold the Walers and prevent
them scoring without running up a huge total themselves.
But, anyhow, 11 to nil was fairly decisive. Apparently,
the Walers had not the pace pf the Queensland team,
whom the Canadians describe as being very fast indeed.
* * » *
As anticipated, the N.S. W. Cricket Association
found Carruthers a broken reed when it came to- a fight,
and had to comnromise with the Cricket Ground
Trustees, and agree to pay 18 percent, of the gross tak-
ings of the Anglo-Australian Test Matches as the price of
the Sydney ground. Teece was right. He knew his
opponents, and was perfectly well aware that Carrutheis
was a bluffer pure and simple, and would make for a com-
promise every time. And, apparently, he also knew
that the majority of the Cricket Association council
would be content to protest. Had the Association sat
tight and steadfastly refused to have any matches at the
price, and played the English XI. in Melbourne, the
Trustees would have backed down with much more speed
than grace. If the Association had any fight in ■it, it
would proceed to make a sweep of the Trustees by setting
the law in motion against them for the illegal spending
of money. They had no right to donate that £I(X)U to
the Drought Fund, and any member of the Cricket Ground
should he able to set the law in motion against them,
to compel them to replace the money out of their own
pockets. Another doubtful action is the spending of monev
on No. 2 Ground, which is leasehold, and not a part ol
the Trust, and the Trustees are only empowered to spend
money on the improvement of their Trust. there
were half-a-dozen ways of making the Trust sit up
very straight indeed —but the Association was content to
protest, and, as said before, the Trustees only enjoyed
protests that were not accompanied by kicks. Moral .
Never protest unless you are ready to kick. It is undig-
nified, especially when dealing with men like Sydney
Cricket Ground Trustees.
* « * *
The Victoria Amateur Billiard Championship
has reverted to Jacoby, who came out on top in a con-
test of challengers, and was pitted against Arthur IricKS
(the holder of the title) at Alcock’s Hall (Melb.) last week.
A game of 2000 up was remarkable for nothing nut its
dullness. Tricks, who is the better stamp of player,
showed occasional glimpses of a determination to go in
and win easily, but he never sustained his superior form
for long at a time, and in the end he was beaten by more
than 100 points. Without making any pretensions to
high art in his cueing, Tricks is essentially a bright,
well-balanced amateur performer. He might ao
a lot better if he practised more consistently. JacoDy
is a tutored billiardist with a hopelessly wrong
style (as crack amateurs go), and not much ingenuity in
working up a break. Except in his making of cannons
off two or three cushions, he seemed a less capable plaj er
than Tricks at every point of skill and judgment, and it
was only the unusual shortcomings of his opponent that
gave him the victory. Time and again Jacoby played tor
a showy cannon when he should have gone for a hazaid.
Some of his “ safety ” misses were absurdly weak tactics.
And his “ bridge ” 1 He plays with the forefinger of his
“ bridge ” hand cuddled across his cue, which is about
the worst example of method that an amateur champion
can set to his admiring imitators. Next month Jacoby
will have to meet the N.S.W. boss amateur in Sydney tor
the Championship of Australia. On paper the match
looks a rather soft thing for the Sydney man.
* » * *
“Anchor cannon ” billiards seems to be dying
from want of public patronage. Last month W. Cook
and A. Taylor started a match of 150,000 up at a London
hall, Cook conceding a paltry 25,000 start. Taylor s
anchoring didn’t amount to much, and when the other
man had scored about 60,000 the game was abandoned.
* •» * *
Stud horse Blinker died last week at the early
age of seven. Blinker was the 3-year-old that ran third
in Acrasia’s Melbourne Cup after he had made a very un-
satisfactory display in the V.R.C. Derby. As the result
of Blinker’s eccentric form, his owner, old Jimmy
Wilson, was talked to by the V.R.C. committee, which
was so unexpected an experience for the veteran that he
presently sold all his horses, and the somewhat infirm
Blinker was bought by Wren for 1650 guineas. The son
of Pilgrim’s Progress proved a very bad investment, ne
ran indifferently for the V.R.C. Leger, and in the Aus-
tralian Cup he-broke down. Now -comes the candid
newspaper announcement that “it is a mild consolation
for the owner (Mr. Wren) that Blinker has left several
fine-looking foals.” Wren’s horses being nominally dis-
qualified to race under V.R.C. rules and sanction, the
future of Blinker’s offspring will be watched with interest.
* * » *
The backers of Boomerang for the recent Vic.
Grand National got a chance to recover their lost specie
on Saturday, at Caulfield, when the son of Firelock won
a two-mile steeplechase, after dead-heating with old
Springfield. In the run off he let the veteran make the
running again, and finally beat him by many lengths.
Some good-looking gees lined up for the Mur-
rumbeena Handicap, at Caulfield. Portland Bob, placed
second in the race, is a dandy 3-year-old that may im-
prove a lot between now and October ; and the Tasmanian
mare Watchful (winner of the Hobart Cup) has the
appearance of being better than her poor performance on
Saturday would suggest.
* * * *
Whitewashed pony Metallist’s win of Warwick
Farm (N.S.W.) Handicap on Saturday was remarkable.
Half a mile from home, he was the absolute last of a long
tail, but from there he galloped over them all, and ended
up an easy winner, pulling through a heap of punters,
who had made him a hot favorite. Metallist s running
among the pomes prepared his backers for Saturday s
display. He always began badly, but worked up a heap
of steam at the right end.
* ■*■ *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association has voted £5O to
secretary Orr for his services during the last few months.
Lucky Orr. It is commonly stated that the Association
has paid winners 2s. in the £ of the published value of
the prizes, and if that is true, and if it pays its secretary
at the same fearsome rate, the lucky Orr will receive a
whole hundred bob in one huge lump:
• * * *
Should a handicapper be responsible to the
governing council of the body that employs him, or
should he be absolutely independent? That is the ques-
tion raised by the resignation by Mr. Broadbent of his
position as stipendiary handicapper to the Victorian
League of Wheelmen—according to Mr. Broadbent. In
The Bulletin’s opinion the question is quite a different
one to wit, whether a request to explain a handicap
amounts to a declaration of no-confidence. Mr. Broad-
bent has admitted his employers’ right to ask him to .ex-
plain the start he gave Quinlan, but declares that the fact
that he was asked to explain it shows that the CouneiLpf
the League has no further confidence in him. Which isutter
rot. Broadbent’s argument is nothing els:- than a claim to
infallibility—which is too tall a proposition. The whole
trouble was that Broadbent was dissatisfied with the
<»*eneral treatment he received at the hands of the League.
There has been friction before over money questions—
remuneration, travelling exes., and so. forth. And Broad-
bent thought he saw in the attempt of the League to get
at thfe reasons of his treatment of Quinlan the beginning
of a system of in terference. The League council doesn t
seem to.have expressed any distrust of the handicapper,
but Broadbent certainly showed that he had.a large dis-
respect for, and an aggressive disbelief in, the honesty ot
the council. Future events will show whether it was
justified or not. # #
The recently-run Grand Prix Motor Race was
a veritable triumph for the Michelin tyres, with which
the first nine cars were shod. Moreover, it was the
first occasion on which the Non-Skid Michelin tyre was
used in a speed'contest, and the experiment justified
the idea. Michelins have had a wonderful run of wins
and good performances of late. The Vanderbilt Cup,
the Targo Florio Race, The Kaiser’s Cup, and now the
Grand Prix have all been appropriated by Michelin-
shod cars. In the last event Nazzaro drove the 120-h.p.
F.I.A.T. car over 477 miles in 6hr. 46Jmin., or at the
rate of nearly 70 miles per hour—a remarkable perform-
ance.
Poor old Bob Fitzsimmons, now rising 46 years
of age, must have been either desperately hard up or
quite mad to get into the ring with that 28-year-old
neo-ro Hercules, Jack Johnson, the man who finished
Felix and made much trouble through smacking his
manager where he smelt. The scrap took place at
Philadelphia, where the law limits fights to six rounds,
and probably poor old Bob thought he could see them
through without coming to anything too dreadful. But
he didn’t. Johnson just waded in and knocked him out
in the second round. Recent events suggest that it was
a most fortunate thing for Squires that he didn’t get
into holts with Mr. Johnsing.
♦ * * *
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14. DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
“0.K.”: Two or three years ago, a scornful
chronicle of a boxing match at Fitzgeralds’ Building was
published in The Bulletin’s Melbourne section of
“ Sundry Shows,” as a story of “ two men shoving one
another.” Which description of Australian glove “fight-
ing” under a perversion of the Marquis of Queens-
berry rules (rules that didn’t always hold good
in Bill Squires’s case), is recalled to mind by the
letter John Wren received from Bill’s manager
written before the fight. The writer said : “ Bar
accidents, our man will win. There is but one thing here
that may prove dangerous to us, and that is the Austra-
lian ignorance of in-fighting, or short range work. Our
rotten break-avvay system is responsible for this defect.
Bill stops fighting when in holds, and it is here that the
American gets in his best work. Ed. Hagan, a heavy-
weight 1 engaged last week, rattled Bill in clinches until
Bill lost his temper. I called on him to punch, but he
couldn’t. He just ‘threw’ his man on the floor. If
Burns does win, it will be in close work. This is Bills
weak place. I am having him coached in it by Eddj
Hanlon, the best in-fighting light-weight of his day,
but Bill is a poor scholar; he thinks he ought
to be a tutor.” Very late in the day the ex-adorers
of Bill Squires discovered that he picked up his
boxing education in a school where the Marquis of
Queensberry rules were not fully taught. What rules he
did know' he broke with impunity, as when he jabbed
Murphy in the countenance with his elbow, and split his
nose. For the rest —well, he wasn’t even the “ natural
fighter ” that his idolators called him, for, whereas a boxer
in America naturally uses his hands for punching pur-
poses as long as both of them are free, the practice in
Australia has been for the dreary referee to interpose.and
say “ Break away ” the moment that either man grabbed
hold of the other to save himself from any trouble that
threatened. When the referee says “ Break away, ” the
unfiery combatants usually push one another gently
apart before they “ box on,” and get into “ holds ” again.
This sort of fight between two hardened pros., who-are
under contract to putina full 20 rounds, is the silliest
caricature of a battle —as unnatural to the true spirit of
fisticuffs as Graco-Roman grovelling is unnatural to the
principles of wrestling. But the fact that Bill Squires
didn’t know his business thoroughly doesn’t prove that
his incapacity lost him his fight. He always went in to
win without giving his adversary a chance to clinch. On
July 4th Bill went in and lost. It isn’t even certain that
he clinched.
* * * *
What made Squires’ downfall so lamentable
was the previous impression he had made on the Yankees.
If ever a man got Uncle Sam by the goatee it was our
William. His dislike of being photographed and inter-
viewed impressed the screechy, notoriety-loving nation
immensely. To interviewers Bill said, modestly enough,
“ Oh, wait till I do something ; time enough then for all
this fuss.” And every morning when he rose there was a
fresh batch of 50 or 100 columns of speculation as to
whether he was a world champion and possible conqueror
of Jeffries, or just a plain “ lemon.” It was embarrass-
ing to a man of William’s temperament. Had it been
Wren—well Wren would have thought he was in Valhalla
or Elysium, or some other place equally pleasant for
great heroes. Then came that sudden and awful welt on
the side of the nobility. After that, Squires arose every
morning to find a fresh batch of 50,000 columns crammed
with abuse. It was an ocean of mud. And he was
smothered by it.
* * * *
The Invincible and Fairbanks meet again on
Saturday to run yet another race for the blue pennant
of Sydney Harbor, which gives the winner the reputation
of being the speediest boat in Australasia. Both boats
are said to be running better than ever, and Arthur
Davies is alleged to have discovered which of the myriad
brands of “juice” suits his semi-hydroplane best. In
these speed contests it is a matter of great importance to
give the engine the right drinkable. Also the air is full
of rumors of new speed boats. With the spring there
will be, if only half the threats made are carried out,
nearly half-a-dozen speed launches on Port Jackson.
• * *
Of the 12 lacrosse men chosen to meet Canada
in the first test match at Melbqurne, next Saturday, eight
have been picked from S. A. and four from Victoria.
N.S. W. and Q. take a back seat for the present, but, as
the former lias generally had an unholy licking on
meeting either of the two southern States, and the latter
has never met them at all, there is not much room for
grumbling. Lacrosse is the only sport at which S.A. has
always more than held its own. Adelaide ’Varsity men used
to form the backbone of the team, but the establishment of
an electorate system has brought out strong clubs in
every suburban district.
A cricket item cabled from England is that
Ambrose Tarrant, the miniature from a Melbourne
suburban cricket club who is now a professional at Lords,
is the first of the English cricketers to reach 1000 runs
and 100 wickets this season. Tarrant occasionally repre-
sented Victoria in inter-State fixtures, but, though a
splendid club player, didn’t come off in big cricket.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
>Ol
Hil
lestne
As a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill”—the
Badie Two=Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them aIL
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits’’—it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill—a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
and have this built of
EHDIE FITTINGS
[Ask your Dealer.]
Dept. A, EADIE M’F’C. CO., LTD.,
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Work : KEDDITCH, ENGLAND.
Government Advertisement.
TENDERS will be received by the Deputy
Postmaster-General, Sydney, until noon,
on Monday, the 19th proximo, for the performance
of a large number of Mail Services. For full
particulars see Commonwealth Gazette, of the
6th instant.
AUSTIN CHAPMAN,
Postmaster-General.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1 /«• and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says : “ The prince of living
A s trologers. ’ ’
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R.. HERSCHELL (.of London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name.
Address
Date of Birth
SV?e FAMOUS EDISON
CINEMATOGRAPH.
In all respects the finest instrument of its kind in the
world —the easiest to use—gives wonderfully brilliant pic-
tures —is marvellously accurate —and will outlast all others.
Is equipped with reels to hold 1000 feet of film, and is
fitted with stereopteon attachment for showing standard-
sized lantern slides.
It’s a great entertainer and a money maker for anyone
who chooses to use it as such.
We now have 200,000 feet of Film in StocK.
Price - £27 lOs.
"Write for Explanatory BooKlet-FREE.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
KUGELMANN’S
$
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
1 Aid.”
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
£BOO
For a Few Old
Stamps.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Stamp
Merchant, 14 Hunter S treet, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once—they are worth lots of money.
iiidillllll!S!!!!!!l
IS mmimrn
iiir iiiiiiißiniiiii
.’VW.WWW.
PACE FENCE
—from the attractive lawn fence shown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
years ago, are still giving- good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence he a
good one to have the agency for?
Write to-dav for special offer.
CHAS. DOBSON, FRANKS&Co., Sydney
This Ideal Flooring
is now being used extensively in
America and Europe. It’s Expensive,
but it has NO equal for Banking
Rooms, Steamships, Corridors of
Public Buildings, Hospitals, Aisles
of Churches, Billiard Rooms, Bath-
rooms, Vestibules, &c. f &c.
Its Advantages :
It is Waterproof, non-slippery,
Noiseless, thoroughly Sanitary,
and so durable that it will last
practically a lifetime. Can be laid
without cement on existing floors.
Supplied in a range of colors and
designs. Correspondence Invited.
Designs and tenders submitted.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
108 Flinders St., Melbourne. 255 Clarence
St., Sydney. 268 270 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
117 Grenlell St., Adelaide. 81 King St., Perth.
Worcester St., Christchurch, N.Z.
Last week the Commonwealth proposed
to take over the control of banking matters,
which act will deprive the States of some
revenue derived from the bank-note tax, and
Sydney Telegraph called it, in large type, “A
Commonwealth Grab.” Same week the Aus-
tralian Parliament proposed to take over all
quarantine matters, which will relieve the States
of a considerable expense. The Telegraph didn’t
call that “A Commonwealth Grab.” But some of
the State-Frights crowd in Parliament grumbled
a little at the idea of the States having their
diseases violently taken from them, and opined
that the Federal authority was reaching out after
certain vegetable pests to which it had no claim,
they being rightly State insects and part of the
dignity of the small local Parliaments.
The Tory Register of S. A. was so enraged
at the election of J. V. O’Loghlin to the Senate
that it had a fit in over a column of violent
language. It accused Premier Price of nearly
every crime in the political calendar, and threw
mud at the Court of Appeal. Said the Rageister :
Mr. Vardon had a majority of two of the formal votes
counted, notwithstanding that the law and the practice
of counting votes were operated to the fullest extent
against that gentleman.
I his is a deliberate assertion that J ustice Barton
displayed partiality in his judgment and
amounts to contempt of court, for which Hie
organ of ignorance should be admonished. As-
way the S. A. Government lias nothing to do with
administration of the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Department.
One of the weariest repetitions in politics
. , • , . , • -e, -i .
18 the g il g of the Parochial or Anti-Federal person
who, when the Australian Parliament proposes to
do anything that is expressly provided for in the
Constitution, states that “No one contemplated
such a thing when Federation was being con-
• i , „ t, • r~< ■ r tvt ci iTT i i
siaered. Premier Gummidge, of N.S.W., bad a
special]y bad attack of this complaint when he
learned that the Australian Parliament proposed
to pass a Banking Bui and take charge of the
whole question of banking, which the Constitu-
tion specially authorises it to do. In this matter
The Bulletin has no hesitation in telling the
N.S.W. Premier that his statement is flatly
untrue. It can show him in print that “when
Federation was being considered” someone did
contemplate the Australian Parliament taking
over the control of banking, lock, stock, and
barrel. In any case it is only a fool who makes
huge, loose, flapping remarks about what “no
one ” contemplated. Even the saddest Gummidge
of a Premier doesn’t know everybody.
. The Westralian Railway Department has
timorously made the experiment of building a
few brake % ang for itself, instead of handing the
contract for the whole lot over, as hitherto, to the
Private Enterprise which can “always do the
thing better.” And the usual hole was knocked
. *^ ie ancient, worm-eaten argument. Five
Private Enterprise vans cost £5593, independent
of £1720 worth of material supplied, or a total of
£7313 . the entire cost of five vans made at the
gtate workshops was £52 43.
The visiting Premiers (except Deakin,
who doesn’t believe even in that modified
sort of title-snobbery) having been made
Privy Councillors, a special sitting was held to
consider a report from the judicial committee of the
P.C., just by way of enabling them to say they had
really acted on the Council. They rolled up, along
with the King, two princes, and two or three
peers, and the crowd solemnly considered some
side issue of the question whether Nugent Robert-
son, of Sydney, should have paid that penny to
the Balmain Ferry Co. or not.


inexpensive TABLE SILVER
Order by Mail.
You can purchase by MAIL with as certain
satisfaction as if you visit our showrooms per-
sonally. All goods sent CARRIAG-E FREE to
any part of Australasia.
SPECIAL VALUE.
CAKE BASKET, Silver-Plated, Richly Fluted and Embossed.
Post 20/- Pree.
Please mention tHis
paper when ordering.
1
mr
m
m
SPECIAL VALUE.
DESSERT or TRIFLE DISH, Silver-Plated Frame,
Pressed Glass Dish.
Post 9/6 Pree.
IP I*oo and Post Paid.
Your request on a post card will bring you
a copy of our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
FOR 1907 by return of Mail. Better send for
a copy now. We send it POST FREE to any
address.
SPECIAL VALUE.
Double JAM DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Floral Decorated
China Dishes.
Post 15/6 Free.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BISCUIT BARBEL, Floral China,
Silver-Plated Frame.
Post 9/6 Free.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SUGAR BOWL and TONGS, Silver-
Plated, Blue Glass Lining.
Post 4/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SERVIETTE RING, Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved.
Post 1/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
Four GUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated.
Post 21/- Pree.
m
mis.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BUTTER DISH, Silver-Plated Lid and
Base, Glass Dish.
Post 5/6 Free.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Silver-
Plated Frame, Floral China Bowls.
Post 10/6 Free.
ifsv
SPECIAL VALUE.
TOILET MIRROR, Silver-Plated, Richly
Embossed, Size 9in x sin.
Post 8/6 Pree.
9
SPECIAL VALUE
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4 bottles, Crystal
Glass, Silver-Plated Frame.
Post 14/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
FLOWER EPERGNE, Silver-Plated
Frame, Green, Ruby, or Amber Glass.
Post 15/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BUTTER DISH, Silver-Plated Lid
and Base, Glass Disb.
Post 7/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SWEET DISH, Silver-Plated Frame,
Floral China Dish.
Post 4/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
OAK BISCUIT BARBEL, Silver-
Plated Mounts.
Post 12/6 Pree.
mm
SPECIAL VALUE
SALT CELLAR and SPOOK, Silver-
Plated Base, Glass Dish.
Post 2/- Pree.
$33x32 M
M'44
III!
m
jjji
3 w
SPECIAL VALUE.
BREAKEAST CRUET. Silver-
Plated Frame, Glass Bottles.
Post 10/6 ' Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, Silver-Plated
Mounts, Fancy China Bowl.
Post 15/- Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
TOAST RACK, Silver-Plated, Highly Burnished.
Post 5/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
JAM DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Ruby
Tinted Glass Dish.
Post 9/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
CAKE DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Floral
China Dish, Size 7in x 7in.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st-,
Opposite New
Railway Station,
SIDNEY, N.S.W.


C 9
H
n
m
mm
ii
There you are, Billy— * VICE-REG Ah
MIXTURE * is fit for a Ring'!**


N.S.W. MONT DE P/ETE D.
& /. COMPANY, LIMITED.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL. MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders in the
above Company will he held on WEDNESDAY, July 31,
1907, upon the Company’s Premises, as above, at 12 noon.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
v Business:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet.
To elect two Directors in the room of Dr. Chisholm and
John Dalglish, Esq., who retire by effluxion of time.
Both these gentlemen are eligible for re-election, and
offer themselves accordingly.
To elect two Auditors in the place of Messrs. W. H. Perry
and VV. J. Miles, whose term of office expires by
effluxion of time. They again offer themselves for
re-election.
To transact any other business that may be brought
before the meeting in ; ccordance with the Articles of
Association.
Dated July 16, 1907.
Amusements.
gKATING ON THE FROZEN LAKE
..AT THE ..
GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY,
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
Morning, Afternoon, Evening,
10 to 12. 3 to 5. 8 to 10.30.
DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
*y*OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
3rd, 7th, and 10th AUGUST, 1907.
BLANCHE AREAL
F. AENGENHEYSTER, Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY at 8.
Matinees Each WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
EDWIN GEACH presents the
EMPIRE PICTURES CO.
First Production in Sydney of a Magnificent Sequence of
Animated Views, representing
“CANADA AND THE IMPERIAL NAVY.”
PRICES—2s, Is and 6d. Plan at Elvy's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
GREAT SUCCESS of The Charming English
Pastoral Opera, entitled,
DOROTHY,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H E AT R E R O Y AL, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
Pronounced and Immediate Success of the Great English
Emotional Actress,
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in the Highly Stirring and Sensational Play,
A BEAUTIFUL FIEND.
Prices 3s, 2s & Is ; Is extra for booking. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
«|- H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at S. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Remarkable Success of THE SVENGALIS.
Most Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL.
CARLTON. Card King and Quaint Jester.
Splendid Success of Mr. V. L. GRANVILLE.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
Miss EILEEN LYONS.. ERNEST FITTS.
M. SAM LE MERT. MASTER ADRIAN AMADIO.
IRVING SAYLES. MARJORIE BRAY.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL. Eccentric Jugglers.
TECHOVV’S PERFORMING CATS.
FOUR ROSEBUDS, Vocalists and Dancers.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy,
MY YOKOHAMA QUEEN, Musical Scena by England’s
Clever Comedy Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. S 3" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, JULY 25, FRIDAY, JULY 26, Last Two
Performances of ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
SATURDAY, JULY 27, the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK in
THE RAGGED EARL.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE COTTON KING.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. C. Williamson.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
THE BLUE MOON.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
XW~ USUAL PRICES.
Amusements.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE
Under Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
Matinees Each Day, at 3 o’clock, from Monday Next*
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
A FURORE IN EVERY COUNTRY.
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND,
CHAMPION BAND OF THE WORLD.
Established Nearly 150 Years.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Season will be Strictly Limited as follows: —
Saturday, 27th July, to Saturday, 3rd August, inclusive,
and Thursday, Bth, Friday, 9th, Saturday, 10th August.
As the Town Hall is unobtainable for 30th and 31st, the
performances on these dates will be given in the New
Bijou Theatre.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
COMPLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EACH
CONCERT.
THE BOX PLANS
OPEN THIS MORNING, AT ALLAN’S,
FOR THE FIRST SIX NIGHTS.
Coupons will be distributed from 7 a.m.
Intending patrons are strongly advised to book early
and save disappointment.
55.. 35., 2s. F. S. STETSON, Manager.
G. D. PORTUS, Touring Manager.
pE A L ICE SKATING.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
OPEN THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Business Announcements.
WARM EEET WANT NO PHYSIC
ELECTRIC FOOT WARMERS
Genuine Dr. Marsden’s Electric Insoles
VERY
EaRIC^OoSrTEI
ELECTRIC FOOT
REDUCED PRICE,
3/tt Per Pair.
COMFORTABLE AND
HEALTH pul.
I Promote Circulation
and Bamsh
Rheumatic Pains.
PREVENT CRAMP
Relieve Nervous Troubles, Save you from Colds and
Chills and Tone up your System.
~P) R. Mar Bden's Electric insoles are so
well known (hat it is scarcely nee ssary to desorib#* them,
but their cost was formerly so high that, many could not buy
them. v\ e have secured a large stock ata great reduc-
tion, and thus we are selling the Genuine Dr.
Marsden’s Electric Insoles at only 35.6 d.
per Pair. We warrant th* m genuine. Every pair hears
Dr. Marsden’s name. There is sound sense in the old saving
“ Keep your feet warm and you can laugh at the doctors,” and
these PJlectric Foot Warmers are the most pleasant and effec-
tive means of doing so. They can be had to fit any size boots
or shoes. The alternate plates of copper
and zinc generate a mild current of electricity and
promote the circulation of the blood. This keeps the feet
warm, and, acting directly upon the nerve centres in the soles
of the feet, relieves rheumatic pains and tones up the system.
They POSITIVELY PREVENT CRAMP.
Anyone subject to this painful trouble should have a pair.
No more cold feet. No more chilblains. Try a pair and you
will be comfortable and delighted. Reduced to 3s. 6d.
per Pair. We pay postage. State size of foot an • send
Postal Note of any state. If you mention t‘ is paper when
ordering, we will enclose with the Electric Foot. Warmers a
valuable recipe for the Cure of ■ Chilblains.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. Business Announcements.
Closer Settlement,
IN ALL CLASSES OF
COUNTRY LANDS.
PUBLIC NOTICE
To meet the growing demands from people who desire
to settle on the Land,
HARDIE & GORMAN
have opened
A Metropolitan Central Office
for the Sale of COUNTRY PROPERTIES.
In order to facilitate the work of inspection, HARDIE
and GORMAN will open an OFFICE RECORD, so as to
be able to supply the fullest particulars of AREA, SOIL,
CLIMATE, RAINFALL, FACILITIES TO MARKET.
NEARNESS TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, TIMBER SUPPLY,
CREEK and RIVER FRONTAGES, and generally what
the lands are best suited for, etc., etc., and a PRINTED
REGISTER will be issued quarterly.
Specially in connection with the above, HARDIE
and GORMAN have secured the services of Mr. C. H.
GORMAN, who for vears past was Manager of the
GOVERNMENT EXPERIMENTAL FARM at WOLLONG-
BAR, on the RICHMOND RIVER.
AGENCIES WILL BE FORMED IN ALL COUNTRY
DISTRICTS, and everything will be done in the most
comprehensive way to supply the wants of Purchasers,
and at the same time give such detail information as may
justify inspection.
OWNERS OF COUNTRY ESTATES
are requested to send particulars of all Properties “ FOR
SALE,” or FARMS “TO LET” to 133 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, at the earliest possible moment.
Whilst giving special attention to the sale
BY PRIVATE CONTRACT
of separate Farms, or Blocks in Properties which have
been subdivided, HARDIE and GORMAN would be
pleased to receive instructions to conduct
AUCTION SALES
of NEW PROPERTIES suitable for Subdivision into
Farms, etc., or to report on the proposals to subdivide
before any Plan of Subdivision is arrived at, and arrange-
ments may be made to sell with other Auctioneers.
All Communications to be Addressed to
HARDIE AND GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP !—3OO of “ Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
't m
W'
J
(M YOUR FAIL
BE GUIDED BY THE BTABS.
'RUTH ABOUT
AND WHAT
YOUR FORTUNE WILL BE.
I Will
Tell .
YOUR FORTUNE FREE.
Riches
The Stars as read
by me will tell
what business or
profession you
should follow to
gain wealth. I
can also give
your lucky days
and months for
speculating.
I WANT to tell every reader of this magazine what the future has in
store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and
years to brighten their lives; what sorrows, disappointments and
reverses are hidden in the future, most of which can be avoided if
you only knew how to go about it. I want to prove to your perfect
satisfaction that my system of Practical Astrology will make your
future like an open book. Simply send me your name, date of birth,
sex, and whether married or single, and enclose with your letter 1/-
postal note or stamps for return postage, and a Horoscope or reading of
your life, together with my interesting book, “ Your Destiny Foretold,”
will be sent to you in a plain envelope, sealed and confidential.
When you receive this reading, you will discover how absolutely
correct, as well as wonderfully helpful, it is, and you will be glad to
write me when you wish to know what to do about the future, for
success in love, marriage, speculation, or business. You will, I am
To prove my Wonderful Powers, / will lay bare the Future like an open book.
sure, be glad to go out of your way to advise your friends to consult
me, and in tliat way repay me for the cost of the trial Horoscope I
send you.
My system of Practical Astrology is different from that of any
other Astrologer living or dead. Hundreds of letters in my possession
prove that I have predicted events that have actually come to pass,
that, if my advice had been followed, disappointment in love and
money matters could have been avoided ; that I have told the future
as no one else has done.
I frequently publish letters from friends who have been so well
pleased and so well satisfied with my work, that they have freely
granted me permission to use their names and portraits in my ad-
vertising. Positively no letters are published without this permission.
Write me to-day and learn what the Future has in store for YOU.
To-day may be the turning-point in your fortune. Do not therefore delay, but write to me at once and get the valuable information that
I alone can give you. Let me prove to you my wonderful powers, and then help me by recommending my work to your friends. Simply
send me your full name, date of birth, your sex', whether married or single, and a 1/- postal note or stamps for return postage, and the
Horoscope will be immediately mailed to you sealed free of charge.
Love
Let me tell you
how to be
successful in
love, and the
person you.
should marry to
ensure a happy
wedded life. The
stars. tell me all
this plainly: let
me tell you.
Address
PROFESSOR H. DE ASTRO,
366 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.


The Whisky
for Conviviality ”
mm
i m
%
8
mm
:.< ./
m
IHM!
1 ■ i
4
4
mmm
W
mm
.
Wmmm
I
II
WOOL, PRODUCE and CRAIN BROKERS,
CONSIGN TO
CAPITAL - £4,000,000 in 160,000 £25 SHARES.
Subscribed - - £3,000,000
Paid-up - £520,000
Reserve Fund - - £275,000
STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
hii
M. L. & F. CO.
SYDNEY.
(LIMITED).
JAMES KIDD, Manager.
B. B. ALLEN, Wool and Produce Manager.
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
to&JnL
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
<! This famous salt maintains its qualities for digestibility and savour. Besides
chloride of sodium this preparation contains phosphates which render
Cerebos Salt not only a flavouring ingredient, but a food in itself.”
Agents— Harrison <sr» At (wood, Sydney.
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. 1| to 25 H. P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
Our Special 3 H.P. Marine Motor - £2l
if ii ii i £52
Freight charges prepaid.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob,
Conn., U.S.A.
Correspondence invited from thoroughly reliable firms to
take up Sole Agency in Australia and New Zealand
for Palmer Gasoline Motors.
<» i
rtf
o_ y
a
BOUAKDS F«R
BEHOME
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK<&Co.
GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
mtuußLtux
MELbOURrtE.
Makesyou look manly
flfiCP
Before
Your Moustache
WHAT sort of a one is it? If yon use Capillarino
it can be full grown and handsome. We have
sold thousands of jars of it and never had a single com-
plaint. Simply follow the directions and you will get the
best satisfaction.
Price 10/6 Post Free, under Sealed Cover.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney*
Established 25 years.


A Famous French Specialist on Dis-
eases of the Skin Prescribes Cuti-
cura as the Most Effective Remedy
Known to Him, Charging as His
Fee 100 Francs (£4).
ALSO PRESCRIBED IN
HOSPITAL SAINT LOUIS
“Gentlemen: You may be pleased to
learn that a patient suffering from an
irritation of the skin, caused by_motor-
ing, on consulting a noted physician in
Paris, for which a fee of one hundred
francs(four pounds sterling) was charged,
was advised to use Cuticura, which ad-
vice, although received with astonisn-
ment, was followed and resulted in a
perfect cure. (Signed) Lewis Gower,
1123 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.,
December 16, 1906.” _
French physicians, particularly those
making a specialty of the treatment of
skin diseases, have for many years re-
garded Cuticura as a specific and have
prescribed it freely. It enjoys the rare
distinction of being prescribed in the
Hospital Saint Louis, Paris, one of the
largest and most famous hospitals m the
world devoted exclusively to the treat-
ment of diseases of the skin.
SUFFERED FIVE YEARS
Cured by Cuticura.
“I have been suffering from irritation
of the skin for about five years. I was
two years under medical treatment, dur-
ing which time I was treated by several
doctors but derived no benefit whatever
from their skill. The first relief I got
was from Cuticura and now thank God
and the Cuticura Remedies, I am, I
think, perfectly cured. I used two sets
of Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment,
and Cuticura Pills since last October,
and I can recommend the Cuticura Rem-
edies to any person suffering from the
same malady. Edward Mannering, 34,
Claremont St., Dublin, May 12, 1906.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood, A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.: B. K. Paul.
Calcutta: Potter Drug and Chom. Corp., Sole Props.
tt3r Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
S 9
ill' Jtffl HI
I |
RUBBER
HEELS.
\
Flite ” Rubber Heels
are manufactured by Barnet
Glass & Co., founders of the
Rubber Industry in Australia. They
give unusual comfort to the feet, are
made of finest Para Rubber, and are
lighter and more springy than the
ordinary rubber heel.
ASK YOUR HEALER
FOR THE
“Special FLITE” Quality.
It is distinguished by a label on
the outside of the Box marked
‘•SPECIAL” and a RED DISC
on the back of the heel itself.
And when you ask for
i “SPECIAL FLITE”
E see that you get
V
see that you get
Special “FLITE.” i
BARNET CLASS AND CO.
85 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, and
226 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
fThe Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURBS "
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history-the book is free-or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
110,000
The Waybacb Series
Australia laughed !!
and keeps laughing.
No. a.
Red Harry 13
tfmf
mm
F 2!
m
m
OF
An AQreeable
, Mild and
, f Efficacious
• LcxaTive-
• Gentle
' Vet Prompt
in Action.
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
Alicocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For pains in the region of tne
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
AUcock'a Plaster.
Wherever there is
a pain a Piaster
should be applied-
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For Rheumatism or Pains in
Shoulders, tlbowa or elsewhere,
or lor Sprains. Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut site and shai*’ re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brand ret h ! s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc.
established 1752.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
HOME
Nothing better for the long winter
evenings than the genuine Edison
Phonograph and Gold-moulded
Records.
But, of course, you must be sure to
get the real thing.
Mr. Edison thinks so much of these
that his signature is printed on
each as a trade mark —like this
TRADE
CtCdV*
OTU
Ask us for interesting printed matter.
National Phonograph Co*
Of Australia, Ltd., Dept. 8.,
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
How Deaf People
Are Made to Hear!
A Device that is Scientific, Simple, Direct,
and Restores Hearing in Even the
Oldest Person—Comfortable,
and Perfect Fitting.
Ever See a Pair of ELECTRIGONS ?
They fit comfortably in the Ears.
The Electricons are to weak hearing what spec-
tacles are to weak sight.
Because they are sound magnifiers, just as glasses are
sight magnifiers.
They rest the Ear Nerves by taking the strain off them
—the strain of trying to hear dim sounds. They can be
put into the ears, or taken out in a minute, just as com-
fortably as spectacles can be put on and off.
MAY BE WORN AT ANY TIME.
THE PROOF
is in our book, which
contains letters from
people whose hearing
was brought back by their use. BOOK FREE. Send
for it to-day.
L. R. VERNON CO.,
CO-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
There has been received at this office a speci-
men of the large way of doing tilings, in the shape of a
circular issued by “ Commeford’s Mail Dealers’ Collection
Agency,” of Martin Lane, Sydney. The average “ mail
dealer ” is, so far as this p iper can find out, the person
who advertises that he will send on appro., or for cash,
or almost anyhow, so many boxes of something at almost
nothing a box, and the buyer is incited to sell the stuff,
and pay the alleged value of the goods, and keep the pro-
fit for himself, and grow wildly affluent on the difference.
In this case, the public was invited to send for 24 packets
of perfumery at ad. each. Nothing was said to trie effect
that only adults should apply, and a misguided Maori-
land kid of iff saw the advt., and thought it was the road
to wealth. He wrote for the stuff, and it came. The
first thing he hadn’t counted upon was the duty, which
took all his small change and the small change of his
small brother. The second thing he hadn’t dreamt about
was his utter inabilit}’ to sell the stuff, lhen, being a
ruined kid, and overwhelmed with debt, he was struck
by “ Oomineford’s Mail Dealers’ Collection Agency. it
wrote him a letter of about 400 words, telling him that
his attitude had no legal standing ; that the Agency was
“unceasing in our prosecution ” of persons who ordered
goods and didn’t pay ; that no “ petty excuses could be
accepted ; and that" “ our legal representative in your
district will be notified.” When the miserable kid with
the blob of unsaleable perfumery on his hands received
this letter, he realised that a crisis had arrived, and he
fled on to the roof and hid behind the chimney.
He may be there yet for all this paper
knows to the contrary. Thb Bulletin reckons
that it must be a mighty cheap kind of per-
fumery. Out of the 3d. for the packet must come
(1) original cost; (2) cost of advertising; (3) pro-
vision for bad debts, which must be heavy, despite the
furious energy of the agency ; (4) expense of the agency
which writes the tremendous letter of 400 words, saying
that “ our legal representative in your district will be noti-
fied ” ; (5) the profit which keeps the perfumery people
alive and pays for drinks and office rent. It looks a poor,
cheap, squalid business for the perfumery people and for
the violent “ mail dealers’ collection agency,” and for the
alarmed kid hidden on the roof over in Maoriland. And
it seems a pity, when there is an opening for honest,
manly, productive work on the Queensland cane-fields,
that people should be a “ mail dealers’ collection agency,”
and such-like.
♦ * * *
“ Medi-Cuss” : Since the visit of various mem-
bers of the Federal Parliament to the Northern Territory
there has been considerable talk re the absence of any-
thing like roads in that quarter, and some of the visitors
claim that they were absolutely unable to discover any
of the good pastoral country so often spoken of, as it
“ was always further on.” Judging from the tales told
by a number of men, many of whom have made the
overland trip from (Jamooweal, these doubting Thomases
know, after extensive travels that have taken them quite
50 miles from Port Darwin, about as much of the pas-
toral and mineral resources of the Territory as does
Senator Thomas Drinkwater Chataway of the geography
of his own State (Q.). This gentleman talked learnedly
of “ the linking up ” of the line from Palmerston to the
one now being extended from Cairns to Cloncurry. The
line that is being extended is the one from Richmond to
Cloncurry ; which means that Townsville will be the port
for the country round about the latter place and farther
west. Me that overland trip, the country can’t be quite
the howling wilderness that has been alleged. Nearly
three years' ago Dr. Berryhill and a young man named
Perry, representing the National Mutual Life Association,
drove’ from Richmond, via Cloncurry and Camooweal,
right to Port Darwin, accompanied only by a nigger to
look after the spare horses. There must be some settle-
ment along the route, too, as the National people claim
that the trip constitutes a record for business written.
In this connection it is interesting to note how the white
man’s horizon expands as time goes on. It is less than 20
years since the A.M.P. started active canvassing in the
Far North, and less than that time ago the office fought
shy of business in the Gulf and further west. Yet, to-day,
no part of Australasia is more energetically worked, while
the premiums charged are the same as in the south.
Commercial tourists now make periodical trips for
Brisbane wholesale houses, hundreds of miles out into the
Territory, starting from Normanton, and returning via
Camooweal and Cloncurry, to reach which haven from
the farthest western point visited means a seven days’
coach trip. Truly, there will soon be no “ Edge” to fall
off, unless the battler takes a tumble into the Indian
Ocean.
• • * *
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have let con-
tracts worth £3OOO a year for the right to advertise on
the backs of tramway tickets. One firm has announced,
as a means of ensuring that its little advt. will be read,
that handsome prizes will be given to the people who
send in the tickets with the best poker hands printed
on them. The result will be severe competition among
tram conductors, who will certainly speculate a penny
now and then on a promising ticket. And this in Wade’s
own country 1
* * * *
“ Aural Reference is made (B. 4/7/’O7) to the
capitalistic greed which turned a projected paper factory
away from Seymour (Vic.). The man who opened his
mouth so wide to Sands and McDougall opened it even
wider on two ot her occasions, with like results. Seymour
is a considerable railway centre, and ought to be a manu-
facturing town. Not only is it on the Melbourne-Sydney
line, but other lines, with many branches, tap the coun-
try to the east and north. Lloyd Bros, and McGuinness
(the tannerv people), Sands and McDougall (the paper
men), and Forbes (the harvester maker), all offered the
same’ gilded land-shark a substantial sum for sites in
the town, but were frightened away by the cavernous
mouth. The first two established at Broadford, and their
factories are the making of the town. The harvester maker
was welcomed with open arms at Nagambie, and his works
are thriving. Seymour business people have reason to
curse the mighty gorger of river flats and town allot-
ments. If a severe emetic in the shape of a land-tax
were administered to the fellow who has made himself
and the whole town sick by his land swallow, the
business people would not then have time to stand at
their doors waiting for the customers that don’t come
often enough. But they are nearly all Freetrade,
anti-Australian, anti-land-tax asses. Only one openly
advertises Australian goods. Even the town Bung boy-
cotted a local brewery and forced it to shut down, so
great is the importing and Stinking Fish attitude of
Seymour.
ARIADNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her heart is sick, her rose cheek pales;
Hope blooms no more—no mere—
When Theseus spread his fickle sails
From Naxos’ lovelorn shore.
They’d told their stories gay and grave,
Pledged troth from light till dark.
She longed to be his chained slave
On Cupid’s pirate barque.
Aye, how they spooned from light till dark,
Those business hours between !
(He was arising shipping clerk,
She banged a Yost machine.)
One day he let this message slip,
That love could never be,
And left to take a better grip—
A fickle lover he.
Yet Ariadne found a god
Who soothed her pride and pain ;
And gay o’er golden meadows trod
With Bacchus’ reeling train.
She st.ll was young and passing fair,
To gain she turned her loss,
For Fat he came and married her—
That Bacchus culled the Boss.
A brighter life with joys she hails,
Her jewels shine galore,
Since Percy spread his swallow tails,
And fled from Naxos’ shore.
VIO.
LOUIS ESSON.


Witters
ai>* in Australia.
PIANOS
UNSURPASSABLE QUALITY.
&
a
m
m
5131
m
>'*■:•
hi
!1;
Beale Australian Piano
in Renaissance style, built by us throughout in our own Factories at Annandale, to our own original
designs. We make every detail, including the candelabra, handles, and castors, and thus obtain complete
control of the quality, materials, and workmanship. With Beale-Vader Patent Steel Tuning System,
patented cross-plied woodwork, patent hexagonal bass-strings. Guaranteed to stand all climates.
IN tone, in touch, in tune, in design, in woodwork, metalwork, frame, tuning system, carvings, action, felt, glue, castors, sconces, strings, polish—in every
detail of material, of workmanship, and of system of manufacture, in every attribute, the Beale Australian Pianos are of unsurpassable quality. They are
built throughout on the most up-to-date scientific principles, by thoroughly competent workmen, guided by experienced management. They contain
features which cannot be obtained in any other pianos—patented steel tuning-system, patented cross-plied woodwork, patented hexagonal bass-strings,
patented cast-in hitch pins. The system of manufacture in many respects is far ahead of the practice of the piano makers of Great Britain, Europe, and
America, and in every other respect it is equal. The quality of the materials is the best that money can buy. Then how can there be any better pianos ?
The demonstrable fact is that there are no pianos—German, English, French, American, or any other—even equal to the Beale Australian Pianos. We do not
claim that there are no other high-grade pianos, but we do most emphatically assert that the Beale Pianos, by reason of our patented inventions and our
improved systems of manufacture, are superior to all others, good as some of those others undoubtedly are. Come and see them for yourself. Write for
Catalogue and Circulars. Compare them with all the other pianos you know, see which is superior—and you will decide to buy a Beale.
Cash or Easy Terms Anywhere.
Branches and Travellers throughout the. Commonwealth
BEALE and CO., Limited,
474 George Street, Sydney
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
28 Hunter Street, Newcastle
24 Bridge Street, Ballarat
Georg'e Street, Bathurst
Mitchell Street, Bendigo
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide
615 Hay Street, Perth
10l Brisbane Street, Launceston
THREE TIMES AS MANY BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ARE SOLD YEARLY IN AUSTRALIA AS OP ANY
OTHER MAKE. THEY ARE SOLD DIRECT FROM FACTORY TO USER —NO MIDDLEMEN.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
** THE- CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
LJZ-
«BP
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond,
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sui.k Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
IT WILL drive the humor from
your system, and make your skin
clean and smooth. Those Pimples and
Blotches which mar your beauty are
caused by IMPURE BLOOD.
They can be removed in a short
time, if you are wise and use the
great blood purifier, Sulphur Bitters,
TRY A BOTTLE TO-DAY.
Why suffer with Boils ? Why rave
with that terrible Headache ? Why
lay and toss on that bed of pain
with RHEUMATISM? Use Sul-
phur Bitters. They will cure you
where all others fail. The dose is
pma.il—only a teaspoonful. TRY IT
and you will be satisfied. The young,
the aged and tottering are soon made
well by its use. Remember what
you read here, it may save your life,
it has SAVED HUNDREDS.
If you are suffering from Kidney
Disease, and wish to live to old age,
use Sulphur Bitters. They never fail
to cure. Get it of your Druggist.
DON'T WAIT. GET IT AT ONCE.
Sulphur Bitters will cure Liver
Complaint. Don’t be discouraged;
IT WILL CURE YOU.
JOHN SHUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYbKTEY.
RODS
For Locating MINESi—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Hampt.
Edw. NORTON. 64 Hunter Street. SYDNI7.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism thatTi'as stood the test of time
All Chemfsts and Stores at i/j$ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
rn
FREE
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Electro-plated Goods. We are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give us a call.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
WHY DON’T YOU
’A
K
~V7"OU have a complaint or weakness that has bothered you for
years! You are still doctoring and dosing yourself! You
are trying one doctor and then another ; one medicine and then
another, but you are no better, and your stomach is turning in dis-
gust from it all. Now then, why don’t you stop it? Why
don’t you hesitate before you carry the dose to your mouth and ask
yourself, “What is this stuff lam taking ?” “ What am I taking
it for ?’ ’ How can I expect it to make me strong ?’ *
Ask yourself these questions; think them over, and if you have any “common
horse sense” you will quickly see your folly ; you will quickly realise that the
remedy you need to cure must give new power, new strength, and new life to
the impoverished nerves, organs, and blood of your body. The life and
strength they have lost is Electricity. The most eminent scientists of the world to-day admit that life is elec-
tricity ; therefore, Electricity properly applied, as it is with the improved
DR. McLIDGHUN'S ELECTRIC CELT,
is the onlv certain and natural cure for you. It cures where drugs fail because it is Nature’s cure, and restores the
natural Electricity to the bodv. Throw physic to the dogs, and try this world-famed Electric Appliance. It is
the original and standard Electric Belt of Australasia, and the onlv one that has stood the test of time.
Its price is as low as £1 in many cases, and with its special attachments for men and
women it is a certain cure for all nervous and chronic diseases. We have testimonials from every part of
Australasia, and will send you the names of people in your own locality whom it has cured.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon 4 0-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man !
Send the COUPON or call to-day.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Custlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
6
m \Ao V\ot\\er vfikYvo\jflt Vl
V OW TGQVkGSX-
&
A progress we d/etery adapted to c//e prom ftp d/pest/Vepowers
Milk Food N?l
From 6/rt/> to 3 mont/is
Milk Food N»2
from 3 to 6 moot/is
Malted Food 1M93
fro/n 6 mont/is upwards.
Air d-e < Loftu* Sts., Sydney
TTVnVTENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION,
ttagagsgsgaasag
quickly, are elegant in appea ™ n °®' ta^"p ]!6. Lk for'them mnfllv. andTo encourage
ifnct obtainable, send d.rect “
“ w. q. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W, BRANCH OPFICE s
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney,
THE BULLETIH POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Teu. lOcl.


A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Britisb»flustralasian
(\r l POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
Price
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
|R
I CURED.
I.
■ Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
laatism. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments.
RHEUMATISM
Thousands have proved that the
“ UJRICA.”
luinraniiiuinini
nmuinniuiii,
m
!g—SI
These rings are scientifically
made from specially prepared
metals with four zinc and three copper
coils fo. ming a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connects the coils, causing a gentle
current of Electricity to circulate
throughout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free,—White Metal, 2/-;
Silver. 3/6; Gold fi'led 3/-, 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE.
DUNKLINU, The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
9
u
5%
R»
PURE, WHOLESOME
INVIGORATING.
J.DixonaO?
“ 0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious—a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a winter
beverage.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Sydney :
Orme, Keigwin & Co.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Gray & Co.
Adelaide : Tolley & Co.
Fremantle: Tolley Ltd.
HERE’S A BARGAIN !
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, &' “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE.
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St, SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.! [4
ALL THE WORLD KNOWS
THAT
Biliousness is due to a disordered state of the liver and can
only be cured by restoring that organ to natural healthy
action. This MOTHER SEIGELS SYRUP does, promptly and.
thoroughly, because it acts directly on the liver, stomach
and bowels. That is why it always cures, not only biliousness,
but indigestion and constipation as well. Why not give this
great medicine a fair trial? You will not be disappointed.
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
"'I was subject to bad bilious attacks and indigestion, with
ell their attendant horrors. Acute headaches, constipation,
flatulence, fulness and oppression—l had them all. 1 was
herdly ever free from pain, and the many medicines I took
did no good. J was very weak and ill when a friend advised
MOTHER SEIGELS SYRUP I took the Pills too. and between
them they completely restored my health"—Mrs, Alice Whyte,
4, Little Gore Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
CURES
BILIOUSNESS
THE AOOORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 seta of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice £l. 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/G extra.
Other Accordeon's from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BRO
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, Etc., 2 io Queen St., Brisbane
A CONVERSATION.
I have been feeling very poorly lately, and have just been told by my doctor that I am
suffering from uric poisoning. I shall be glad if you will tell rue just what uric poisoning means. Is it
a serious matter ? b
A. Uric poisoning is caused by the retention in the blood of various substances which should
leave the body in solution. Ihe retention of these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condition
of the kidneys. When the kidneys are working perfectly, they filter and extract from the blood of the
average individual about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved
various waste materia! produced by the wear and tear of the tissues of the body. This is dead matter,
and its presence in the blood is poisonous. The three pints of normal urine should contain about ten
grains m weight of uric acid, an ounce of urea, together with other animal and mineral matter varying
from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
Qi- /U' en lam to understand that the substances you mention when not eliminated from the
body m the natural manner constitute what is known as uric poisoning. What are the usual symptoms
by which the presence of these poisons is manifest ? J F
A. Now you are asking rather a large question. Many complaints which are commonly called
diseases are not actually diseases.in themselves. For instance, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
■Lumb.-go, Sciaaca, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles are all caused by uric poisons.
Indigestion, Ansenu.a. Persistent He dache, and General Debility are often solely due to
the same cause. In fact, ,f the kidneys are doing their work freely and thoroughly, none of the com-
plaints mentioned could trouble us as the causative poisons would be absent.
Q. I had no idea that so much depended upon the efficient action of the kidneys. I suppose that
when anyonesis suffering from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel
Stone Biadder Troubles, An gem a, Debil ty, Persistent Headache, or Indigestion the
scientific method of effecting a cure would be to directly treat the patient for the kidneys ?
mi Uxactly. In fact, that is the only way in which a radical and permanent cure can he effected
I lie kidneys must be restored to health and activity, so that they may be enabled to remove the daily
production of poisons in tlie body, or the patient must continue to suffer.
Q. I have always been under the impression that the liver had a great deal to do with the main-
tenfiuce of our general health, but it seems that the kidneys are the chief cause of most of the disorders
from which we suffer.
A. The work done by the liver is of the utmost importance and it is closely associated with tho
work done by the kidneys. Indued, when anything is the matter with the liver the kidneys are almost
always directly affected and the contrary is likewise true. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar
fronr the blood converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able again to supply it to the
blood, gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble
into urea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer.
Q. As the functions of the kidneys and liver are so intimately related, I gather that if there is
reason to suspect that either organ is not doing its work efficiently a curative agent should bo
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys and liver?
A* Yes, that j s th e case, and it was the realisation of this important fact which led to the dis-
covery of that invaluable medicine Warner’s Safe Cure. About thirty years ago, certain medical
men, knowing that if they could find a medicine which would beneficially affect alike the kidneys and
liver they could control most of the common disorders, devoted themselves to the search for such a
remedy. After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded, and a medicine now known as
Warner s Safe Cure was proved to possess the required properties in the fullest degree Warner’s
Safe Cure has a marvellously stimulating and healing effect upon both the kidneys and liver, and bV
restoring those vital organs to health and activity, it necessarily cures all disorders due to the retention
in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
Even Bright’s Disease, probably the most fatal of all diseases, yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A great feature too, is that cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure
they are natural.
are permanent, simply becam*
151
Premier Bent was an incurable suburban
land-boorner in the days of the Victorian razzle-
dazzle, and the old disease breaks out
afresh. The yearning to be dealing and jobbing
in suburban paddocks sticks closer than drink,
and Thomas has done a good deal of dealing and
jobbing with the Government money of late. Of
course, it isn’t for his own profit, but the trouble
is that the country for which hp does it isn’t likely
to make any profit either. Thomas apparently
did his best for the country, but when he got back
into the old atmosphere he probably couldn’t
keep his mind fixed on the fact that buying land
for settlement isn’t the same as buying land for
the jerry-builder, and he seems, despite his
usual shrewdness, to have made some bad bar-
gains. Certainly Thomas isn’t supposed to
have anything to do directly with the closer
settlement business; that is in the hands of. a
Board. And closer settlement is supposed to
deal with large estates in the wilderness; not
with semi-suburban paddocks. But Bent is a
masterful person, who interferes with anything
I and everything; and when he isn’t away in
London, he wanders around the outskirts of the city
a good deal, and desirable paddocks for sale have
the same fascination for him that the serpent is
supposed to exercise on the bird. A team of
bullocks could hardly drag Thomas the Boomer
away from a really desirable paddock unless the
fence came away in his hands.
“ Num ” has a look-round :
Have been contemplating the Sydney politician, and,
small as was the regard 1 had for the State crowd in
Melbourne, I have come to the conclusion that they are
ahead of the variety that just now infests the Harbor
city. Old Tom Bent is an able man in bis blunderous
way. Peacock is a good, common-sense administrator,
without any particular depth or education. Swinburne,
outside his weakness as a speaker, is a splendid man at
his work. Davies, the Upper Douse rep. of the Govern-
ment, is as shrewd and astute a political intriguer as
there is in Australia, and a brainy person at the same
time. Mackinnon is a highly-educated man, a good
Democrat, and personally popular, though lack-
ing in qualities of leadership or administrative ability.
The other members of the Ministry are ciphers,
and they reduce the average all-round ability of the Vic.
Ministry to fair mediocrity. But, as compared with
the N.S.W. coterie, they are political stars; of magni-
tude. Carru hers has neither the ability, the power to
gauge public opinion, the skill in leading, nor the
capacity for making friends that Bent has. Waddell is
comparable only with Sachse or the awful Sam Gillott,
who went out of Vic. public life with a flourish of
strumpets. Lee is a good-natured old gentleman, who
seems as if he would be kind to children. Hogue is said
to have been a journalist once. It is odds-on that he was
a better journalist than he is a politician, even if he
edited the official organ of a suburban Sunday-school.
Up against Mackinnon or Davies, the two lawyers of the
Vic. Government, Wade would be like Judkins in the
same ring with Squires. Ashton is the one man of the
lot who impressed me as being the able, vigorous person
that political life calls for. But even with Ashton among
them, the team is just about fit to control the destinies
of a suburban council, and the worst of it all is that the
Ministry seems to be a very fair reflex of the House. The
Labor party is nearly as bad in point of ability. The
two men who stand out are Holman and Griffith, and
both are divested of much of the force they should exert
by reason of their seeming inordinate vanity.
The pity of it is that with all this brilliance the
Victorian Ministry seems as if it might as well be
dead for all it knows about the one overwhelming
State problem of the day—the stoppage of the
outflow of the young agricultural population.
There is one thing N.S.W. Local Premier
Carruthers somehow doesn’t mention when he is
booming himself as a financial genius. He has
had many expenses. He had to face the cost of
the Nicholas Willis cases in South Africa (he didn’t
meet with much success,, but at last Willis got
tired and offered to come back), the cost of investi-
gating the alleged slaying of Groen (nothing came
of it), the M‘Nair and Hoskings proceedings (very
protracted, and died a natural death at last), the
Lands Commission (which came to a lame ending
through the absence of Willis), the first Crick-
Willis Bath case (no results), the case of juryman
Brown (no results), Crick’s case against the
Government for throwing him out of Parliament
(unpleasant results), the struggle to recover
Willis’ alleged income-tax bill from Mrs.
Willis (Government bowled out), the second Crick-
Willis trial (another fiasco), and the struggles of
the Commission that is dealing with the cancelled
improvement leases. And after paying all these
law costs Joe still has a surplus. Yet he has j
never once pointed out how remarkable it is to
have a surplus after losing so many cases and pay- j
ing such a heap of law costs.
“ Rosna ” from Adelaide :
Two Rundle-street shops lately provided us with a
little excitement by starting a frenzied rivalry in
prices. The draper commenced by advertising cocoa at
ridiculous figures. The grocer went still lower. The
draper went lower still, and put out biscuits for next to
nothing. The grocer went a halfpenny less on the
biscuits. The draper started a lolly sale, and the grocer
followed suit, and they kept on cutting prices till the
crowds blocked the streets and people were jammed tight
for hours together, unabletogetin orout. Then thegrocer
carried the war into Africa, as Scipio did when he per-
suaded Hannibal to come after him and throw the ele-
phant at him at the battle of Zama, and started to sell
stockings at 2d. a pair. The struggle is still going on. I
don’t know what the grocer and the draper quarrelled
about, but it must have been something violent and
dreadful. Now, if only the pe pie who deal in houses
and land would do this sort of thing, and advertise in the
madness of competition, “Come and buy our ten-
roomed mansion at eighteenpence,” I would set up my
own domicile and no longer be a dweller in tents.
“G.S.K.”: As far as the prevention of
street betting in Broken Hill is concerned, the
much-talked-of N.S.W. Betting Law is a dead
letter. On days when important race meetings
are held either in Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide,
there is as much gambling done on what is known
as “the Betting Corner” as hitherto. The police
do their best to prevent this evil, but their best
efforts are thwarted by petty red-tapeism. One
officer informed me that lie had great difficulty in
getting payment of £3 for expenses incurred in
prosecutions, the fines from which realised over
£2OO towards Carruthers’ surplus. And as the
force often doesn’t have £3 about it to lend to
Carruthers for an indefinite period without in-
terest, it goes slow.
“Robin X.” from one of the by-ways of
N.S.W. J J
Does the State parrot want a real and genuine griev-
ance against the Australian Government? The Vic-
torian system of contract post-offices is being introduced
into N.S.W. with a vengeance, and for a good, genuine
method of sweating it will take defeating. One example
of several I can quote should suffice to divert Joe’s atten-
tion from the imaginary to the real. The Newbridge
(N.S.W.) post-office is offered to someone at an annual
screw of £7B. The someone’s duties will be : Commence
work at 3 a.m. by preparing and despatching mails to
Trunkey and Tuena, and an hour or two later to Caloola
He may now retire to bed so long as he’s up in time t.o
sor the local mail and open at 9a.m. Remain open then
till 6 p.m., when he may take a little recr ation prepara-
tory to resuming again at 9 p.tn. to prepare mail for the
mad train ex Orange at 10 p.m. This is the present
official P.M. s routine of work, and the contract man is
asked to do it for £6 10s. a month ! He must, too have
a thorough knowledge of postal work, and be able to
take by sound.” He must employ an assistant, for
whom he will be allowed £39 per year. The application
form asks no question as to applicant’s honesty. Per- I
haps the Department doesn’t expect honestv ‘at the I
price. I wouldn’t. |


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M klbournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Sanking. Public Companies, &c.
TUG
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
lncorpc lied under the Companies Act , 1863.
Bunk** to the Government of Queensland.
U eement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
apital Paid Up 413.289 6 0
R6sevve(inGovt. 5t0ck.£43.435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queena-
l.iiid. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
i Allan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. : F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
.Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
i ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||urth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET,
i.lanly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
V< <■ ents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
fank of jjaia Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
GQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
GOVERNHENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
'| HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
-* on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
rates of interest.
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
lo lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special |erms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, 'l
P. E. WILLIAMS,
W. H. O’M. WOODJ
Bank of |)eui S outh (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. . . 2,000,000 0 0
Total 55,00,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binxie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best boob of Austr ilian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp ami Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. 24th SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, GANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and OUR BAT.
Twin-gcrew 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to sail about 7th AUGUST.
MEDIC, to sail about 6th SEPT.
AFRIC, PERSIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN €.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
t*MILTIADES .. IA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 10
MORAVIAN .. i A. Simpson .. I Noon, Sept. 13
*M ARATHON .I N. Allan .. „ I Noon. Oct. 11
* Twin Screw. t Via Suez Canal.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f NOLI PAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
m
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS. PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.^
WE
w
$
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL. .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
XNT.S.’W.
mont deplete 9. >!i|. Co., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCA STLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States*
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE*
£/ Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon Hield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
T7HNEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
" LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY. Telephone 174.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
■S.S. Burrumbeet,
Wednesday, July 31.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Innaminoka, July 27.
S.S. Marloo, August S.
nest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.,' LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
(via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
“ WAIPARA,”
9500 Tons J. K. ROSE, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 30th JULY.
Has Excellent Accommodation for Saloon Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships,
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewardess carried.
Fares—Durban, £2O;
Capetown, £22 10s. ; London, £45.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F. 11.5. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND. Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
Foe
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.in., SATURDAY,
July 27.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY 7 , August 3.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 10.
ADELAIDE "v
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMB ALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 27.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
July 30.
COOMA, 2 pan., SATURDAY,
August 3.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swartston-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
LIN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
•3 Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid:/ on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, unci ticive in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
m getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists,® storekeepers, and® whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sun-
phes from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria. 4
N.S.W. Branch Office :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
#
4
%
<f>
p'f,
*
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,’
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, <fcc. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never trave'
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forim
its best recommendation.'"
Australian Mutual Provident Society
E S!“““ m 9-. «»• Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle. 3 '
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on Security of Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pas oral and A£ricuftural ■“,?«?«" / r ° pe^ ies > ®r on
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Trek^u^-v L -nil «S r ° n th f Secur.ty
S “* es AT LOWTS T ru rRE~TnATES'o?^NT h ERE3?'
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the nriviWe tot,™ •
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year,
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon T T • _
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon R J Black M I P • P F er > ; Benjamin
General M.^er.niS.LATf f» ’ Ml ° A ' °*>»• “*>
MADomOE, 87 PITT STREET. SYDSHIV. ’ ROBERT* BECAME RON, 5 «,«,r,.
Z4 l
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
are
NEW Club Cartridges
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
o
o
NEW CLUB
cartridges
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
PROF.
I T)ow-fr?n I y °" d - sire l ‘ ecomea Hypnotist? Do yon want to know howto utilize th. most
poneriul and mysteuous lurce ol nature? Do you value coiitro' over others? Do vou value the
mm U and d ®¥ P ’ luVe aU<i I,ersou V“ flueuce? »« s""> value the pZr to conque?
pain and banish sickness, to reiorm a misguided friend, to gain business success to win wealth
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ’ Vo oTher accorn.
plishiueiit is so east'y acquired. It can he mastered in a few hours time without UavYne vonr
I issued in I Wk t for°" h ‘ U f U ’ fl "‘ l , out all ab,>u t j t. The greatest Hynotist of the century 11/just
issued m book form a la ge and exhaustive TKEATI. E, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM
1 C F o^Tlo,, AT.L°wlfoan‘lv o£ “ ““S3
Pvly - lhe b “ ok ts profuse.y i lustraten, containing beau'.Aul and artistic
and d h ne o er was d ™ e beU ' Te the principles, features, wonders
vou iusfwW i* myster ous Science, all in a popular and p'easing style. It tells
how von nmt* S ypU ?, tlS1 “ ‘. s - au ‘> w hat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
: y ° ay Ba y t! e minds of others, perform astounding feats,
metw£ dUC S am, ' sei " en , t »y the hour. New and instantaneous
wnch d t.® UCCeSS *iV solut ? i y guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
It anyhow. It is absolutely I REE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
3
k EDWARDS' *
HARLENE
sizE4e
m
fOK
96HlGHHDLB0fiH LOWDO
FOR
THE
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
"" _ The Finest Dressing.—
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Failing Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holhorn, London, w.c. %
llonsuft HERR RASSMUSSEN,
Specialist
Men and Women. N 0
P|l a "■^s?*'*”“"'
ile Powders, r-; F at-Redueing Powders, 6/-; Liver and Kidney Pills 1/-
a L FA LIN
r
WUI ClM,e Serves, Xlebxjiicy
VARICOCELE, PILES. RHEuiIATIIm: ST^ltoße;^
1° ftandingr, Gured
rj nT»rt n«* by ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS, 12/-, 24/* & 44/-
j!i:i?*LQf!lgjL= 547 George Street, Sydney
BLOOD DISEASES
Oaiine
Wall make your complexion
clear and beautiful.
f
Make a point of trying this great English
face cream. It removes the dust and dirt
that clog the pores of the skin and which
soap and water does not thoroughly remove.
It is free from dangerous mineral salts and
animal fat, which heat causes to go bad. It
does not grow hair.
If you use Oatine regularly, the dfy Ays'
tralian climate will not cause your skin to
crack or peel and ruin your complexion.
Get a jar of Oatine to-day. However
trying the weather or fierce, th~ s,un your
skin will always be clear an/' f if you
use it. Men should use it aft jg.
Price 1/9 a Jar at all chemlkt'aif s‘ a,
throughout Australia. Larger size, nr
times the amount, 3/S.
Tf you want
long, thick
hair, hair
that is really
beautiful,
you must
nourish the
source from which it grows.
Your scalp must have attention.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the flesh tissues of the
scalp with good hair-growing
energy. That’s its special mis-
sion. It makes strong, healthy
scalps, and strong, healthy scalps
grow strong, healthy hair.. Be
sure you get Barry’s.
Reuter’s Soap Cures Eczema
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
more homes made happy i
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE !
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
I |, n
Sample free for Writing
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do in others.
E U C RAS Y
is doing: a great Humanising, Reclaiming,
and Reforming Work throughout Aus-
tralia. One of its Most Valuable Features
is that It is Tasteless and Odorless, and
can be administered with or (secretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer.
It is imperative to note that—
EUCRASY DIPPERS PROM ALE
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.' (Q ' X March
Gentlemen,— l am soiry I have not written before t-n
state the result of the case I have been treating buM
te been fc ™ ha PP>’ in ci ' e great blessing which las bV
fallen me. My was the patient to whom I gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course At „„„
it seemed hopeless, being in the®, at he was‘in
the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let hfm stav
in it any more than I could possibly help and T „ •
thankful to see him constantly turn au' y f.om the sS
bottles with a shudder. I have about a ponie s
left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to anvnnp tl- eis
gas? «*• 1
giaieiui, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
mention this paper, a Satimle
of ELCRASY and BOOKLET of TV
STRUCTIONS will be sent you sealed.'
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine offer.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS—
THE EUCRASY CO..


When Waddell was taken into the N.S. W.
Ministry a while ago, it was arranged that he
shouldn’t draw all the Chief Secretary’s pay—he
has to hand over a big whack of it for “special
purposes.” The “special purposes” probably
boil down to electioneering expenses. Waddell
gets something like £9OO net ; the ordinary
Ministerial pay in N.S.W. is £1370. The Labor
party used to draw something in the same way
from its members who got places on the Public
Works Committee, etc., and the party’s opponents
said it was a shameful practice. It is amazing
h<~ v many of the Labor party’s “shameful prac-
-1 oes ” the other crowd adopts sooner or later.
The standard of the third Commonwealth
Parliament is palpably lower than that of the
second, which was very much lower than that of
the first. And the fourth Parliament, judging by
various rumors of withdrawals, will show a yet
further degeneration. So few men can afford the
sacrifices which membership entails that the Aus-
tralian Parliament threatens to drift altogether
into the hands of wealthy Johnnies seeking dis-
traction, schemers seeking boodle, and the few
patriots or fools who are willing to try to keep up
appearances on a net wage less than a laborer’s.
The only possible remedy is to increase the allow-
ance to at least £lOOO a year.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Prize Medals^
i+Y*
Works s Birm
ingHarti) England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
• • •
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. p OWER
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HO.ARSENESS ! PAIN OR™ a ™.
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEbI it
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption tasjiever been
known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house shou dbe wi ou 1 , ,
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT SUFFERED FOR OVER SIXTY YEARS.
SO BAD HE DARED NOT STIR.
RELIEVED IN A FEW MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
WOULD GIVE £5O FOR THE SAME BENEFIT RATHER THAN SUFFER.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Friend,—Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and lam now 66 years old. Some time
back I contracted Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy that had previously relieved smothering’
was of no use to me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the worst night I ever h id. When in a conversa-
tion, Mr. March, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney* kindly told me that a friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and
that it was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in a few minutes after taking the first dose I could
breathe a little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better every day.. To-day I am better than I have
been for the last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would
give £5O for the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make what use of this letter you think fit, it by so
doing it would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.—Yours faithfully, _ ,
WILLIAM CANHAM, 108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ITS EFFICACY IN CHEST COMPLAINTS TESTIFIED TO BY A GRATEFUL VICTORIAN.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years, and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest complaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure with
a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative pro-
perties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medicine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to am one.
Trusting its present popularity and sales will be doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES, Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS.
A SVDNEY STOCK AND SHARE BROKER EXPRESSES GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT PROVED A MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY FOR A SEVERE ATTACK OF BRONCHITIS.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l lately had a severe attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success vou so well deserve. I place this communication at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, yours faithfully,
J HENRY FRENCH, Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
AT TIMES VERY BAD INDEED.
QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was troubled with asthma, at times very bad, indeed. I was very
ill iust after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. 1 took the
first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a touch of
the asthma since. 1 tell everyone about it. . „ 0 ...
M. MURRAY, Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A SEVERE ATTACK RELIEVED IN TEN MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE EFFECT WAS WONDERFUL.
Mr W G Hearne. Dear Sir,—About three weeks ago, while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt a
difficul'tv to breathe Mv nose began to run, and to all appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bronchitis
or Asthma At last I could stand it no longer. I then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was wonderful. In
less than ten minutes I was all right again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me. This is no exaggeration, I
am pleased to say.-Yours truly, „ tt mava ip Me,Victoria.
NINE MONTHS’ SUFFERING.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY TWO BOTTLES.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffe e
for nine months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights I was obliged to get up and sit bj the hre. *
medical advice, and tried other remedies without avail. I tried yours, and never had a fit of coughing after
the first dose, and though I have had but two bottles, I feel lam a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
Kwiy e , nd n*ytaking known the efficacy of your wonderfuj^medy^
ASTHMA 25 YEARS.
IMMEDIATELY RELIEVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have been a martyr to Asthma for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under the treatment of leading
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let Nature take its course. Two years ago I was asked to trj
your Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However, by the persuasion of a very old friend, three.weeks agp 1
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost immediately I found that I had made a mistake- by not
taking it before. lam now about half-way through the second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved tha
take this opportunity of sending this testimonial along for you to make whatever use L 1? S t “hie to
intend continuing your treatment, and I trust that before I have finished the third bottle I .shall be able
write to you that I am perfectly cured. I am pleased to say the effect has been wonderful. Yours very grate-
fully> J PHIL HANN, 33 Camden Street, Balaclava, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
PATIENT RECOVERING.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—We purchased some time ago 12 bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, JJ®£, J 2?
unhesitatingly say that it has given great relief from the intolerable throat irritation that my daughter experi-
enced the Bronchitis Cure she would have two or three attacks nightly,, but ■ now she han
sleep throughout the night and, on wakening, simply clears her throat from phlegm. She had a slight attac
of Consumption, but seems to be recovering, though of New Zea]and .
BRONCHITIS.
AN ENGLISH LADY SO ILL THAT THE DOCTOR HELD OUT NO HOPE.
WAS GIVEN HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND IT EFFECTED A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,-Not long since T had occasion to visit the Old Country, before leavmg Melbourne
purchased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took with me. When I arrived at Leeds, I found that my
niece Miss O Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack of Bronchitis; in fact, she was so bad that,the
family doctor held ouTno hope for her recovery. She was then given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the
directions on the label, and I am very glad to say that it effected a complete cure.
R. J. MATTHEWS, c/o Allan and Co., Collins Street, Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr Hearne Chemist. Sir,-I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent me for Asthma has had a won-
derful effect. I’have not taken all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it; therefore I send f Pars
wishes for your future success. I, myself, will, for the benefit of others, make it known to all I know. lam 73 years
of age.— Yours truly, JOHN BRAY, Alliance Street, dunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO PNEUMONIA.
TWO SEVERE CASES CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr W G Hearne. Dear Sir.— Kindly forward without delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had'from you has cured two of mv children, but I do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also
bottle l n iw friends T lost a fine little girl, three years of age, from Influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia.
Areally believe that if I had had your medicine my child would not have died, for the other two, a boy five years
old and a baby eight months old, were suffering exactly in the same way, and it acted like magic on thetn , in fa ,
REWARE OF IMITATIONSI The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure ” with the CthRE
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARN E S BRONCHI I t C
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you m your own interests o
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.— Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
vXMCER
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwanstotiS'? Melbourne^ 3,
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395&397 Hay ST Perltv
QUEENSLAND . -
Queens Edward
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 Queen St. Auckland
IS3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
2568-25 3 HighS 1 ;
Princes 8 DowlingS' 5 Dunedinj||
£
I
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
jTIWART UAW5On5|
ifs good.
Write the
I store nearest
you.
E»e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
No. E9oBo Oct. Gold .. £1 17s 6d.
Size Larger ~ .. £2 ss.
Size Smaller ~ .. £1 7s 6d.
No. F 955 9ct. Gold Plain and Fancy
Hope Twist Bangle, £2 os.
No. GS479—lsct. Gold Bangle, Set 1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Rubies, £8 10s.
No. Gso23—Exceptionally Pretty Cinnamon Brown Topaz
and Pearl Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, £2 7s 6d.
No. FsBll—lsct. Gold and Fine Pearl and Ruby Bangle, £9 10s
G2639—9cfc. Gold and Pearl Set Bracelet, 2 Sapphires
and 1 Rose Diamond in Centre, £3 3s.
No. F4553—15ct. Gold and Fine Quality Pearl Bracelet, £lO 10s
If with Diamonds and Sapphires, £lB 10s.
No. G2Bls—Oct. Gold New Style Knot Bangle, £2.
No. F6B3 —9ct. Gold Engraved Band Bracelet, £2.
No. 137—9 ct. Gold Boat Set, Pearl and Sapphire Doublet
Bangle, with Fancy Wire Edging, £3.
No. G4S6l—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £2 15s.
No. 142 —9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in Morocco
Case, £3 10s. ; Massive 15ct. Gold, £6 6s. ; Extra Heavy,
£7 10s., £8 10s. ; Extra Heavy, £7 55., £8 10s., £lO 10s.
No. 143.—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle,
in Morocco Case, £2 155.; 15ct. Gold, £5.
No. 144 —9ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in
Morocco Case, £2 ; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
MS
No. 134A—15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Half-Hoop Blacelet,
£lO 10s. ; a Cheaper Style, £6 10s.
No. G264l—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £3 10s.
No. F7642—The Latest Style in Loose Lipk Bangles ; 9ct. Gold, Three Row,
£3 10s. ; Four Row, as shown here, £4 4s.
No. EB24s—9ct. Gold Curb
Chain and Padlock
Bracelet, in Case,
£3.
No. E966B—9cfc. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, £2 10s.
No. G 32 54—9 ct. Gold Bamboo Bangle, £2 ss.
Barger Sizes for 555. and 635.
No. F9ss4—Very Strong and Handsome Plaited
Gold Bangle, 9ct., £2 10s.
No. GB437—9ct. Gold Bracelet, Set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3 3s.
No. 149A—15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Set Band Bangle, £5.
No. 794—9 et. Gold Trellis Work Bangle, £2 7s 6d.
No. Gl722—Fine Gold Bangle, Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Diamonds and Sapphires, £2l.
The Ever-Popular Nellie Stewart Bangle, made in four sizes.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 4s, £5;
15ct. Gold, £4, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s.
sift
No. 02619—15 ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll and Circl
Bracelet, with 3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. F9ssB—New and Stylish 9ct. Gold Bangle, with
Safety Chain, £1 15s.
No. F9557—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Bracelet, £2.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
LEADING
HOUSE for
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FR.EE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
12 or 16-gauge top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
of 12-gauge, 6f to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6i to p Q St Free, £3 lOs.
CAN
B
BEAT
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boot oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiihor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The,Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
■EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth -covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING' CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Sokgs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s od.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s od.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Com plaints, Is (id. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid,
No Scatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with othore and
save your cash, D® - Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* &J. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alt I*egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
FOR. 1
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
{ SUBSTITUTES U
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy 'for Coughsand Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy
~LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
' tenasitine.
Cements for broken and other articles. __
" ‘ LINUM CATHAETICUM PILLS’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
LINSEED COMPOUND,’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
DYSON’S “ Faot’ry ’A rids,” 4s. (id. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
JO
PRIZES value £.1500.
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £,500
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last vear was won by Mr. U. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing; will be advertised in this paper on November
7th To any person forwarding' stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us your name and address and you will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book ton tains large handsome Fhoto
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; it. describes every detail of the Manufacture of anign-
grad • Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between nign-class WorK
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten year ♦
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we can sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every tr.al and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained m our latest propo-
sition. which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
ffIEAD CYCLE CO O , DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
Al II
For the preservation of your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavorand tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not be without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE
which, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only £ h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick Ice Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of 2001 b. of
Ice ; i.e., if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion, BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save you money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
GBD
Aff K CUARAfrt^
lUlki*
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia *
23ICIarer\ce5r.Sydr\ey
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
' the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borchorevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes “ Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing proved most excellent during the time i
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. :
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets),


Of all the new discoveries in medical science, the most remarkable in
recent years is one which will prove invaluable to thousands of people, and
which is taking the place of all other remedies for the cure of Coughs,
Colds, and Consumption. The preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs, Colds, and Consumption, and is a scientific
compound of great merit. It is most healing to the lungs and throat, and
cures the cough or cold in a remarkably short time, leaving no bad after
effects. As it contains no injurious drugs of any kind, it is a perfectly safe
remedy for children, and is particularly good for croup and whooping
cough. The dose is small, and it is pleasant to take.
My*'
Miss GRACIE GRAHAME (better known as
Graceful Grade Grahame), the charming and
popular London Comedienne, now appearing at
the Tivoli Theatre, Sydney, was recently elected
“ Queen of Wonderland City.” Miss Grahame, in a
letter to the Sheldon Drug Company, Ltd., states:
Opera House, Melbourne,
Gentlemen, — May 1,1907.
These few lines are to express my great grati-
tude and admiration for your most rapid “ Cold
and Cough Cure.” Like most English people, I
imagined one never caught colds in Australia,
therefore last Saturday, when my singing voice
became a trifle husky, I took little if any notice,
thinking my Sunday’s rest would put me right,
but it did not do so, and by evening I could
scarcely speak, and was afraid a thoroughly bad
cold was commencing. However, a friend here gave
me a bottle of your medicine ; I went right away
to bed, and took a couple of doses during the
evening and one in the early morn, as my cough
was troublesome, and by Monday I sang my three
songs better by far than I do as a rule, and the
Public evidently thought so too, as they were
more than usually sympathetic. This is the
second time in my life I have written spontane-
ously to express my feelings in regard to benefit
derived from a “ Cold Cure,” but if you knew
what real agony it is to feel one’s voice going,
before the Public, you would understand that I
was really sincerely glad and grateful to recover
so speedily. I wish Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
more than success, and I can honestly assure you
I will recommend it to all my friends. —Yours
very truly, GRACIE GRAHAME.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Price:
1/6 & 3/-
Hospital Size, ss.
An unequalled preparation for the immediate
relief and Permanent Cure of all diseases of the
THROAT, BRONCHIAL TUBES, and
LUNGS, including Pneumonia, Bronchitis,
Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Influenza,
Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness,
Difficult Respiration, and Pains in the Chest.
Price :
1/0 &, 3/-
Hospital Size, ss.
Every Bottle Guaranteed to give Satisfaction, or Money Refunded.
If not obtainable locally, will be posted upon receipt of the Price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO. LTD., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee.
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopaecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that the Cap would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. Packet of 12«
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. lOd. 10*
Faint Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM tired of tlie'fray,
Let me stay.
All my heart is dust and dry,
And the noon sun burns the sky ;
Let the foaming squadrons die
While I drowse my life away.
I have fought and I have bled,
Still my shield is red.
What the guerdon for it all
When the last red fighters fall,
And the wolves hold carnival
Round the helpless and the dead ?
Let me stay. Athwart the morn
I have hotly borne
Biting blade and smiting shield
Where the cursing horsemen wheeled,
Steadfast down the clanging field,
Fever-spent, and gashed and torn,
Let me rest for this short space
In my covert-place,
Where my fainting soul would be
Compassed in security.
Shall the gods withhold from me,
For my sin, their gifts of grace ?
No, I trow not; it were sweet
Ere the great defeat—
Life, bold champion, overthrown—
Thus to lie and dream alone,
Where no battle-flags are blown,
Nor the bugles shrilly bleat.
Lead the plunging squadrons on
Where their best have gone.
Fear has crept into my heart,
And may never more depart.
Let the reefing chargers start,
We shall meet —who knows? —anon.
I am tired, and would sleep
In the shadows deep.
Strenuous I dared the foe
Till the dizzy noontide ; go
Where the carnage-thunders blow,
And the shell-mown fighters heap.
Shall the gods upbraid,my ease,
Grudge my early peace ?
When they see my bloodshot Byes,
Battered shoulders, dripping thighs,
They shall bid my soul arise
Valiant to its long surcease.
Go, the champing squadrons wait;
Lead them swift and straight.
I shall let my red sword rust,
Bloody from its latest thrust.
We shall meet, hot hearts, I trust,
Tramping in the halls of Fate.
MAOIULAND.
C. ALLAN HARRIS.
The Flesh and the Devil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE muddle of huts under the palms
and the shiny-leaved crotons, and the
great liano-knotted trees behind, were
burnt umber and brown in the shadow. Along
the foreshore, where the sun-haze ran on blue
moveless sea and blank white beach, the refuse
from the village rotted and stank to Heaven. And
within the huts, without them, and round the
dying cooking fires, lay the gaunt, red pigs, and
the fat naked babies, and thesleepingcoarse-limbed
men, with the black brand of the Pacific stamped
on their snoring up-turned faces. Among little
brown piles of fibre and hemp the women stooped;
plaiting fish-baskets, beating tappa-cloth, and
scraping cocoanuts or yams for the next meal of
their lords ; and the slow incessant murmur of the
surf turning on the reef mixed with the throbbing
pulse of the tappa-stones.
Mortimer, trader for Pelles and Field, Sydney,
Brisbane and Mala, ran his dinghy inshore and
went up through the uncaring sleepers to the
bleak coral church in the village centre. He had
not come to pray, although he needed prayer just
now more than ever before in his life; and he
knew it. And, for this reason, he feared to meet
the missionary, who lived in the little brown hut
to the left of the church. For Jack Hartopp was
quite as much man as missionary, and he would
see to the quick of Mortimer’s trouble in an eye-
blink.
The pods of the wild vanilla were cracking in
the sun, and the broken shell underfoot was hot
to the boot. Mortimer wiped the sweat from his
forehead with a white-coated arm, and halted
before the little doorless hut. It was blank dark
to eyes that had just come off the sea, and there
was no sound anywhere.
“Jack,” he called, “ you there, eh ? ”
The darkness rustled. There was a low, bitten-
off cry as though a man in pain moved inadver-
tently ; then two burning hands caught Morti-
mer’s, and Jack Hartopp said :
“ I knew it was you ! I knew it was you ! Oh,
Mort, dear old chap, thank God, you’ve come ! ”
Mortimer grasped the hands, pulling Jack out
to the light. It was unlike this lean, strong-
souled Englishman to loose his heart-strings to
another man, or to carry a sob in his throat.
“ What’s wrong ? Lord, Jack, you look sick all
right. Fever? Let me see. Man! you’re burn-
ing up with it.”
Mortimer was entitled to more letters than
M.D. after his name. But he had flung his
learning and its assets into the pig-trough when
he had gone to feed" therein, and almost he had
forgotten until the need arose, bringing with it
the power.
Jack laughed unsteadily.
“Me ? I’m well enough. Only fever an’ ague.
But there’s a poor brute of a native in here.”
“Bah!” said Mortimer, and stepped back.
“I’m not having any truck with those swine.
Let ’em die if they want to. Jack, can you get
me a fireman anywhere ? One of mine went off
the hooks last night. It was pretty average hot
down in the stoke-hole, I fancy.”
Jack Hartopp rubbed his eyes. The very balls
seemed shrunken with the heat, and his ears were
dulled with weariness. But, because he loved
this man, eyes and ears understood, and the
groaning, tossing native within doors was for-
gotten for the time.
“Mort. . . . where are you going?”
Mortimer laughed in sudden defiance, flinging
his head up.
“ Take your hands off me then ... to Samarai.”
Samarai, in New Guinea, is one of the drinking
hells of the Pacific. There are others, and Mor-
timer knew them all.
“Not the old thing again, Mort?”
“ Yes ! The old thing, that will always be the
new thing. 1 can’t help it, Jack! I can’t help
it. I can’t help it! Last time it was New Cale-
donia. The time before it was Sydney ”
“1 heard that you’d been in hospital there,”
said Jack, heavily.
“Oh, hospital! They didn’t say why, did
they ? I’m going to find hospital—or worse —in
Samarai. I gave you my word, I know. I’ve
broken it twice since, Jack. I’m going up to
Samarai to break it again.”
Mortimer’s thin face was drawn and working.
Jack looked away. Then he reeled, for he was
very weak.
“There’s a bit more shade here, under the
cycas. Mort, you’ll give me a few minutes more
before you go.”
"What do you want? It won’t make any
difference, Jack. Not any. So surely as there is
a devil in Hell I must go and find him.”
“Wait a bit. I want a pipe—badly. And I
want a mouthful of news from the South. I’ve
heard nothing of anybody for near five months.”
Mortimer’s nerves were on edge, and the strain
showed in every movement. He smoked jerkily ;
answering such questions as were asked, and
glancing ever with restless eyes to the sea.
Jack Hartopp was thinking of the man with the
sick body in the hut, and of the man with the
sicker soul outside it. And he was wondering
how he could bring the two together for the good
of both.
Mortimer laughed at last, knocking the red
ashes from the bowl.
“ It’s no good, Jack ! It’s no good ! My word’s
no good, I tell you. I have broken it ”
“Forget that. Let yesterday cover its own
sins, Mort. They have bled out their redemption.”
Mortimer did not look at the strong, tender face,
and his voice was sullen.
can’t cover its sins. Not if you
mean to repeat them to-morrow and to-morrow.
And I mean to repeat them, Jack —to my life-end.”
Jack Hartopp’s pipe was out. He bit on the
mouthpiece in silence. Too well he knew the
tragedy of a soul that sins with its eyes open.
The soul that eternally fights the body and
eternally goes under.
“ The man who has never given way before
temptation and the man who has never been
afraid have neither fully lived,” he said, slowly.
“For there is no pride in not being'seasick if
.you’ve never been to sea, and there is no pride
in overcoming if you’ve never been tempted.”
“Overcoming! Oh, rot ! I’m past that long
ago.”
“ Every four-footed and every two-footed
animal- that God has made has to fight the devil
of self in one way or another, old chap. You
know that. A she-wolf feeds her young though
she is famished with hunger herself.”
“And a man feeds his appetites an’lets the
rest of the world go hang. Don’t you talk, Jack !
What do you know of it ? Do you know what it
is to fight desire till you’re in Hell, and then to
deliberately walk further in, knowing all that
there will be to pay afterwards ? What can a
missionary know of the life of”-
“Stop that !” Jack Hartopp was on his feet,
swaying, his face beaded with sweat. “How
dare you say what another man has been through
or hasn’t? How dare you say that you are
tempted above other men? I know desire and
the fighting of it—the fighting of it till I
broke it.”
Mortimer rolled over, looking up at him curi-
ously. Pity and love were dulled in him by the
swamping passion for drink, and the plain sun-
blistered face twisted by the torture of re-
membrance wakened no chivalry at all.
“If your temptation was as great as mine,” he
said, “ I’ll own your right to lecture me. But
I’ll swear it wasn’t as great—to you.”
Jack Hartopp pulled a liano-length out of a coil
of leaves and flowers, twisted it on his fingers,
and tossed it from him. Just so had he once
pulled the very fibre out of bis own heart and cast
it behind. But no man knew the full story of
that; and now, after the lapse of years, his knees
shook at the remembering.
“ If I tell you—and it is as great as yours—
will you save that man in there for me?” he said.
“It is not as great. Drink has mastered more
men than anything ”
“ Except Love. Will you, Mort ? ”
Mortimer drew his knees under his linked
hands and sat up.
“Wade in,” he said, curtly.
This meant agreement and all else. Mortimer
had cast many things into the gutter of the years,
but he was honest, except when drink ruled him.
“ There’s not much to tell. I loved a woman,
and I loved my religion. I had to choose between
them, and—l chose this. Then, down here, I
heard that she was to marry a man—he was not a
good man. If I’d gone baclt at once I might have
saved her, for she cared for me ; but there were
my people here, and I stayed.”
The words were bald, but the face and the tone
told all. And yet Mortimer would not believe.
“That proves only that you loved your religion
better than the woman,” he said, sulkily. “ You
did not love her as I love my curse.”
Jack Hartopp looked away through the trees to
a little vignette of a young mother lifting a sleep-
ing child. The wound of past years was torn
wide again, but there was no salve for him yet.
“You will not say that when I tell you who
she is,” he said. And then he. gave her name.
It brought Mortimer to his feet, stuttering in
amaze. For many more men than Jack Hartopp
had loved the woman—and loved her now.
“You! Oh, you fool! You had the chance
that we’d have given our heads for. You! And
you chucked it—for this ! Oh, Jack, you area
damned lunatic ! And you mean to stick to this
still ? Now —when he’s dead ? ”
Jack Hartopp pulled away another liano. It
was a thorny one, and his hands bled as he
stripped off the thorns. Then :
“I did not know that he was dead,” he said,
quietly.
“You didn’t know ? He died six months back.
She doesn’t pretend to mourn him, of course.
Couldn’t possibly. But she mourns someone.
We’ve all known that. And—it’s you, Jack!
What are you going to do ? ”
Jack Hartopp turned on his heel, moving
through the sun-glare to the hut in the shadow of
the little church.
“Will you come an’see what you can do for
this man?” he asked. And Mortimer went
without more speech.
But in the cool, clean hut, with the window-
shade drawn back and the light full across the
man laid on Jack Hartopp’s bed, he turned him
round and swore in virulent English.
“Do you know what you’ve done?” he cried.
“Do you know ? This man has leprosy ! Lep-
(Continued on next page.)


Xmflw&k
A Martyr for many Years.
The royal road to happiness lies in keeping your liver healthy, for you cannot
be happy witli a sluggish liver.
If you consider for a moment the importance of liver health in your internal
economy, you will realise that a medicine which will tone up and correct the liver
is a prime necessity to you. Your liver takes charge of all the food juices from
your stomach and bowels, and transforms
them into rich, red blood. It filters all poisons
and waste products from your food and from
your blood, and also provides a fluid called bile,
which plays an important part in intestinal
digestion. The safest, surest, soundest and most
comfortable way to keep your liver healthy is to
take Bile Beans, the world’s most successful
remedy for Biliousness and Indigestion, and
all ailments arising from disorders of the liver
and stomach.
Miss M. Smith, of 101 Westbury Street, St-
Kilda, Vic., says:—“As one who has derived
great benefit from Bile Beans, I have much
pleasure in sending you this testimonial. For
many years I was a great sufferer with the liver,
the dreadful pains in my back making it almost
impossible sometimes for me to stand. Having
been told by three or four friends of the relief
they had derived from Bile Beans, I decided to
try them upon myself. I underwent a thorough
course, extending to two boxes of the Beans, by
which time the awful pains in my back had com-
pletely gone, and I felt a new woman. I consider the cure wonderful, as I had tried all sorts
of so-called cures, without obtaining any relief.”
Bile Beans, the standard family medicine, promptly and permanently cure Indigestion, Constipation,
Piles, Biliousness, Headache, Bad Blood, Nervous Debility, Dizziness, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Female
Ailments, and all disorders of the Liver, Stomach, or Digestive Organs. They also safeguard the body
against Rheumatism, Colds, Chills, Influenza and Gout. Sold by all Chemists and Stores!at Is. lid. per
box, or 2s. 9d., special large family size.
m
&
*
tor
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE
f
tmidsdd#aw/ihzm
tmdm/iaitiaimMmt
Moann//%iMak) d'
dddm
Qss) d dddded
and taM da and d
a) da dao/tad.
rosy ! And you’ve nursed him . . . and breathed
the air! Kick him out and let him die in the
bush. Here
He stooped to take the moaning thing by the
waist-band. But Jack Hartopp slung him aside.
“You’ll not try that game twice!” he said
grimly. “Can you do anything for him? He s
my best teacher. ”
“Do anything for him? Yes ! I can choke the
life out of him. Jack, have you been careful how
you. touched him? Do you use carbolic ?”
“\I have been careful; yes, Mort. Is it too far
gone to be stopped ? ”
Mortimer looked at the loathsome sores.
“ How long has this been on him ? How long
have you tended him ? ”
“He only came down the coast last night. He
belongs to Peritua. He says no one up there has
it, Mort.”
“ Oh, hang ! What do I.care about the others !
I’m thinking of you, Jack ; he must come out of
this—at once ! ”
“ I know. I have my people to think of ”
“Your people ! Good Lord, man ! You have
yourself—and her ! ”
Jack Hartopp stooped over the black laboring
chest, bringing fresh cooling rags wrung out of
the calabash on the floor.
“My people,” he repeated. “So he must
build a hut in the bush, and I’ll take him food.
I’ll be careful of myself, Mort. And can you give
him anything to ease the pain ? ”
“ Where’s your medicine chest?”
Mortimer sought in it, mixed drugs, gave ex-
planations and warnings. Then he went out
again to the clean, purifying sunlight, and faced
Jack Hartopp. And until that moment he did
not know how much the news he brought from
Sydney had shaken the other man.
“Jack,” he said, and looked at him keenly,
“ you’re done. She means more to you than this
work. Go back to her, for she wants you.”
The shadow of the church had moved from the
little hut and from Jack Hartopp. But the love
of it was in his eyes. And the love of the woman
was there also. Mortimer read it.
“ They want me here,” he said simply.
Mortimer glanced round on the village. There
were thousands such across and across the Pacific.
Thousands filled with the like dirty, shiftless,
ignorant savages, spawned in myriads from the
rich earth, and dying as thickly as they grew.
“ Here you’re a drop in the bucket,” he said.
“To her, you are the ocean. Come.”
Then, for a space, Jack Hartopp gave way.
Mortimer had no right to look or to listen. But
he did both, for he was in the fire himself, and he
believed that this man also would fail.
The tide came lapping up the beach, and the
children woke, running to meet it with shrill
cries of delight. The sea-wind blew up cool, and
from the canoe-house the young men sent the
canoes to the water with a shout and a rousing
splash. The women were crooning low as they
fanned the fires to red whispering tongues again,
and Jack Hartopp rose up and looked on these,
his people. He did not speak ; but Mortimer
understood —half in scorn, half in a passionate
envy. This man had overcome the flesh while it
was quick in him.
“Jack, that lejjer might live 10 years. And if
you catch the thing you’ll be no good to your
people.”
“ I shall not catch it. I mean to take all pre-
cautions. But the others may —without me to
look after them. This is just a very little thing;
but I think it explains the whole. Now, you
want a fireman ? I think I can get you one from
the village. And I trust you not to leave him in
Samarai, Mort.”
Mortimer did not meet Jack Hartopp’s eyes
until the two stood on the strip of white sand
with the dinghy heeled over at their feet. Then
he said, curtly :
“I’m going to Samarai. But I own you’re
right.”
Jack Hartopp smiled, a very little. He looked
older and more worn in the flagrant light, and
his limbs shook with the fever that was on him.
“ Between the flesh and the devil we chaps
have only an ordinary time of it, haven’t we ?
until we find the panacea.”
“ We never do.”
Jack Hartopp half-wheeled, glancing back to
the little squat church with the clumsily-made
cross topping it.
“There’s mine,” he said; “and everybody
else’s, if they only bother to look.”
And Mortimer believed, although he never
found it himself.
G. B. LANCASTER.
Jimmy from the Fence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN town and country, wheresoe’er he went,
The people called him “ Jimmy from the
Fence,”
Since north and south, ’cross half the con-
tinent.
He’d subdivided squattages immense,
And ne’er was tempted by the best of wages
To work at else through all his seven ages.
His hist’ry was compiled of posts and rails,
His recollections hung on fencing wires;
Beside one line were heard his infant wails,
Along another he from school retires ;
At Bonnet’s Corner first he went a-wooing;
And so through life his ev’ry end pursuing.
Of all the sounds and notes that forests fill,
He loved to hear the mauls on wedges ringing,
The stroke of axes echo ’long the hill,
The biting crosscut through the hardwoods
singing ;
The crack and crash of many branches, calling
To all the forest that a giant’s falling.
And when old age had laid his tools aside,
He’d follow still the old familiar sounds,
And oft along some new-made fence he’d ride,
Like an official person on his rounds,
To sight the line, his horse against it jamming,
And shake alternate posts to test the ramming.
He’d travel miles to meet a kindred soul,
And talk of fences until Kingdom Come.
He’d sink again his deepest corner hole ;
He’d split once more his most colossal gum ;
And illustrating with a stick while yapping,
He’d cover half a paddock with his mapping.
He’d take you bound’ry-riding for a week,
From Tumbaijumba out to Bogan Gate ;
From Watgett back to Tambaroora Creek,
And name the distance, sinking, terms and date;
Describe the country and the sorts of fences,
He’d start with zigzags, cumbersome but strong,
And, stepping styles of fencing through the years
As settlement advanced, take you along
The chock-and-log, which round his sty appears;
The dogleg that’s remembered in connection
With early life on ev’ry free selection ;
The sapling yard, the brush, and cockatoo ;
And when he’d picked the free-grained trees and
split
The posts and rails, and mortising was thro’.
You saw the two-rail follow —leagues of it;
Each panel adzed, and neatly cut each shoulder,
So that it loosened not as it grew older.
Flood rails were swung, and up went stubs and
stays;
And with much pride he would enumerate
The giant posts he’d planted in those days,
Each pair of which with cap he’d decorate
Before he hung the gates across the highway,
Or put the sliprails up if ’twas a byway.
Awhile he’d keep you to describe the woods
That were most durable and eas’ly got;
The brand of tools best suited to his moods,
And incident’ly he must grind a. lot
When axes dulled or gapp’d ; and minus kith he
Himself must take the wedges to the smithy.
The filing of the crosscut was an art;
The setting of ’t required a master hand ;
Likewise it took a man who’s passing smart
To make a maul that balanced and would stand
Hard slogging without slugs around its edges,
And never cast its rings upon the wedges.
Anon you’d reach the top-rail and three wires,
Which piece of architecture stood the shock,
On deep-grassed runs, of mad-eareering fires,
And most efficient in confining stock ;
A model that delighted the erecter,
And pleased alike the squatter and selector.
But soon became the toprail obsolete,
And five-wires he erected by the mile —
All even, plumb and straight, and many a feat
Performed with brace and bit, with fork and file ;
Yet of that fence by night spoke with derision,
Since he and it were often in collision.
Here he’d dilate upon the sorts of wires,
Relating also how and where to splice,
The distance of the strainers —which inspires
A lecture on the running-out device ;
Forgetting not to mention how he fixes
A number eight atop four number sixes.
And peradventure he would stop to swear,
As mem’ry bore him ’long some olden lines,
Recalling lazy methods of repair—
Wire ends projecting like so many spines ;
Some uprights low, and some too elevated,
All wobblesome like things intoxicated ;
Slack wires twitched midway with a crooked stick,
And broken posts depending for support
On puny props that wouldn’t stand a kick ;
And splices of a neophytic sort
Provoking utterance of words unlawful.
For’stead of “figure eights” those knots were
awful.
Such hasty work recalls the lightning fence,
Which holds no lofty place in his regard,
And, having strung some droppers, passes thence
To the construction of the barb-wire guard,
Which tears his cuticle and rips his “ trousis,”
Obstructs his progress, and his spleen arouses.
He searches here his palms for olden scars,
And tells you how he came by this and that,
And, running out the coils on iron bars,
The places that he happened to be at;
The route to him most clearly on his person
Was traced from Gundagai to Mount Mac-
pherson.
Animadversions then give way to praise
Of him who loosed an everlasting pest,
And made it necessary soon to raise
A netted barrier from east to west,
And north to south, with endless intersections
On squattages, plantations and selections.
With waggon-loads of ironmongery,
With horse and plough, and frame for running
out,
Ties, snips and pliers, pick and shovel, he
Begins to scatter “ rabbit-proofs ” about;
Whilst energetic Bunny, little heeding,
On either side the barrier goes on breeding.
Then sliding gates require some diagrams,
For such as you or me to understand,
Likewise the traps and brakes at tanks and dams—
Which sets him off again with stick in hand ;
And all the styles in which the net’s connected
Across the waterways are resurrected.
His little plot of ground was picturesque,
Enclosed with all the fences that he knew
From ornamental to the most grotesque,
And built of all the woods that round him grew ;
He’d graduated from a mere erecter
To an enthusiastic fence collector.
Such things as politics engaged him not,.
Nor matters that engross the common mind ;
E’en literature and art were mostly rot
That did not make an idol of his kind ;
And if he spoke of national defences,.
’Twas just to point how barb-wire saved expenses.
Whilst others looked at pumpkins, corn and rye,
Inspected horses, cattle, sheep and swine,
He’d only eyes for yard and pen and sty,
The subdivisions and the bound’ry line;
To talk of such was his sole delectation,
Inspecting them hisonly recreation.
In sleep his dreams encompassed fences too,
Gigantic twenty-railers that he strode,
And o’er the ranges and the forests thro’
The envy of all living things he rode;
And if perchance a nightmare interviewed him,
It was a log that down a hill pursued him.
When all his building and his dreams are o’er,
And Peter lets the final sliprails down,
His expectations on that other shore
Will not include a halo or a crown,
Nor e’en a pair of wings like angels fit on,
But just a fence—a glory fence—to sit on.
» t ° w
ENWARD S. SORENSON.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
1
m
Y
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in tbe West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
seek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Ilindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., EoweLl, Mass., U. S, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s PiSSs act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
■m
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
si
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing G
of our colored and high art Pftst Cards to sell for us, at (id. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble -any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By Continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full ....
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. Wo have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our )>ost cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-s«„ Sydney
ad
p2S
I*l W ptf
mjm
m
%n
FREE TRIAL !i
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade IJLiCCTRIC
BELTS free;.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is themost perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all eases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live*, and St miach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by' all.
Men and Women. If you are weak in any wav
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
31? COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains Of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can. be obtained of all C hemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
D* R'.CO B 0S
' ,
The only infallible Remedy lor WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr, Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
ail the important elements of the human frame. "
Price 12s., or four quantities in one for 36s : freight, Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Quean
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
J O men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy,'Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may he. Thousands Cured Armuallv. Reined*-
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street f Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOIt YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for jbhe
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, wh'ich
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney-
SUFFERERS!
1 cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oil charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A. tine budget of books for the winter live :
Such is ‘ Life hv Tom Collins 4s. (id. ; Thk
hju.ktix Story Book 4s. Oil. ; Thk BObi.etin
Reciter 4s. (kl. ; The Southern Garland 4s. Gd.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
"thee. A representative group of Australian
nooks.
mkim
A
m
JPMS
f '
SB
0
fp
iu»
P
SM?£
-.— ■— —'
wl/Z
/(€
ml
//l u.
EECHAMS
Pills
the difference
A BOON TO THE BILIOUS.
Are you competed to deny yourself many wholesome foods because you think they make you bilious?
Do you know that ycur condition is more to b'amc than the food ? Your liver and stomach need atten-
tion more than the diet. When you find yourself suffering with a bilious attack, take
PP~ BEECHASVTS PILLS
and all annoying symptoms will soon disappear. They settle the stomach, regulate the liver, and
exercise the bowels. Their good effects are felt immediately. SEECHAM’S PILLS mingle with the
c intents of the stomach, and make easy work of digestion. The nourishing properties of the food are then
read ly assimilated, replenishing the blood, anti giving health, strength ar.d vigor to the whole system.
.So id Everywhere in Boxes , price 10y 2 d., 1/1 y 2, and 2/9. [4].
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your...
Rabbit Skins,
FUR SHINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
HILL, CLARK <&. CO.,
SYDNEY.
XX/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
y v BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Fdied Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Gross, 5/-. in 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole's
Booh Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon=*
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name g#r
Or. John Martin, M.D.&e.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“ The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now'-a copy will he POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 509 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most, interestin';, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. Jr is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public, It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar bool: has ever been published.
MEN
A/VO
•f WOMEN
A 00-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing- 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving- a verv fair idea of w hat the Great Medical Book is like will he sent. POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES " (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s giv.e Dentures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere On receipt of Is 6d (stamps). JT*" ‘ Rote Address f-t-
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House, • 151 Elizabeth-st
Please mention this paper when writing. , ~ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
FREE


TO KEEP YOU WARM
USE OUR
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PEXGES.
Special Qualities
30/-, 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering-, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdnau Ryfeber C©- ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET
Her Theatrical and
Domestic-History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con'essions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
\ SVladame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
EHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
C&tarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR*
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; pride, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKINC PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., WIELJ3OH.RNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
3
Price,
James iartin 'and
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24 inches, Weierht 821b.
161 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ickwoocf Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
Henry Skinner,
Clareudou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FUKNISUINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; arid can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hm.
Public and
Private Bail 3
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Kniwes,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
M ARK-
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
vbHf
VOLF
or
AX
Also at
At tine Showrooms—
re Chambers, 93 York Street,
SYDNEY
“THCE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
3P3RLQX :> lrfcXE'T‘olFi.S —-
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
• ■
M
- •
Horse Power MINING WHIM
This appliance is invaluable to Prospectors and
others in the development of mining properties.
It will raise a load of from 500 to 7001b* from a
depth of 500 ft. The weight of the whole machine
is only 12001 b., and the heaviest piece 2501 b.
Price includes Sills, Sweep Extension Rods, set of
Hand Levers with Castings and Bolts to connect
same, and 3 Shelves for Gallows Frame. Timber,
Rope and Car are not included.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 Clarence St>, Sydney, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES, ami BOILERS ,
MARSHALL'S.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. »
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK- SOLE~AGENTS~
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Wertioai, Oredge Engines and Boiie .
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W.L, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, |L Gun SVSetal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c. ? Sronr-Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings., Engineers* Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
FOB PASTOBALIST, STOCK, and
STATION WOEI
Write for our FREE BOOK on
TELEPHCMSS. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ,
SAVE YOUR OIL! SAVE YOUR OIL!
By using: WILLIAMS’ PATENT OIL FILTER. (
RAPID, SIMPLE EFFECTIVE AND CHEAP.
In Four Minutes it will make Five Gallons of dirty oil perfectly clean and
fit for use The WILLIAMS FILTER will save 70 per cent, on your Oil Bill-
N. GUTHRIDCE, LTD., Sole Licensees, Sydney and Melbourne.
