

R. G. WATEUNS && GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
Rfea ' . EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ill
Direct Steam Driven HYDRO-EXTRACTOR
HOBART.
fofcT
fiadley's Qrieiif fjotei.
PIOMEER
LEATHER
''BELTING'
BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
Are used by Leading Squatters, Wool Scourers, Meat Works.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Lists te SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., Ltd., 7 Bent St, Sydney, N.S.W.
*
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS @
BACON.
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
THE ROYAL
ED IS WAN LAMP.
m
Economy in Ourrknt.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON a SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdfe:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
id
HO
For DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM,
Send Your Enquiries and ORDERS to—
THE SiLVERTOWN
OR ROCK DRILLS.
Works at—
SILVERTOWN, - ”•* > ww. f
ESSEX, ENGLAND, Telephone Nos, 882, 2435. 279 GfiOrgO StfGCty Sydnoy, NaSaWa
RUBBER CO .
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
Made IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYJOZKTZEZY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON'S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traotion Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merohant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B ot Oil and Traotion Enginoec o
E. COULSON,
H 6 a’Beckett St.. Melbourne.
“TOURS - MINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
9 out of Every 10 Men are Asking for it.
Agents : LOHMANN AND CO.
eastwats
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mnual sale
OF
,* c Fancy Goods,
M\ ng S *’J S no ‘v in Fu// Swing.
* ” i hi B a L B ® n !j ru Pt Stocks bought by Mr. A.
World’s Tour for Bargains.
%
(Wholesale ant! Retail).
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
-^^Melbourne.
_Njw_Edlt!on Whol esa ie Catalogue How Beady—Post free.
SPA WATER!
HELIDON SPA possesses bright and sparkling
properties with persistent effervescence.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.28.— N0. 1446.]
[Thursday, October 31, 1907.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, Sot Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTJ.EREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mellone & Drummond, Elem. of Psychology, ss, post 6d.
Ker, Under the Flag of Prance, ss, post 6d.
Matthews, Woman Suffrage, Is 3d, post 3d.
Stead, Adventures in High Mountains, 6s, post Bd.
Wright, The World’s Fisheries, ss, post (id.
Sanderson, Herees of Pioneering, 6s, post fid.
Gibson, Romance of Photography, 6s, post 6d.
Rice, Captain June, by author of “Mrs. Wiggs,” “Lovey
Mary," etc., illus.
Nerris, His Grace, “ Nelson’s Library,” cloth 9d, post Bd.
Marehmont, A Little Anarchist, cloth 3s Gd, post 6d,
Moreland, Humors of History, 3s, post 4d.
l’eters, Sketches of Old Dublin, 3s, post 4d.
Thomson, Corpuscular Theory of Matter, 9s, post 6d.
Lyell, Asiatic Studies, R.P.A. Series, 8d posted.
Picton, The Bible in School, P.P.A. Series, 8d posted.
Spielvcgel, The Cocky Farmer, wrapper Is, post 3d.
Buckele, The Complete Shot, illus., 9s, post Bd.
Dicksee, Adraneed Accounting:, new edition, 265, post la.
Davies, Practioal Horse Management, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Eumenthol
Jujubes.
£«3 i§v^v\
jv\«»l««ws.
::i:3»igsvi?:
:.-JS. : . : -ii;'K
g,.YUSDSO/V.
ijrrfei&s&lf
5^
Sold by Chemistk. Tin
f /v yl
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young.
Tun Lancet : “ Proved to be as effective, Lactericidally,
as is Creosote,”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner: “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the /,
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. /
Agehcies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Kegent Street, London.;
[3.
THE RED PAGE
THE MEANING OF MARS
WHAT is happening in Mars ? This
is probably the most important
question in modern astronomy;
and toward its answer the telescopes
of the world are incessantly reaching.
Percival Lowell, of Flagstaff Observatory,
Arizona, is the most persistent of these in-
quirers, and his discoveries provide us with,
at least, a working hypothesis of the mean-
ing of our sister world. His recent book,
Mars and Its Canals (Macmillan) is popularly
written, yet logically convincing.
To the lay mind, the most astonishing
thing brought out by this book is the exceed-
ingly varied amount of definite knowledge
we actually possess of Mars. Of its natural
features we know that its days and seasons
are wonderfully paralleled by the same
phenomena on earth. Mars, however, is very
cold and very dry. The mean temperature
is not very much above our' freezing
point; hoar-frost is found even at the
Equator. And Mars undoubtedly possesses
an atmosphere. Its presence i$ directly evi-
denced by the existence of water vapor in
the few clouds that are sometimes seen.
Evidence of an atmosphere, tenuous though
it is—more rarefied than that of our highest
mountain tops—is also independently proveld
by the limb-light, the veil which “ brilliantly
obscures ” the features of the planet as they
near the edge of the disk.
But it is its “ desertism ” that strikingly
differentiates Mars from the earth. In Mars
three-fifths of the whole surface is a desert,
and across these waste spaces vast dust-
storms pass. The markings that were natur-
ally taken by earlier observers to be seas and
continents, and named as such, are now
known to be but the remains of those fea-
tures. And the reason of the existence of
these Mars-wide deserts is simply that Mars,
being much smaller than the earth, has the
more rapidly cooled, the more quickly gone
through the stages of evolution necessary for
every planet or body in space. Mars is very
old, in the extreme decrepitude of its life.
For in Mars we see the ultimate fate of our
own habitation in space. The marks of
middle age have begun to show upon the
earth. Desertism has already made its appear-
ance upon our globe. The fate of every
planet is ultimately to lose its watery envelope.
The evolution of every body in space is
from .. the gaseous to the liquid, from the
liquid to the solid. From the moment of its
birth as a widely diffused gas or nebula it is
eternally condensing and cooling. First it
becomes a gaseous, incandescent globe, then
it condenses*' into a liquid globe, then it
solidifies, and finally it freezes. We see
evidences of practically all the later stages in
the planetary system, and in the moon, of
which the only side we see is frozen solid in
death. On the other side of the moon,
eternally turned away from the earth, de-
pleted of most of its waters by the tremen-
dous “pull" of the earth, a precarious
life may pertinaciously maintain itself. . . .
Lowell devotes much space in his volume
to the study of this phenomenon of “ de-
sertism,” as evidenced upon the earth.
Study of the earth’s surface reveals the prepon-
derating encroachment of the land upon the sea
since both began to be, and demonstrates that,
except for local losses, the oceans have been
contracting in size from archaic times. So
much is evidenced by the successive places upon
which marine beds have been laid down. . . .
The making of deserts is not a sporadic,
accidental, or local matter. It is the inevi-
table result of planetary evolution. The very
aging which began by depriving a body of its
seas takes from it later its forest and its grass.
We have positive proof of the action in our own
deserts. For these bear testimony, in places at
least, to not having always been so, but to
have gradually become so within relatively
recent times. But we have more general
proof of the action from the position
occupied on the earth’s surface by its deserts.
From being distributed in belts, it is evident that
deserts are general globe phenomena, and from
their being found only in the zones of least rain-
fall, that the earth has itself entered, though not
far as yet, upon the desert stage of its history.
This does not imply that science cannot
long delay the spread of deserts over the
globe, nor increase the productivity of those
deserts we possess. But Mars has reached
a stage far past that of the earth.
Pitiless (says Lowell) as our deserts are, they
are but faint forecasts of the state of things
existent in Mars. The terrible significance for
everything Martian lies in that single word :
desert.
As to the Martian atmosphere, Lowell
argues from a study of the life in our own
high altitudes that paucity of air is nothing
like the barrier to life we ordinarily suppose,
and is not for an instant to be compared with
dearth of water. Lowell advances strong
proof against the theory that the white polar
caps of Mars are not snow, but frozen car-
bonic acid gas. Both would look alike, but
there are important differences between
them.
At pressures of anything like one atmosphere
or less, carbonic gas passes at once from the solid
to the gaseous state. Water, On the other hand,
lingers in the intermediate state of a liquid,
Now, as the Martian cap melts, it shows sur-
rounded by a deep blue band which accompanies
it in its retreat, shrinking to keep pace with the
shrinkage in the cap. . . . The badge of blue
ribbon about the melting polar cap shows that
carbonic acid is not what we see, and leaves us
with the only alternative we know of : Water.
The fact that the polar caps dissipate and
reform proves, independently of other evi-
dence, that they pass into the gaseous state,
to be later solidified afresh.
This gas constitutes of itself an atmosphere;
while another phenomenon, their blue girdles as
they melt, affirming their substance to be snow
and ice, enables us to precise the fact that this gas
is water vapor.
Marshalling his proofs, Lowell deduces as
reasonably evident the presence upon Mars
of days and seasons substantially like our
own, an atmosphere containing water-vapor,
carbonic acid, and oxygen, water in great
scarcity, a temperature colder than ours, but
above freezing-point, except in winter and
in the polar regions, and vegetation.
So much for natural conditions. Now we
come to the evidence of intelligent life upon
our elder-sister world—the canals. Lowell
gives a graphic description of how he first
saw the markings of the canals.
When a fairly acute-eyed observer sets himself
to scan the telescopic disk of the planet in steady
air, he will of a sudden be made aware of a vision
as of a thread stretched somewhere from the blue-
green across the orange areas of the disk. Gone
as quickly as it came, he will instinctively doubt
his own eyesight. Gaze as hard as he will,
no power of his can recall it, when,
with the same startling abruptness, the
thing stands before his eyes again. . . . By per-
sistent watch, however, for the best instants of
definition, backed by a knowledge of what he
is to see, he will find its coming more frequent,
more certain and more detailed. ~ . Not every-
body ean see these delicate features at first sight,
even when pointed out to them ; and to perceive
their more minute details takes a trained as well
ss an acute eye, observing under the best con-
ditions. When so viewed, however, the disk of
the planet takes on a most singular appearance. It
looks as if it had been cobvvebbed all over. A
mesh of fine reticulated lines overspreads it. The
chief difference between it and a spider’s work is
one of size, supplemented by greater complexity,
but both are joys of geometric beauty. For the
lines are of individually uniform width, of ex-
ceeding tenuity, and of great length. These are
the Martian canals.
These lines run absolutely straight
throughout their course, with the exception
of ten per cent, that curve in a symmetric
manner. The lines, in their uniform width,
counterfeit telegraph wires stretched from
point to point. Lowell thinks that the
actual limiting width perceivable on Mars at
present is one mile. So they are not
analogues of the Suez Canal. Most of the
canals have relatively enormous length ; one
is over three thousand miles long—a third of
the circumference of the Martian globe.
And the canals are markedly interdependent.
They join each other at regular terminals.
At one rendezvous there are fourteen canals.
This, of course, disposes of the theory that
they are cracks in the surface caused by ex-
plosion or contraction. And thfe mesh of
these canals is of irregular, yet geometric,
texture. Some of the canals are at least
ten times as coarse as the others. The
whole speaks of a system, for most of the
canals have for departure-points well-
marked natural features.
Lowell gives an equally graphic account of
his first glimpse of the startling doubling of
themanals. He analyses the various theories
advanced against this fact, and wipes out on
five counts the theory of diplopia,- or seeing
double with one* eye. He similarly disproves
the interference and the illusion theories.
The well-known experiment recorded in
which some English school-boys drew canals
upon a canal-expurgated map of Mars
was repeated in France with negative
results. Lowell says that such illusion is
possible only at the limit of vision, while
the canals when well seen are well within that
boundary of doubt. And as only fifty-one
of the four hundred canals observed are
bilateral, this sufficiently disproves any op-
tical origin of the phenomenon. And the
doubles differ in width from 200 miles to 75
miles, while the double canals are confined
to the equatorial zone. The canals, too, are
not confined to the light areas, and those in
the dark areas are joined on to the others.
The next discovery was even more signifi-
cant. This was the perception of round
dark spots at the canal intersections. These
have been named oases ; and Lowell shows
that they are not mere optical reinforce-
ments of the lines at their crossings ; for
there are crossings without these dots.
Where a double canal terminated the dot
was enclosed by the two arms ; and if this
was due to the diplopia theory two dots
should have been seen.
As to the photographing of the canals,
Lowell asserts that, despite the enormous
difficulties due to the necessity of rapid ex-
posure and little light—quite the reverse
conditions prevailing to those in the successful
photography of the stars —photographs of the
canals have actually been obtained at his
observatory. But—probably for sufficient
reasons—he does not print any of these photo-
graphs. Photographs obtained under such
immense difficulties would —to the lay mind
—probably remain unconvincing. Lowell
states that 38 canals were thus photographed,
and one of them double. .
And now to the explanation. As the
polar cap shrinks, it lets loose a girdle of
dark blue-green, presumably water, and
then —after a considerable interval—the
canals nearest to it proceed to darken,
and so a wave of visibility rolls in regular
routine down the disk.
A quickening to vegetal growth would produce
the counterpart of what we saw. If, set free from
the winter locking, up, the water accumulated in
the cap then percolated equator-ward, starting
vegetation on its course, this would cause the in-
creased visibility of the canals, and at the same
time explain the seeming delay, by allowing for
the time necessary for this vegetation to sprout.
Lowell shows that as Mars has no mountains
of any considerable height, and the vegetation
is not stopped by the equator, the logical in-
ference is that the water is artificially pro-
pelled. He reckons out the speed at which it is
pumped along these canals at about two
miles an hour.
All this leads bo but one conclusion.
There is life—not necessarily human life,
but obviously intelligent life upon the
planet. And from this fact Lowell draws
a cautious but logical conclusion—that the
Martians have been forced to do what the
nations of the earth have been attempting to
effect at the Hague v The Martians have long
passed the possibility of war.
'' That Mars is inhabited by beings of some sort
we may consider as certain as it is uncertain what
those beings may be. . . . Apart from the general
fact of intelligence implied by the geometric
character of their constructions, is the evidence as
to its degree afforded by the cosmopolitan extent
of the action. Girdling their globe and stretching
from pole to pole, the Martian canal system not
only embraces their whole world, but is an
organised entity. Each canal joins another,
which in turn connects with a third, and so on
over the entire surface of the planet. This conti-
nuity of construction posits a community of
interest. . . . The first thing that is forced upon
us in conclusion is the necessarily intelligent and
non-bellieose character of the community which
could thus act as a unit throughout its globe. . . .
Whether increasing common sense or increasing
necessity was the spur that drove the Martians to
this eminently sagacious state we cannot say, but
it is certain that reached it they have, and equally
certain that if they had not they must all die.
When a planet has attained to the age of advanc-
ing decrepitude, and the remnant of its wat'er
supply resides simply in its polar caps, these can
only lie effectively tapped for the benefit of the
inhabitants when arctic and equatorial peoples
are at one. Difference of policy on the question
of the all-important water supply means nothing
short of death.
So we may conceive the Martians exist-
ing upon their scattered oases and along the
broad vegetation swathes of their straight
canals—for it is not the canals we see but
their belts of irrigated ' vegetation, with
gigantic machinery at work pumping the
precious water back and forth along the
canals. It must be a communistic society,
a Mars-wide federation, perpetually at peace
beneath the threat of extinction. So far
the cautious man of science goes. We may
be permitted further to speculate. ...
Apparent chance has entered so largely
into the evolution of man upon the earth that
it might conceivably have been the elephant,
the starfish, or the ant that ultimately worked
its way up to the supremacy of the animal
kingdom. Nature was net sure at the
beginning; she tried—and is still trying—
quite a lot of experiments before the fluke
which is man emerged. For he emerged by
a quite unexpected chance from a species
that had not -any special reason for
being the winners in the race of evolution.
If man had not attempted to stand up, and
thus allow his forefoot to become a hand, he
would be to this day far belowthe development
of the ant. So we have no guarantee at all
that in Mars the ruling species is even re-
motely human. While there would probably
be similarities in evolution owing to the, in
the main, similar planetary conditions, the
fluke that here has made man might there
have benefited an insect or an orchid. We
have no assurance even that the ruling in-
telligence upon Mars may be in the animal
kingdom at all. A mad hypothesis—pro-
bably induced by the present weather—is
even possible that the Martians may be a
race of highly organised flowers. The
extreme old age of the planet would premise
the advanced state of civilisation reached
by that race. It must, developing on
its own lines, parallel to the develop-
ment of man, have gained control of
forces unguessed by us in what is our
comparative infancy of civilisation. And
thus, according to our insane speculation, the
Martians might be merely a vast civilisation
of flowers (with certain classes of the race
specially developed into pumping machinery)
cbmatose during the drought, and reviving
along their canals as the sunlight and the
water came. . ..
jt
However, some day we shall know. And
the effect of contact with a race so highly
specialised, so experienced, would revolu-
tionise mankind. Think of the store of
discoveries and inventions, of the know-
ledge of space and the laws of matter, that
they would be able to pour into our minds !
What a renaissance there is in store for us !
But the disquieting thought comes that a
race so advanced might find us too far
behind to understand. We may conceive
the Martian regarding the earth as still in
the state of infancy frgm which he had so
many millions of years ago grown up. And
once we got in touch with that other intelli-
gence it might occur to that intelligence that
the human race was not worth worrying over.
We would be in too backward a state to
educate. So the Martians, aghast at our
politicians, and utterly despairing of Bruce
Smith, and controlling forces of which
we have no conception, would possibly en-
slave us, or more mercifully wipe us out,
and rufi the earth on more rational lines.
There are nine other equally cheery possi-
bilities in store; but our insanity Is merely;
intermittent. . . .
_—, *
The two latest instalments of Georgine Mil-
mine’s masterly history of Christian Science in
McClure's show Mrs. Eddy obsessed by her belief
in the malignant powers of hostile mesmerists.
She even could not get servants, to do the house-
hold work, her explanation being that the mes-
merists affected them. The founder of the new
sect stated to a witness that the window
plants in her house did not need sunlight or
moisture; Mrs. Eddy simply put them in an attic
and treated them mentally till they revived. The
fact that she had to wear spectacles Mrs. Eddy
also put down to the evil influence of the mesmer-
ists. Shortly after the “Church of Christ
(Scientist)” was founded, the strongest of her
members resigned, tired of her domineering
methods and her obsession of demonology. Feel-
ing in the town of Lynn was increasingly
hostile, and in 1882 Mrs. Eddy deter-
mined to take the “church” to Boston.
Her book, Science and Health, had then been
through three editions, but its sale was less than
four thousand copies “The Christian Science
Church was (in 1882) a struggling organisation,
with, considerably less than fifty members; its
history had been one of dissension, and its good
standing was all to make—and Mrs. Eddy was
then sixty-one years 'old.” In Boston Air. Eddy
died. This was a great shook to his wife’s teach-
ings ; but the founder of the new sect believed
that he was killed by mesmeric influence. She
diagnosed his case as “arsenical poison, mentally
administered.” When Eddy got really ill his
wife sent for a regular physician, who saw at once
that be was suffering from a common and very well-
defined disease of the heart. On his death, the
widow made this doctor perform an autopsy, and
he found' that his diagnosis had been correct.
However, Mrs. Eddy announced that death had
been caused by “malicious mesmerism,” the
symptoms being those of arsenical poisoning—
“not material poison, but mesmeric poison.
She quoted, as an authortiy for this theory, an
alleged “doctor” named Eastman, one of the
original directors of “ The Massachusetts Meta-
physical College '’—which was merely Mrs. Eddy
—a quack with an incredibly sinister professional
record, which culminated in a sentence of five
years for a criminal operation. Mrs. Eddy after-
wards repudiated him. But, despite the demo-
niacal power with which mesmerism pursued Mrs.
Eddy, the “church” was slowly growing. One
of the chief duties of her students was to “treat
Mrs. Eddy for the various illnesses from which
she still suffered. However, the sect was now
large enough to attract attention, and the aged
founder did not allow it to suffer from lack of
advertisement. And while she wrote incessantly
in the papers in defence of her doctrines, she
gradually began to withdraw personally from the
gaze of public and adherents ; she inaugurated
that policy of retirement and secrecy that to
this day she so cleverly continues. Also, at
this age, she could still learn; she reso-
lutely broke herself of her occasional lapses
into ungrammatical speech, and, learning
her own limitations, she began to 'submit her
editorials and press communications to the gram-
matical censorship of certain of her students.
And in writing she acquired more and more
facility. Through incessant practice the once
laborious task of writing had become easy- Ims
history of her life shows a woman, hampered by
grave defects of character and temperament,
through discouragement and neglect tenaciously
working toward success. Altogether this un-
educated, epileptic, harsh, astute, bad-tempered,
domineering' woman shows in this unbiassed,
history as a remarkable personality.


X
72
THE LATEST
♦ ♦ ♦
MILLINERY
CREATIONS
... AT ... .
Anthony Horderns'
Famous Low Prices.
No. 133-“ Lady’s Black Sequin and Tulle
Bonnet, trimmed White Flowers, Osprey
Mount, 30/-.
Send for Illustrated
Fashion Portfolio.
Post Free on application
No. 130—Straw Hat, trimmed Tartan Eibbon,
Pin and Wings, 12/6,
No. 140— Black Crinoline and Sequin Bonnet,
trimmed tips, Ribbon Velvet, 17/6, 21/-, 25/6.
No. 139—Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed
Ribbon, Rose Mount, Ribbon Ends, 25/9-
-Straw Hat, trimmed Floral Ribbons
and Roses, 15/6.
No. 127—Leghorn Hat, trimmed Tulle,
Ribbon Velvet, Lilac, 30/-.
No. 131—Leghorn Plateau Hats, Net Crown and
Veil and Roses, 35/-.
.><,*=££
C
■>
No. 136.—Lace and Net Hat, trimmed
Foliage, Feathers, 45/-.
No. 135. —Floral Toque, trimmed Ribbon and
Tulle, 25/-.
No. 129.— Straw Hat, trimmed Roses, Foliage
Ribbon on Bandeau, 25/-.
No. 138.—Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Ribbon,
two Fancy Pins, 12/9.
m
tig
ym
No. 126—Straw Hat, trimmed 2 shades
Wistaria Ribbon and Tulle, 25/-.
No. 125—Straw Toque, trimmed Tulle,
Ribbon and Itosea, 25/-.
No. 137—Burnt Leghorn Hit, trimmed
Foliage Hoses, Ribbon, 23/9.
No. 132—Straw Hat, trimmed Roses,
Forget-me-Nots and Ribbon, 30/-.
No. 128—Crinoline Hat, trimmed Ribbon
Velvet; Tulle and Roses on Bandeau, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN (&. SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly: efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Solo Agents in N.S.W\ for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Pipino Hot ;
Homan Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. Mt Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Nigiit, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Kef.ping, Is. 3d. Dream Book,' Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards.'Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post. is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
drive a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to out a sample of our Gutta rercha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
Invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order th at our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and (in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.'s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, ffcc.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothiugto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
' * 1 J SSagSBECB I --I— —mmm
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
ereat offer is only open for a limited time, _ ,
g Write at once. * THE GUTTA PERCH A TRADING CO., 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt;
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Sait ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’B ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, JGNQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES " e B,M onhJ ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
FREE JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2s.
r MOIVEY REQUIRED WHftTEYEß— Simply
send us apostcard with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents, f
K«pa for selling 12 articles of
1 1 jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our '* Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
P P aa for selling
a 1 only 6 ar-
ticles. We will
send solid gold Pin
or Ring, or lady's
Solid Gold Pend-
ant and necklet or
Bangle
We receive hundreds
oftestimouials
daily.
;as
We send your pre-
sent by return post
Wehave no furth-
er claim on you
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
M
Free
for selling
only 3 articles
we will send you your
choice of any articles pick-
ed from our Catalogue of nwel-
ties which we send with the jewellery.
iThe party selling the 12 a* -
tides in the shortest time is en-
titled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
Free £2
Send us your
Name & address
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
Address I British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C-B
C.B. Tailor=Made Corsets are
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
Of the past.
In 50
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Taiicr-Made
Corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis-
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
All C.B. Corsetshave rust-proof supports
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas per pair.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here 'S a type as
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are in
the old woven corsets. dtadcq
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for hook of types to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, 76, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TWO LEADING BRANDS —»
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Guaranteed Life Preservers. Wholesome and Refreshing.
m
\mp
s
,v/ a *v.:
siiii--
I*Bl
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols.
Winchester cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50, shoot
where you aim when the trigger
is pulled. They are always
accurate, reliable and uniform.
Shoot Them and YouTl Shoot Well.
Always Buy Winchester Make.
ARTEUS
isaEsms’s P°wH a ipo tuLg.
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman should know that Liver Disorders
& r ove th the Co^ e e X by ’ LItIIE LIVER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipation Begin at
once with CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere ceutioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
'vS/
si
ft
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If yon don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
* friends all about it.
ytyer’s
2iair Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
In consequence of
the great demand, the
Samples of Creme
Simon and Powder
have been entirely
exhausted. Until
fresh supplies arrive
we will post a full-
size jar of Creme
Simon for 1/6, or
White,Cream or. Pink
Powder for 2/6.
Agents?
CLAUDE HEALY. & Co.,
63 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
“While teething my little
Thomas suffered greatly,
and became very thin and
ill. Scott’s Emulsion proved
to be just what was needed
to build him up. His
flesh is now firm and solid,
he sleeps and eats well,
and this wonderful change
is due entirely to Scott’s
Emulsion. I shall always
keep a bottle in the
house.”
(Mrs.) J. FEEIvEW.
THE
EVIDENCE
from 33, Harris St. 7 Pyrmont , N.S.W. ,
/Wy 19, 1906.
Teething-
a wonderful change
The Reason WHY
he grew Bonny
Cod liver oil is extraordinarily full of
nourishment, but the oil must be of
the best quality and it must be made
digestible, or it can do but little good.
None but the finest Lofoten (Nor-
wegian) oil is ever used in Scott’s,
and this is broken up so finely by the
TRADE MARK
original Scott process
that the stomach, how-
ever fatigued, can easily
absorb it. The lime in
Scott’s provides the
material so often , lack-
ing in the baby system
for strong, straight,
white teeth.
See “ the fishman with the fish” on the
package and be sure you are getting
Scott’s. From all chemists and dealers
in medicines.
Scoffs
EMULSION
am
t-
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
GEORGE" BONNINGTON
p>.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair Toots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
H ARLENES™ HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
•UM
■Vt&L
Edwards' “Harlene" Co.
95 €? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its ,
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how ,
thoroughly it cleans. i
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
OQrtta
w lung Tonic
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
OOPYBIGHT.
NATURE'S
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS 6 DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
AsK your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
City Bound.
Though sweetest voices may call to him,
There’s a man that never hears ;
The city has roared his senses dim,
And the blare has dulled his ears !
He will not out of the mesh of streets,
And the world shut in with walls ;
The pulse of the town, that throbs and beats,
His indigent soul enthralls.
He fears to cut from the raucous throng
And dwell apart from his kind,
For his ears are deaf unto Nature's song, ,
And his eyes to her beauties blind.
He feels no joy in the lonely nights
When the moon stares through the trees ;
The sun-lit plains, and the wind-swept heights,
The flowers, and buds, and bees.
Hie shop and the pavement bound hisbrain ;
The glare of the music-halls ;
The turgid course, and the canting fane,
And the click of the billiard balls.
He was dwarfed and cramped in his early days ;
He was reared in a sordid plane ;
He was not bred in the broader ways,
To the subtler sense of brain.
To cope with the din, his voice is loud
As he mouths some ribald catch,
Or roars crude wit, with a vapid crowd,
At an aimless football match.
And being bilked of his good soul’s rights,
And stunted in the brain,
He grows appalled at the silent nights
And the peace of the brooding plain.
Nor shall he know of the pulse that beats
Like the sea’s, on the surf-kissed bars,
Till he breaks the net of the lamp-lit streets
And turns him to the stars !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
My Australian Girl.
Far sweeter than all singing is the music of her
voice,
And her laughter is a magic that makes the heart
rejoice;
Her eyes are like deep waters, and her hair is soft
and brown,
And she’s like a splendid evening when the sun
goes down !
Though she is young, like morning, yet she has
the evening’s rest;
The home of calm and tenderness is ever in her
breast;
There goes a subtle fragrance with the rustle of
her gown,
And the scent of summer evenings, as the sun
goes down.
She was fashioned out of flowers, and their sweet-
ness is not fled ;
The lily made her whiteness, and the rose became
her red;
Her innocence is armor, and her beauty is a
crown,
And I will not cease to love her till my sun goes
down!
VIC.
A.B.C.
Freshwater Bay.
Through plea and threat of breakers’ din,
And glee of wind-blown spray,
Soft indolences sleep within
The brown arms of the bay.
Tired earth its wearinesses rests,
And sea-gulls nest their young,
And sea-nymphs, in the whitening crests,
Are sweet of form and tongue.
’Mid pearl-blue haze a white sail dips—
Good-speed, far-destined barque !
And on the sky-line deep-sea ships
Trace faint fantastic mark ;
Sail on, ye restless rovers; sail,
Through storm and tempered breeze,
The sea-waves ever tell a tale
Of wealth across the seas !
From hills beloved of many suns,
So lingeringly they pass,
The virgin ti-tree over-runs
Smooth slopes of gold-brown grass ;
Amid flower-spangled tanglements
A creek’s meanderings end
By ridging sands, where pungent scents
Of beach and bushland blend.
By bearded cliffs and dream-dark caves
The wild sea-daemons play,
While, conquest bent, green-valleyed waves
Dash in for aye and aye ;
And where smooth rocks in tumbled mass
Lie calmly, tempest-slain,
And waves have scooped a looking-glass
The sea-girl combs her mane.
The artists love these color-schemes,
And poets love the song,
And lords of labor lulled with dreams
Forget the noisy throng,
And tawny surfers haste to meet
In-dwellers of the sea ;
0 every heart is blithe to greet
The Queen of Harmony !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY


Trade !
SYDNEY Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
.Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
A
«&
a
UrVS cocoa
A cup-ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
rCadbury’s Cocoa is _
not only PUREST and BEST;
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A halt tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
it is possible to obtain.^
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
Hijchinond Virginia
'VI arms'*. Brother C
Packed by RJown'j * Go Agenrs,Sydney.
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
AMS
faalisl'i
All Ji
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate Given With Each Watch.
\fc 69 l\ 's«a
l»*‘ VV 1892 J)*Z6}
s
UAHS
a
n
Estab'
175 a
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßecgs.
5?CCIfrl LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
w
r
:
Yt
YE N YEARS PUBLIC USE HAS PROVED THAT
Bain’S
/MEVER FAILS.
head office-Mutual Life Building,martin Place, Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Tho MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereag-h Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
flUii
Eim
ni
QlEDrfi
(inTiLJ
i i f
lid
HOTEL
HIETROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
For rendering Floors and Linings damp,
draught, dust and insect-proof GIANT
andHERCULES BUILDING
PAPERS have no equal. As
a lining for the walls of silos,
cold storage, or refrigerator
buildings they are invaluable.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
E. RICH & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
CANT


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1446.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 81, 1907.
Pkice 6d.
A DESPERATE REMEDY.
A section of the Labor Party threatens to destroy, by removing their Protection, those Australian industries wherein any employer has trouble with his workers.
DEPUTATION OF THE CREW (to the captain): "SAY, WE'RE NOT A BIT SATISFIED WITH THE WAGES PAID TO US."
THE CAPTAIN: "WELL ’ LET us TALK ABOUT IT AND SEE IF THINGS CAN BE FIXED UP.”
THE CREW: “NO, WE'RE GOING TO SCUTTLE THE SHIP TO SHOW OUR DISSATISFACTION.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macluod, Managing Director.
llorv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
11 is not a g»od thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 rvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. toill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in llluele and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. _ Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
The Central Hews Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlltin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1907.
THE PRESS AND THE POLITICIAN.
Thebe is a tinge of pessimism in Australian
thought to-day as it notes the political position.
Many good men step down from the deck of the
ship of State, and those who are to take their
places are not plain to the eye. Some think
gloomily that already the golden age is over, and
the future can hold nothing to equal the past.
There is much offence to reason in that. True,
the political position is disquieting : but every sun
brings the possibility of another golden day. There
were kings before Agamemnon ; and after him. To
seek to make light of the loss the Commonwealth
will suffer when Watson leaves its Council
Chambers would not be wise, nor to blink the
eyes at the fact that only a stern sense of duty
keeps Deakin, and many another notable captain,
at the thankless task of nation-making. But
there will be others. This young nation has not
spent its power of producing good men, and as
the gaps occur they will be filled. For regret
there is good reason ; for loss of hope in the future,
none at all.
* * * *
The regret Australia feels to-day at the loss
of a notable leader, though turned to vain
ends if allowed to induce pessimism, may serve
much useful purpose if it suggests some thought
over the causes which have made for its necessity.
Of the big men who entered the first Australian
Parliament an unhappily large number have left
politics. Some have done so to give useful ser-
vice to the public in other capacities: Barton,
Isaacs, O’Connor, for examples. But many have
left public life altogether—some forced by illness,
others prompted by a feeling of disgust or futility.
The new recruits, so far, do not worthily fill their
places. The Australian Parliament keeps the
same numbers; it does not keep the same
standard of quality. What are the reasons for
this ?
If one turns to the daily newspapers it is to find
a picture, drawn in glowing colors, of the high life
of the politician—a chicken and champagne exist-
ance amused by chicanery and billiards, its most
serious energies devoted to the pursuit of “perks. ’
Rather by implication than by direct statement,
but none the less surely, the idea is inculcated in
the popular mind that Parliament is a body
which exercises its power to impose taxes
mainly for its own selfish gratification, the
Treasury being a vast money reservoir into
which is drawn as much as possible, so that
when the sternly necessary costs of government
are met, the politicians may wallow in the
balance. It would not be possible to instance in
any one particular paper an article actually de-
scribing this as the- state of affairs; but it is not
necessary to lie directly in order to deceive, and
w T hat has been described is certainly a very
generally held idea —especially among female
anti-Socialists and other extra-earnest devotees
of the political gospel according to the daily
papers. The latest tariff, for instance, has been
pictured, editorially by implication and in “letters
to the editor ” quite openly, as purely a device,
akin to that of a corrupt Pasha, towring more
money from the people for the already plethoric
purses of the politicians. Why is such a very
profitable occupation so unpopular? Why does
the politician—lazy, greedy, selfish —edge away
from all these good things ?
* * * *
A little inquiry into that problem on lines sug-
gested by those newspaper criticisms will reveal
almost the whole truth in regard to the desertion
of public life by big men, and the reluctance of
other men to come forward to fill their places. It
will be found that, as a matter of cold truth, the
politician, instead of being the spoiled child of
Fortune, is most usually a hard-worked, under-
paid man; almost always patriotic in his inten-
tions, if sometimes misled as to what constitutes
patriotism ; convinced that by staying in politics
he is going against all the warnings of
worldly wisdom, but persevering partly from a
sense of public duty, partly from the pride which
makes the decent man who has been misled into
marrying the wrong sort of woman strive to pre-
tend to the world that he is satisfied, and some-
thing more than satisfied. Probably three-fourths
of those who go into Parliament recognise, after
a very little while, that, in the sense of personal
interest, they have acted unwisely. But duty
holds them ; and the reluctance of a man to admit
that he has made a mistake holds them, until
many get in time to almost love their chains.
« » • •
Were the situation left at that, all would
probably work fairly smoothly. But there
intrudes into the problem these newspaper
misrepresentations. The politician finds his
poverty insulted by clamor about his riches. He
may be fairly content to work for small wages for
the State, but he is always being confronted by
the accusation that he is working selfishly for
himself. He eats reproaches with his bread, and
insults fill his cup. It is a principle of com-
merce that for work which is held to be degrading,
which makes the worker declasse, high wages
must be paid. The quack, the usurer, the dealer
in nastiness, all expect the stigma of their
callings to be mitigated by the bigness of
the profits. The politician has to work for
low pay and find himself daily gibbeted as a
sort of greedy parasite, the butt of a thousand
sneers and innuendoes. 11 is not astonishing that
a feeling of unconquerable disgust comes, and
that, in spite of patriotic duty, in spite of the
spirit which keeps the hand to the plough until the
furrow is finished, the worthy man in public life
often decides to give it up and try work in some
sphere that will allow him to have a character
and give him something more than a living wage;
whilst the unworthy man occasionally resolves to
live down to the reputation with which he has
been endowed.
* * * *
In the matter of the resignation of J. C.
Watson, curiously full proof of the effects of this
constant stream of slander were apparent.
Watson happens to be one of the few men who
can be vouched for with absolute confidence by
all his friends. He is known to be mcorruptiblv
honest; he is known to bo stainless in his private life;
he is known to be so high-minded and Quixotic in
his political ideals as to consider that it would be
unworthy to step from the fighting arena into a
permanent public office (though it would be hard
to suggest a post which he could not well fill).
Yet, his resignation announced, rumor found
promptly three reasons —(1) he had made a fortune
out of politics; (2) he was to be the victim of a
scandal; (3) he was going to get a fat Government
billet. To those who knew Watson, any of the
reasons was so absurd as to suggest laughter rather
than anger; but the fact that that section of the
public which did not know him, and was guided in
its estimate of public men purely by the daily press,
theorised scandalously, is seriously disquieting.
It shows the deadly effect of a constant campaign
of sneers and slanders against public men. The
worst of motives and reasons are instinctively
sought for their actions. It is said to be wise to
think well of your brother-man until you have
reason to do otherwise. The politician is put out-
side the pale, not only of charity, but of justice.
He is accounted guilty of everything of which he
cannot definitely acquit himself.
, » * •
If public life is to be made more welcome to
good men, the poisonous criticism of the press
must be, in some way, This is no
suggestion to smother party polemics. Let them
rage as furiously as they will, and Reid s policy be
to one set of papers a malediction; Deakin s
policy, to another, spawn of Hell. But an end
should be made of the persistent, malignant,
causeless belittling of public men as a class; of
the cheap sneer against “the well-paid and
luxurious politician”; of the eternal charge that
the men who are patriotic enough to offer to serve
their country are something between welshers and
professional cyclists.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ —■
Tasmania Has a Grievance.
As a confession of utter incapacity, the Budget
speech made in the Tasmanian Assembly this
year stands in a class by itself. It isn t
Treasurer UrqUHARt’s incapacity that is
so conspicuous ; as a matter of fact,
Urquhart has a good deal of capacity, and
when he first entered Parliament threatened to
use it. But he soon found that that would be a
mistake in Tasmania —it would pay him better to
drift with the tide. So he drifted. When Aus-
tralian Federation arrived, the Commonwealth
wasn’t, however, under any sort of obligation to
drift because Tasmania drifted : therefore, in-
stead of borrowing money to put up perishable
buildings and buy guns that would be soon
obsolete, it paid the bills out of revenue. Thereat
Tasmania feels wronged, and Treasurer Urquh ART
has to express its feelings : —
The policy of spending large sums of money out of
revenue is, at least, a doubtful one, and is not in accord
with the past financial traditions of this State. ... In all,
the £109,745 [spent on new works] would have materially
assisted the Government in opening up the country . . .
had these funds been raised from loans. It is true the
State would have to pay the interest, but... we should
have the satisfaction of feeling that some progress was
being made.
There are some men who feel satisfaction when
they have a receipt in their _ pocket. But
Urquh art, on behalf of Tasmania, has no such
foolish notions. It is when he has a new
pawn-ticket in his pocket that he feels a proud
soul, and says to himself, “Now I am getting
on ! ” It is just as well, though, to see where this
process of getting on has landed Tasmania.
Excluding an amount borrowed recently to repay
an old loan, the public debt on June 30 last was
£9,668,386. The net revenue in 1906 available for
interest was £87,312. Some small amount of the
debt was incurred in connection with post and
telegraph services; but the postal expenditure
exceeds the postal revenue in Tasmania, so this
loan money earns none of its own interest. The
actual interest bill for 1905-6 was £359,517. As
the net revenue available for interest was
£87,312, it follows that £272,205—or more than
three-fourths —of the interest had to be made up
out of taxation. Now Tasmania, through its
Treasurer, wants that system extended. It says
in effect that, if you borrow money at 4 per cent.,
and spend it on things that return 1 per cent..,
and if you therefore have to squeeze the other 3
per cent, out of the people in taxes, you are
“ getting on.” The heavier the load of taxation,
the more the progress. It is an amazing doctrine ;
yet, as Urquhart says, it is strictly “in accord
with the past financial traditions of the State.”
Those traditions are to spend the money yourself
and hand your children the bill ; and the pretext
for this piece of unutterable selfishness is that the
money is used to “open up the country.” It is
shameless hypocrisy. For as fast as the country
is opened up it is sold—and the sale money is
grabbed and used too. Said Urquhart in this
same speech : —
The sale of Crown lands forms one of our most consis-
tent sources of revenue. . . The revenue from the sales of
Crown lands has increased considerably during the last
two years. Yet it is only a matter of time when this
item must show a decline, as the source from which it is
derived is not inexhaustible.
If the money borrowed to “open up the country”
were repaid out of the money derived from
the sale of the country—if the country must be
sold —the transaction would be less shameless;
but this generation borrows the money, sells the
land, and uses the proceeds, not to reduce the
loan, but to save itself from taxation. The next
generation will have the loan to struggle with ;
but it will have neither land revenue nor land
sales money to help it. And in many cases it
won’t have the works either ; for, as Urquhart
also says, in a passing reference to the railways—
“Some of the rolling stock is now very old and
obsolete, and is being replaced by new and up-to-
date stock,” and permanent way is also being
relaid. In other words, Tasmania is beginning
to have to pay to replace worn-out works
that were paid for with borrowed money. The
things that were paid for with loans are worn out,
but the loans are as good as new ; so when young
Tasmania has paid for the new works, it will still
have the old interest to pay, and it won’t have
any land revenue to help it, because its fathers sold
the land and grabbed the proceeds. These are
“the financial traditions of the State,” and
because the Commonwealth has despised and
rejected the selfish abomination, Treasurer
Urquhart, on behalf of Tasmania, makes a
Federal grievance of it, and shouts “ Hooray” for
Carruthers and his wire-netting raid.
• ♦
Preference—of Two Sorts.
The debates of the week in the House of Repre-
sentatives have disclosed the ideas of the two
great parties on the question of giving a trade
preference to Great Britain. Almost uncon-
sciously the feeling has grown that some sort of
preference should be given. At any rate, the
issue of “Preference” or “No Preference” seems
hardly to be raised. But a very sharp line of
difference has developed as to the method
of the preference. It is a gift; it has
to come from somewhere. The National party
proposes to take it from the foreigner and give it
to Britain. The Freetrade, anti-Australian, Anti-
Socialist party proposes to take it from the
Australian and give it to Britain. The line of
demarcation is characteristic. The Freetrade
party has always been willing to show favor to
England so long as it was at the price of sacri-
ficing Australia; indeed, that has been its
traditional policy. The National party, on
the other hand, has quite consistently de-
veloped its patriotism from the nation to the
Empire. The causes of this development are not
plain on the surface. A consciousness of the
imminence of a struggle for world supremacy, in
which the Anglo-Celtic peoples would naturally be
grouped on the one side, is a probable factor; a
recognition of the terrible menace of Asia also
prompts Australia to a wish for closer union of
interests with kindred peoples in Britain,
Maoriland, Africa and Canada. But the
Australian National Party refuses to trunk
of any attempts to serve “the Empire by
sacrificing Australia. Any other attitude would
be anti-National, and for that reason also anti-
imperial. The first duty of Australia to itself
and to the race from which it sprang is to bring
Australia to the highest pitch of industrial and
civic development. To give up Australian
interests for the sake of advantaging England
would be treachery to this continent and of no
real service to “ the Empire,” giving that term
its best meaning. The Freetrade party’s attitude
on the question is curiously revealing. It repre-
sents in effect: Favor the foreigner ; if you must
favor the Briton, do so at the expense of the
Australian.
The Plea for Loneliness.
A pew days ago a number of Federal Representa-
tives had a cruise around Port Phillip in on ®
the Victorian pilot steamers. On board the pilot
steamer were Captain Currie, a .typical member
of the old Tory school, and Lyne, a very fair
representative of the new school. Both made
speeches, from which significant excerpts :
Captain Currie merely asked the Commonwealth to
leave him alone, and allow him to conduct the business he
had built up.
William Lyne said that the day had gone by when any
class of the community—shipping people or anybody else
—could be left alone.
The Tory person is for ever asking to be left
alone; and when he isn’t left alone he looks on
himself as a martyr, and threatens to tear up
capital by the roots and throw it in the sea.
There wouldn’t be the slightest objection to leav-
ing Captain Currie, and all those of his way of
thinking, severely alone, but for one rather im-
portant circumstance. This is, that Captain
Currie doesn’t leave other people alone. He
interferes with other people to quite an alarming
extent. To begin with, he drags their goods and
themselves backwards and forwards between our
ports, getting as much money and giving as little
in return as he can (which is “ business ). ihen
he uses quite a number of officers and seamen to
do the work, and he (like all other ship-owners,
of course) pays them as little as he can con-
veniently get the men to accept (which is also
“business”). 'Years ago it was found, in old
Tory Britain, that if the shipowners were left
alone ” they were accustomed to fill their old
crafts so full that the decks were within a foot
or two of the water. So the Plimsoll line had to
be provided for. Then stringent Acts had to be
passed regarding the food and accommodation of
the crew, as it was found that many owners were
training their crews to live on air and the smell
of the salt sea. We have bettered things a little in
Australia, but much remains to be done; and it is
satisfactory to know that the Navigation Bui will
uplift the condition of our seafaring workers. If
ever there was an impudent request, it is that of
Captain Currie, to be “left alone”; and the
wonder is that Lyne, in reproving him, didn t
use stronger language. The only person whom
the law can leave alone is the person who leaves
everybody else alone, and even Robinson Crusoe
gave up doing that when man Friday arrived on
the scene.
Low Duties Favor Monopolies.
The Australian managers for the Nestle and the
Anglo-Swiss Condensed Co. appeal against any
higher Protection being granted to the condensed
milk industry. As they are about to invest some
three or four hundred thousand pounds in an
Australian factory, this protest seems an over-
whelming argument against higher duties. But
it will not stand investigation. There are not
many Australian condensed milk factories, and
there will be fewer still if the duties are lowered.
That will be good for the rich and powerful
Nestle’s Co. High Protection means strong in-
ternal competition, and consequently low prices
to the consumer. Low duties mean little or no in-
ternal competition, and the aggrandisement of the
local firm with big financial resources to enafile it
to tide over the periods when the market is glutted
with the dumped surplus goods of other markets.
The big firm maybe able for a little while to
“corner” supplies of raw material in a highly-
protected country, but immediately it forces
prices up unduly, its business will be attacked
by either a crowd of small compet: lors or a
combination of small men putting up sufficient
capital to acquire land on which to produce
their own raw material. The Foreign-trader
is never weary of pointing to the big Trusts
of the U.S.A. as an example of the maleficent
effects of High Protection, but he carefully sup-
presses the fact that grinding monopolies also
exist in Freetrade Britain. There is not one
really big Trust in the U.S.A. which owes
its existence to High Protection. Many of them
started before the States had High Protection.
One and all, they were built up on the advantages
accruing from secret and illegal rebates from the
privately-owned railroads. That is what made
them and what maintains them, and once that
support is knocked away the whole Trust structure
of the U.S.A. falls to the ground, for the iron-
clad U.S. tariff would encourage a thousand com-
petitors to start up at once when there was a
chance of a fair field. The great corporation mag-
nates of the U.S.A. are mostly Freetraders who
want to do away with the high duties. It they
could get rid of the tariff they would be secure
against the bugbear of local competition. Since
the introduction of the pipe-line system of con-
veving petroleum the Standard Oil Trust is losing
ground, and the big Steel Trust is compelled to
keep its prices fairly low to prevent the inde-
pendent mills making headway. The people who
have built up the enormous business of Nestle s
plead for low duties, because they hope to get a
monopoly in Australia. But that’s not what the
Australian people want.
-
The Negligibleness of G- Reid.
Recent pitiable fiascoes in Sydney in regard to
anti-tariff demonstrations suggest other things
besides the decent interment of Freetrade. One
is the possibility that opens up of G. Reid being
now more than ever willing to seize the High
Commissionership, if it should drift his way;
another, the rank foolishness of letting it drift
his way under existing circumstances. Three
years back, a two-line advt. in an evening
paper stating that G. Reid intended to speak that
night in Sydney Town Hall on any subject,
from the situation in Madagascar to the re-
lation of State Frights to the declining birth-
rate problem, would have filled the building to the
passages. The other day, the combined cash and
clamorings of three-fourths of the importers in
this State failed to drag enough citizens from
their homes to take from the Town Hail
the semblance of some vast family vault;
and that, despite the fact that the show
was free. One plain reason for the frost
is the fact that the local burgesses are utterly sick
of their G. Reid. It has dawned on them, once
and for all, that the Ma State’s anti-Socialist and
anti-Protection champion isn’t really anti-anything
much ; but only pro-G. Reid. In the next East
Sydney contest the odds are all m favor ot a
National candidate beating G. Reid out of sight;
a happening the last election plainly forecasted.
So G. Reid is looking for a handy hole to crawl
into. But it is not the use that the most important
Civil Service post of the Commonwealth should be
put—that of providing a refuge for a man
who has been the most cruel and persistent
of Australia’s slanderers. G. Reid in London,
as representative of the Commonwealth,
would be a national calamity. He stands
for the negation of everything Australian.
He hasn’t a solitary achievement he can P 01D "
with any satisfaction in the Federal arena ; and
a score of errors and dreadful misjudgments stand


to his discredit there. Just as he is the
standing joke of this hemisphere, so he would
be the standing joke of any other hemi-
sphere. Even if the deplorable assumption
put forward by the morning dailies be granted,
that the High Commissionership is a sop to be
chucked by the Government at the first menacing
dog about the Parliamentary premises, it doesn’t
help G. Reid’s case at all—when the same is pro-
perly regarded. He has dropped into the “ quite
harmless” class.
«
White Divers.
Randolph Bedford writes from Thursday
Island :
Here at Thursday Island I read in London Daily
Mirror that “pearls have gone up 75 per cent, in the
last five years ” ; and, having read that statement, I look
around this lonely outpost of the white man, and come
to the conclusion that the white man would not greatly
benefit if pearls were to go up 750 per cent, in the next
12 months, for shell-getting is almost absolutely given
over to the Japs. The white men of Torres know the
Jap, and therefore they were pro-Russian to a man
during the war ; so they are not sticking to the Jap
because they love him, but because they cannot get
white divers.
Yet the one objection to the use of white men as
divers and tenders has been removed. In the days of
the floating station a man might be rocking about in a
drunken lugger for two months without a break, and
that monotony was soul-destroying co the high-grade
white man. But the floating stations have been abol-
ished, land stations taking their place ; and, with the
frequent trips ashore, the game is good for the Austra-
lian, and exceedingly profitable, if the earnings of Jap
divers be taken as a standard.
The industry is now practically controlled by Japs,
who are unreliable and thieves, working all possible
points against tne owners. The divers and tenders being
thieves, the white fleet-owners are compelled to allow the
Japs all pearls discovered—buying them back with good
cash. In addition, the boat-owner pays the diver £BO a
ton for all shell ; and, further, the white man finds boats,
diving gear, and repairs of boats and gear, depending for
his profit on what he can get for shell over the £BO he
pays, and what profit he can get on the trading in pearls.
The Jap has to pay crews’ wages and food bill ; if he
illicitly sells the shell to another shell-buyer, the
owner gets nothing for his boats and gear, and
is further liable by law for the wages and food of
the crew. In the event of the Jap getting no shell the
white man faces the same kind of loss, wag'es and pro-
visions being first charge on owners. One of the princi-
pal fleet-owners of Torres tells me that for four years he
has been steadily losing, and only the vested interests
of gear and boats keep him in the business. Now Aus-
tralia wants to keep him engaged in shelling, because he’s
Australian and he’s white, and if he is beaten out the
Japs will have the trade, lock, stock and barrel. As the
owner gets shell and no pearls, the boat tenants work
on the eastern side of Lang Island and the Warrior Reef,
seeking pearls more than shells.
Japs are still being indented, and there is good reason
why more Japs should want to come to Thursday on the
same lay. It’s a slouch of a Jap diver who doesn’t make
£3OO a year nett. One Jap diver has made £l2OO in a
year. The beche-de-mer fishing is in the same hands ;
they may make a bid for the tenancy of the new Federal
trawler yet. Two Japs working the Reef with 10 Binghis
(Cape York aboriginals) have netted £BOO for eight months
of this year. My informant knows, because he sold £l5OO
worth of fish for them.
Surely the State Government will do something to
bring back these jobs to white hands by at least issuing
no further licenses to aliens—withdrawing existing'
licenses as white men come to take the places. If white
divers and tenders were available, owners would be pre-
pared to give half the gross value of the pearls, and, in
addition, pay the boats on the lay of shell. Once white
divers have been secured, white tenders will follow, and,
if necessary, white crews also. To compass this consider
the proposition of the pearler hereinbefore mentioned.
He says that the solution of the Jap trouble is for the
State Governments to send picked and willing reforma-
tory boys—notably some boys of the Sobraon, who have
already the theory of sailoring*—to Torres Straits to be
trained as divers. It would be necessary for the Queens-
land Government to provide a training school in Torres
Straits, in charge of a white diver as instructor of diving
under local conditions. The cost would soon be wiped
out with the results of the more or less amateur diving,
and the pupils would be sure of engagement just as soon
as their ability had been certified.
Here is a matter which cannot be objected to by the
State Frights party, although it emphasises the national
belief in a White Australia. The Jap is overrunning - the
Malay States, the Dutch Settlements, and the Philip-
pines ; by the adoption of this scheme, w'hich would
empty many of the little brown thieves out of Australia,
both the ideal of the nation and the industry of a State
would benefit.
*■
Wages Boards and Land Boards.
Justice Higgins, of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, is battling hard with some problems
in Melbourne. The Victorian Factories Act and
the Wages Board system don’t help him
much, because, under them, wages are not
fixed according to what is fair and reasonable, but
according to what “reputable employers” pay;
and even “reputable employers” don’t always
pay fair and reasonable wages. The Judge,
therefore, struggles to fix a fair wage by
ascertaining the cost of living ; and it is just about
as hard to find what the cost of living is as it is to
find what a reasonable wage is—it costs some
men ten thousand pounds a year to live, and others
it costs ten thousand pence. “There you are,”
thereupon says the anarchist Tory ; “see, it can’t
be done—you can’t fix wages.” Yet the
anarchist Tory does much the same thing himself
when he fixes rent. And the State has for years
done the thing that is alleged to be impossible.
In N. S. Wales and in almost every other State
there are Land Boards, part of whose business it
is to fix rents of public lands ; and the question
they have to ask themselves is “How much can
these people afford to pay for the use of this land ?”
The rents (and consequently the net earnings) of
all sorts of holdings, from the biggest squattages
down to the smallest special leases, are assessed
on that system. And yet there is no guiding
rule. Land Boards have never yet discovered or
invented a rule bv which anyone can measure off
rental values of public lands; and it isn’t at all
likely that Wages Boards will discover or invent
either a machine or a schedule for measuring the
wage value of workmen. But still Land Boards
go on appraising lands and fixing rents, and there
isn’t any reason why Arbitration Courts should
not go on appraising men and fixing wages, even
though a scale can’t be drawn up or a hard and
fast basis laid down.
o-
Labor and Local Government.
Though the new system of local government, as
affecting the municipalities, comes into existence
in N. S. Wales in January, 1908, there is as yet
no organised movement in the Labor ranks to
reach out for a fair share of the control of the
civic housekeeping. Nothing like the powers
given to the local bodies in Section 109 have ever
been available in Australia before; and as these
principally concern the health, recreation, and
food of the working classes and their
wives and children, the Labor party ought
to make a start to organise and educate.
If the party is looking for “Socialism in our
time,” Section 109 allows the councils, if they
like, to own and manage water and sewerage,
ferries and punts, fire brigades, sale yards and
slaughter houses, markets, garbage destructors,
baths, gas, electricity, hydraulic power, night,
shelters, art galleries, museums, public libraries,
public gardens, parks, bands and orchestras.
Councils can resume land, and rearrange and
beautify their cities ; they can (this is important)
establish and manage infants’ milk dephts, which
will do more for population in Australia by saving
the infrequent baby than all the immigration
agencies, judging by their present results. This
seems a fairly comprehensive slice of “ Socialism
in our time.” The Act provides, too, that such
works shall be carried out on a strictly commer-
cial basis, so that the finance of the municipal
ownership shall not be an object of derision.
The Labor bodies could make Greater Sydney
and Newcastle a live question in 24 hours,
and thus try to cure the confusion which exists
in city government, and which perpetuates
the awful slummage which ought to have
been destroyed 20 years ago, and the dreadful
quarters in which working men and their wives
and children are compelled to live and die. So
far, there is absolutely no sign of any great
organised movement on the part of Labor to
shove its oar into N.S.W. municipal politics, yet
there is no place in which the shoving of that
marine implement might do more good.
♦
The Unclean Fruit-Grower.
A quaint deputation interviewed Yic. Minister
of Agriculture Swinbuene lately, and got con-
siderable dissatisfaction for its trouble. It con-
sisted of three men from Queensland and one
from N.S.W., who had been members of the
recent Fruit-growers’ Conference in Adelaide,
and who now wanted to argue about the restric-
tions that Victoria places on the importation of
diseased fruit. The Bananaland delegates were
there mostly as a matter of form, but the Ma
State man was on business. Fruit from districts
that had been clean hitherto, he held, should not
be inspected at all; the Victorian charges were
disgracefully high (the Queenslanders made no
complaint); the prohibition of sending fruit by rail
was most iniquitous, and the quarantining of
orchards where diseased fruit was grown was a
perfect outrage. Swinbuenb listened patiently,
and then asked this indignant person if he had
been on the wharf and seen the rubbish that
the Ma State dumped in Melbourne at
times. “We sent some of this mullock
back to Sydney,” said the Minister, “and
asked your Government why it allowed such stuff to
be shipped. Your Government said there was no
Act to stop it—though the Commerce Act (a
Federal measure) would stop its being sent to
Maoriland.” This retort would have quietened
most men, but the Ma State grower was tough.
He said that, anyhow, the quarantining of
infected orchards was shameful, and added that
“ the bulk of the Cumberland (N.S.W.) growers
were ready to do anything to square acccounts
with Victoria.” Then Swinbubne broke loose :
If N. S. Wales wants to do anything unfriendly she
must just do it. We have drastic laws for our own
growers, and you have none. If fruit fly is found in a
Victorian orchard, that orchard is quarantined and an
inspector placed therein at the expense of the owner.
Why do you object to our applying the same laws to you
that we do to ourselves?. . . The Queensland growers
keep their oranges for seven days before shipping, to see
that no fruit fly develops—will you do that?
Knowing that the N.S.W. fruit-growers—in the
old, dirty districts especially—are not prepared
to do anything, unless they are driven to it, the
man from Sydney answered that he couldn’t say
that they would. Whereupon Swinbuene con-
tinued —
It seems to me the N.S.W. growers will not stir a hand
to help themselves. They care neither for themselves nor
their neighbors.
And that was all the satisfaction the Sydney
grower got. He had turned up to tell Swinbuene
that he and Victoria ought to be ashamed of
themselves, and Swinbuene had backed him into
a corner and pointed out to him that he repre-
sented a shiftless crowd who were spoiling even
the Victorian market for their own goods. Also,
Swinbuene asked his visitor to observe that the
N.S.W. Government was apparently just as
shiftless as the growers, and didn’t seem to care
what sort of a reputation they got for themselves
and N. S. Wales. Whether the Ma State repre-
sentative has yet reported the result of that inter-
view to his brethren who were “ ready to do any-
thing to square accounts with Victoria ’’ hasn’t
transpired ; but, if he reports it faithfully, it
ought to do them some good.
Some Plain Questions.
Beigadiee-Coepoeal Neild has struck an idea,
and makes a bill of it for the Senate. He is going
to settle the industrial problem in six clauses.
Net profits shall be cut up this way : (1) 5 per
cent, as interest to the employer ; (21 5 per cent,
as sinking fund to the same party'; (3) half of
what’s left over to employer and employee in
equal whacks. If there is a loss, then the amount
shall go forward as a debit. The Bulletin hates
to throw tacks on anybody’s cycle-path to Para-
dise, but—
(l) What are net profits?
(2) Does the brigadier propose to fix the boss’s wages ?
If not, how is he going to prevent “ profit ” going in boss’s
wages ?
(3) When one concern goes bung, what is the colonel
going to debit that loss to?
(4) Old-established Anthony Hordern, having probably
a few tens of thousands to distribute under the major’s
Bill, will get the pick of the men. So right through.
How does he reckon the beginner, who hasn’t any profits
to distribute, will get on ?
(5) Does the drummer really think a man only ought to
get about one-third as much for working in the Hades at
the 4000 ft. level of an unprofitable Bendigo mine as
another gets for working in the Broken Hill Prop. ?
Still, The Bulletin applauds the warrior’s desire
to give the Australian workman good wages. Of
course he will now fight all he knows for a high
tariff, so that the Australian workman’s wages
won’t be cut down by Jap and other cheap-labor
competition. It would be a very mad major who,
having said that workmen shall get half the
profits, then votes for something that prevents
profits.
The Situation in Victoria.
State politics in Victoria are in a bad way. The
people have no leader, and there is a drift
from bad to worse. The Bent Government
has no policy but that of buying lands at
boom prices, and passing them over to farmers
foolish enough to be caught with dear
land, when cheap land might be made avail-
able. The State, which has lost 77,068 persons by
excess of emigration since 1891, and continues to
lose its agricultural population, is told by the
Aegus and Bill Knox that it is very prosperous,
and that its dear land of to-day is a sign of
genuine prosperity. The State ’which, out of its
area of 56,245,760 acres, has only 4,269,877 acres
in cultivation, is asked to take seriously a Country
party which also has no policy, nor any remote
idea how agriculture in general is to be revived and
the country districts settled with cultivators. The
State, which has in its local Labor party
the feeblest Opposition ever seen in Victoria, is
asked to take Ben Tillett or Tom Mann and
“The Industrial Workers of the World Union”
as an improvement on Pbendeegast or Biiomley,
or the muddle-headed executives of the Labor
Leagues. So, with Bent, Prendergast, Tom
Mann Bill Knox, Simon Fraser, Judkins,
REN ’ -^ EUBEN Keirl, Grace Watson and
the Women’s League, Victoria is in a woeful
political plight. The Bent party, the Country
Party, the Labor party do not contain a member
who has revealed any sign of being able to show
Victoria the way to agricultural prosperity. The
Lands administration is as bad as ever, if not worse.
Minister Mackey runs about to tea meetings and
bazaars in his constituency, and in the intervals
makes inspections of tourists’ resorts, while the
principal travellers are the departing agricul-
turists who can’t find decent land in a country
where there are miles of it in the occupation of a
few sheep. Saohse still performs to his own
complete satisfaction at the Education Depart-
ment upon his German pianos. Prendergast
presides at meetings where Ben Tillett talks of
“ bloodshed ” and revolution, and provides good
copy for the Argus and for Anti-Sosh at the next
elections. The skeleton Labor Leagues are sitting
with closed doors, the branches often consisting of
two men, one woman, and a dog, and the two men
jealously watch each other to see which will get
the vote of the woman and the dog. These Labor
leagues sit on top of a programme of land reform
which few of them do anything to advance. No
public meetings are ever called. The aim of the
average executive seems to be to send its members
into Parliament. (At the last elections every
member of the head executive was a candidate.)
The only other aim of many of them is to prevent
practical land reform and the development of the
State by land settlement, because Tom Mann has
told them that this is a capitalistic conspiracy,
which would block the arrival of the millennium.
Against this rubbish Prendergast is afraid to
speak out. It ail makes up a deplorable situation.
♦
Gaoled for Debt.
Isn’t it about time that it ceased to be a Cardinal
Principle and a Holy Palladium of Property that
the man who owes money shall be sent to gaol ?
There is a vague sort of notion that since the Jew
money-lender ceased to shut up his victims in
the Fleet, imprisonment for debt has stopped,
but as a matter of fact both English and Aus-
tralian gaols are full of people whose crime is
that they haven’t Paid Up. The debtors who
were imprisoned in England and Wales in 1906
were 11,986, as against 11,405 in 1905, and during
its last session the House of Commons resolved
that the power of committing to prison for
non-payment of debts ought to be re-
stricted. Australia has nothing like these
figures in proportion, though there are little
batches of “debtors ” scattered throughout every
State’s prison returns. But parallel with im-
prisonment for debt is imprisonment for the non-
payment of a fine. In one case, the prisoner owes
money to a private person ; in the other, he owes
it to the community ; and the community is mer-
ciless unless the debtor can meet its demand with
cash down. In New South Wales, last year,
6853 persons went to gaol because they couldn’t
pay their fines. Although 1327 of them were
able, under the Justices Act, to pay £2387, and
so be relieved of the 14,100 days which they would
otherwise have had to spend in gaol, the other
5526 “took it out,” at much cost to the com-
munity. On this subject Captain Neitenstein,
prison comptroller-general, reports :
As in former years, the vast majority of those under
sentence found themselves in gaol, not so much for com-
mitting offences as because they did not pay the fines
imposed upon them. Of 8810 summary convictions, 6853
were received for non-payment of fines —rather more than
three out of four. During the last five years nearly 40,000
persons owed their imprisonment to this cause. I cannot
help thinking that this indicates there is unnecessary
gaoling. . . . The granting of longer time to pay, or pay-
ing by instalments, would possibly decrease the' number
of prisoners, and prevent the loss of employment follow-
ng upon imprisonment.
The worst use you can put a man to is to hang
him. The second worst is to put him in gaol. He
earns no money ; the State pays his keep ; and he
loses his job; so that he is an unproductive citizen
for much longer than the term of his sentence.
Seeing that the private creditor has to exercise a
long succession of forbearances before he lands his
debtor inside iron bars, the State creditor
needn’t be in such a hurry to lock him up. Or, if
it does, it ought to lock up the Water Trusts and
the Shire Councils and the land lessees who owe
it arrears of rent. One debtor should not be
gaoled more enthusiastically than another. The
worst point about the present system is that the
importer who diddles the Customs pays his fine
and goes home in a motor-car, while the boozer
who has broken a pub window, in the gladness of
his heart, goes to quod for a fortnight; and comes
out to find another man filling his job.
That typical squatter and land-grabber, Moles-
worth R. Greene, of Bacchus Marsh (Vic.), is
again giving trouble. Beyond Greene’s land, in
the shires of Bacchus Marsh and Wyndham, dwell
some score of settlers, at Anakie. Their nearest
and practically only market is “ the Marsh,” but
to reach that they have to make a detour of many
miles because Greene won’t allow a road to be
made through his property—even though the
council be willing to pay for it. Wyndham
council lately asked the Government to compul-
sorily open a track through Greene’s kingdom,
and it did so ; but as Bacchus Marsh council de-
clines to follow suit as regards its part of the
territory, the road is a mere blind lane, stopping
up against one of Greene’s fences. Greene
happens to be a member of Bacchus Marsh
council, and of course the local grovellers don’t like
to offend the big squatter, and apparently
the Government doesn’t want to force matters.
Tne land-grabber seems to be much the same the
world over, and one begins to understand why
they drive cattle away in Ireland, and why an
occasional Russian land monopolist adorns the limb
of a tree. Australia isn’t going to follow either
of those examples, but it is going to attack the
grabber with a land-tax that will burst up estates
like this of Greene’s ; and Greene’s cantankerous-
ness is simply sharpening the wedge.
There doesn’t seem to be any royal road to the
top of the “foorce” in N. S. Wales; the man
with the gigantic intellect may get there about 24
hours sooner than anybody else, but it looks as
though he has to depend chiefly upon treading
‘ ‘ the bate” assiduously for a given number of years.
At December 31, 1906, there were three Ist class
Superintendents, and the kid among them,
Larkins, took 39 years to climb to the dizzy
height. Saunders, the lower-class superintend-
ent with the swiftest record, had been 21 years
before he got out of the inspector’s job and was
given charge of a district. Probably, when men
look at that sort of history, either they don’t enter
the force, or they leave it as soon as they begin to
suspect themselves of intellect. The detective
branch might be expected to give a chance to the
odd genius who sticks to the business; but if genius
is there it doesn’t look as though it got promoted
on the strength of being genius. There are only
three men in the criminal investigation branch
who haven’t had to crawl laboriously from one
constable’s stripe to another, and it has taken
as much as 13 years for some of them to climb to
the rank of even a senior-constable. And a record
of that kind proves one of two things : either the
detective isn’t chosen for his brains, or the police
force takes a long time to recognise brains.
♦
The S. M. Herald still cries bitterly for the re-
demption of the promise made by ex-Premier
Carruthers to abolish the tax on incomes
“earned by personal exertion.” Joseph’s assur-
ance was that the income earned by personal
exertion would go free, while the one derived
from invested money would still be taxed. And
Wade boggles over the matter, to the Herald’s
huge disgust. The “ personal exertion ” idea, as
defined by Carruthers, is a quaintly invidious
affair. Theoretically the £50,000 or so per annum
which the S. M. Herald proprietors draw from
their paper, and the big sums earned by the
Evening Hews, would go free ; those papers
are family affairs, and their profits are
supposed to represent the enormous personal
exertions of the Fairfaxes and the Bennetts.
On the other hand the Australian Star is a
company, therefore the miserably small return it
occasionally yields to its shareholders would
be taxed ; that microscopic dividend comes from
invested capital. The Telegraph, being a com-
pany, would also have its profits taxed, but if one
man bought up all the shares and converted it
into a private concern it would become exempt.
No wonder Premier Wade prances anxiously
round and round the scheme, and looks at it with
the eye of the doubter.
♦
Seymour Ransom, the New York World’s
Mexican correspondent, recently told this amazing
yarn of how the Monkey swings in that part of
the world :
Nine thousand veteran Japanese soldiers are now in
north-western Mexico. Each group is commanded by
skilled commanders, who saw service in the Russo-
Japanese war.
Thirty thousand Japanese, the vast majority of whom
are veterans of the Russian campaigns, are in the south-
western sections of the United States and Lower Cali-
fornia. Three Japanese generals, who held high rank in
the Russo-Japanese war, have been in Mexico for three
months. They dress like Mexican rancheros, and are
ostensibly buying land.
The Trans-Oceanic Immigration Co., whose vice-presi-
dent is T. Hinata, a member of the Japanese Parliament,
is subsidised by the Jap Government to bring Japs to
Mexico. They have been coming into Mexico at the rate
of 800 per month.
In case of war, the plan is for the Jap fleet to sail up
the Gulf of California, capture the fort of Guayinas, and
use the State of Sonora as a base against the United
States. This plan will practically duplicate the opera-
tions against Russia, when Japan seized Korea at the
outbreak of the war.
Japan in her war with the United States will despoil
the territory of Mexico, which has no navy, just as she
did that of Korea in the war with Russia.
One Japanese immigration co. alone has brought 4000
immigrants to Mexico within six months. Sixty per
cent, of these have “jumped” their contracts. Others
are leaving by the thousand, all bound for North-Western
Mexico. The Japanese Legation here promptly advises
all immigrants on arrival that their contracts, made
in Japan, are not binding, and warns them not to sign
contracts in Mexico embodying identical terms as those
made in Japan.
Immigration cos. admit that they are steadily losing
money, and when asked why they continue the business,
say they hope sometime to make it pay. They deny
that the cos. are subsidised and directed by the Japanese
Government, though admitting that high jap officials are
backing the enterprise.
The Mexican Government is aware of what is going on,
but is powerless. Mexico can’t protest because of her
treaty with Japan, which contains a clause enabling Japs
of all classes to enter Mexico without restriction.
With an army of 30,000 or 40,000 veterans in North-
western Mexico and the South-western United States,
the Japs, according to military experts here, will mass on
the American border a force that will enable her to
attack successfully Western Texas and California. This
force is expected to form a nucleus of forces to be landed
by Japan on the Pacific coast of the U.S. and Mexico, to
later co-operate with her navy in seizing and holding
territory.
♦
Some of these days N. S. Wales will strike a sen-
sible Railway Commissioner, who will get a few
slices of country in the Eastern Division set apart
as nurseries for railway sleepers. This ought to
have been done before, because the sawmiller and
the timber-getter don’t trouble about the future
supply of sleepers. If sleepers are not wanted—
well, they cut the stuff up for something else.
They do this till there is nothing but firewood
left, and often mighty poor firewood at that.
Many of the American railway companies are
planting forests, and—the irony of it—they are
principally raising Australian hardwoods; so, if
these States don’t do something pretty soon, the
chances are that in a few years the Australian
railways will be buying Australian hardwoods
from Jonathan.
Having taken a turn for the better, and being
now a place where it is fairly safe to lend a man a
trifle on the joint security of his job and his furni-
ture, Brisbane is overrun with money-lending
sharks, who are flooding the suburbs with hand“-
bills and personal appeals to come into the
spider’s parlor. The public servants are getting
special attention—fine flies to get into the web, as
a rule, for being in the web they will put up with
any extortion rather than risk exposure. The
spider that says it is the cheapest spider in
Brisbane publishes its rates, and owns up
to 30 per cent. ; and when a money-
lending spider owns up to 30 per cent., he
doesn’t know his business if he can’t somehow
twist it into 50 per cent, before the front door of
the web is opened, and the dried shell of the
victim is thrown into the street. N.S.W. now
possesses an Act which subjects extortionate bar-
gains to review; but even that doesn’t do all that
is necessary, because the victims of the worst
extortion are nearly always the people who are
least likely to demand public review. The Vic-
torian civil servant has done something practical
for himself by establishing a sort of glorified
pawnshop—he wisely calls it a Credit Bank—in
connection with the Civil Service Stores ; and the
next step past that is the municipal pawnshop or
“ Monty Peet.”
■<►
Bung has far too much influence in Queensland
politics, and it was good to see him and the Labor
party fall out the other evening; for now the
Labor party may have its suspicions of him.
Clause 20 of the Shops and Factories Bill provided
53 hours a week for hotel employees; but E. B.
Forrest drove in an amendment to make it 60, and
backed it up by petitions from hotel employees.
The similarity of the petitions was amazing.
The Government’s nose wasn’t, however, keen, so
it accepted the amendment; but Bowman, for the
Labor side, wouldn’t stand it. He was defeated,
but his fight stiffened the back of the Govern-
ment, and when Forrest came along with another
amendment, cutting out barmaids from the benefit
of the section which says that an employee’s
working day shall not be stretched further than 14
hours, Ministers shut down, and left Forrest,
Philp, and only 11 others on the side of long-hour
sweating.


Twenty Tyree Rabbit Destroyers will save
the landowner £5 10s. per day in labor alone.
The machines are being sent out on the no-cure-
no-pay principle. Results of the tests now being
conducted by leading pastoralists will be published
in a few days. For further particulars, write
Tyree Ltd., 314 George Street, Sydney.*
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jordan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
D
C
Bar IT
Siffsifiri
r
Esteb.
1818.
By Special Appointment to
■ Jiis-MajestyThe King.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ The Female Swindler.”
Theatre Royal “Brewster’s Millions.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Blue Moon.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Bijou “ The Rogues of the Turf.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Olympia Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
*
Than “ Brewster’s Millions ” the Sydney
stage has exploited no more whimsical notion
since the days when Pastor Jefferis preached
his famous sermons in Pitt-street, on the blessings
of poverty and the weariness of wealth. Brewster,
one of the Seven Little So-#? of the Rich, drops in
for £200,000; and just when he has made good
resolutions, and arranged to be a faithful steward,
who will add talent to talent, and leave £400,000
behind him, the family lawyer appears with a
proposition. In short, Brewster is heir to
£2,000,000 on condition that by the next Septem-
ber he has honestly and legitimately “blued ” the
first £200,000 without indulging in undue
riot or philanthropy. Of course, Brewster
has resolved that it would be much easier to be a
wise and faithful cent, per cent, steward by
getting in a wife and saving the wages of a house-
keeper, and the lawyer has arrived just when he
is proposing to the right “ Peggy ; ” and the neces-
sary love interest is provided by the condi-
tion that in the race for the two millions there
shall be “no matrimonial entanglements”;
Therefore, temporarily dropping his Peggy, a
melancholy Brewster sets out to get rid of £200,000
in a few months, pledged, moreover, to let no soul
know the nature of his contract. “Brewster’s
Millions,” as played for the first time in Aus-
tralia at the Royal, Sydney, on Saturday night, is
really this story of the young man’s fierce and
desperate struggle to unload £200,000 against
time. The play is mainly a succession of
incidents in the struggle —unconnected items
in the bill that he slaves day and night
to pile up against himself. He takes the other
Little Sons of the Rich into his service, but he
dare not take them also into his confidence. They
expostulate, they plead ; they try to save him
from the ruin they can plainly see he is bringing
upon himself. They pull some of his choicest
money-losing enterprises out of the fire ; they
wear him to a shadow battling against good in-
tentions. In despair one comes from his desk in
the next room and hands in his resignation.
Brewster calls a typewriter, and dictates a reply
to be sent by telegraph. Finally, when the goal
is just in sight, and Brewster is left with £40,000
and about two days to spend it in, they decide
that he is mad, and put him under lock and key.
This is on a yachting trip. But Peggy releases
him in time to let him run up a flag of distress,
which costs him the £40,000 for salvage.
* * * *
It is a play with no other purpose than to
be amusing, and the main idea assures its
success from that point of view. The dialogue is,
nevertheless, no match for that main idea. There
is no sparkle in it. Yet the succession of
struggles sustains the interest. Thomas King-
ston, as Brewster, takes a long jump into comedy,
and is undoubtedly assisted by the character of
the piece. For the piece can be a success without
the dainty handling which Robert Brough
associated with comedy. You don’t feel that the
atmosphere is wrong, even when it is filled with
melodramatic tempestuousness. In fact, “ Brew-
ster’s Millions ” is melodrama, or a score of little
melodramas, leading to a comedy conclusion.
And, just as in melodrama, the stage-carpenter
becomes at times of supreme importance. There
is the yacht and storm-at-ocean scene, for instance
—it must recall to Kingston what he went through
nightly in the scanty robes of Parsifal. A very
striking piece of stage management this yacht
scene is, by the way, although the gentlemen who
are responsible for the roll of ocean might, with
advantage, see that they don’t so badly outpace
the roll of the ship.
* * * *
Mrs. Robert Brough got back to the public
that likes her so much ; and long before a garden
of flowers was laid at her feet, after the fourth
act, she could have been in no doubt as to the real
warmth of her public’s attachment. Unfortunately
there is not enough of Mrs. Brough between the
glad welcome and this garden scene. She is
Peggy’s chaperon; and both Peggy and the
chaperon are pushed further into the background
than they deserve to be by the “ no-matrimonial-
entanglements ” provision in the Brewster bene-
fice. But she gets every ounce of meaning out of
what lines she has. Lily Titheradge, the best
“ Little Vagabond” that ever was, came back to
the stage to play Peggy, and the part somehow
fell flat. Yet it seems a case for generous
encouragement, for Miss Titheradge lias done
much too good work to be lightly sacrificed now.
None of the others filled any large space in the
picture, but it can’t be said, anyhow, that any one
of them was a blot; the principals got valuable sup-
port from G-regan McMahon, V. Edwards, Miss
Calvin, and others.
* * * *
As a play, “ The Female Swindler ”
revived after a term of years at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night—may be said to
baffle comment. It gets Criticism down, and
smothers it beneath a heavy dead-weight of
improbability. The writer has been, theatrically
speaking, through considerable trouble of late
years. He has seen “ The Face at the Window,”
and heard G. Reid in the throes of an Anti-Sosh
Jeremiad; also, Wagner as interpreted by a
German Opera Co. Yet always, hitherto, when
safe aboard the home-bound tram,, he has found
some coherent observation to offer concerning the
just-witnessed show. But “ The Female Swind-
ler ” leaves coherence dead on the field.
Jack Coulson is a Man, an Englishman
and a Criminal Investigator. He shadows Lu Val-
roy (otherwise Miss Darwin, the Female Swindler)
and Geoffrey Warden, alias Capt. Stanton (“As
bad as they make’em ”). Coulson, when he took to
detecting, missed, his vocation: he should have been
a Revivalist. With his voice and manner and lofty
code of ethics he must have done big things in the
revival line ; as a crime prophylactic he is dread-
ful. Lu and the captain are willing malefactors
enough, but rather more futile in their chosen
calling than Coulson is in his. Each act
sees some utterly impracticable deed of deviltry
essayed by the Lu-Warden combine: Each
one of the three efforts is frustrated by somebody,
and Coulson is always there or thereabouts at the.
time, though he never does anything much beyond'
looking picturesque and purposeful ; nor over-
runs the guilty brace in under any circumstances.
Immediately after each of these fiascoes either (1)
Coulson shoots Stanton, or (2) Stanton shoots Coul-
son. Then in the following act Coulson and Lu
and Stanton are all discovered on calling terms
once more, and the action of the drama proceeds.
Here we have a curious sidelight thrown on
the social habits of the Britisher. In the suburb
wherein The Bulletin abides, if one neighbor
calls on another and, in the course of discussion,
shoots him or her in the stomach —or even in the
leg—a coldness arises, and the families don’t visit
for a while. Not so, evidently, in the Old Country,
which must be warmer of heart than it is painted.
In Act IV., Coulson arises from the couch of
sickness to which he has been relegated as a
result of having to digest one of Stanton’s bullets,
and proceeds to the latter’s chambers. Stan-
ton (who has a Coulson projectile embedded
in him somewhere) materialises, and discharges
six cartridges at the Investigator, missing every
time. Then he stuns the latter with a fender, secs
the chambers on fire, and flits through the roof.
This is past a joke ; Coulson, thoroughly annoyed,
gets up, leans through a flame-festooned window,
and plugs the departing captain dead as any anti-
tariff rally—the first bull’s-eye achieved by either
marksman out of about 72 shots. Then Coulson
marries the Female Swindler, and goes behind to
remove his grease-mint.
* * # *
Miss Duggan plays Lu. Deftly does she
suggest the sort of female for whom circumstances
have proved over-strong, but who through all her
tribulations has contrived to retain that most
priceless of stage assets, a Womanly Heart. Lu is,
in fact, one of those lovable creatures (common
enough in the great world) who will cheat furiously
at Patience, and thereafter donate whatever
winnings chance to accrue, to the indigent Liberal
League organiser round the corner. George Cross
(Coulson) and Lawrence Dunbar (Stanton) divide
honors as revolver experts, etc. They are great,
both of the them, not to say prodigious. Bert
Bailey sustains four different characters a
Cockney, a Scotsman, a Lord and a Washer-
woman—and (such is the man’s art) remains Bert
Bailey in all of them. The other parts are well
handled. If “The Female Swindler” doesn’t
boom, it will mean that Sydneyites are grown
degenerate, and have lost the healthy taste for
human gore which has led them to approve this
sort of show in the years that have moulted.
*# * *
Sydney Tivoli bill will undergo some
changes in the course of a few days, when the
clever Hayman and Franklin couple will move on
and leave a large vacancy to be filled by some-
body not yet announced. Meantime they and
Rhodesia, and the Molassos, and La Milo bear
the heat and burden of the applause. La Milo
appears by proxy, as it were, the cinematograph
having played the part of Peeping Tom to the
lady’s Godiva; and he got very little for his
pains—there isn’t, alas ! a blush in the business,
from the first flicker to the last.
** * *
Andrew Mack is in his last nights at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and when Mack sets the
“ Blue Moon ” rises. There is no doubt about
the welcome that awaits the new piece and the
new co., for Sydney has had such a surfeit of
melodrama lately, that anything with a musical
lilt in it will be embraced like a rich relation.
** * *
Her Majesty’s has put on for Carnival
time “The Girls of Gottenberg.” It has all the
jolly makings of success —especially with a laugh-
ter-seeking crowd of sunburned sightseers and
holiday-makers. The staging is fine and the
music has a kick in it. Likewise it has
swing and go and other signs of movement,
and the sentimental melodies have a reminiscent,
familiar sweetness that does not take too much
thinking to assimilate. The scenes are in Gotten-
berg and Rottenberg, and are gold-laced and
military. There are gorgeous and variously-
assorted Hussars —happy Hussars in blue, and
hurrah Hussars in scarlet. There is a Captain in
Lavender, and Lieutenants in Purple. It has
the color of a completely successful black eye.
* * * *
The principal geographical difference be-
tween Rottenberg and Gottenberg • is, that Rot-
tenberg possesses “ just one girl ” (Pressy Preston
has a great old time as the solus girlus), and
Gottenberg has a whole college full of
’em, as well as ordinary-citizen Town Girls
(scorned by the College damsels). The Rot-
tenberg Hussars sigh for girly Gottenberg.
Otto of Saxe-Somewhere, who is a Prince
and also a Lieutenant (and incidentally Roberts),
finds his regiment is ordered to the Girlless
place. He uses valet Lauri as a messenger
—tricks him out as a Captain, and tampers
with the Orders, and manages to damn the Red
Hussars to loneliness instead. Valet-barber Lauri
■ won’t resign his newly-found Captainship and
post as “special envoy from the Emperor” (con-
ferred on him for the moment by Otto Saxe-
Roberts), but orders the arrest of everyone who
stands in his way, and borrows the Colonel’s motor
to dash to Gottenberg. Second act gives the
gold-laced Envoy a tremendous welcome in
the Square at Gottenberg. The College Girls,
dressed as Green Hussars, give him a ballet
welcome with , the gaily-clad Town Girls
capermg in the background. Burgomaster
Bantock and daughter offer him the swagger
suite in the Town Hall, and matters have
a gaudy tinge, until the marching Blue Hussars
arrive, and valet Captain-envoy Lauri begins to
see purple and scarlet. The gradual sorting out
of this, and the transfer of orders, takes time, and
song and dance (which is all right for the audience).
For the sake of more complication, new-College-
Girl Florrie Young, and innkeeper’s-daughter
Fanny Dango change identities—which gives more
song and dance to explain, and since the College
Girls can’t stay outof anything (andtheTown Girls
jealously follow suit) there is still more gorgeous
dance in ballet. There is no lull —just swing and
go all the time. If any of the mummers want to
make love, they are forced to express it in song
and dance —and the song-and-dance is almost
invariably good.
* * * »
It looks as if “The Girls” are likely to
have a good time in Melbourne. Roberts and
Florrie Young are in splendid voice, and someone
has been teaching Roberts to dance. Fan Dango
does not stand out prominently—except in her
dancing, and in that she does not “standout,”
she floats about in subtle, intangible movements.
But the weakness of her voice shows up more than
ever in this strenuous opera. Burgomaster Bantock
spends his time between “bier” and his pipe,
and complains of “always being sent home” by
his daughter. Mackintosh, who has deserted from
Julius Knight’s romance for the gay “Girls,”
makes a satisfactory Colonel of Hussars, and
puts a good voice and easy stage manner into the
part.! Leslie, as a German sauerkraut sergeant,
and Percy, as a mosquito-like town clerk, play
into each other’s hands all night. Nellie Wilson
puts real verve into her captaincy of the College
Girls, and Tilly Woodlock has a most graceful
dance with Captain Albrecht-Crane.
* * # *
“ The Great Rescue,” at the Theatre
Royal, is drawing adoring Bland Holtites in
suffocating crowds to watch Bill Bedford pull
up on the train with his furious motor,
tracking the winged Fortune (since the play
strangely lacks Doc-u-ments to chase). They
go also to say good-bye to Bland. Friday
night sees the close of the season. On Saturday
Meynell and Gunn put on “The Midnight
Wedding,” with Maud McIntosh and Harcourt
Beatty as leads.
* * * *
The opening of out-of-door shows points
to summer (though poets find more trivial indica-
tions, and blaze them out). On Saturday Princes
Court flared its lights, and brass-banded and
showed in a jovial First Night. Its new
open-air rink is the most-rushed attrac-
tion, and the management ran out of roller
skates on Saturday night. There seems to be
much fascination in the cosy nestle in the hollow
of Percy’s arm, rink-rolling under the blinking
stars. Added to the old attractions of Chute and
Toboggan and Haunted Castle, there is a Mule
one may prod (for a consideration), and it bucks.
Simultaneously, St. Kilda burst into a rollicking
First Night; and the Figure Eight now whirls
giddily and Dreamland moons. The Pierrots
arrive later, and the huge Grapholite Rink waits
till Derby night for its roll.
CHAS. J. CARTER, America's Magician.
Opening at the Palace Theatre, Sydney, on
Saturday, November 9, under the manage-
ment of Richard Lesleigh.
Appropriately to the season, Melbourne
Bijou stages “The Rogues .of the Turf”—a
frantically exciting play. A five minutes’ sample :
the gentleman villain breakfasts with the dubious-
looking villains. He grabs a morning paper ; his
expressive facial contortions show disconcerting
news; he mutters. He has backed Forest King
“two to one on the double,” and things don’t
go smoothly. At the moment the waiter an-
nounces the inevitable Woman. Gentleman
rogue dismisses accomplices with a poetic motion
of his hand. Adventuress enters. She’s great
pals with Villain, also with Steve, the
jockey who rides- Forest King ; incidentally, she
is married secretly and severally to most of the
men in the play. G.V. knows this, and springs
the bigamy card suddenly on the poor deep-voiced
lady. She gets all broken up and the GiV. puts a
price on his silence. “Prevent Steve riding
Forest King tp-mprrow !” , “ Impossible,” wails
the grovelling lady. “He could be drunk—
or dead,” suggests the G.V. Horrified eye-play
from the adventuress. ■ “You still have some of
that Indian poison—it leaves no trace,” hisses the
villain insinuatingly. • Tragic and silent uprising
of the Dishevelled One. She stalks to the door,
clasps her bosom hysterically. “Steve shall not
ride to-morrow,” she asserts, and faints. Curtain.
** * *
The Tait Brothers attack Melbourne and
the Athenaeum Hall next Saturday with still more
lengthy cinematograph films. Rolf Boldrewood’s
exciting “Robbery Under Arms” has been put
into continuous moving pictures, and Bushrangers
and their horses will wander over no less than
5000 feet of film. ■
** * «
A carefully-planned coupon system and an
army of ushers are ready for the descent
of the mighty Butt-Rumfords on Melbourne for
Cup week. A concert is in active preparation
for November 7th. An altogether-fresh pro-
gramme was intended, but “ special requests ” are
tumbling so thickly about the delighted ears of
the management that something old will have to
be included. In the meantime, The Colossal shakes
Queensland with her tread.
** * *
The resting Princess’s Theatre blossoms out
on Saturday with a “ Farewell Season of Eighteen
Nights” of theGi’and Royal Opera Company, and
a brand new prima donna, Fraulein Carlotta
Bouche. “ The Flying Dutchman,” “Rigoletto, ”
and “The Marriage of Figaro” are to be added
to the earlier repertoire. “ Lohengrin ”is the
present bill for Saturday night. On V.R.C. Race
nights the management is considerately fixing the
overture for eight o’clock. Supposedly, other
nights will see the usual 7 and 7.30 scramble.
Adelaide Royal has at last got to work
again with “Raffles.” Julius Knight has a fine
part as the amateur who takes wickets all day
and jewellery all night, and he gets into and out
of trouble and grandfather clocks with an engag-
ing manner. Of course the fixed stage convention,
that a hero must not lose the sympathy of the
audience, turns the clever criminal of the book
into an idiotic player of mere practical jokes ; but
that is part of the price to be paid for fitting a
good novel to dramatic ends. The Hippodrome
has turned from the Kelly yarn to yet another
“ Australian drama ” —of bushrangers. Adelaide
theatres are having, in fact, a Carnival of
Crime.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Melb.” : And Bland Holt is going. It is hard for the
company to he disbanded. Here is a curse of theatrical life.
The public has come to share in the companionship of
Bland Holt with his people. Glancing over them, every-
one wall allow that Mrs. Holt has been the life and soul.
Holt has never robbed a comrade of a bit of fat, but yet
the public would insist on making him the central per-
son in every drama, which rather disturbed the balance.
What a tiger for work! Even when rolling in the
doubloons he would often have asked himself if life was
worth living, but for his consuming passion for the form
of art he took up. Miss Ross is quite beloved of the
masses. She has drudged, but how she would rise to a
good part, like that in the Bondman ! Then there is
Harrie Ireland, always neck and neck with her though
playing so much up-hill. Styan has been, perhaps, the
best appreciated of the men. We look back upon Baker
with satisfaction all through, also Norman, that amiable
villain, and the inevitable Charley Brown, and the aspir-
ing Maxwell.
“What is the true chorus-girl beauty?” queried an
enthusiast of half-a-dozen N’York impresarios recently.
“ Billy ” Watson, a recognised expert, who has controlled
hundreds of burlesque shows, made his estimate accord-
ing to weight. “ Two hundred pounders for me,” he said
firmly. “ The more of ’em the better I like ’em. So does
the public. They like to see legs—just legs; but
they don’t want skinny ones, so when I found
that out I thought I would give them what they
wanted. Not so many legs, but a lot of those
I have —that’s my motto.” Plimmer, another well-
known chorus-girl employer, said—“ Jewish girls
make positively the best possible for the business.
I want girls from 25 to 30 years of age, and there are no
women in the world as beautiful as Jewish women at that
age.” Golden, on the other hand, who is a Jew and has
selected choruses for the Shubert management for years
past, plumps for Irish girls. “ They are the only truly
beautiful girls in the world,” he says ; while Siegfeld,
another Yank expert, who is of German extraction, holds
with the French-bred stage-lady every time. But the
basic truth on the subject was delivered probably by Alex.
Carr, as follows : “ What do I calculate the true chorus
girl’s beauty by? Why, by her automobiles.” “But.
wouldn’t you notice her fingers, her eyes, her style V ”
“Unnecessary. I would know she had all those minor
requirements if she possessed a sufficient number of auto-
mobiles.” “ Then, where, in your opinion, do the prettiest
chorus and show girls come from?” “New York,” of
course, was his reply. “Are there not more automobiles
here than any where else ? ” Pressed for a more explicit
description of his ideal chorus girl, the expert answered,
“ Well', she must, of course, have some few' other require-
ments than automobiles. They are, I should say, eighty-
five dollar hat eyes, diamond-studded purse teeth, and an
ermine complexion. And, er —well I guess that’ll be
about all.”
“S.”: My first recollections of “Dorothy” are asso-
ciated with big Alice Barnet and nimble little Billy
Elton, and a baritone w'ho sang “ Queen of my Heart ”
with ringing fervor. I saw' the opera again, the other
night, and came away sympathising with the Old Man.
The Old Man used to say : “ Ah, my boy, theatrical art
is going to the Devil. You have no actors now' as we had
in the days of ” Then came a string of names, from
G. V. Brooke to Harw'ood. In my fine, youthful appre-
ciation I derided all this as the carping of a Has-Was;
now, alas, I want to carp in precisely the same vein. Am
I a Has-Was, too, and was the Old Man right, after all ?
Surely we have nothing- now-a-nights to equal the per-
formance of the original Royal Comics in the days when
Nellie Stewart was vivacious, tuneful, and twenty-two ;
and surely there is a woeful decline in all the branches of
dramatic' work since Brough and Boucicault, including
Titheradge, Anson, Cecil Ward (as Boucicault shaped
him), and the long list of clever women associated with
the co.? The Old Man goes further back to “ Tambour-
Major,” “Les Cloches,” and on to Brooke. Is the de-
generation actual, or is it the trusting simplicity and the
keen appreciation of youth that make every man’s young
day the heyday of art and all things?
The large and gorgeous Baines lady is doing well in
Bananaland with her co.
Bland Holt, although contemplating a long spell, is not
going out of business. His intention is to collect another
company about him in six months’ time. Meanwhile, the
present co. is to be scattered to the four winds. Probably
three or four small touring companies will be formed out
of the ruins of the collection. Actors, actresses, and
members of the business staff, after being associated for
terms ranging over 15 years, are to find themselves under
the necessity of looking for grips. Bland’s strong disin-
clination to part with old hands had its marked effect
on his company Of late years. There w.as need of new
blood where he would not admit it. Loyalty to. tried
friends is not a-paying virtue in a theatrical manager,
who, if he wants to keep abreast of popular taste, must
be prepared to be often new.
“Star”: For envy, hatred, and all uncharitableriess
commend me to the choristers and dancers in musical com-
panies, opera, comic opera, burlesque, or pantomime.
There is not another class in a community like ours
.capable of quite the same malice towards a novice. If
the new girl happens to be pretty and to have a decent
figure, so much the' worse for her —she gets Hades.
Everything that female ingenuity can devise in the way
of nastiness —stopping- short at manslaughter and maim-
ing—is resorted to to make the tyro sorry she entered
into competition with the established favorites. What
inspires the distribution of gall and wormwood is hard to
say, unless the established damsels scent a dangerous
rival in the never-ending competition for the stalled ox
w'ith the diamond rings and. the cham. suppers.
The advertising genius of La Milo and co. blankly
stupefies the ordinary self-advertising mummer. During
her recent British provincial tour, the shapely Pansy got no
less than fourteen pious “Watch ’’Committees to sit on her
charms (figuratively speaking), and report her undraped-
ness as “ more decorous than an art gallery,” etc., with
results that the ordinary sinful baldhead couldn’t get
near for the crush of spectacled, chinless, Bethel-support-
ers who openly rushed to view her kirk-certificated plump-
ness. Pansy, at latest, w'as to repeat her Lady Godiva
ride at London Alhambra in a gorgeous setting.
The “Strong- Man ” business takes strange shapes. The
“turn” of one Reuter, a Chicago (U.S.) “Iron-jawed
Wonder,” runs to the gentle exertion of belting a ten-
inch nail into a plank, supported by two men, then,
gripping it between his teeth, hauling it out again with
hisiaws! ,


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Don’t neglect a cut or wound. Blood
poisoning may result. Apply Chamberlain’s
Jram Balm, and all danger will be avoided.*
The man who forgets is such an ordinary,
every-day kind of nuisance that the fact that he is'a
nuisance is often overlooked, but sooner or later he sin%s
to the position of drawer of corks for the man with a good
memory who sits in purple and fine linen and absorbs
straw-colored fluid out of a shallow glass. And it’s only
a matter of training after all—training which can beo-iii
at any time of life. The Pelman course of memory train-
ing takes half an hour of a man’s spare time daily for five
weeks, after which his memory acts readilv and with
certainty. He no longer loses money because" he forgets
to pick it up. The Pelman School is located at No 3
Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne. The system is
taught through the post, it is based on natural laws is
easily acquired, and the benefit is permanent.* ’ .
“Grapho”; Thus a Riverina (N.S.W.) paper on a
wandering waxworks and variety entertainment: “The
show begins with an exhibition of wax figures represent-
ing pretty well all the distinguished criminals in the
Commonwealth, side by side with the Royal family and
other notorious characters of Great Britain and else-
where.”
Pollard’s Lilliputian Opera Co., re-organised in Mel-
bourne about four months ago, has since been trying it
on the dog, in Queensland ; and as the dog still lives, the
co. left Brisbane, the other day, for foreign parts. Its
first stopping-place will be Manila ; thence it will go to
China, Japan, America. Carrie Moore’s sisters, Eva and
Olive, are with the co., which also includes four juvenile
Pollards.
The infant phenomenon threatens—and Australia leans
supine against a post, and says never a word. Thus the
recent competitions at South-street (Ballarat) brought
forth, in the Champion Recital for Children under 13
class, a boy aged 4) years. He was clad in kharki and
armed with a toy gun and tiny flag-, while his ammuni-
tion was twelve verses of twaddle, in the early Jawbone
Neild manner. The judge made the following painful
remarks re this kid: “ I have never seen anyone, on the
field of battle or in the barracks, who stood more mili-
tary like and more sprightly than our little friend, and
by his g-estures 1 understood-him as thoroughly as any
military commander I have seen.”
Australian mermaid Annette Kellermann is hitting Uncle
Sam hard in his dollar-receptacle. Opening in White
City, Chicago’s big amusement centre, as a side show,
some months ago, Annette’s bronzed charms made the
citv forget its cannibalism. Now the proprietary has
built her a special water palace, electrically lighted, water
and all; and plump Annette remains another eighteen
months to cope with the enthusiastic rush to see her
gambolling like Venus in the foam.
“ Reka ” (M.L.): Great is the resourcefulness of
the man with the Shickergraph machine in the
backblocks. Local conditions hamper him. He
can’t run his show, f’rinstance, if there isn’t
a moon, as no sane people will face the up-
country roads in the dark, and the lunatics never have
any money. Again, his opening hour must eventuate
well after the milkin’. And yet he battles on and makes
money—sometimes. Went last week to one of these
shows in the Waikato. One man did everything ; he
took the money, turned on and off the lights, worked the
engine, and kept a keen eye on the side door allocated
to late comers. First film ran off successfully, and then
three men came in. Showman ran on a picture
of Ned VII. (permanent) and requested all present to
sing “ God Save the King.” They did, and everything
else they could think of, as there was a long argument
between the showman and one of the late comers, who
thought he should be allowed in for 6d., as he had missed
the first film. He finally compromised for 9d. and a penny
stamp, whereupon Niagara Falls swept Edward away.
Then a kid at the door announced that four women and
twelve children had turned back on hearing “ Gor Save,”
thinking the show was over. The showman suspended
Niagara and a man on a tight rope crossing it, and chased
the escaping half-sovereign. Laagered it safely, and
Niagara fell once more. A terrier unearthed a rat just as
the Melbourne Cup started. The horses all stood still,
the crowds in the stands ceased waving, and the animal
pursued his prey. Caught it amidst hideous commotion ;
he and the rat were chucked out together; the
horses started; the crowds waved; and the Mel-
bourne Cup was won. An interval followed, during
which the Oldest Inhabitant, who sat on the front bench,
and the Second Oldest Inhabitant, who sat alongside,
amused themselves and unnerved the audience by setting
fire to each other’s beards. When the machine started
again there was something wrong, and it took to dancing
not the usual quiver, but a giddy hop. Royalty at a
garden party hopped and bounced like rubber balls'.
Balmoral seemed on the verge of an eruption. The
mourners in a melancholy memorial procession skipped
and cakewalked appallingly, and when “ Good-Night ”
appeared on the screen, its antics suggested that we had
been out too late, and had ceased to see things as they
were. The nightly return, if the luck is in, for all this
mental, physical, and material wear and tear averages
about 30s.
“ Melb ”: The Eureka Stockade biograph, at the
Athenaeum, impresses me. It begins with emigrants for
Australia shipping at a London office in 3851. A placard
outside announces the gold discoveries. The people are
quaintly dressed in costumes of the time, the men chiefly
in belltoppers and the women all in bonnets. However
short of the possible the Eureka scenes might be, they
stirred me to the core. Goodenough, the spy, was
effectively introduced, with dramatic touches. A
stockader pursues him to his death, a la Walmotee and
M’Closkey. The Stockade was built in an authentic way.
Then pains had been taken to represent the hiding of the
wounded Lalor, and it was different again to the fancy.
The unveiling of the Lalor Statue, Ballarat, was done
ove r again, with an impromptu shouting crowd. What
tremendous possibilities there are in the biograph !
“Ruru”: The interviewer is the popular actress’s
wmrst enemy. He tears away the ideal character that
admirers weave round her from a distance. The un-
known is always alluring, and when the interviewer has
got through his job there is nothing- unknown about the
popular actress. I always pictured Edna May as a shy,
demure girl, who got into musical comedy through a
mistake, and not because she had any inclination for the
garish life. Then I read an interview in which she
gurgled details of her trousseau, and her great affection
for the millionaire she is to marry, and otherwise made
herself public. Phyllis Dare, too, looks a really nice child.
Biit when one reads her own artless account of how she
ate chocolate till she became sick, one promptly turns the
greedy little girl right down. She probably intended to
be amusing, and threw in the information that she had
never read a book in her life. Ellen Terry I always re-
garded as a tower of sense till I saw- a long special inter-
view in which she was made to talk in a giddy and
kittenish way of how she always tastes her visitors’ tea
before handing it to them (extraordinary custom !), and
how she tried to smuggle a poor darling treasure of a dog
from the U.S. A. to England without the quarantine pre-
scribed by law. Then I sadly removed Ellen from her
pedestal.
Recently-deceased actor Richard Mansfield, reckoned
unanimously America’s “ best,” was the exception to the
rule that the “great” actor dies poor. Mansfield, who
started in a dry-goods emporium on a weekly “ quid,” left
£lBO,OOO, spite of the fact that, between times,
he ran his private yacht, a choice selection of
mobiles, his private railway.car, and several (orthodox)
residences. He was not ’Murriean, but English, and got
his first mention on the bill with one of D’Oyly Carte’s
several small “Pinafore ” cos. Mansfield never got above
the ruck in the Cold Country.
“A.E.P.”: In corroboration of your “ Poverty Point”
par re Fritz Kreisler, Brian Roussel Perkins, writing
from Geneva (13/5/’O7), says: “I would like vou
to hear Henri Marteau, Ysaye, and Kreisler.
Kreisler came to Geneva comparatively unknown, and
faced the cold, critical audience with his lower
jaw stuck out. He played Brahms’ ‘Concerto’ in
an extraordinary manner, and the public began to talk
and get interested. Afterwards he played four old pieces,
and one could mark the audience, after each piece, be-
coming more and more enthusiastic, and as he played the
last piece, a Humoresque by Dvorak, the audience went
mad. Now, that is the highest point any fiddler can hope
to attain. This young man had come to a town where he
was unknown and hardly advertised, and enthused every
one.” J
“ Kaban ” : There was a procession through the streets
of Melbourne, the other day, on the occasion of a “ carni-
val ”in aid of some charity. The items of this pageant
exhibited a nice combination of the historical and the
patriotic, and Joan of Arc and Queen Elizabeth divided
attention with Burke and Wills and the Kelly Gang. But
these were, after all, but minor attractions, the place of
honor being allotted to a great, yellow, staggery reptile
described as a Chinese dragon. “It was a stroke of
genius on the part of those managing the carnival,” said
the Age, “to enlist the co-operation of the Chinese citi-
zens.” Was it? To my mind it was a gruesome thing to
see the white man tailing behind the bobbing* and loathly
worm of Asia, the emblem of heathendom, the symbol of
him who sayeth “ Whaffor,” the outward sign and token
of the chopstick person who has petticoats and a tail.
Yah !
A Commonwealth Postage Stamp.
Of great interest to all Australians is the proposed
issue of a, series of Commonwealth postage-
stamps. The Board convened to consider the
subject consisted of Messrs. H. B. Templeton,
Chief Clerk Central Postal-Administration ; Ber-
nard Hall, Director National Art Gallery, Mel-
bourne ; T. T. Patterson, Engraving Expert ;
Walter A. Hull, Philatelist, Sydney; and J. B.
Cooke, Stamp Printer to the Department in
Adelaide. The Board sat from October 10th to
19th, and came to these decisions :
Character of Issue—
The Issue shall be the finest that art, skill, and
t£ e most modern machinery can produce, and
S i j ,e worth -y the Commonwealth. To secure
the desired result it is necessary that the dies be
cut from and the plates made of steel, the work
being entrusted to one of the foremost engravers
in England. The printing from the prepared
plates is to be done locally.
[I here are two chief processes used in stamp
printing. Jor the steel process the initial expense
is much the greater, but the first is practically the
only cost, and it is only by this process that the
nnest results can be obtained. A master steel die
of one stamp is cut in relief. This is then im-
pressed 240 times on a soft steel plate, which is
afterwards case-hardened, showing 240 stamps
engiaved in intaglio (or recess). Eor printing
~ ls . run over the surface of the plate,
then all wiped off except what remains in
the engraved lines; printing is done on damped
paper under pressure, the paper being forced into
the sunk lines of engraving carrying the ink.
-cor the electro the process is just the reverse,
the master pla,te is in intaglio (or recess) and the
hnished plate in relief; the printing is done from
the raised lines, the ink being applied by means
°f a i ro^er - The principal advantages
of the steel process are excellence of de-
sign, fineness of engraving, and practical
immunity from forgery. The electro pro-
cess gives none of these.]
Interchangeable Stamps —
Decided that the issue of stamps should
be the same for all the Commonwealth,
without distinction as to States. It was
pointed out that in two years the “Book-
keeping period” ends, and the necessity for
separate State issues ceases. As it is esti-
mated that two years will elapse before
the issue is available, allowing six months
tor competitive designs, 12 months for
engraving and plate-making, and six
months to print an initial supply for
all post offices (400,000,000 stamps is the estimated
requirement), the first series can be of one universal
interchangeable issue. [The advantages
of this are at once apparent. The same
stamp can be used to prepay postage in any
btate, and the trouble of realising on postage
stamps now sent as remittances from one State to
another will end.]
Denominations and Colors—
All values issued will be on sale in each State,
and will consist of:—
Group I.
|d., deep green 4d., ultra marine blue
Id., crimson red 5d., purple brown
l«d., burnt sienna 6d., orange vermilion
2d., rich mauve Bd., pink
iljd., dark blue 9d., warm sepia.
3d., dark olive green
These values will be of one uniform size, 18J x
22 millimetres upright (25 millimetres equal
one inch), but that there should be no con-
fusion in regard to similarity of colors, four
designs will be used, as follows Design “A,”
id and sd. ; “B,” Id., 3d., 9d. ; “C,” lid., 2kh,
6d. ; “D,”2d., 4d.,8d. >2,2,
Group 11.
10d., rich mauve 25., dark blue
Is., rich green 2s. 6d., carmine.
THE STAMP BOARD.
T. T. Patterson. Bernard Hail. Walter A. Hull. J. B. Cooke.
H. B. Templeton.
Size to be 22 x 27 millimetres upright, and of
design “ E.”
Group 111.
55., rich mauve 205., rich green
10s., rich brown 405., dark blue
Size, 22 x 34 millimetres, oblong design, F.
Design—
The designs that the Board recommends are
six :—•
1. The King’s head or figure.
2. The Queen’s head or figure.
2a (alternative). The King’s and Queen’s heads.
3. Characteristic features of Australia.
4.
5.
6. Emblematical female figure representing Aus-
tralia.
Competitive designs will be called for later, and
full particulars notified. The scheme recom-
mended (but which has to be dealt with yet by
the Minister) is that competitors follow
the idea of the required designs, that
they be drawn to sizes (1) 3 x 3i inches,
(2) 3| x 4jj inches (both upright), “and (3)
3J x 5i inches oblong (these are approximately four
times the size of the finished stamp), and that in
depicting the King s head thestereotyped designas
ound.on stamps of Great Britain be avoided.
■ r the best designs it is recommended that
six prizes, each of £lOO, be awarded. The Board to
adjudicate upon the submitted designs will con-
sist of a representative of art, philately, printing
engraving and an official of the Postmaster-
General s Department.
Issue. The issue, which should take place in
two years time, will be simultaneous, and the
whole remaining stocks of State issues recalled
and destroyed, and the plates and dies also de-
stroyed.
Uniformity. That uniformity of color, paper,
perforation, and printing be secured, it is abso-
lutely that the printing should take
place in one office, under the supervision of an
expert stamp printer.
Cost.— The extra cost of producing stamps by
the steel process would be more than covered by
purchases by philatelists, the demand for beautiful
stamps in an unused condition being very great.
Again the horrors of the tariff! The
Croydon (Q.) Mining News
Mr; Charg'ois informs us that under the new tariff cycle
frames have to pay a duty of at least £5 each. This, of
course, means that cycles must now.be built in the
colonies. To meet these changes Mr. Chargois, with
business promptitude, has cabled Home to stop shipment
of a large consignment of English frames, with instruc-
tions to replace with cycle fittings, as it is his intention
to extend his already large cycle business by building all
his cycles locally. Not being tied down by any agency,
and being in a position to buy for cash in the cheapest
and best market, means that We will now be able to get
a cycle to order to suit Us, and not, as before, built to
suit English or Yankee roads, or any other roads except
our own rough ones.
It s a beastly tariff, and it’s absorbing labor so
quickly that there aren’t any unemployed now to
attend monster Freetrade demonstrations.
The present stamp
of VICTORIA
(electro process).
BORNEO
(best steel
process ).
MAORI LAND
(inferior steel
process).
Dr. Will C. Speece, of Coramba (N.S.W.),
who mixed medicine and literature, died suddenly,
of pneumonia, a few days ago. To Bulletin
readers he was best known as “Cuss” and
“ Medi-cuss a bright writer and charming
talker, who had crowded many experiences into
his brief life of 35 years. The last things he
wrote came from North Queensland, where he
was strengthening his conviction that Australia
must be kept white—a conviction which he brought
with him from his native Ohio.
The efforts of a Christchurch (ALL.) Bung
to effect a “corner” resulted in a boom in
bottles. They don t make bottles over there,
depending partly on the returned empty and
partly on chance shipments from Australia. With
the prices bottles are bringing in Australia, how-
ever, dependence on future supplies from that
quarter is likely to turn out a Georgie sort of
Reid to lean upon, and the Maorilanders should
either start blowing bottles right away or make
up their minds to cart their beer home in a
bucket.
A veteran compositor dropped his “stick”
at Doncaster (Vic.) recently. John Brough Pow
was born in England 77 years ago; came to
Sydney in 1850, and
“slung type” for a
whileon Henry Parkes’
Empire. Pow was one
of the comps, who
“struck” when the
Empire got in a num-
ber of Eurasians.
Afterwards he put in
50 years with Mel-
bourne Age, and was
ultimately pensioned
off by that paper.
Died at Dunedin
(12/10/’O7), o, tat 68,
Alexander Campbell
Begg, who had died
politically some years
before, when, as a
Parliamentary candi-
date, he told his audi-
ence that “sheep’s
heads and plucks were
good enough for a
working man to live
on.” It would have
taken the archangel
Gabriel all his time to
“come” again politi-
cally after a break like
that; and Alexander
was no archangel.
The Farmers and Settlers’ Publishing Co.
has issued a special commemorative number of its
paper, under the title of The Golden Fleece
Beautifully printed on 80 large pages of surfaced
paper, crammed with interesting pictures and
portraits of every prominent figure in the Pastoral
world, it is a publication of unique interest to the
man on the land. The Sheep Show, the Annual
Stud Sales, Ihe Farmers’and Settlers’ Association
Conference, the Pasture Board Convention the
annual meetings of the Sheepbreeders’ Association
the Pastoralists’ Association, and the Stock-
owners’ Association are all reported fully. In
addition, there is a number of special articles by
leading experts and pastoralists of Australia.
“Aural ” writes from Victoria :
Struck an individual in the West Countree whose
politics and other things were chiselled and modelled by
the Argus He announced that a war was imminent and
bl ?,°l wou, £ so ? n stain Australia. Asked for particulars
These blanky Socialists!” said he. “ We’ll have to
shoot them down, every mother’s son of them. If thev
get into power, blood will flow.” J
®ut, I objected, “ they will have the army and navv
at their command.” J
.“And us property owners will soon have another,” he
cried defiantly ; “ and they’ll be shot down like don's’ d 0
you think I wouldn’t help? Aye, I’d shoot my own father
lf A e i oin ? d the blanky Socialists. Do you think I’d be
robbed of me land and me stock? No, I’d take me gun
and help the other property owners.”
His property consisted of a hundred acres of land and
three cows, besides 20 fowls, six dogs, four cats, and a
wallaby, which all shared his hut with him. A swarm of
bees in a fallen tree-trunk supplied him with honev ■
maHee hens in the bush gave him eggs, and his cows gave
him their moral support. The cows were dry, the land
drier and he himself spoke of the dry farming system.
Asked him why he kept so many pets in his house. He
answered in four words, “lam a Pythagorean.” I fainted.
We are informed, on behalf of Senator
Neild (in regard to a paragraph, 3/10/’O7), that that
gentleman was not supplied with any “refresh-
ments ” in connection with the Leo Nelken tariff
demonstration, and accordingly an item in
Nelken’s accounts, “ 1/- refreshments to Senator
ISleild ” could not correctly refer to Senator Neild.
Overheard in a suburban bar the other
evening
“ ’Elio, Danny, ’n’ is that yerself ? How’s Steve ? ”
“ I dunno how Steve is at all thim days. Me ’n’ Steve’s
missus had a bit iv a fall-out, ’n’ I’m not boar-rdin’ wid
Steve now.”
“ Ye* l don’t say ? ’N’ how did ut happen ?”
“ Bein’ alone wid th’ missus, I sed : ‘ Would yell pass
me th’ paper, me darlin’?’ I sez, ’n’ jist then Steve put
his oye round th’ dure. He come into th’ room, ’n’ sez
he : ‘ Who’s woife is this, Danny, yours ’r moine?’ I sees
he vvas meanin’t’ hit me, ’n’ sez I: ‘ You dirthy bla’guard
to insult a lady!’ ’n’ I smashed him over th’ mouth.
Well, we fought it out on th’ road, wid all th’ neighbors
enj’yin’ it, till Mrs. Steve cum up wid a bottle, ’n’ sez
she : ‘ Lave me husband alone, ye thafe iv a Oorkonian ! ’
V she knocked me head in wid th’ bottle. So I left there
>’ then. ’Twasn’t that I moinded Steve at all; ’twas th’
ingrathitude iv th’ woman disgusted me.”
For seven O.P. blocks on Mulwala, near
Corowa (N.S.W.), there were last week 471 appli-
cants, of whom 417 were adjudged genuine enough
to go to the ballot. Simultaneously a Board was
sitting in Melbourne to decide which of 3000
applicants should be accepted as State tenants on
the 200 small holdings that are being offered.
Three thousand new settlers who want to get on
the land so badly tliatf they are eager to try close
cultivation on a poor little 10-acre block—-these,
with their families, and the tradesmen,
mechanics, etc., whom they would employ,
would go a long way towards filling up those
empty Western lands that Premier Bent and
other Victorian Parliamentarians lately inspected.
And it needs only an effective land tax to force
hose empty Western lands into cultivation.
Such a winner as Poseidon maketh glad
the heart of the punter. But the heart of the
man who imbibes cheerfulness from D.C.L. isglad
all the time. For D.C.L. is the whisky of the
winner of Life’s Race, and its number is hoisted
at every meeting of good sports. Moreover it is
the whisky which wise trainers supply to the
faint-hearted gee-gee that needs Dutch courage
before the race.*
“Maori Mac ” on the political situation in
the Shaky Islands :
Our latest weird joke is the talked-of coalition of the
Government and Opposition parties. It is a large, healthy
Gilbertian joke. In a House of 80 members the Oppo-
sition consists of about a dozen remnants of an antiquated
partj'. It is a poor, gone-at-the-knees Opposition, in-
capable of perpetrating the feeblest sort of fight, and of
no use to J. Ward. On the other hand, the assimilation
move will probably alienate the more advanced Liberals,
who do not relish Joseph’s “ conciliatory ” tactics. When
Seddon died Massey’s crowd, who had become used to the
big fellow’s roar, were astonished at Ward’s suave manner,
and, unable to combat it, became a demoralised handful.
Yet the leader bristles sometimes. Recently he told the
House that unless it gives up its dismal jokes and gets
seriously to work the session will continue until the New
Year. Dumbfounded legislators (who always end their
buffoonery in time to see the Cup run) did not know what
had struck them. There are points about Joseph Ward,
and it seems likely that he will develop more, and become
quite a porcupine in time.
There were some good Australians well
back in last century. The author of “ The His-
tory of Australian Discovery and Colonisation”
(published Ist May, 1865, by Hanson and Bennett)
in his “advertisement,” “thinks it necessary to
state that whatever the merits or demerits of the
work, either in authorship or execution, they are
entirely colonial.” Apparently some people were
proud of an entirely Australian production forty
years ago, and saw not the necessity for importa-
tion.
From an American observer in Korea (a
decade hence they may be writing the same things
about Australia): —
The Japanese have seized their salt works, driven away
the Korean fishermen from their fishing grounds, anil
taken every form of profitable industry in the country
for themselves. The Koreans will tell you that the
Japanese are striving to drive them from the country,
that they may occupy it for themselves. . . .
Knowing, as I do, the Korean temperament and the
policy which Japan has pursued in the peninsula, I am
able to predict that Japan will obtain peace there only
by the decimation of the people.
It is hard to arouse the Koreans to the fighting-point.
They are almost infinitely patient, but drive them to
desperation and they will turn on their tormentors as
they did in 1592, and then nothing but extermination
will give Japan peace there. But to exterminate
13,000,000 people, or even to beat them into quiescence,
will be no easy task. . . . The Koreans are fast approach-
ing the turning point, and despair will arm them to
resistance even though it be suicidal. The Korean people,
thoroughly aroused, could carry on a guerilla warfare
that would bankrupt Japan in three years.
The Victorian railways were a shade less
deadly in the past year than they were the year
before, but still more people were killed on them
than in any year (bar 1905-6) since the wild and
woolly boom days. How much of the big bill was
due to Tait s methods, and how much was due to
the good times, can’t be settled offhand. It is,
anyway, a curious fact that the gayer the times
the gorier the record. In the three Melbourne boom
years the butcher’s bill for 12 months was never
under 70 cadavers; then, when the boom burst,
it promptly fell away to 29, and stayed there
or thereabouts during the worst of the years
when Victoria was recovering from its drunk. In
those years there were dozens of people who
didn’t care much whether they were dead or
alive; but if they preferred to be dead, they
didn t want to be dead in six pieces alongside a
railway line. Things perked up again about 1900;
then slumped in the drought of 1902-3-4, and the
butcher’s-bill moved just the same way. After
that came the boom records of the last two years.
It isn t clear whether prosperity means more beer,
or whether it means that people can’t Wait for
the train to pull up lest the fortune that is waiting
for them shouldn’t wait long enough, or whether
an unnatural friskiness born of joy and meat
makes them leap for moving vehicles, even as
the spring lamb leaps at its parent, or whether
the trouble merely signifies that in good times
people travel who got out of the habit of
travelling in bad times; but, so far as the Vic-
torian railways are concerned, prosperity cer-
tainly means mere work for the undertaker every
time.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.0., writes I cheerfully
endorse the ‘EAROSOOPE’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address: —
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Should someone tell you 50 times that
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm relieves rheumatic
pains, and that many had been permanently cured
by it, you might still be only half convinced.
Give it a trial, however, and experience the quick
relief from pain which it affords, and you will be
fully satisfied of its great value.*
* Outdoor Photog'raphy
The
NEW
“VICTOR”
FOLDING CAMERAS
Are the Most Perfect Cameras ever introduced in Australia. They will
take surprisingly good pictures. The Lenses are Extremely Rapid.
The Fittings are Superb. These Magnificent Cameras are Light and
Portable, and carry every possible requisite for first-class work.
The NO. 1 “ FOLDING VICTOR,’
for i-Plate. Price
35/-
Postage—N.S.W., Is. 3d.
Interstate, 2s. 2d.
No. 2, with “ Rectimat ” R.S. Lens. Price, 55/- (J-Plate). The No. 3,
with Rack and Pinion Focussing-, R.S. Lens, DOUBLE EXTENSION.
Splendid value. Price, 87/6 (J-Plate).
PHOTO MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES OF EVERY
DESCRIPTION VERY LARGELY STOCKED.
HARRINGTON a CO., Ltd.,
386 GEORGE STREET
(Near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Branch, 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
When is Queensland Education Depart-
ment going to do the fair thing by Western chil-
dren’s eyes ? The Department has the right to com-
pel children to attend school. That right carries
with it an obligation to see the children don’t
suffer physically by attending. The curse upon
the life of the outback Bananaland youngster is
ophthalmia. The disease is highly infectious.
Also, it is preventible. Three suggested and
urgently-needed reforms: —
(1) Rigid exclusion from school of children with dis-
charging eyes.
(2) Netting of all State schools in the West during the
fly season.
(3) Regular medical inspection with the object of en-
suring that no diseased children attend State schools.
As things stand, the Department gives out educa-
tion with one hand, and ophthalmia with the
other.
PIG-HEADED , INDEED.
FAT PARTY (reading): "Dear me, dear
me; these working -people, seem to he
always wanting mare! I wander WHY
such people persist in being so 'pig-
headed?"
Justice G. B. Simpson had a probably
unique experience in Deniliquin (N.S.YV.) lately,
when he gave a rule nisi to an aborigine. The
lady also was an aborigine, and the terbium quid
a half-caste. Thus have the effete customs of
civilisation replaced the powerful decrees of the
waddy.
It’s a wise Court that can keep its reasons
to itself. Three N. S. Wales Judges had to
wrestle last week with the problem whether a
lady help is a domestic servant. Acting Justice
Sly had said that she was—a domestic servant
wearing a poor, ineffective disguise, which mostly
consists of the victim being called Miss Snooks
stead of Polly, and putting up with a fine of any-
thing from 2s. to 7s. fid. a week for insisting upon
it. Counsel for Miss Snooks valiantly asserted
that she was an assistant to the lady of the house
—a sort of coadjutor-bishopess of the flock.
Whereupon learned Brother Pring : “A lady help
is a help to a lady, but it doesn’t follow that
she is a lady.” On the same principle, no
doubt, a man servant is servant to a man,
though it doesn’t follow that he is a
man himself; wherefore, when a widow has a
gardener, he really isn’t a man servant —he is a
widow servant. Still, even an argument which
leads on to these remarkable conclusions didn’t
prevent Justice Pring from agreeing with his
learned Brothers, wherefore from this out, so far
as the law of N. S. Wales is concerned, Miss
Snooks and Polly are one and indivisible.
« * * *
N.S. W. Full Court having decided that the
“ lady help ” is a domestic servant, no more and
no less, the sorrowful female who takes lower
wages and harder work so that she may have a
little more dignity as “Miss Jones, lady help,”
than she would have as “Mary,” may go to the
Privy Council to vindicate her ladyship. But, if
she is wise, she will leave the barren paths of the
Law, and decide to throw in her lot with the
“slavey,” and work with her to improve the
general status of the calling. There will be more
profit and less Costs in that.
■* * * *
According to Postmaster-General Mauger,
Australia “must have the King’s head on its
stamps.” It would be interesting to know why.
There are objections that the King’s head is
indistinctive, being just now worked to death for
the stamps of his own kingdom and many of its
dependencies; and that it is not at all pic-
turesque. The most elegant of flattery can’t
make a beautiful picture of a nice, stout old gen-
tleman with a bald head, a grey beard, and the
tired look of the man who has seen many things
prostrate before him, and known the adulation of
many aldermen. It cannot be alleged that it
would please the King to have his face on still
another set of stamps; he must be profoundly
tired nowadays of his stamp effigy. Why not a
series of distinctive Australian designs, ranging
from the koala (our ha’penny bear), for the lowest,
to the waratah or the noble red kangaroo, for the
highest denomination ?
* * * *
“ B.” : For the Australian stamps a series
of Prime Ministers’ heads would be interesting and
commemorative; especially if the date of the
Premiership were inscribed underneath.
* * * *
“D.” : What exactly is the ethical posi-
tion of the legal gentlemen connected with the
Myerson business? “How,” demand some in
regard to Mr. Reid, “ was he to know the money
Mrs. Myerson had was part of the missing
£0000? No one absolutely knows it was now.
And why—that being so—shouldn’t he have
taken the notes from Mrs. Myerson in person,
since the instructing solicitor preferred (for some
obscure reason) that payment should be made
that way? Whac if the notes happened to
be Big? Big Notes are as good as any
other notes.” Yet surely it was peculiar
that Mrs. Myerson should have the unique
collection of Big Notes, unless they were part
of the £6OOO the Official Assignee was after. It
was curious rather that she (on the surface, a mere
lone, indigent female, the wife of a gaoled bank-
rupt) should ha- e so many of those notes, and be
so generous in coming down with the truly
gigantic retaining fee for Mr. Reid. And Mr.
Reid’s action in meeting Mrs. Myerson and per-
sonally separating her day by day from the
amount of his fee in the precincts of the court—was
not that a little original ? Really there will be
a lot of interest taken in Mr. Reid’s explanation
when it comes along.
* * * *
A significant appointment is that of Mr.
Uyeno to the Japanese consulate at Sydney. He
is the gentleman who is credited with being at
the bottom of the ’Frisco school troubles. The
China Gazette comments: —
There would have been no trouble, as the School Board
in San Francisco well knows, by the transfer of the
Japanese pupils to the Oriental school, at which Chinese
and all other Asiatic scholars peacefully attended up to
that day, had it not been for the inspired observations of
the Mikado’s representative. We presume that in the
city where Tub Bulletin is supreme similar tactics are
now being contemplated by our allies, to embarrass and
exasperate the white population in the same way as they
have done in San Francisco and Canada. The deliberate
purpose of it all will be very soon apparent to the Sydney
Bulletin, to which we look to make very small mince-
meat of Mr. Uyeno’s inauguration, if he attempts any such
tricks in that city as he successfully played off in San
Francisco.
* * * *
The luck of Barnes, butcher, of Geelong
(Vic.), is out. He first won fame by prosecuting
for embezzlement an employee who had got him
fined for sweating. Before prosecuting, Barnes
prayed—so he assured the jury—“for Divine
guidance ”in the matter. Heaven could not
have heard, for the guidance he got was simply
awful. The jury scoffed at the embezzlement
charge; and the appearance of the name of
Barnes in the papers in connection with the case
roused up one who wrote and signed herself <t‘ his
loving wife, Mollie Barnes.” And she referred
tenderly to “ their child.” Barnes, who has a
Geelong wife and family, dropped the “Divine
guidance” tactics with speed, and fell back on the
local “ foorce.” Mollie has since vanished into
thin air, together with the child, all responsi-
bility for which latter is violently disclaimed by
Barnes. It is enough to turn a man into a Primi-
tive Buddhist out of hand.
• * * *
The first Commonwealth conference of the
Women’s Anti-Socialistic Organisation has been
held in Melbourne, with Janet Mrs. Clarke a 3
boss of the board. John Mrs. Downer, having
read a paper by Percival Mr. Stow on “Indi-
vidualism v. Socialism,” moved that the Con-
ference protest against Government interference
with private enterprise. Carried unanimously ;
whereupon, as the next business, the dear logical
ladies discussed infant life protection, and de-
manded the co-ordination of the State Acts.
Now the kind lady who takes in and does for the
dear baby for a consideration wants to know what
the Anti-Socialistic dames mean by interfering
with her little bit of private enterprise.
GRACEFUL.
SHE : “ I am trying to think of the lest way to decorate the studio ." : “ You stay in it."
A true matrimonial enthusiast was pre-
sented, at the Perth Criminal Court, recently, in
the person of Albert William McMillan, the
charge against him being bigamy. In October,
1902, he married Annie Taylor in W.A., and in
1905 he married Amand Beatrice Allen, though
Taylor was then alive. He defended himself on
the grounds that, at the time he went through the
ceremony with Taylor, he already had a legal
wife in India—Mary Lucy Volland—and to prove
the same he put in certain documents which
showed that, in December, 1902, Volland had
obtained a decree absolute against him, conse-
quently his wedding with Taylor was void. He
also alleged that Volland died before 1905, and
that his present wife was therefore the legal Mrs.
McMillan. The Judge upheld the objection, and
accused was acquitted. The Crown then insti-
tuted further proceedings against him for marrying
Taylor while Volland was still waiting for her
decree to be made absolute, and used his evidence
in the first case against him, which incidentally
showed that, on the divorce proceedings, he had
raised the defence that Volland was not his wife,
he already having one in Ireland. McMillan was
found guilty on this charge, and sent to a place
where, for 18 months, he will neither marry nor
give in marriage. Meanwhile, he is appealing
against his conviction and sentence on a number
of technical points, and the Crown Law people
expect every moment that the existence of yet
another wife in China, or Hindustan, or some-
where will be hurled at them.
* * * «
The Rev. Alex. Sfcewarb, Moderator of the
Presbyterian General Assembly, Melbourne, has
made an attack on Vic. railways as instruments of
ungodliness and steel tracks to damnation. People,
he says, who ride in trains on the Day of Rust are
depraved wretches of the vilest kind.
Convicts in Pentridge (Vic.) have been
discovered making books on the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups, the wagers being in rations of
tobacco; and it is alleged that the evil is wide-
spread among the prisoners. Obviously here is a
call to Judkins or Worryall to do something awful
and get six months’ hard—six delightful months
to be spent in plucking these brands from the
burning.
One day last week S. M. Herald “starred”
a yarn about Tariff Bill Lyne and a penny. Tariff
Bill got on a Mosman boat at Cremorne to go to
Sydney ; and as the boat had to cross Mosman s
Bay before it turned back to Sydney, a deck-hand
demanded a penny. Tariff Bill saw that that
system was wrong —that it made the fare from
Cremorne 3d. instead of 2d., and he pointed it out
to the office when he got to Sydney. “As the
democratic deck-hand was found to be in the
wrong,” said the Herald, “he had to suffer a
day’s suspension, and apologise to the Treasurer ”
—which was a subtle way of “ putting Lyne’s
pot on ” with quite a lot of Labor people. Next
day the Herald had to announce that the previous
day’s yarn was a mean lie; but it didn’t “star”
that item —it just got out the smallest type in the
shop, and used it to say that the day’s suspension
of the deck-hand had nothing to do with the Lyne
incident.
* * * *
Alfred Niemz, who was found dead in
Rookvvood Cemetery (N.S.W.), the gun with
which he had blown himself over the rim of the
world beside him, was a victim of intellectual
pessimism and undigested German philosophy*
He left a letter to the Coroner which explained
that nothing could happen during the day to
compensate him for the effort of arising in the
morning. He stated that he died cheerfully,
without fear or dread, and finished by quoting
Plato. He was just tired, and passed into the
Unknown in the hope that it is a reposeful place
where the weary are at rest. And he’ll possibly
find that it is as hard to get off the wheel of life
as for a planet to break loose from its sun.
* * * *
The smile of Ah Cat, of Wellington, and
Muck Hi, of Dunedin, is as wide as ever; for
Maoriland won’t hang Lionel Terry, and the other
gentlemen who were a while ago busy calling on
the long islands to cast out the yellow person are
now just about as busy telling one another that
they are no better than they ought to, be.
Organising-secretary Cameron says that that’s his
melon patch, and everybody else is an interloper ;
while “convener” W. A. Lloyd sends out cir-
culars to say that “if effort isn’t well directed, as
well as well intentioned, it is so much waste
energy.” Meantime, Ah Cat’s claws are getting
deeper into the fruit and furniture and other
trades of Wellington, and Muck Hi grows his
lettuce for Dunedin in the same old filth.
* * -* *
There is a good deal of horse-sense in the
new Yankee law about American citizenship.
The exile from U.S. A. must register at his Con-
sulate every five years, or he loses his American
status. Sometimes an exile only remembers his
citizenship when he gets into trouble. That
somewhat undesirable class of patriot will be
knocked out by the new law.
DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Archbishop requests the clergy of the diocese to
use the prayer for rain in the services on Sunday next,
and afterwards, as long as the present threatened drought
continues.— Soul-tiring item in newspaper.
The clergy of the diocese will kindly pray for rain,
And if it doesn’t fall, then, please, they’ll pray and pray
again,
And keep on praying till it does— to prove prayer isn’t
vain 1
The clergy of the diocese, the great Archbishop said,
Will pray and pray without surcease for moisture over-
head—
And cry “ Woe 1 woe!” That HgO may fall on quick
and dead I
The clergy of the diocese will pray for all they’re worth
To whatsoever Force they think it is that runs the
earth—
The Atmosphere that brings fat days—and also days of
dearth 1
The clergy of the diocese will take a humble tone
Towards the God of sun and sea they’ve made their very
own.
And to the Powers revealed as Showers will dolorously
drone 1
The clergy of the diocese will raise a doleful wail
Because the torrid Northern winds have made the rains
to fail
Because the great cyclonic storms far to the Southward
sail!
The clergy of the diocese will loudly pray for rain,
And if it doesn’t fall at first, they’ll pray and pray
again,
And keep on praying till it does—to prove prayer isn’t
vain !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
Good Mr. Parson, if so low
These peoples’ moral level,
And, since it’s certain they will go
Entirely to the Devil,
Why good Commissioner Tait assail
Who takes them there express—by rail?
And, parson, since these men of sin
Deserve your saintly birches,
Why want to rope the blackguards in,
And with them crowd your churches ?
It’s plain the villains you assail
Are only fit to rot in gaol.


‘RheumagnetiC’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism,
Neurasthenia,
Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
Kneumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
tor pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAUNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia ), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Why suffer from rheumatism,
application of Chamberlain’s Pain
relief. #
when one
Balm gives
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
• CEMNERT, 20 Rua Corpa da Garda, Porto, Portugal
Gentlemen who.wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A VERY SPECIAL PANAMA—3O/
:
We have recently advertised our
18/6 and 21/- Panamas, and still
have them.
But, to-day, we want to tell you
about a very special line at 30/ —
the kind of a Panama that would
make a much-appreciated Christ-
mas gift; but, of course, they
will all be sold before gift-giving
time. The plait is very fine and
clean looking, and the shape is a
handsome one.
If you require something es-
pecially good in a Panama, you
should have one of these.
Very Special Value 30/- Each Post Free.
PEAPES AND CO., LTD., Men’s
*309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Outfitters
The Shop Assistants’ award of N.S.W.
Arbitration Court has now been made a common
rule in Sydney and suburbs. The original award
fixed a standard wage for all classes of employees
in the rag and other shops, but by threatening the
Shop Assistants’ Union with a Privy Council
appeal the wealthy Master Retailers’ Association
squeezed a compromise. The rate fixed by the
Court for employees of 23 years of age is made the
minimum wage of everyone older than that. Not
content with this, certain employers threaten that
the minimum wage for those aged 23 is to be the
maximum for all hands over that age. Also, to
get even with their hard-driven people, some of
the big shops are planning to cut off whatever
little privileges the employees have been allowed.
The bonus system, whereby a successful salesman
could eke out his pittance by a further £d. in the
£, or something like that, is to be discontinued.
But that sort of thing can only be temporary. So
long as the minimum wage is safe, better-class
workers will be able to command increases and
bonuses, because of the competition for their
services.
* . • * * *
From an Adelaide paper
AN EARL’S MOTOR
KILLS A LITTLE GIRL.
LONDON, October 24.
While the Earl of Shaftesbury was driving in his motor
car in Belfast, the machine ran over and killed a little
girl. From 1895 to 1898 the Earl was A.D.C. to Lord
Brassey, then Governor of Victoria.
We all know Lord Brassey’s skill as a faller-off.
In the line of low-comedy accident he had the
Australian record. But it is difficult to see how
association with him for a brief while as A.D.C.
should have any effect in making the unlucky
Shaftesbury run over a girl. Why is Brassey
dragged into the incident ?
EN SUITE.
“ Why, even the very engagement ring you gave
me was false."
“ I didn’t mean the engagement to be real either."
The Holy City is liking itself even more
than usual just now. The Botanic Gardens
recently had a jubilee, and invited Adelaide to
come and help it jube on a Saturday night. It
hung Chinese lanterns in the palm-houses, and
provided brass bands; also, it put Adelaide
upon its honor as a lady and gentleman not
to transplant any of the trees and statues to its
private back-yard. Over 20,000 citizens accepted,
and walked carefully on the paths, and abstained
from petty thefts. The function rather blunted
the gimlet of those unpleasant persons who are
always snuffling that the crowd is a hog which
demands police to keep it in order.
“Randolph Bedford” : I rise to object to
the fakirs of places in literature—the forgers of
local color, and the writers who state myths so
solemnly that they appear to the unwary to be fact.
That otherwise excellent literary craftsman
has written his own “local color” into his stories
of the Gulf so that no Carpentarian or Torres
man would recognise it; and now one begins
to disfigure the Coral Sea in like manner.
This —— chooses to write of fierce and
violent men; ungentlemanly and
impossible fellows, who kill each
an enemy at 6 a.m., who break-
fast on brandy and cigarettes, and
who shed bitter tears in the
afternoon because a golden-
haired child named Willie re-
minded them of the prayers they
said at the joint of mother’s leg.
As a rude and brutal man, whose
one literary desire is for truth,
sincerity, and right proportion, I
do adjure——to invent no further
horrors in the Coral Sea. The
other day, at Samarai—that
little jewel in the throat of
China Straits—a representative
citizen complained bitterly of
—■ —’s libels of his town. It
had been called a drinking hell.
Now, in very truth, Samarai is
as much a drinking hell as I am
an early Christian martyr. At
time of writing there are a
score of Yodda and other
miners on a burst in Samarai
—it is a mild burst of lager
and shandy ; and anybody
who says ‘‘Damn!” is con-
sidered ribald and a man of
Belial. There are as many
teetotalers as moderate
drinkers ; there is not one
habitual drunkard ; there is
not one man under the Dog
Act. Government has turned it
from a fever swamp to a paradise.
There are 50 nigger prisoners, whose duty
it is to sweep the streets with little brooms,
and if they leave a scrap of paper or a pinch
of dirt on the roadway there is grievous
trouble. It is a garden of palms and crotons
and bougainvilleas and flame trees and jacar-
andas and dracena; its ideal and practice are
cleanliness; refuse which the fire rejects goes to
the sea ; a coral road encircles it; pawpaw, bread-
fruit, lily and hibiscus rise through the long tangle
of wiry grass. And the people live quietly and
work hard. . Numbers for numbers I have seen
more drunkenness in Toorak. The violent heroes
who drink themselves to death at Samarai would
be drunken on the smell of gingerbeer.
* * * *
The average English paper. professes a
magnificent contempt for the French criminal
system under which a suspected person is
brought before a magistrate and squeezed
or cajoled into making some sort of a con-
fession. But in N. S. Wales, at any rate,
the system is much the same, though in
one respect it is a bit more subtle. For
here it isn’t a magistrate that makes the
preliminary examination ; it is a police-
man, who most often “chums up” with
the accused, and artfully leads him on to
talk of things, and in the end trium-
phantly produces a record of the con-
versation. He hasn’t written the ques-
tions and answers down, of course;
and as often as not, under subsequent
cross-examination, he isn’t too sure
whether the accused said “Yes” in
answer to the remark that it was a fine
day, or whether it was in answer to a
question whether it was a fine day
when he stole the watch. He is solid,
however, on the fact that the accused
said “Yes” to something, and, until
the cross-examination arrived, he was
quite sure he said it in answer to the
question whether it was a fine day
when he did the stealing. On an
average Criminal Court day in Sydney,
in two out of every three cases the
evidence that the police dwell most
lovingly upon is the more or less hap-
hazard report of the remarks that the
prisoner has been induced to make to
some constable; and it is about up to
Judges to express their opinion about
the lazy, loafing, unsatisfactory sys-
tem. It is absurd to tell a man in
court that he .needn’t say anything
that will incriminate himself, and
then pay constables to try all the arts
they know to trap him outside of the
court into doing the thing that the
courts say he needn’t do.
* * * •*
Latest alleged medical discovery
(alas, it comes from Yankeeland, and
that gives it an air of suspicion!) is for
the raising of the dead, if they are not too
hopelessly dead. A simple arrangement
sucks out of the lungs all the gases, and
pours into them pure oxygen. It may prove of
value for victims of drowning or of anaesthetics,
but it will be of no use at all to the man whose
head has been cut off.
* » * *
The N.S. W. Improvement Leases Board is
moving steadily along. On October 23rd it gave
its decision on leases aggregating some 356,000
acres, disallowing 245,000 acres. Among the can-
celled leases were those granted to the Granville
letter-carrier, Hayes, and Pat Rea, stable connec-
tion of Nick Willis. These are the leases which
were subsequently mortgaged to Mrs. Willis. Up
to date the Board has allowed improvement leases
totalling 526,000 acres, and has disallowed 576,000
acres ; and is not yet through.
* * * *
The Beer Bottle in Sydney is now
a problem. Japanese and German imports have
scotched the Australian bottle manufacturing in-
dustry, and bottles are soaring up in price. Bottle-
ohs are scouring the suburbs offering the lydy
Is. 9d. a dozen for big beer bottles, and imploring
her to search every corner of the back yard for a
stray empty. Many families have decided to
drink themselves into affluence. With dead
marines worth nearly 2d. each, a thirst is nowa-
days a valuable asset.
Geraldton (Q.) is where you take off your
hat to the Chinaman. Now Geraldton has
temporally cut off the back end of its cemetery,
and handed that over to one of its favored yellow
citizens, who is going to turn it into a vegetable
garden. Well, perhaps it’s all right. When you
eat Chinese-grown lettuce it is just as well to be
reminded of your latter end.
THE OBVIOUS MISTAKE.
INSPECTOR : “ Now, my boy, can you tell me what
is wrong with the sentence I have just written?"
THE KID : “ Yes, it’s bad writin'."
Reuben Ward, sentenced to death at
Dubbo (N.S.W.) for a capital offence on a female,
is lucky to find that the old N. S. Wales fury for
a hanging has passed away. His sentence has
been commuted, and he is to have a chance of
challenging the justice of the verdict of the jury
at a special inquiry under the Crimes Act.
A scientific expedition has returned from
Murray Island, in the Pacific, reporting that the
natives are “childlike in their innocence, know-
ing nothing of the white man’s vices.” But wait
till we send them the full blessings of Christianity !
Federal Attorney-General Groom suggests
the foundation of a National University which
would bring under a Federal" system the acquire-
ment of knowledge, especially such knowledge as
comes to bear on public life. The idea is good,
and with the foundation of the Federal capital
should be seriously taken in hand.
* * * *
A Judge’s memory shouldn’t stretch back
beyond the beginning of the ease he is judging.
At Gunnedah, last September, James Thompson
was arraigned before Judge Gibson for “breaking
and entering ” and stealing certain cheques, also
(on a second count) of “ receiving.” At Narrabri,
the previous June, George Taylor had been con-
victed before the same Judge for receiving one of
the cheques. The Crown subpcenaed the convict
Taylor against Thompson. Latter’s counsel
argued that, as the Narrabri jury had disbelieved
Taylor, so should the Gunnedah jury. And then
his Honor observed :
It does not follow that the jury in Taylor’s case didn’t
believe him when he said Edwards gave him the cheque.
They may have believed his story and convicted him of
receiving. I have my notes of Taylor’s evidence before
me, and if he had differed from the story he told when he
was convicted, I would have asked him some questions.
Thompson’s counsel waited till the gentleman
with the notes had quite finished, and then asked
the latter “ to reserve for the consideration of the
Full Court the question that his Honor was in
error in referring to the evidence at the previous
trial that prisoner had no opportunity of cross-
examining about.” And last Friday the Full
Court, without any hesitation, cancelled, on the
above point of law, Thompson’s conviction.
m * * *
The W.C.T.U. of Tasmania has sent a
petition to the House of Reps, imploring it not to
countenance “ compulsory military training,”
because it would demoralise young men “ in that
they would be leaving their homes at the most
critical time of their lives.” Well, even if it were
proposed to adopt the barracks system (and it
isn’t), it might be better to risk the sons learning
a thing or two than to risk the undefended
daughters learning far worse things presently
from an Asiatic enemy.
* * * *
Evidently there are ways of suicide still
unexplored. A Victorian farmer tried one the
other day—he climbed a dead tree in his paddock
and dived head first down the hollow trunk. Even
after all that trouble he didn’t succeed in getting
over the border, though the neighbors had a tough
job pulling him back.
Ihe Maoriland Dominion shelters some
wonderful intellects. A number of these, calling
themselves the Society of Peace and Peanuts, or
something of the sort, met at Auckland, recently,
and protested against a rumored scheme whereby
100,000 single men would be trained to defend
their homes. The Wellington Post started the
yarn, and the Government did not deny its
authenticity until the wretched yowl arose in
Auckland. Then Joseph Ward began to explain
—the Defence Council was simply taking the
names of those eligible for service, and the Post’s
informant wasn’t reliable. Ward did not tell the
Society of Peanuts that a defended country was
less likely to be attacked than one whose only
protection was a bundle of tracts and a bale of
good intentions ; nor did he ask them what they
proposed doing when the enemy arrived. It was
a good chance to say these things, and J. Ward
failed to seize it. Instead, he simply indulged
his increasing tendency to explain things and to
offer the soft splodgy answer which churneth
strong men to wrath.
* • * *
A quaint par. in a Melbourne Tory paper,
the other day, spoke of the exhibition of pictures
to be held in Melbourne by Sydney artists, and
went on to say, with much severity, that this was
the third or fourth exhibition of the kind that had
taken place within a month, and the artists were
“ exhausting the patience of the people.” That
is a most instructive expression of the fatted busi-
ness man’s view of art and artists. Nobody ever
thinks of accusing the portly business person of
exhausting the patience of the public with his
displays of pressed pig, lard, and fragments of
cow, or with his shows of iron beds and brass fen-
ders, or his exhibits of cheap trousers and shoddy
socks. But the artist is still a kind of vagabond
whose pictures are bought by charitable persons,
and who is allowed to live only by reason of the
gentle forbearance of superior people who make
wealth out of pigs’ fittings and dry and wet goods.
* * * *
“Klinker”: Re par on passion fruit (B.
26/9/’O7). When in London, four years ago, I saw
passion fruit advertised in a fruit shop in Parlia-
ment-street as Australian, and as I had been in
the Cold Country 12 months, I made a rush inside
to purchase. I was told the thing was Bd. each, so I
immediately rushed out. When in England, which
should be called the dear old land,
I could never get people to
believe living was far
cheaper in Australia,
and if they didn’t
call me a liar they
thought I was
one, and they
looked their
thoughts too.
PREOCCUPIED.
HE : “Do you know, sir, do you know that I
saw you kissing my daughter?"
IT : “ Er—I could not tell you — er—I was so busy
at the time I could not perceive, don’tcher-
know, whether you saw me or not.”
Newcastle (N.S.W.), which is making a
living for itself by exporting its bowels, is just
now in the throes of a big fright. In previous
years, when the State did not keep a watchful
eye on Newcastle, the coal diggers undermined
beyond the margin of safety what is now the resi-
dential area of the coal city. Every now and
then these old workings collapse, and the high
land at the back of the city shows every appear-
ance of collapsing. Lately a bigger creep than
usual has taken place, yawning cracks have ap-
peared in the streets, walls have split, and a much-
needed reservoir of water has run away to waste.
Newcastle is genuinely alarmed and, as usual,
has run to the Government. When the ships in
Newcastle harbor can.’t get enough sailors, or
when the sailors in Newcastle city can’t get
enough ships, Newcastle always runs to the
Government. Now the State points out that the
old coal-mining people haven’t left as much as a
plan of their workings, and the blue Pacific has
probably broken into them. Therefore, to fill
them up would be a stupendous, costly, if not im-
possible task; and it would be better for the New-
castle people to shift to some more stable spot
than Newcastle Hill. But the Hill, which is
peopled and owned by Anti-Sosh, is indignant at
the idea, and threatens to ask a question in the
House about it.
“INGRATE!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
There’s a curious fact, I vow,
Can anyone explain ?
Every man and woman now
Has a grievance full of pain 1
They have each a tale of woe
Of some Ingrate who is base,
And one thing I want to know—
Who’s the Ingrate in each case ?
Each has done the noble deed,
Each herself has been the donor !
Where’s the one who was in need?
Who had kindness thrust upon her ?
When the stage of life is bare,
I attend to every actor ;
Still I wait to find one there
Who has had —a Benefactor !
HELEN JEROME.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Rr.mtnn’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Gas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
At the beginning of the financial year 1903 the
Victorian Railways were set down as being £.795,761
behindhand with repairs and renewals. Mostly, however,
this amount was represented by debt incurred in carry-
ing out the renewal works with loans instead of with
revenue. That is to say, an engine built out of loans was
replaoed by another engine also built out of loans instead
of by one built out of revenue. The four good years since
1908 have wiped out all that debt and shortage except
£17,639. Sound finance demands something more
than this, though. You buy an engine for, say,
£4OOO. At the moment it is put on the rails 'it is
worth what was paid for it. It is put to work which
will wear it out in 20 years. At the end of 20 years it is
worth, then, nothing (the few pounds “ scrap ” value may
be disregarded). Obviously out of the money it earns a
fund ought to be built up which would amount to £4OOO
in 20 years. But the Railways—the Victorian Railways
like tiie rest —have no such fund. It is true that in Vic-
toria (and possibly elsewhere) they have a revaluation
annually. Locomotives are valued on their “ tractive
power,” and the other stock upon what it will carry.
So an engine which is on the verge of the scrap-heap is
valued at very little less than a new engine. The engine
that has spent half its life is down in the balance sheet
at its oost price if it has the original tractive power.
Last year, 27 engines were broken up and sold, and the
“scrap" brought in £9266, an average of £343 per
engine—an unusual price, for the copper market was
booming. Yet, almost up to the time when the engine
was sent to the knackers, to realise £343, it stood as an
asset for £4OOO, or whatever it cost, and none of the
£3657 which the engine had lost in value through wear
had been accumulated out of its earnings. Certainly,
when times are prosperous, a new engine is provided to
take the plaoe of the one utterly worn out ; but there is
no fund of accumulated earnings to represent the wear
and tear and depreciation of the plant that is partially
worn out.
Besides wear and tear, for which no provision
is made, the Victorian railways have, as an alleged asset,
standing against capital (loan) expenditure, this item —
“ Lines now closed for traffic, and survey’s of lines not
constructed, on which interest is oharged against the
Railways, £703,885.” Possibly some of the surveys may
be worth something, but mostly they are worth nothing ;
and it is as absurd for the Department to reckon as assets
these and the worthless lines as it would be for a mining
co. to reckon as an asset a shaft which had struck only a
duffer reef, or no reef at all. Abandoned lines are only
to be valued on a “ scrap ” basis ; the balance ought to
be provided out of the revenue of the Department, and
an equal amount of loan money paid off.
As a result of the ructions that occurred at
’Frisco after the earthquake, when numerous insurance
cos.—mostly foreign—refused to pay up even for losses
caused by fire, the British Fire Offices Committee has
drawn up a schedule dealing with such risks. The addi-
tional premiums to cover “ loss or damage occasioned by
fire during or in consequence of earthquake” runs from 2s.
6d. in unspecified places, up to a maximum of 20s. in
these places Central America, Ecuador, Peru, Chili,
North-west India, Japan, Maoriland (North Island—it is
10s. in the South Island), Turkey-in-Europe, Asia Minor,
and the West Indies.
* * * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 3£ p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Sept., 1901 .. £32,050 £20,868 £7,644 £3,538 £73,192
Mat., 1902 .. 34,394 20,868 7,644 5,882 79,074
Sept., 1902 .. 35,038 20,868 7,644 6,526 85,600
Mar., 1903 .. 34,660 20,868 7,644 6,148 91,748
Sept., 1903 .. 34,874 20,868 7,644 6,362 98,110
Mar., 1904 .. 36,233 20,868 7,644 7,721 105,831
Sept., 1904 .. 36,950 20,868 7,644 8,438 114,269
Mar., 1905 .. 36,130 20,868 7,644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905 .. 36,104 23,849 7,644 4,611 126,498
Mar., 1906 .. 41,144 23,849 7,644 9,651 136,149
H p.c.
Sept., 1906 .. 44,982 26,830 7,644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907 .. 48,158 29,811 7,644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907 .. 49,943 29,811 7,644 12,488 169,848
This co.’s policy in some respects looked doubtful for some
terms past. The directors appeared to be in too much
hurry to put up the dividend, especially in view of
three facts—(l) the smallness of the reserves, and
the high proportion of profits divided ; (2) the compara-
tively low rate of earnings, which suggested that pro-
bably the bank still had some old over-valued assets in
itS books ; and (3) the existence of boom conditions in
Australia, and unusually favorable conditions for Austra-
lian banks in England, suggesting that recent profits
have been above normal, wherefore the additions to re-
serves should have been kept above normal also. Those
reasons still seem good. Nevertheless, the bank cer-
tainly continues to show better figures. Here, for in-
stance, is a comparison
Sept., 1906. Sept., 1907.
Notes in circulation.. £230,944 £256,810 Inc. £25,866
Bills, etc. .. .. 781,151 882,713 Inc. 101,562
Free deposits .. ..2,638,526 2,883,760 Inc. 245,234
Deposits at interest .. 4,439,021 4,583,410 Inc. 144,389
Liquid assets .. ..3,290,307 2,817,315 Dec. 472,992
Advances .. .. 5,885,731 6,956,300 Inc. 1,070,569
Premises, etc... .. 592,954 538,601 Dec. 54,353
The increase in the advances is very striking ; it amounts
to very nearly 20 per cent, in 12 months. The money for
these new advances has been provided in this way :
Increase in circulation .. £25,866
~ „ bills, etc 101,562
~ free deposits 245,234
1 ■ ~ fixed deposits .. 144,389
Provided out of liquid assets .. .: .. .. 472,992
Real estate (premises, etc.) written down or sold.. 54,353
Undivided profits ~ .. .. .. .. 26,173
Total .. .; £1,070,569
The liquid assets have thus been drawn upon pretty
heavily ; nevertheless, they still represent over 32 per
cent, of the total amount owing to the public, including
fixed deposits—a fair, though not at all excessive, pro-
portion. Under present circumstances, these liquid
assets could probably not be further reduced for the same
purpose without some risk.
So far, however, as the relations between pro-
prietors and creditors are concerned, the position of the
latter is strengthened by the large proportion of pro-
prietors’ capital; they have £1 in the business for every
£5 4s. of the public’s money, and that £1 in every £6 4s.
represents a very substantial guarantee fund. The rate of
profits, as mentioned just now, is not very high, especially
when it is considered how large a.proportion of the bank’s
available resources is in use for advances, etc. These
figures show what the profits have amounted to calcu-
lated on the basis of capital and reserves
Mar 1904 .. £4 10 10 p.c. Mar., 1906 ..£5 1 3 p.c
Sept.’, 1904 .. 412 1 „ Sept., 1906 .. 5 910 „
Mar., 1905 .. 4 9 7 „ Mar., 1907 .. 517 1 „
Sept., 1905 .. 4 9 1 „ Sept., 1907 .. 6 0 1 „
For some years past these comparatively low figures
seemed to suggest that the bank had some not very pro-
fitable old business still on hand. Probably it has still; on
the other hand, it is quite probable that larger profits
have been made than have been shown, and that these
undisclosed profits have gone towards filling up the
holes in the accounts. Accepting all the figures as they
stand, the worst feature in the National’s case is the poor
total of reserves. A shrinkage of less than 2J per cent,
in the non-liquid assets below present book values would
wipe out those reserves and encroach upon capital.
-t * * *
Colonial Bank op Australasia (Melbourne):
Dividends on To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Shares, serves, serves.
Mar., 1901.. £13,718 5 p.c. = £7,001 £6117 £24,063
Sept., 1901.. .15,069 5 „ „ 7,601 7468 31,531
Divs. on All Shares.
Mar., 1902.. 17,173 5 p.c. = 10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902.. 16,264 5 ~. ~10,961 5303 43,065
Mar,, 1903.. 16,223 5 ~ ~10,961 5262 48,327
Sept., 1903.. 17,251 5 „ ~ 10,965 6286 54,613
Mai-., 1904.. 19,117 5 „ ~10,967 8150 62,763
Sept., 1904.. 18,287 5 „ ~10,967 7320 70,083
Mar., 1905.. 19,320 5 „ ~10,967 8353 78,436
Sept., 1905.. 18,314 5 ~ ~ 10,977 7337 85,1/3
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 „ ~10,982 8423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6 „ ~13,178 6400 100,596
Mar., 1907.. 22,086 6 „ ~13,178 8908 109,504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 6 „ ~13,178 6354 115,858
The bank, however, pays £3569 by way of bonus to staff
for the past half-year ; and but for that special
outlay the profits would show' a continuous up-
ward movement. Still, on the figures, the position is not
wholly satisfactory. Take first this comparison
Sept., 1906. Sept., 1907.
Notes in circulation .. £111,035 £110,241 Dec. £794
Bills in circulation, etc. 131,726 191,766 Inc. 60,040
Deposits at interest .. 1,911,859 1,939,783 Inc. 27,924
Free deposits .. .. 1,003,763 1,041,759 Inc. 37,996
Liquid assets .. .. 999,178 854,707 Dec. 144,471
Advances .. .. 2,461,737 2,761,364 Inc. 289,627
Premises, etc 250,464 245,794 Dec. 4,670
The liabilities to the public total £3,283,549. The liquid
assets total £854,707. Therefore, only 26 per cent, of
the debt to the public is represented by coin, bullion,
public securities, and similar liquid items. These liquid
assets represent, again, only 82 p.c. of the non-interest
bearing loans, which are practically all deposits
at call. No doubt the mere figures of a balance-
sheet don’t tell the nature of either deposits or advances :
there may be current-account money which is as good as
fixed deposits, and ti.ere may be advances which are as
good as cash. But one can’t assume these things. Taking
the figures as they stand, it looks as though the bank
were taking some risks ; and just now, after a run of good
seasons, when the country is on the threshold of what
may very likely prove to be hard times, seems to be a less
desirable time than usual to show such figures. Any-
how, apart from the question of safety, it is evident that
the bank, on its present resources, is running to the
limit of its profit-earning capacity.
On the other hand, creditors of the bank will
get assurance out of the fact that the capital and
reserves are fairly heavy in proportion to total liabilities
—about £1 to £6. Put in another way, if the liquid assets
were used to pay off deposits and other debt to the public,
there w'ould remain (after paying the present dividend)
£2,442,020 of debt, and £2,997,158 of non-liquid assets to
pay it with ; that is to say, £1 4s. 6d. of non-liquid assets
for every £1 of debt. The proportion is not strikingly
large—it can be classed as moderate. And earnings fall
into the same category. Computed on the basis of capital
and reserves combined, recent figures have been :
Mar., 1904 .. £7 15 0 p.c. Mar., 1906 .. £7 7 11 p.c.
Sept., 1904.. 7 510 „ Sept., 1906 .. 7 6 9 „
Mar., 1905 .. 711 11 „ Mar., 1906 .. 8 3 8 „
Sept., 1905.. 7 1 6 ~ Sept., 1907.. 7.2 4 „
But, as mentioned above, the bonus to staff, paid this
past half-year, has to be remembered : if that were not
taken out of profits, the latter w'ouldshow £8 Bs. sd. per
cent, on shareholders’ funds. Considering the large
amount of public money with which the bank is favored
and the very large proportion of the available money em-
ployed in advances, this is not a large profit return ; but
that may possibly be due to the advances being of a non-
speculative and low interest-bearing character.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc. (Sydney)
Net Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Sept., 1901.. £37,269 7 p.c. = £31,500 £5,769 £129,962
Mar., 1902.. 41,536 8„ „ 36,000 5,536 135,498
Sept., 1902.. 40,768 8,, ~ 36,000 4,768 140,266
Mar., 1903.. 41,209 8,, „ 36,000 5,209 145,475
Sept., 1903.. 39,053 8,, „ 36,000 3,053 148,528
Mar,, 1904.. 43,414 8„ „ 36,000 7,414 155,942
Sept., 1904.. 37,570 8„ ~ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar 1905.. 46,964 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,964 168,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8„ ~ 36,000 1,394 169,870
Mar., 1906..- 46,532 8„ „ 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 38,286 8,, ~ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8,, ~ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 „ „ 45,000 8,889 200,733
With that read this :
1930. 1906. 1907.
Debts to public .. .. £10,938 £16,172 £17,478
Properties, goodwill,plant.. 671,662 635,016 613,433
Public stocks and deposits.. 99,349 145,622 206,745
Cash balances.. .. .. 28,104 26,877 36,6z7
Stock 51,582 91,856 100,780
Sundry debtors .. .. 210,037 240,489 210,626
Profit on brewing, rent, etc. 113,562 122,470 145,731
Management, wages, etc. .. 74,611 79,184 86,843
For some time past the analysis of Tooth’s accounts has
indicated increasing strength and the probability of a
larger dividend ; and the larger dividend has how arrived.
The amount formally written off disclosed profits to pro-
vide for depreciation of plant and machinery has for
some years been £lO,OOO per annum ; but the steady
reduction of the lumped “properties, goodwill, etc.,”
item, and the large increase in liquid assets, have
suggested that there was either heavy writing-down of
assets out of undisclosed profit, or heavy realisations of
property. The latter is possible ; but the view that it
isn't probable is supported by the steady increase in
profits from brewings, rent, etc. In the past seven years
the liquid and more-or-less liquid assets have moved this
Wd,> ' Sept., 1900. Sept., 1907.
Liquid assets .. £127,453 £243,372 Inc. £115,919
Stock .. .. 51,582 100,780 Inc. 49,198
Book debts.. .. 210,037 210,626 Inc. 589
£389,072 £554,778 Inc. £165,706
Less Debts to public 10,938 17,478 Inc. 6,540
•£378,134 £537,300 Inc. £159,166
Business has increased, yet the increase in the book debts
has been insignificant; and that suggests that that item
has also been kept written down out of undisclosed
profits. Altogether, then, the position of the co. appears
to be very sound ; and the directors would, if challenged,
have no difficulty in justifying their increased dividend.
There are but two spots in the co.’s sky—(l) the con-
tinued existence of the paperitem “ Goodwill” among the
assets after nearly 20 years of prosperous life ; (2) the
modern tendency to clip the claws of the Drink business
—and more than the claws, perhaps. Whether that
tendency will develop into anything very serious is un-
certain ; but there is no doubt that it costs a good deal
of money to combat, and the breweries have to put up a
large share of it.
® * * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood Bros,
and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.): —
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901.. £13,093 4 p.c. =£lo,ooo £3009 £93 £41,983
1902.. 13,185 4 „ „ 10,000 3000 185 42,168
1903.. 13,080 4,, „ 10,000 3000 80 42,248
1904.. 13,022 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 22 42,270
1905.. 13,000 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 42,270
1906 15,019 4,, ~ 10,000 3000 2019 44,289
1907 15,522 4„ „ 10,000 3500 2022 46,311
It has not been possible to get a reliable opinion about the
progress of this co. from its published accounts. Evidently
the co. found itself loaded up with assets which wouldn’t
realise their book-value ; hence year after year just about
enough profit was shown to pay the 4 per cent, dividend
and leave £3OOO over to formally write down properties
and plant. What amount was used to write down book
debts never transpired. The position is shown hereunder:
1901. 1906. 1907.
Liabilities to public .. .. £68,307 £66,323 £60,896
Properties, goodwill, plant, etc. 215,922 225,688 225,802
Hotels (special account) .. 41,848 55,488 51,314
Sundry debtors 77,348 55,220 56,472
Pills, cash, etc 6,826 12,462 9,160
Stock 26,346 19,756 22,959
Receipts 61,716 52,759 5.2,922
Exoenses (including provision
fbr bad debts) 48,623 37,740 37,400
Book debts, which were £77,348 in 1901, are £56,472 now ;
yet in the ordinary course of things, Newcastle district
being now' remarkably prosperous, and trading therefore
no doubt heavy, book debts might have been expected to
be at present rather larger than usual. The presumption,
therefore, is that old accounts have been written down
out of undisclosed profits—w'hich, however, is simply
another w ; ay of saying that the previous profits, out of
which as niuch as 7 per cent, dividends were paid, were
to some extent fictitious ; because not enough provision
for bad debts was then made. There is, it will be seen, a
goodwill item ; but the size of it is unknown : it is
lumped with freeholds and leaseholds, plant, rolling
stock, etc. At the outset the item was a great
deal larger than it should have been; for this
co. was established in 1887, w'hen the boom
was hatching, and, in order to live up to w'hat was
thought to be due to it, the first dividends were at
the rate of l'2J per cent. That sort of thing, however,
didn’t last long. How much of this old paper asset is
still on the premises the published accounts don’t even
hint; but it probably accounts for the facL that, in spite
of the steady profits, the market has for years refused to
pay more than about 10s. or 11s. for the £1 shares. The
argument evidently is that, though the return is good, a
large amount of the capital isn’t represented hy sub-
stantial assets, and that would be awkward if any unex-
pected disaster to Newcastle or the beer business should
force the co to liquidate.
* * * *
The County of Bourke Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Melbourne), from the year of
the clean-up :
Busi- Net
ness Profit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899 £4,888 £1746 6 p.c. - £5889 £745 £10,405
1900 6,010 1561 6 „ „ 5889 1682 12,087
1901 7,363 2869 6 „ „ 5888 4344 16,431
1902 8,338 3913 7J „ „ 7361 4890 21,321
1903 8,844 2632 7| „ „ 7361 4115 25,436
1904 10,753 1563 7$ ~ 7314 5002 30,438
1905 9,408 1500 8f „ „ 8533 2375 32,813
1906 10,291 1200 10 „ „ 9752 1739 34,552
1907 10,922 1300 10 „ „ 9752 2470 37,022
In 1898, as indicated above, this society cut away the
dead timber. Of the capital, £66,812 was lopped off ;
assets were written down to the extent of £64,563,
and the balance (£2249) was added to reserves. The
cleaning-up w'as very thorough ; in fact, every year
since then has shown a profit on -sales. That is
to say, the losses haven’t been as great as was pro-
vided for in the writing-down. These profits are
not profits on the year’s transactions, however. The sales
are mostly on terms, and the figures represent “ the pro-
portion of cash profits brought to account.” The figures
therefore bear no relation to the business actually done
during the year in the way of realisation. Between 1900
and 1905 the sales totalled about £25,000 (book value),
and no doubt some of the profits now taken to credit
are on those sales; for, as the following comparison
shows, the recent sales have been small, and hardly
capable of yielding the profits set out in the accounts
for the past two or three years :
1896. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. ..£164,962 £97,523 £97,523 £97,523
Deposits .. .. 32,131 10,906 16,659 21,936
Other Liabilities.. 2,104 7,680 4,15 l 4,020
Foreclosures I ioosoi) 42,841 41,750 38,535
Advances f " 199, ( 110,816 117,105 127,952
Other Assets .. 9,603 1,358’ ■ 1,346 1,329
On the mean of the properties in possession (book value)
the gross rents received show just upon 12 per cent.—
pretty good proof that there are recoveries still in store.
New business is extending, being mainly financed with
deposits ; but the proportion of deposits t 9 shareholders’
funds is. still only about 1 to 6, so that, on the present
capital and reserves, there is plenty of room for a safe
expansion of business. The society, however, appears not
to be rushing things ; and, under the conditions of the
past year or two, there has been a world of wisdom in
that policy.
* * * *
The Newcastle Building and Investment
Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) took over the Newcastle Per-
manent Investment and Building Society’s business in
1896, transferring a large amount of its capital to con-
tingency account to cover probable losses. In the table
that foliows this account is included with -the reserves :
Written Off;
(including [
Losses ,
on Rea- To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends, lisation). serves, serves.
1899 £4911 4 p.c. =‘£3356 ‘ £390 £1165 £53,368
1900 .. 5322 5 ~ ~ 4195 2256 52,239
1901 .. 5159 6 ~ ~ 5033 1900 50,465
1902 .. 6084 6 ~ ~ 5033. 424 , 627 51,092
1903 .. 5736 6 „ „ 5033 226 477 51,569
1904 . 5765 6 „ „ 5033 ' 209 523 52,092
1905 .. 5250 6 „ „ 5033 90 1 127 52,219
1906 .. 5539 6 „ „ 5033 266 ’ 240 52,459
1907 .. 5453 6 ~ ~ 5033 924 51,955
The progress made during the last few years in realising
properties is shown next<
Total Sold Total Sold
in during in. during
hand.- year.. hand. year.
1900 ..£101,243 £7,333 1904 ..£71,737 £2,204
1901 83,756 17,487 1905 .. 70,084 1,653
1902 .. 78,177 5,579 1906 .. 68,163 1,921
1903 .. 73,941 4,23(>- 1907 .. 66,785 1,378
Seven years ago the properties in possession thus totalled
£101,243, and they are now £34,458 less; and in getting
rid of that amount of property the contingency fund has
been drawn upon to the extent of £4039. In other words,
properties standing in the books at £34,458 have
realised £30,419. At that rate of realisation the balance
of £66,785 (book-value) of properties should bring in
about £58,900. Whether, .however, the properties
that have been sold are a fair sample of the lot
•is not ascertainable from the accounts. Besides
foreclosed properties the CO. has other real estate, these
assets (of both kinds) totalling £119,468 ; and on that
estate the rent earnings last year were £4 10s. 6d. per
cent.—this is apparently after paying up-keep, insurance,
and rates. Judging by that, there is no very serious
over-valuation, or the new properties are an unusually pro-
fitable lot. Besides it own capital and reserves, the co.
has £9683 of deposits—practically its only liability. Five
years ago the total was £16,237, so that part of the pro-
ceeds of sales has been used towards cleaning the slate.
» * * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) • *
Net Dividends and Added to Re- '
Sent Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1898 .. - • “ £17,417
1899 ..£4978 7 per cent. =£2756 £2222 19,639
1900 ... 4403 7 „ „ 2756 1647 21,286
1901 . 3793 7 „ ~ 2756 1037 22,323
1902 .. 4541 7 „ „ 2756 1785 24,108
1903 .. 5894 8 „ „ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 5474 8 „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 .. 3876 8 „ „ 3150 726 29,902
1906 .. 3781 8 „ 3150 631 30,533
1907 .. 5697 8 ~ ~ 3150 2547 33,080
This co. confines itself to fire business ; and it has thus
escaped the losses which have lately knocked at the
money-boxes of most cos. that mix marine underwriting,
with fire insurance. Its fire experiences have, moreover,
been unusually satisfactory :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. IL.e.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37'1 p.c. 44•» p.c.
1904 .. 5839 1087 2390 18’6 „ 41'0 „
1905 .. 5844 2959 2248 50/6 „ 3S'4 ~,
1906 .. 5999 3270 2449 54’5 ~ 40'8 ~
1907 .. 6043 1043 2398 17’2 „ 39'7 ~
Still, the business isn’t large enough to make one year’s
results of much value ; in an office of this size the law of
averages hasn’t got room to turn round, so to speak, in
the course of 12 months ; wherefore one year the co. gets
its smile and another year its frown. The capital con-
sists of £187,500, in £5 shares, of which only £1 has been
paid, leaving a£4 liability. This capital, as wed as the
reserves, is practically all out on mortgage (£66,244) ;
and though on the average the return shown is an almost
exact 5 per cent.—which is very fine —one wonders what
would happen if the co. were struck by a bad disaster,
and wanted, say, £50,000 in a hurry. Its cash resources,
after paying current dividend, will not run to £3OOO.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co. :
Mine De-
velopment Written
Loss. Expenditure, off. Deficit.
Mar., 1903.. £525 £325
Sept., 1903.. 1163 1,488
Mar., 1904.. 1214 2,702
Profit.
Sept., 1904.. 353 2,349
Mar., 1905.. 105 2,244
Sept., 1905.. 289 £221 £1856 4,032
Mar., 1906.. 577 751 4,206
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907 .. 441 4274 1280 12,295
Loss.
Sept., 1907 .. 17 1010 984 14,306
For many years this co. paid dividends, the last of them
in 1901—6 per cent, on ordinary and 12£ per cent, on
pref. shares. Even at that time the old mine was about
worked out, and no fund had been accumulated to
buy and develop a new one. Still the co. decided to make
a struggle to pull through ; a new property was secur.d
at Cessnock, and 20,000 more shares were issued. These
new shares have so far provided £17,774 of capital; and
for the rest £21,948 of debt has been incurred. Still, the
co. has done far better than it deserved to do, consider-
ing its improvidence, and better also than it was gener-
alfy expected to do ; and already an output of 2000 tons
of coal a week has been achieved. The fine demand for
coal has come when it would do the co. most good, and
is oneof the thing's that will probably save the co.’s life.
For the past year a loss of £l7 is, it is true, shown, apart
from development and depreciation ; but, then, only
£lOlO has been charged to the development of the new
property, and probably a great deal more than that was
spent apart from ordinary coal-getting. The profit and
loss account, by the way, includes an item “ Outstanding
liabilities, £2663.” No profit and loss account ought to
contain such an entry as that; the debt, whatever it is,
ought to be added on to the expenditure under its proper
head—rent, management, working expenses, or whatnot.
How can shareholders tell what management, for
instance costs when there is such an item as this, which
may possibly be management costs in disguise ?
* * * *
The Heddon-Gketa Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Total Deficit
Charged (apart
to De- from
Coal Land velop- Develop-
Sales. Sales. ment. merit).
Mar., 1902 .. £504 £1,798 £1951
Sept., 1902.. 2,983 £668 4,888. 1241
Mar., 1903 .. 4,290 1685 5,692 521
Sept., 1903.. 8,599 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9,927 209 9,881 1520
Sept., 1904 .. 11,898 278 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept., 1905 .. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906 .. 12,420 14,323 3533
Sept,, 1906 .. 10,373 14,323 3394
Mar., 1907 .. 11,197 14,323 3770
Sept., 1907 .. 19,194 14,323 1903
Deducting the last item in the “ Deficit ” column from
the item just on top of it, it will be seen that the co. has
made a profit of £1867 for the past half-yeah The
Heddon-Greta has had a good deal of bad luck. It
started off with too little capital, and had to pay through
the nose for some necessary accommodation in the way of
trucks, etc. Subsequently it suffered from a fire, and that
meant not only expense but the dislocation of business
arrangements as well. The co. now has debentures for
£4OOO ; two years ago it owed £14,500, but an issue of
20,844' pref. shares eased that load, though ordinary
shares had to make a sacrifice. Besides the £4OOO
debentures the co. owes £4654 to its bankers and sundry
creditors, against which there are book debts amounting
to £2044. The co. has made a good fight of it, and now
seems to be well out of the worst of its troubles, though
for holders of “ordinaries” things cannot ever be
what they were before there were pref. shares to stand
ahead of'them when divs. come to be served out. The
mine is freehold.
* * * *
The papers were lately busy encouraging the
public to regard anything from £lOO to £llO as a normal
price for copper under what they called the new con-
ditions. Cooked statistics were ladled out, and the
public was invited to observe how copper stocks were
disappearing. Now, however, with copper down well
below £6O, they begin to print reports to the effect that
the statistics were all wrong—that they didn’t take into
account “ the stocks in the private warehouses of the
large producers on both sides of the Atlantic, and the
public stores in Continental centres.” One estimate
makes these stocks “ equal to four months’ consumption.’
Put into plain words, the papers allowed themselves to be
made the tools of speculators, first in the metal and then
in the share markets. As stated here, again and again,
while those markets were up like sky-rockets, copper-
mine valuers for some years had been in the habit of
figuring on copper at £56 per ton ; but there is some
reason to assume that, on account of the general raising
of price levels, that basis is now a trifle low. Still, the
average price for G.M.B. (which means simply good
merchantable bars—a lower grade than best selected, or
fine electrolytic) was, for the 20 years prior to 1899, £52
12s. The market had, however, been steadily improving,
till trade in general was disturbed by the S’African war :
in 1900 the market got up to £79, and its lowest was £6B.
The increased production caused by the recent boom may
bring prices for a while below normal ; but for a normal
price, nowadays, we are probably entitled to look some-
where above £65.
* * * *
The Broken Hill North has undergone so many
changes that it is not worth while going back more than
12 months for data on which to judge its working costs.
In the half-year to the end of last December, it made a
profit of £44,442 out of silver-lead concentrates, of
which £5986 was written off for depreciation, leaving
£38,456 net. The concentrates contained 5610 tons lead,
so, disregarding the amount written off, the profit was
equal to £7 18s. sd. per ton of lead. Lead averaged
£lB 7s. 2d. per ton : therefore the cost of production was
all the silver plus £lO Bs. 9d. per ton of the lead. But
£6250 was got for zinc tailings, under a contract made
with the De Bavay Co., which has secured the North’s
output for eleven' years. Including this amount, and
setting it against costs, then lead was produced at
£9 6s. sd. per ton. In the foregoing the profit wa
taken gross, nothing being written off to coyer
wear and tear. The value taken out of machinery,
etc., is no doubt as imperative a charge as the
cost of the labor. But the position with regard to
cos. that mine for such things as lead and copper is
unusual. These products jump about so much in value
that the cos. make the fat years pay for the lean ; and
the amount written off for depreciation in the lean years
is dften nil. Hence, as the object is to find what would
happen in lean years, depreciation has not been charged in
the calculations above. But if the costs are charged with
depreciation, then the profit per ton of lead amounted to
£6 17s. ; and the costs to £ll 10s. 2d. In that half-year
silver averaged 2s. lOd. If it averaged only 2s. 6d., which
is about the'present price, the fall of fourpence would be
equivalent to 7s. Bd. per ton added to the cost of pro-
ducing the lead.
In the half-year to the end of June last the
B. H. North apparently received nothing on account of
zinc concentrates. The output of lead (in silver-lead con-
centrates) was 6532 tons, and, not charging depreciation,
the costs were equal to all the silver and £lllls. 3d. per
ton of lead. Adding depreciation to costs, the latter
would amount to £l4 os. lid. per ton of lead. The
amount written off for depreciation was, however, ex-
tremely heavy—it was a fat half-year, and the directors
adopted the policy mentioned above. Silver averaged a
shade over 2s. 9£d. for the half-year ; and the fall in silver
to an average of” 2s. 6d. w'ould, on the present output, be
equivalent to cutting off about 7s. per ton from the profit
on lead. On last half-year’s figures, then, with silver
averaging 2s. 6d., lead could be produced at £lllBs. 3d.;
but that allows for nothing being written off for depre-
ciation. In a weak lead market economies would, no
doubt, be made ; and indeed they would be very neces-
sary, for the present figure is far too high to be comfort-
able


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British arid Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving-by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for l andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. ) bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.' 1 '
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
» * * *
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilflev type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating- coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged with mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them—the lower ones—carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This, ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.*
* * • *
The British Australasian in its issue of 19th
July, 1906, wrote regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited “The Society has advanced
rapidly, especially during the last three years, and it is
pretty generally admitted that the directors are con-
ducting a large business on very safe lines.”
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £694,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * » »
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. 11. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & 00., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* » * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Oobar Stock Exchange.*
* « * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberq and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* « * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said :—“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still thee was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * •*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
**. * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymat-ket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
■ • * •
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Colmson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
LOHMANN (& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating' &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing- Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne ;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining-, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4,
The B. H. North is in 140,000 shares. There-
fore, on the basis of last half-year’s figures, results at
various prices for a year would be: —
Gross Profit per
Lead. Silver. Profit. Share.
s. d. s. d.
£l9 17 1 2 9J £108,332 16 5
19 17 1 2 6 103,140 14 8
18 0 0 2 6 78,920 11 3
16 0 0 2 6 52,792 7 6
14 0 0 2 6 26,664 3 9
12 0 0 2 6 536
In 1902-3-4 both silver and lead ruled throughout lower
than the bottom prices in the above estimate.
* » * *
In one day last week the Broken Hill mining
warden granted long suspensions of labor conditions to
the Lubra (one of the first shows worked on the Barrier),
the North Pinnacles and the Middle Pinnacles, and the
Allandale. Ttie last three may have a hope when the
Barrier knows a great deal more about sulphide treat-
ment than it has been able to find out in the past 18 years.
Hope told its flattering tale about the Allandale
mine, Waukeroo (N.S.W.), and some Adelaide arid Broken
Hill speculators are now sorry they stopped to listen to it.
When the present co. started there were some fairly
good carbonates and a solid sulphide lode in sight, and
even primitive methods gave payable results. Then the
Adelaide directors sent along a manager, and a mill was
dumped down. Just about that time shareholders’faces
were radiant, and shares couldn’t be got for 2s. They
hadn't seen the mill ; nevertheless, full of faith, they sat
down and awaited results. The first result was a call.
Then came rumors that the mill, when it consented to
work at all, worked backwards, reducing the grade of the
carbonates treated instead of raising it. So things went
on until, after a struggle which cost £7OOO, all work on
the mine was last week suspended. As for the ore in the
mine on which the experts advised development, it is still
there. Apart from the funds, the only thing used up was
the shareholders’ hope.
■* * » *
Some people want to know why Manager Stock-
dale, of the Junction, Broken Hill, hasn’t found a hanging-
wall in the northern end of the 900 ft. level. An examination
of the underground operations since the present skipper
took command shows that they have tended to improve
the mine ; and, that being so, it is only reasonable to
accept his explanation that, so long as he gets the ore,
anyone can have the hanging-wall. In other words, the
ore at the 900 ft. level was wanted for the mill—badly
wanted, on account of its higher grade—and stoping
across to the hanging-wall, even if it was being done at an
angle, was a policy which commended itself as being both
economical and expeditious. The.wisdom of continuing
the drive south as a stoping drive instead of
pushing on to Browne’s shaft, is open to question, as its
ultimate aim can only be the sinking of a winze to the
1000 ft. level, whence it will be connected by a drive to
Browne’s, and the hauling done from there. This may be
a good scheme, but it looks like procrastination, and
Junction shareholders have had too much of that.
■ Those people who didn’t think it mattered
Whether they held paid or contributing shares in the
Broken Hill Sputh, got a shock last week, when it was
rumored chat a machinery call was to be made on con-
tribs. As a matter of fact, there wasn’t anything in the
rumor, although about three years ago the calling-up of
the unpaid balance of capital was announced as part of
the co.’s policy ; and if the metal markets should sud-
denly become unfavorable, it is more than possible that
the uncalled 9s. 6d., or part of it, will be got in from the
73,188 contributing shares. For the present the directors
content themselves with reducing the quarterly div. from
4s. to 3s. The spending of money on the new mill plant,
etc., will not, however, be over till next March or April; so
contribs. are not yet out of the wood. -
**. * »
Newcastle (N.S.W.) coal miners have held a
big “ aggregate ” meeting, and decided to enforce a de-
mand for an extra eightpence per ton hewing rate from
the beginning of 1908. The present selling price is 10s. ;
the advance to 11s. recently agreed upon meant a rise of
fourpence for hewing, and if the sliding scale is adhered
to the rise of eightpence will mean that the selling price
will have to go up to 12s. Some at least of the owners
view the miners’ demand with a feeling not far short of
satisfaction : they themselves wanted a 12s. selling rate,
but a majority thought that, though the foreign market
for coal could stand 12s. at present, the outlook was not
good enough to justify them in fixing that price. There
is a possibility of labor trouble, certainly ; but, taking one
thing with another, there are very good reasons for ex-
pecting that matters will be fixed up amicably.
* * * *
The Far Western (N.S.W.) copper litter begins
to thin out. The Canbelego Queen last week decided to
call in the undertaker.
* * * >
A very mild revival of the Budgery (N.S.W.)
gamble has been started by the discovery of rich ore at
220 ft. in the new main shaft. This is 180 ft. south-east of
the old shaft, from which good ore was obtained at the
266 ft. level. With such an erratic mineral as copper, and
the show not half-prospected, there is always a chance of
getting a rich patch, and it is not safe to regard this
present strike as being anything more than that. The
last lot of ore sent away returned 7£ per cent., which is
not enough with copper under £6O, seeing that carting,
railage, and treatment cost £3 18s. sd. A call of 3d. on
40,000 contribs. will give the co. £5OO to boil the kettle
with. Meantime the co. will have to go on without
J. R. Godfrey, general manager, who can’t see big enough
prospects to compensate for the disadvantages of life at
Budgery.
■****
The Barrier, Wyalong (N.S.W.), has been
floated into a co. with a capital of £BOOO. A mineral reef,
averaging about Ift. wide, has been worked to
400 ft., and is looking well in a winze that is down a
further 80ft. It is intended to erect a steam hauling
plant. For this year the Barrier has yielded stone worth
£5200 after paying for carriage and treatment; the stuff
ran from 2Joz. to 14oz. to the ton. It is not improbable
that before long all the properties on the Barrier line will
be worked under one co. Some improvement has taken
place at the Galled Back in driving along the reef channel
at 260 ft.; but there is no justification for the jump in
scrip.
* * * *
The copper slump has hit the Gulf Creek,
Barraba district (N.S.W.), with the rest. In March, 1907,
the co. bought the property from a local syndicate of
ten men for £lO,OOO cash. The co. baled the shaft, and
got some metal from the water by leaching, and 'also
from a stope at No. 1 level; but both of these stand-bys are
exhausted. Thrown back on low-grade ores below No. 1
level, the co. has had to close down the two reverberatory
furnaces, and shorten hands all round. The talk now is
that the co. will erect a 100-ton water-jacket, and explore
No. 4 level, where the shaft is now in what looks like a
big body of low-grade ore. It is alleged that the property
has cost the co. £20,000, and that, so far, the co. has only
got out £5OOO worth of metal.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) main ore shoot has been
bored through in a line with Edwards’ shaft at 2230 ft.
vertical. At this point there appears to be a solid body
of quartz worth 17dwt. over a width of 10ft. Overhead,
at 2050 ft. the ore was worth about 24dwt. for a width of
17ft., while at 1903 ft. it averaged lOdwt. over a thickness
of 30ft. Edwards’ shaft lies about 600 ft. south of the
main hauling station, and is about half-way between the
beginning and end of the shoot referred to.
* ■* * *
The Northern Blocks Syndicate (W.A.) has
called for tenders for the purchase of its leases and
machinery. Three of these properties are numbered
among the disappointments of the Hannan’s belt, while
the fourth is the Leviathan duffer at Southern Cross.
It has been printed that the Government helped to close
down the Leviathan by charging 3s. 3d. per 1000 gallons
for water. Well, no doubt, if everybody worked for
nothing and nobody charged anything, even the Leviathan
would pay.
* * * *
Lancefield (W.A.) is still a financial failure.
There are hundreds of thousands of tons of ore in sight,
and the quantity is being steadily added to ; but under
current conditions gold extraction is a losing business. It
is time the co. considered its position, as it is sheer folly
to go on as at present. Plant duplication seems to be
needful to free the co. of its troubles, but to do that work
£20,000 or so is wanted. This amount will have to be
raised sooner or later; and, unless shareholders want the
co. to get further into debt, the sooner the better.
* * * »
When the mill started at the beginning of
August, the Gwalia South Co. (W.A.) owed £5723 ; but
the profit earned for the two months ending Sept. 30
wiped the slate and left £llB over. So far, the recover-
able value has been about 615.; but in their half-yearly
report to shareholders, the directors announce that this
is a somewhat higher grade than it is proposed to main-
tain. The present profit, however, will be kept up by
passing a bigger tonnage through the plant.
* * * *
The diamond drill is being used at the Mur-
chison Associated (W. A.) as a last resort. This property
has been kept alive by reconstructions and the circula-
tion of fairy tales about its prospects, and the issue of
drawings representing it to be a near neighbor to the
Great Fingall, and to have the continuation of the Fingall
shoot. According to a London financial print, share-
holders are very hopeful that some good results will be
revealed ; but miracles are scarce on the Murchison.
* * ■* *
Though the Victory United (W.A.) has only
distributed £4OOO in dividends, its shareholders have put
up £57,000. Still, as the local paper naively puts it, the
mine has distributed £150,000 in wages, and for firewood
and stores, and so has been “a very good friend to the
district.” Something is also said about the mine “ look-
ing- better than ever” ; but no,mining par. is Considered
complete in the West without that remark, which can
generally be taken as read. The property has been
worked in a thriftless fashion. Even if the mine looks
better, there is no good reason to expect that shareholders
will fare better.
* * * *
Director G. P. Doolette, in a recently-issued
circular on the Great Tower Hill (W.A.): “ I regret to
say I found the whole of the ore reserves exhausted,
and that the co. owed on account of stores about £9700
I found creditors in a state of great irritation. ... In
order to save the position and hold the property for share-
holders and debenture-holders, I had to make terms with
the creditors to pay them two instalments of 20 percent.,
which I could only do by recovering all the gold possible
from the plates and plant, and by the sale of residues
and stores. I strongly recommend shareholders to sup-
port the preference issue, which will provide £34,475
further working capital, which in my opinion will be
sufficient to pay off present liabilities and to carry on the
development work necessary to make the mine a paying
proposition. . . . Given sufficient working capital and
competent management, I am of the opinion that it will
soon come into the position of a dividend payer.” The
mine has never been given a fair test, so the past is cer-
tainly no guide to the future, wherefore Doolette’s
advice is well worth consideration.
* » * *
Erlistoun (W.A.) seems to have now found its
true level. Some time back the Mines Department was
bustled into erecting a State mill in this remote locality,
and, what with 500 miles of railage and another 100 miles
or so of cartage, found that it had to part up £lO,OOO
before the job was finished. The stone at grass was soon
used up, and then the plant had long spells between
work. Now the Department has got its back up, and,
according to local reports, has decided to dismantle the
mill and shift it. Erlistoun has been going to do some-
thing for the past ten or twelve years, but up to date it
hasn’t done anything to speak of, and, judging by the
present outlook, it never will.
♦ * * *
An exhaustive report on the Anaconda copper
mine (W.A.) has been made by H. P. Woodward, of the
Government Geologist’s Department. This property is
situated 20 miles from Malcolm and four miles from
Murrin. It was worked with some success for a few
years, but when the present syndicate got it the payable
ore was believed to have practically cut out. Since then,
however, systematic prospecting at depth has revealed
two rich deposits, which, with the large quantity of low-
grade ore in sight, gives the property, according to
Woodward, a very considerable prospective value. Since
the mine was first worked, in 1899, it has produced 40,082
tons of ore, valued at £177,305.
* * • *
“M.R.”: Re Ravensthorpe (W.A.), referred
to in B. 3/10/’O7. When the low price of copper turns
Ravensthorpe’s cake into dough, the cake of most other
copper fields will be burgoo or skilly. Where Ravens-
thorpe scores is in the gold values carried with the
copper. Ores sent to the smelter from the Flag mine
carry 15dwt. to 70dwt. gold per ton ; from the Christmas
Gift, 7dwt. to 30dwt. gold ; Mount Benson, Sdwt. to
50dwt. ; and the Mount Oattlin, spoken of locally as a
purely copper concern, carries from 4dwt. to 15dwt.
* * * *
At the Peak Downs meeting in Brisbane, the
other day, the figures quoted concerning the slags and
alleged fluxing material were magnificent in their opti-
mism. Said the chairman : “We have from 70,000 to
100,000 tons of slag left by the old co., assaying on an
average 2 per cent, copper.” Will the chairman say who
measured the slag, whosampledit, how many samples were
taken, and who did the assaying? Some of the state-
ments that have been made about Peak Downs will come
home to roost directly. The figures concerning the
alleged “fluxing material”—loo,ooo tons of it—have, it
seems, inspired much hope in some shareholders. Said
the chairman : “ We have about 100,000 tons of low-grade
fluxing material lying at the mouths of the different
shafts, and 125 samples taken from this material showed
that it averaged over 2 per cent, copper.” But it is prac-
tically certain that this alleged fluxing material
will never go near Mt. Morgan furnaces. In the
first place, it is not a fluxing material for them ; and in
the second place, it is too refractory for anybody else.
» • * *
Mt. Warminster (0.Q.), an alleged copper and
lead mine (it does not much matter which, as long as
some one will buy the shares), sponsored principally by
Rockhampton people, wants more capital. It seeks it
first from the Government, and secondly from anybody
else who will put it up. It is stated that the Government
has promised £5OO for further prospecting, provided the
co. puts up a like amount. If that is so, it is almost
certain that the State’s £5OO will be wasted. Has Queens-
land no technical officer that can advise it when to come
in out of the wet, or does the department just rely upon
the statements of members of Parliament?
* • * *
Charters Towers people earlier in the year
rather rushed the copper shows of Mt. Flora and
Mt. Orange, behind Mackay. It’s an old field, worked
(or scratched) over 40 years ago, and was secured
in those days, under the stupid freehold system, to people
who since have lacked either the necessary brains or
money, or both, to work it. Now the slump in copper
has happened, and the Towers copper men admit they
are only in the game at present to learn it. For
the Sake of Queensland it is to be hoped that the
Towers men will keep at the industrial nietals, firstly
because they’ll thereby realise that some technical skill
is required to handle anything but a free-milling gold ore
(and the Towers people require badly to realise that),
and, secondly, because the Towers people work a propo-
sition for what it is worth as a producer, rather than for
what it is worth as a gambling counter. Those who have
gone into Mt. Flora shows needneither.be discouraged
nor alarmed. That field is just as good to-day as it was
when copper was £lOO per ton. It calls for the same
development now as then, but now requires just a little
more technical skill by reason of the lower price of metals.
Mt. Flora field is good. But it wants a railway, and it
wants smelters, and, before either will come along, more
development must be done. The reefs are small, but
carry good silver and gold values, and are numerous.
*.* * *
Mt. Elliott, Cloncurry (Q. ), has suffered more
from the backwash than it deserves. Estimates of mine
reserves are not the most trustworthy things in the
world, but Elliott is more easily measured up than .most,
and, unless the figures as to costs are hopelessly wrong,
the profit in sight is well over the present market value
of shares, taking standard copper at £6O. According to
the official reckoning, put before shareholders in London
six or seven weeks ago, £6O for standard copper would
show £405,800 of pr fit developed in the mine, and £7O for
standard would add another £llO,OOO or thereabouts.
They are only estimates, it is true; but taking into
account the improved possibilities at deeper levels,
Elliotts offer a gamble which at present prices would have
been rushed a few months ago. The co. is in 150,000
shares, of which 120,000 have been issued.
* * * *'
The last lot of tin stone from Gilmore’s (N.Q.),
crushed at the Gurrumba mill, was rich (20 per cent.)
stuff ; and the two Gilmore mines—Dolly Grey and Midas
—have been developing well. The winze from the 145 ft.
level is in ore. But because the ore is so erratic and
patchy, and the price of the mineral so uncertain, Gil-
more’s is a gamble difficult to value.
* * * *
A good many Queensland people would probably
like to ask Dr. R. L. Jack what he thinks of himself.
Twelve months or so back fie began to issue a new lot of re-
ports, fairly painstakingat first, but later on chiefly vague
high-falutin. Mt. Oannindah, for instance : it is' hardly
credible now, with copper below £6O, that Jack figured c»
metal at £95, which, on his estimate of copper contents,
worked out at a probable profit of £318,096 in the mine
down to No. 2 level, taking costs at £47 per ton.
P£ etfc y. cerfca >" that costs will run nearer to £6O, and
that there is no profit in the mine under present condi-
tions. Dr. Jack wasn’t responsible for the estimate of costs
wf s ln,p l y referred to work that had been done); but
£95 for copper—well, it is amazing that a man who has
been so long in the business should have encouraged such
hysterical ideas.
« * * *
Charters Towers (Q.) capricious Golden
Alexandra has improved in the old underlie shaft. The
levels had to be extended through a slide in barren
ground, and a crosscut on the footwall side proved a body
of good mineral stone a few inches wide. Shares have
had a smart rise on the strength of the opinion that the
other levels will get the make of stone beyond the slide ;
but in such broken country it is easy to make too much
of a development like this. The Ruby has also good
stone in patches, and has crushed fairly well. The last
lot was worth over £6 per ton, but both mining and
developmentcosts are heavy. More will be heard of the
show about Christmas-time ; there should be a fair-sized
crushing by then. Townsville Chows hold a good lump
of Ruby scrip.
* * * *
An event of importance to Charters Towers was
the connection made between the workings of the New
Brilliant Freehold and Mills’ United. Underground work-
ings extend for over two miles east of the Day Dawn, and
it isn’t altogether a graveyard of abandoned hopes ; Ihe.y
are still blasting out the Brilliant and Day' Dawn forma-
tions, and getting gold. The 3ft. hanging wall reef in
Mills’ Day Dawn, known as the second shoot, is supposed
to extend easterly into the New Brilliant Freehold, but it
will take a lot of work to prove it, and calls may have to
be paid.
* * * *
Blantyre Coal Co. (Q.) has been reconstructed.
The coal measures are near the railway between Charters
Towers and Hughenden. Though it is droughty country,
the’Blantyre shaft has been very wet, and that has
delayed operations. A seam is expected at 580 ft., and
another (9ft. thick) 50ft. below the first one ; and' if the
new pumps are powerful enough to deal with the water,
the mine should soon be yielding coal. It is interesting to
note that these coal measures, evidently full of water,
are on the edge of the great artesian belt that stretches
out beyond the Flinders to Cloncurry. Another coal
venture near Bowen (N.Q.) has been taken in hand ; and,
judging by the big block of coal exhibited in Brisbane,
the stuff is good.
* » » *
Cooktown (N.Q.) has an idea that a railway
ought to be built to serve the Annan River tinfield, but
so far a good enough case has not been made out. A fair
number of sluicing claims are doing well, mostly' worked
by old hands who have spent years in the district. The
tin appears to be shed from small leaders in the granite.
Races can be cheaply'cut through the decomposed granite,
and are often carried for miles by small parties, who use
the water in ground sluicing. As a rule, there is enough
water for nine months in the year. The district, 2G to 40
miles south of Cooktown, is not promising for lode tin,
and it must rely upon its alluvial, which, of course, must
be worked out in time—and it won’t be a very long time.
The claim best-known outside the district is the Colling-
wood Co.’s ; but costs there are seriously affected by' the
presence of many boulders in the wash.
* * * *
The McArthurs, of Glasgow, are sending a man
out to run their new gold-antimony separating (acid) pro-
cess, for which they have transferred the local rights to
the Mitchell River Co. (North Queensland). They hold a
big interest in the show. The bulky parts of the plant
are already on the mine.
* * * *
Maryborough (Vic.) used to have the North
Duke, Burnt Creek, Duke United, Main Leads, and half-
a-dozen small shows. Now Duke and Main Leads Consols,
Duke United, and Burnt Creek constitute all the
tattered remnant. Luck left the field when Baillieu,
David Melvin, and Tom Harvey sold Duke United to
J. Bull. It was good for them, but bad for Bull, as, save
for the ground cleared up in their day, and the tributary
near the shaft, the claim has dragged ever since. Burnt
Creek has never done anything save pump, and another
year’s work is ahead, when shares may be worth a punch.
Duke and Main Leads Consols, working from the old
Main Leads North shaft, is getting 10-dwt. dirt, and that
meant a loss of about £9OO last half-year. Why dirt should
be taken out without profit is not clear. ’Tis said that the
run of stuff ahead carries better gold. It needs to, if
the expense of working and trucking fairly green ground
is to be covered. No. 1 shaft has got the water under,
and a couple of trial lots of wash went about loz. But
that doesn’t signify anything. It is a poor lead that has
no good ground ; but it is a good lead where there is
plenty of payable average ground. What the Duke and
Main Leads has to prove is that actual panelling gives an
ounce : it is no use laying stress on what comes out of
wash drives. Main Leads was a fearful example of that.
* * * *
Duke of York, Meredith (Vic.), like many
another aristocrat, is in debt. It owes a bit to the bank,
and a bit to other folk, including a hard-worked and
hard-driven directorate, and an underpaid legal manager.
The mine is a tributing show at present, and with little
hope Of anything better. When it flutters out, as it must
do if gold doesn’t come in at the bottom level, all the
show will be remembered by will be the share “corner,”
engineered by Tom Arncliffe and other has-beens of the
share market.
• * * *
Who remembers the old Madame Midas alluvial
mine, near Ballarat, whence some of the biggest nuggets
got in Vic. were won? It was taken “ Home ”by Miss
Cornwall and laid in Bull’s lap. Bull fortunately didn’t
keep it there. After these long years, he is, however,
said to be about to put up £40,000 to work a quartz reef
on the same property—a reef which local talent hasn’t
seen fit to try. We will see who will have the experience
and who the cash at the end of the flutter,
* » * *
It all depends which end of the telescope you
look through. Here is Russell’s Reef, Lauriston (Vic.),
telling how the “ very large main saddle,” opened up
north and south of the No. 1 main shaft, carries two dis-
tinct profitable shoots of stone, and how a third is to be
found 200 ft. north of the shaft with very little prospect-
ing—that is the cocksure way in which it is put. And
then there is this pigs-in-the-clover puzzle: “ The
minerals from the rise going up at 190 ft. north and the
crosscut, which is in 18ft., occur abundantly, and the re-
turns from the same are 13d wt. per ton of stone, of
which sdwt. is free and Sdwt. in the concentrates.”
Things can be left at that, though Heaven knows what it
all means.
The market is being prepared for the striking
of the ore body at 1000 ft. in the Mt. Lyell. There was
plunging over the strike at the 850 ft, level, but the slump
in copper landed some of the knowing ones with a bag-
full of shares got at top values. Copper at £6O a ton does
not mean fat divs. for the Lyell, nor does £7O, with gold
and silver given in. There has, moreover, been a loss of
copper values with every new level in the North ; and it is
by no means certain that the 1000 ft. will be better
than the workings higher up. The co.’s next balance-
sheet will, it must be remembered, reflect only
good times, because of the terms on which
the copper is sold; but some people will forget
that, so the market may improve when the accounts are
issued. Cool heads will, however, deduct the loss in the
value of copper in order to arrive at the true dividend
basis with the metal at existing rates ; and they will also
reflect that even at 28s. a share, a million and a half will
have to come in divs. for a return of bare capital.
* * * *
Zinc Oxide : Inquire Sulphide Corporation,
Cockle Creek (N.5.W.)... .Slagpot: Matters already dealt
with as far as seems necessary Prospector: Have
nothing to do with them... .Mud : Buoletin never said
that the Westralian sinking fund had disappeared. What
it has said, though, is that the Goldfields Water Supply
isn’t providing’ its own sinking fund, which consequently
has to be made up out of taxation or loans. When a
State has continued deficits, it really means that the
sinking fund, or part of it, is made up out of loans
Reader: (1) Business rather precarious, though at pre-
sent profitable ; (2) certainly gives a good return, and
looks substantial, but just as well to remember that the
div. on which that high return is based is the first of
that size paid for very many years.
There are doubts whether this column is the
right place for it; but here goes:—“As I was riding
through the bush near Clifton (Q.), last week, and
passing under a tree, a huge tiger cat sprang down and
lighted on my horse’s back behind the saddle, digging its
claws in savagely, and spitting like the devil ! I gave it
a clout that knocked it off, and as it was streaking into
the scrub, I let it have an ounce of lead. It was striped
like a tiger, and the skin, when pegged out, was 4ft. 2in.
from tip to tip.” But some northern wild-cats want
much more than an ounce of lead. Now, if he can let
them have a few tons of copper


Hotel
A ustra/ia
RATES FROM
15s. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent hand engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Business Education.—A tree is known by its
fruit, a business school by its successes in public exami-
nations and the demand of business men for its gradu-
ates. In both these respects Stott and 11 oare’s Business
College stands at the head. A single instance will ex-
emplify the first claim : At all Government Examina-
tions for Shorthand Writers and Typists, held during the
past five years, students have won first place. As to the
second, not only does every student as soon as competent
secure an appointment, but the demand for graduates
greatly exceeds the supply. It is a mistake in these
times to put a boy to business immediately he has passed
through his primary or high-school course ; years of
poorlv-paid drudgery will be saved him, and his pros-
pects of advancement will be greatly enhanced by giving
him a sound modern business education at this well-
known institution. Prospectus post free. 28 Moore
Street, Sydney. *
No external application is equal to Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm for sore muscles or swollen
joints.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resck s Limited, Agents,
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
A fine sample of Australian bushman’s
pluck brightens the details of a supposed murder
case at a camp 100 miles back from far-out Clon-
curry (Q.). Two men, Downey and Farmer, were
working their copper show, and Downey was at
the windlass, hauling his mate up the shaft, when
a bullet whistled past him. He paused, looked
round, and could see nobody. Then a second
bullet whistled by. He was absolutely without
shelter, and it was evident somebody was
shooting at him at close range; yet to
get to shelter he would have to sacrifice his mate,
so he decided to risk it, and slogged in at the
windlass. Then a third bullet passed him, and,
just as Farmer was hauled to the surface, a fourth.
A man who will stand up to it like that, preferring
to risk his own life rather than his mate’s, is a
mate worth having. Afterwards, they found that
their neighbors hadn’t got off so well. Neale, one
of the partners in the next claim, had been shot
dead while cutting timber. A traveller in those
desolate parts has been charged with murder ; but
looking at various items in the man’s behavior, the
plea of insanity is bound to be raised.
THE SAVAGE EDITOR.
The Lord Mayor (Alderman Hughes): “It was ex-
tremely difficult to get an editor into gaol nowadays.”
Editor ( to office devil): “ One moment, Eric;
just till I’ve finished with this gentleman.”
“Insect” : Be ants(B. 14/3/’O7). Whilst
■camping out with a party, we racked our brains
for a safeguard against the excursions of these
marauders. Although we never tried tabooing
our provisions by drawing chalk lines around
them, we tried plans both weird and wonderful,
all of which were of no avail. J ust as our feel-
ings were reaching the point where religious con-
solation ceased to avail, an old, down-at-heel
swaggy appeared, and said, “Why, don’t yer
wrap a bit of rabbit skin around the rope ? ” We
;tried this, and sat down to note effects. The in-
sects would start down the rope that suspended
the eatables from a tree. When they reached the
■ skin they would try to climb over it, but all their
■ efforts were unavailing. At last they gave it up
as a bad job, and started for home sadder but
wiser—also emptier.
“Carl Preston” : Concerning “Lantana’s”
melilotus par (B. 3/10/’O7), I can speak about this
grass from experience, as I spent a fair share
of my life on King Island, mentioned by “ Lan-
tana.” I believe this island is the only part of
Australasia wdiere melilotus is at present grown.
Its power as a fertiliser is more than extra-
ordinary. I don’t know the scientific expla-
nation, but I do know that I have seen sandy
wastes, sown with this grass, become capable,
after a few years, of growing almost anything.
Another excellence of melilotus is that it is an
annual grass which flourishes at the time when
other grasses are j ust beginning to sprout. This
is its great value to King Island. The island
graziers are able to fatten their cattle much earlier
than the Tasmanians, and so, to command the
high prices prevailing in the early market, King
Islanders pay 20s. a head for transportation of
their cattle to Tasmania, and lose some through
death on the passage ; yet their fat cattle get into
the saleyards so early that some of the islanders
are making young fortunes.
* -x * *
Dear Bulletin, — Be “Lantana ” on meli-
lotus officinalis. I can confirm what he says about
this wonderful fertilising plant, having had practi-
cal experience : also through being a constant
visitor to King Island, where this plant grows to
sft. high. It is an early winter feed and a capital
fattening food, also making a splendid hay and
ensilage. It eradicates rubbish from the land,
such as ferns, scrub, and heath, leaving the soil
full of nitrogenous matter. In the poor lands of
Westralia this fodder is doing well. I shall be
pleased to answer any letters of your corres-
pondents re the suitable planting time and
treatment of melilotus to the best of my ability.—
E. M. Thompson, 42 Tivoli-road, South Yarra,
Melbourne.
-* * * *
“F.H.R.”: Be “Jim Pan" on bush
hospitality. Different people get different treat-
ment. Now I’ve travelled per boot, horse, bike,
and buggy, and it’s the man with the buggy who
gets the cold chicken every time. If he drives
more than one horse, up goes his status. Let him
have four horses, and lie can dine with the bank
manager. Bush hospitality of the genuine sort
was killed and buried in the last drought. It
doesn’t seem a good time to bury anything when
the ground is so hard, but the fact remains. I
was watching a mate shear a few sheep for a cocky
once out of pure good-nature. Presently the
Mrs. came and shuffled round until she caught her
old man’s eye, and gave him the “office” to go
and get some lunch. He sneaked away and left
my mate shearing. He finished that sheep, but
owing to a few remarks of mine that would not
adorn this page he shore no more. Still, a week
later, that family was busting its last button to
get something decent for dinner, as the parson was
coming.
* * * »
“X.Y.” : Can any of your experts give
me the origin of the custom, almost general
amongst bushmen, of placing two twigs at right
angles on top of the quart when set on the fire ?
Have seen it done ever since I was
a child, and have been told that
it keeps the smoke from tainting
the water. Is it a relic of an old
charm ritual, older than history ?
The selector’s wife, when she sets
the sponge for bread-making, cuts a
cross on the top to keep evil spirits
off it, as otherwise their dancing
upon it would render it sodden.
This belief, or at least this pre-
caution, is common to all creeds.
It was the same instinct which pro-
mpted the early chemists to put a
cross on their fire pots, lienee our
modern term, crucible. The actual
belief in evil spirits is, of course,
absent in almost all cases, and the
cross has ceased to be a religious
symbol in this connection ; but
still they say that there is “ some-
thing” in it, although they cannot
give a reason for the procedure.
This “something” is as indefinable
as the Indian “medicine.” Perhaps
it is a survival, like the horseshoe, as a symbol of
good fortune, when the belief with which it was
once associated has been forgotten.
* * * *
“Larrikin”: Struck rather a weird sort
of serving-maid lately, in Western Queensland.
She was an orphanage girl and a simple child of
Nature. Also, she was half wild, and at night
used to take the dogs and go a-hunting. When
she arrived home with a ’possum, she used to cook
it slightly and eat it on the spot. One day a
swaggy came along, and, after a feed in the
kitchen, he proposed marriage to the girl. She
accepted him on the instant ! The swaggie then
“touched ” someone for half a crown as a dowry,
and the two tramped to the nearest registry
office, got married, and resumed the great
journey. I met them a few months later.
They were still on the wallaby road. The bride
said that she was very happy indeed, but that
her feet were worn out.
* * * *
“Gr.S.K.” : Jinks is an ardent gardener.
Binks has a hungry goat. Jinks has a beautiful
lot of roses, which Binks’ goat covets very much.
Twice Jinks has found the goat in his rose patch.
Jinks tried a mixture of bran and phosphorus,
and next night discovered Nan with as big an
appetite for roses as before. He escorted the she-
William to the back-yard, and gave her her fill of
the bran-phosphorus mixture. This time it got
to work. Jinks bolted from a hair-straightened
goat, which gave forth radiance at the nostrils
like unto a blast stack. The fiery goat was a
beautiful argument for a Personal Devil all that
night. The next day she was quite well again.
° * * * *
“Quan”: Any Abo-writer ever known
fish to be struck by lightning? A very severe
hailstorm, accompanied by vivid lightning,
occurred at Sandgate (Q.j, the other night.
Next morning, there were thousands of dead fish
in a shallow part of Mosquito Creek. Now, local
fishermen are cussing one another, because some
say the sudden fall of temperature in the
water, due to the hail, did it, while others are
just as sure that the fish were electrocuted.
THE WEARY WAYFARER.
A nice blanky thing ter tell a man with sore feet.
“ Janor ” : In answer to “Snell” (B.
3/10/’O7), the observant will know the bushie in
town (1) by his eye, (2) by his style of walking.
As to the eye, the bushie, always in the sunlight,
his vision ranging over vast expanses, develops an
eye deeper set, better protected by the brows,
more restless, and always on guard—not furtive,
but fearlessly alert. Properly considered, it will
reflect great distances, huge forests, mountain
streams—and yet it is tinged with a sadness as of
solitary places. In walking the bushie always
lifts his feet higher than the townsman, and does
not move so quickly. These remarks apply to
men only. The bushwoman may be recognised
bv her hat.
“ * * * *
“Huffin-Guffin” : I know one man who
has sworn off strong drink. On Saturday night
he got gloriously full—full enough to last over
Sunday—in view of recent legislation. Going
home, his load tired him. He crawled in a
wooden box drain under the road to have a rest.
He slept. Waking in the dark and feeling about,
he touched nothing but wooden walls. He was
wide awake and sober in an instant. “I’m buried
alive,” he yelled. The sensation was something
awful, he afterwards said. However, he found his
“coffin” was very long, and, in crawling to find
the end of it, reached the blessed world again.
He never passes that culvert after dark now.
“ Broadaxe ” : Sleeper-chopping in the
Twofold Bay country (N.S.W.) has ruined the
forests for sawmills, to say nothing of the
shameful waste of timber in squaring sleepers.
For every 1,000,000 ft. of sleepers produced, more
than 1,500,000 ft, of chips and waste-ends remain
in the bush as fuel for bush fires, and these fires
ruin the growing and immature trees. The forest
in the Eden end of the State has never been first-
class, but now that the sleeper-cutters have gone,
the men who come to build the city at the
Federal port will find little but heaps of
chips and worked-out forest, where they
expected to find inexhaustible sup-
plies of first-class timber. This loss
is mainly caused by a “fad” of
the railway engineers, who pre-
tend that a “quartered” or
“biassed” cut sleeper is not so
good and durable as a “backed ”
one, and that the hewn face of a
“sleeper” is necessary to prevent
slipping. A circular or vertical
saw can make a better gripping
face on a sleeper than any axe.
N.S.W. cannot afford to let 150
men with axes spoil 2,500,000 ft.
of logs and trees to produce, perhaps, 1,000,000 ft.
of sleepers.
* * * *
“Nulla” : Mr. Le Soeuf, of the N.S.W.
Zoological Society, predicts that the koala will
shortly be extinct, “ owing to people killing it for
sport.” Sport, ye gods ! The man who, in the
name of sport, would kill a monkey bear, the
most pathetically helpless and inoffensive beastie
in the bush, would, in the name of affection, prac-
tise ju-jitsu on his grandmother.
* * * *
“Tito” (Melb.) : In drink, the young
man’s fancy lightly turns to changing hats. Why
should the youthful clerk, when in drink, yearn
to change hats with his intoxicated brother-clerk,
regardless of the size of their respective heads?
The fat importer does not do it; lachrymose and
maudlin lie may become, when in his cups, but he
clings to his headgear with passionate intensity.
Neither does the horny-handed one seek to
abandon his tile and acquire some one else’s when
under the weather—he only wants to argue
or fight, or both. Yet it is a common thing, any
Saturday night, in this city, to see a fat-headed
youth with a thing like a plate on the top of his
head, walking unsteadily beside what appears to
be a hat upon a brace of upturned trouser-legs.
Is this hat-changing lunacy due to Federal mis-
management, or J. C. Watson, or the Factories
Act?
“ Brolga Bill ” writes :
I do agree with “ 10-2-4 ” that the Australian sea and
shore in spring are lovely to see, but one may love
them constantly, and yet not waste the precious hours in
libelling our native flowers. I also love the rolling host
of waves on the Australian coast. But still to call the
wattle’s gold, with tender beauties manifold, and softest
sweetest harmony a “garish” thing speaks atrophy of
the think-box of “ 10-2-4,” upon which point I’ll say no
more. Perhaps that person ne’er did see the beauties of
the desert pea, which is a wondrously glorious thing out-
back in the bright days of spring. Get back unto the
lonely shore, and stay there ever, “10-2-4,” and pray that
nature may unroll its wider beauties to your soul.
“P. Winkle”: “ S.S.” (B. 10/10/’O7)
ought to know better. Boss cocky doesn’t detest
a watch. He loves it, but it must be cheap— and
good. Boss cocky finds a timepiece indispensable,
particularly when the threshing machine or chaff-
cutter is on the farm working against time, with
the staff paid by the hour. Likewise, boss cocky
knows that trains have to be caught if stock are
to be trucked for market, and the cream is due at
the railway siding, steamer landing, or creamery
at fixed hours. Every year time is becoming of
more vital importance to boss cocky and his de-
pendants, and the man or boy who “ goes by the
sun” nowadays is as rare as a cocky’s wife with a
chignon. Cocky is just as exacting with regard to
his watch as he is with regard to his other
minions, and well the worried country watch-
maker and repairer knows it. He generally tries
to get it cleaned three times within the period
covered by the guarantee. When it runs slow his
sovereign remedy is a dose of machine oil applied
with a fowl’s feather. His clock gets the same
treatment, and when the machine jibs he wants to
stand over the watchmaker while it is re-cleaned
on a “ Thank you ! ” basis.
A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING.
MAGISTRATE (sternly, to strange “drunk”):
“You can agther lave th’ town or go insoide
for foorteen days; BUT, ef yez go insoide, you
can’t lave th’ town! ”
“ Wang ” describes some mixed bathing: —
I met a strange sea monster down at Brighton recently.
One night I went for a dip there. Things went along
very nicely, until suddenly a huge shape hove up in front
of me. I think I uttered a prayer, and turned. I know
I turned.
The Shape plunged forward, and fixed its teeth in my
seating accommodation. I wrenched myself free. Then
talk about getting on the land, young man !
As I got, I cast an anxious eye over my shoulder, and
saw that I had out-distanced the Shape. But I still had
some of its teeth behind me. I could feel them.
As I scrambled out of the ocean I felt for the teeth
—and tenderly plucked a leaf of prickly-pear from where
it clung affectionately to me.
Out in the gloom the Shape made shorewards. I
grasped a piece of driftwood.
The Shape bumped heavily on the shore—a drowned
cow, with a clump of prickly-pear entangled in its horns.
Then, standing on the beach in the gloom, I exhausted
the worst resources of the Australian language.
A WAYBAOK WAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victorian school teachers have received a notification
from the Minister of Education (Sachse), forbidding the
use of State schools for balls or dances. —Nexus item.
The bush is dank with misery and woe,
The Outback swain is filled with bland despair.
Cold do the winds of Desolation blow,
And Melancholy broodeth everywhere.
For the schoolroom will re-echo nevermore
To the strain of concertinas or of flutes.
Ne’er again in graceful measure o’er the floor
Will the bushuian dance in festive blucher boots.
Nevermore at “ social evenings,” as of old,
The dandy backblocks beau will do the grand.
In the school no more in fancy style he’ll hold
The bush belle to his breast, and squeeze her hand.
Nevermore theM.C.’s raucous voice shall squall,
And fight the ’possums from the adjacent scrub.
“ Good-bye ” to backblocks soiree and to ball.
“ Good-bye ” the Outback Cinderella Club.
And black-eyed Belle, and lithe and lissom Lou—
The earth is irrigated with their tears ;
God help that Minister if six-foot Sue
E’er gets her generous hand upon his ears.
Yea, the bush is dark with misery and woe,
The folk Outback drink deeply of Despair ;
O’er their hopes the winds of Desolation blow,
And Melancholy broodeth everywhere.
VIC.
R. N. CRAWFORD.


>'D
A SIMULANT
It imparts lasting exhilaration
sWOLFE'S SCHNAFPS
6/8
IN EVERY POUND
saved is the result of buying- Watches
just now—not later on.
A tariff-disgusted Watch Manu-
facturer cabled to clear his stock,
and close his agency. We bought
the stock at a heavy reduction, and
are selling the Gerit.’s Watches at
One-Third Less Than Usual.
There are Gold, Silver, Nickel and
Gun Metal Levers—a splendid lot of
Horse-timers and Chronographs—
but no ladies’ sizes.
Buy Now for Xmas Presents.
15 years’guarantee with each Watch.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
/
N
V
Gent.’s Silver
Hunting' J-Plate
Lever, 32/-.
15 years’ guarantee.
PLAIN
FIGURES
CASH.
“ Lantana ” : At Cooma the rabbits have so
riddled the local cemetery that the grave-stones
are toppling over wholesale. TheMolong “God’s
Acre” has had to be wire-netted for the same
reason. Bunny worries the “ backbone ” to death,
and then goes to look for him in the grave.
“ Itan ” : The white a'ntmust be a Foreign-
trader in spirit, or an alien, or a hostile invaden
for it devotes its life to a policy of destruction.
Its work, too, is characterised by great industry.
When it develops a thirst it must get water. An
instance of its determination in this respect comes
from the Northern Territory, where a well was
sunk to a depth of 80ft. before water was reached.
Although the strata traversed were very
hard the wall showed the tunnels and
galleries of the termites going down the
full depth.
QUITE SIMPLE.
HIS REVERENCE: “ Patrick , you were fined for
drunkenness yesterday, and you told me that
you were next to a teetotaler.”
PATRICK: “ Well, I was, yer riverence, but he’s
moved.”
Quaint “ stock” item from Gayndah (Q.):
T. Doherty has given the Stock Inspector notice that
he is moving camp with his 450 goats, and intends
travelling up Reid’s Creek.
A QUALIFIED DISCLAIMER.
DRUNK : “ Yer 'r liar. I’m (hie) not intosicaled. An’ if I was sober I’d punch yer
in the (hie) face.”
“ Silas Snell ” : I work in a balcony room.
The balcony was being painted, and the painters
had withdrawn for lunch and liquors. I was
busy on one of those magnificent poems of mine,
when I was interrupted by a small cyclone of
sparrows that lit on the balcony floor, whirled
and twittered for a few seconds, and scurried off
again. But one Jack Spadger, in the excitement
of the game, tried to get through a small opening
in the freshly-painted decorative ironwork. He
fell back to the floor, smeared with
green paint. He made two or three
heroic efforts to fly, but his feathers
were clogged, and he bumped about
like a lame frog. A second sparrow,
called Bill, arrived and watched
operations for a moment. At first
Bill was only curious, but pre-
sently he grew indignant, then
excited. He whirled round
Jack Spadger with all his
feathers on end, twittering
furiously. He flew away a
few yards, still twittering ;
then returned and revolved
about the painted wretch
bobbing on the floor, still
squealing and roughing
up his plumage. Another
sparrow, named Jim
Sprig, joined Bill, and
quickly developed the
same heated feelings. He
said it was a shocking
thing to see a sparrow
in that state. Jim’s
feelings overcame him.
He went red in the
face with righteous
anger, and, flying on
the pepper -1 re e,
called an extraordin-
ary meeting of the
tribe, pointing out
bedraggled Ja c k
Spadger,and plainly
asserting that in
painting himself
green he had gone
back on his family
and friends. The
meeting was easily
inflamed. It whirl-
ed down on Jack.
Jack’s old friend,
Bill, led the assault,
and presently the
miserable victim to
wet paint was the
centre of a feathery
vortex that pecked and
picked, and cursed and
screamed, and raised
more hullabooloo than a
burning house. When the
sparrow family drew off.
Jack Spadger was a corpse.
There was a momentary lull, and Bill
hopped around the r plains, putting on dog, and
declaring that when w»e laws and conventions of
the sparrow family had to be maintained, he was
just the bird to maintain them. But almost in-
stantly there was a second outbreak. In point of
fact, Bill had been so energetic and determined in
the attack on Jack that he had rubbed off a lot of
the former’s paint on his own plumage, and,
besides, he was a quaint, distorted object by
reason of the paint-dabbled feathers of the dead
bird being glued to him in tufts and strings. The
committee was even more indignant with Bill
than it had been with Jack. It went for him,
and retribution overtook the murderer there and
then. When the vigilance committee fled in pur-
suit of Jirn Sprig, who had a couple of green
feathers stuck to his neck, it left two corpses on
my balcony floor in a welter of paint and feathers.
* * * *
“ F.H.R.”: How common is the dangerous
practice of getting behind a tree for shelter in a
storm ! A bushman would rather put up with
the inconvenience of a ducking than run the risk
of being struck by lightning. I have noticed in
limestone or ironstone country, when grubbing,
that about one out of every 200 trees have been
struck to some extent. I have seen monarchs of
the forest sft. through shattered into matchwood,
while a dainty sapling 50ft. high would only
show an inch-deep groove burned from top to
bottom as a result of the death-flame. Another
dangerous thing is camping near dry timber,
which may fall and transfix a man while in his
sleep. Carnpqd out one wet night under a leafy
gum. with only the tent-fly up. Had a fire alight
at the foot of another live gum, some yards away,
which seemed fairly solid. Woke up about two
a.m., and saw the best display .of fireworks up to
date. The fire had eaten through a dry patch,
and was roaring up the hollow spout like a
furnace. I had just shifted when a large limb fell
on my camp spot.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : The goburra has been called
the “settler’s clock,” but he should be altogether
an unreliable one. Jacko is apt to go off at any
time, day or night, and never fails to laugh loudly
when he is shot, except when he is hit too hard. The
male and female birds roost in the same tree;
but never on the one limb, and mostly at a distance
of 6ft. or so apart. I have frequently shot him
in mistake for an opossum, and then Mrs. J. has
laughed enough to wake the dead. Have seen a
light flash in cocky’s window at all hours of the
night, and have heard him curse the jackass
clock, and flop back into bed again. Jack always
wakes first o’ mornings. Then he joins the old girl,
and squirts off a note or two to waken her. After
they have shaken all the insects out, and made their
toilet—he always assists with hers—they cackle
together for a while, and then fly off in pursuit
of the early grub. If you should happen to see
the couple on a perch, side by side, anytime
between then and next morning, you can swear
they have had a violent quarrel, and are at the
making-up stage. It i 3 only the male bird that
will kill a snake, and the reptile mustn’t be over
2ft. long. Jacko is an interesting pet. I kept
one on Monaro for over five years. Then a girl
came to see me and choked him with a pea pod,
which he must have mistaken for a big green
grub. We fell out about it.
* * * *
“Douglas T.” : What is the mystery of
the average dog’s aversion to the crow? All the
other fowls of the air may peacefully roost on the
top of a dog’s kennel, and he will not turn a hair,
but if the bird in the clerical clobber makes a few
remarks in an adjacent paddock, even the most
sedate collie becomes a raving lunatic. A highly
respectable and well-bred young animal, with
whom I am on patting terms, is transformed into
a forty-dog-power demon if you even whisper
“ crows ” in his ear, and his language withers the
trees in his vicinity.
A WESTERN REFRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Large areas of Western Queensland are suffering the
horrors of drought again. —Daily paper.
0 Country whose story is gilded—
O Land that was barren and bare
When Babel was wearily buildeu,
When London was only a lair.
How oft shall thy children upbraid ( bee,
llow oft shall thy pastures complain,
And ask of the remnants of verdure
“ Is Drought come again?”
We scarcely forget our reverses,
Forget that the land was a waste,
When down comes the fellest of curses
And swoops on our people elate ;
Yes —rig-lit in the midst of the joyaunce
That comes of the glory of rain,
We catch a dull ominous murmur —
“Drought cometh again !”
O Sky that is fertile of crosses,
Look down on the lands of the West
And see —they are white with our losses
And reft of the bravest and best ;
Their springs are the waters of Marah,
Their roads are but highways of pain,
Their pastures a dusty Sahara
Of dolour again.
The Cloudland had opened her sluices,
The Westland grew glorious and green,
The grasses were full of sweet juices,
The plains were a marvel of sheen ;
We saw the land burgeon before us,
We built us our castles in Spain,
But suddenly broke on our chorus—
“ Drought cometh again ! ”
And ever as bosoms would lighten
And laughter succeed unto tear,
There comes on the vistas that brighten
A shadow of doubt and of fear ;
There comes with the breath of the West Wind
A mem’ry of blight and of bane,
And trembling we ask of each other—
“ Is Drought come again ?”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
“Wally”: There are 1507 good reasons why
young men marry barmaids. The first is they think the
lady necessary to their happiness. Not necessary to
specify the other 1506. Also there are about seven bad
reasons why young men marry barmaids. But why
enter into those? Muiravon : Candidly, no. The
purpose of caricature is to be revealing ; it’s not the busi-
ness of the caricaturist to spare feelings. You should
see some of the European work in that direction ! W.
Dyson is more restrained without (at his best) being less
skilful than the French masters.... Unification : Good
stuff, yours, and lamentably true, but it has been said so
often before. One of our hardest trials is saying “no”
to the appreciative contributor who sends 1000 words
repeating what we’ve already said Bert Arthur : Boiled
down, “The Prayer for Rain” amounts to this:
Mcllwrick came to the kirk, and lifted up his voice and
prayed : “ O Loard, for God’s sake let it rain ! Let it rain
like Hell.” And then it didn’t rain. And did he expect it
t0?...J.C.L. :“A Prayer” unsuitable Lewin Grade:
“The Hall Stand” has points of humor; but its pegs
aren t solid enough to support 6 pages of comment in
addition to the family headwear Allan: In brief—
the young man was chucked. This experience has be-
fallen so many that as a story-subject it is shop-worn....
Aryar: Ideas all right, but you need practice to
get hold of the “just word ”.... A. E.P.: Verse not “up ”,..
Mioawb : The Melbourne critic held off that item in order
to find out if it was original or a steal... .Tangent: Lonk
Hand sub. (postage paid to Egypt), 12s. per annum
E.J.T. : “ Where East M,ets VVest" won’t do ; even the
weird diagram doesn’t make poetry of it Tavilie :
Ode to Dan fails to rise to the majesty of the occasion.
The Bud : “ Regret ” has some excellent lines, and
some very weak ones. “ Stars ” not. so g00d.... Wallis
H. : Life-like, but too formless and scrappy... .Eureka :
Conventional in both theme and treatment.. W G.H. •
They haven’t any striking merit... .Cict: Presence of
myriads of pale, 3in., earth-eating and cow-feed destroy-
ing worms in the Tutnberumba district duly noted. A
deplorable fact, but what, after all, can we do in the matter?
....H.M.C. : The fact that Dr. Ham practises next
imb i> Ogg is duly noted for future reference....
L.M.R. : No, they didn’t mean anything save that the
writer was feeling good and fresh and wanted to whoop
....John Carr: Tub Bcjllktin regards astrology as an
amusement, the same as stamp-collecting M.E.M. :
Brigadier Gerard ” yarn doesn’t strike anything new
• •: ■John Ryan: He is both. Also he is either, one
thing being the same as the other... .Reddish : Good
enough, but we have no use for reprint verses... .Turtle :
tact that pars weren’t acknowledged doesn't mean that
the B. had mislaid either its courtesy or the MSS.
Snnply means that there isn’t space to acknowledge
pars Ekaw: Too enigmatical for the general reader
....Donald Mac.: You versify pretty well, but you
don t make your meaning manifest enough
Saphead : Yet another bad “ Awake ! Arise ! ”
poem.. ...Scrubber : It isn’t worth the space....
r.H.J. (Camden): Quite impossible to resolve fine
legal points in this column. Try a lawyer....
Tracker: A most laborious way of stating that
you happened to come across an old building.
. . W.M.A. (Dunedin): Thanks. But this paper’s
staff would need increasing by about 29, if it started
noticing all the Jingo rags that assail it with one hand
and steal from it with the other.... The Gallant: Your
yarn of the Tottie ladies who in private life attend!
the swell balls of Melbourne, and are thereafter written
of in the local sassiety press, is too steep and improbable,
llieir quiet and tasteful dressing would betray them in
such an environment, anyhow... ,G.F. : Your card
u* most involved and baffling thing to hand
all this weary day ; and that’s saying something
MacDougail: Yes, he is out... .Agricola : The cat and
rabbit controversy is dead. If it isn’t dead it ought to
be deceased, and is hereby proclaimed defunct Sea-
Nymph . Pity that parts of it are so weak. The general
go” of it is good Nym : “Back to Town” is fairty
smart in places, but much of it is sheer nonsense..
pinus : Rather crude and unskilful B. O’R. : Comical
in places, but didn’t quite catch on.,..Leonardo : Too
stiff and dry of style... .N.C.P. : Thoughtful, but some-
what lacking in literary quality... .Girleen : Surprisingly
good for a 10-year-01d.... J.G. : You can’t get that report
anywhere. It is a blitherer, as you say, and publication
is stopped San: lie that bush girl, take this paper’s
tip and marry her P. ; Grand old yarn re rehearsing
actor and actress, who are mistaken for murderer and
murderee respectively, received, and duly fired into the
w a^ e i!r of refa tf e reserved for this particular yarn
N.O.M. . Bank clerks ” missed the ’bus by about a toe-
nail C. W. J. : Humorous, but the sock and the derelict
and the dog and all the rest make an unsavory con-
glomeration — Toby : Declined after long consideration.
Iry again. Murkah : Throws very little new light on a
decidedly old subject. The farm, the cocky, the cow,
the mud, and the new-clium are fairly aged properties.
•y- • P, et , er F : e pompous saint wfflo was bounced at
the Gate of Heaven is a fairly old idea and worn at the
coat-tail through long sitting in the seat of the
scornful ... The Battler: Heaven only knows what
its about. ..J. P. Cook: Don’t remember, and it
would be a very long job to trace them now,
°ut will try. Consolation” hardly fills the bi 11....
Carl Preston : “ Nocturne ” sets forth a plain old fact in
Km* 6 i ha L has ad tlle dead-level qualities of an ideal
bilhard-iable... A.B.R. : Hopeless, useless and pointless.
w-W SmT’ise” didn’t rise; it fe11.... Cross
Nibs. Micko s Dbbut” not up to your usual standard.
Also, it cost 6d. for deficient postage.... Arthur Aola :
V, a ? a dl ™ prettiness about it, but that is all C.
Abbot (at least it looks like that): Inquiry received re
manuscript forwarded some weeks ago, but in the ab-
sence of any information as to title or subject we have to
give it up.. Erie Boynton : A rather wooden sort of
win "n'.Pl®,; You ki . ssed the §jrl with golden hair.
Well, d °n t tell next time Leonardo: Nothing very
bright among your “ originalities.”... .M.M.D. : Letter
received, but have no recollection of “Silent English-
man turning up. Certainly it didn’t come with letter,
drawback d w °n’t d °- The jerkiness is the great
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Will Mac :An illustrated pun. Not much of a pun
and not much of an illustration either H. Rodney : A
most hopeless and dreary thing... .O.A.S. : Drawing of
red-nosed party with curvature of the spine and a
surplusage of bottles depending from his clothing, sing-
ing Lead, Kindly Light” to a Noah’s Ark policeman,
courteously but firmly declined.


(onser*3fa/e
\iWe,
pS
tio»s c*Ji
e&cU orfa 1 '
!
if
kb
"While ver/tfß*** sf“V*»B.
fo S>nf«l 'ficKe+'s *
Sbo/tino lefe^ttews,6 ,c '
IT>fe fttfaj
is >n k ,s
Xlle^e^
SW^n^H^S
9sr~
°ff ,ce
, j. - -
r-i
Ld.caTiok
CRAMMIMG
Fob.
Tkl
Tire Profeso,- mv-Vs «p
ehiA he rws wts -Be kvoers (jolle-r
I"
(_^e-tirwe.• .
0 p hrot><>S cc i duty
on Con KnilK
jjTe to Joe CooK*
-f>ow> c^trUe.cy]
W« should he 1“^,
C<M>*ble of c*7vy, hxTrecl Vide
170
o \rKej
Dwindle
In “fife I mbor-lavTce
QC Nfa,r? l*»
V|il
V •
/.// '/' " V -T-
The W j
tfye *v»ilK ~r> "^e •''o°*'"'**£>•
"1( we *re m d^u^f
\Y J 5 uooit igirjo "to rem«»r>l?€r i^e
Of our pKol^ic
/
i/ hlft'T liKelv fo J'oroat'
U !"
WOMEN, OLD WOMEN, AND OTHER VICTORIAN MATTERS.


A BORN PESTBReR.
i was the pestering of Adam by Eve some years ago that
culminated in modern bathing togs.
And but for the pestering of Mrs. Macbeth,
the weak-kneed Hac had never plucked up.
courage to “do for” his week-end guests.
CAUDLE-LECTURES UP-TO-DATE.
Mrs. John Bull: “And, what’s more, 1 don't intend that you shall
sleep a wink until you promise me a vote.”
“PESTER THE PEOPLE.”
“ London, Wednesday Afternoon.—Sir H. Camnbeir.
Bannerman, the Prime Minister, speaking at Dunfermline
ejected.” probabl >' sooner than many
tt CB i ££ but . said «The People.*
never meant for you to come pestering of me I
am not ‘The People,’” p gOl me ‘ 1
We all know this form of “ pestering. ”
" "'*JZSS?3I£.'?Z ~ W ““ c “* “* *» «.. g«.
THE POLICY OF PESTER.


Odol is the first and
only preparation for cleansing
the mouth and teeth which exer-
cises its antiseptic and refreshing
powers not only during the brief
period of application, but con-
tinuing for some hours afterwards.
:
o.
&
/
/
Simply rinse the month
and cleanse the teeth with Odol in the
morning and before retiring, and the
breath will be always delightfully fresh
and the mouth free from dangerous
impurities
A lame back may be cured, a,nd several
days of valuable time saved, if there is a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm in the house, to use at
first symptoms.*
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ek-Q’land Premier and ex-Senator Daw-
son is now an employee of the Victorian Customs
Department.
Ek-Senato’r Higgs resumes residence in
Sydney, to act in the immigration interests of
Queensland.
THe father of Cloncurry is E. Henry, who
lias clung to the field for nearly half-a-century.
He owns the Mt: Oxide mine, for which he refused
£50;000 recently.
R. A. Grilfillan, new secretary of N.S.W.
Public Service Board, is a big man physically,
who has tlie knack of making every clique in the
Service think he is one of them.
“ Larry ” O’Loughlin is tipped ds the next
Agent-General of S. Aus. He has put in nearly
all the last eleven years as Lands Minister —under
Kingston, Holder, Jenkins, and Price.
Speaker Leahy, who owns a great memory,
is the first to recite the opening prayers in
Bananaland Assembly without reference to the
print. Janny has a weakness for the poets, and
can reel their verses off by the mile.
Mr. William Malony, one of the oldest
mail-contractors and coach-drivers beyond the
Blue Mountains, died at Bathurst on Friday, aged
80 years. For 50 years he carried the mails be-
tween Bathurst, Sofala and Hill End.
Wade is 34th Premier of N.S.W. ; the
office has been held by 17 individuals, who have
thus averaged two terms each. Cowper, Robertson
and Parkes were five times Premier. There have
been 20 complete Parliaments, so that some
Premiers did not last one Parliament. Donaldson
and Waddell were turned down in under three
months.
This is an addressed envelope just as it went
through the Maoriland P.O. It duly found its
way to Mr. James Carroll, Native Minister.
J. C. Watson’s resignation is recalling to
some people’s minds the portrait of him by
Norman Carter in the July Lone Hand. There
was in the face a suggestion of having struggled'
for a cause and not succeeded. It was a fine,
revealing picture.
It is almost certain that Fisher, of Queens-
land, will follow Watson as leader of the Labor
party. W. M. Hughes, in spite of his brilliant
talents, is not generally spoken of in that connec-
tion ; his Freetrade views perhaps provide the
reason. Batchelor, of S. Australia, is favored by
some; but Fisher’s present position as deputy-
leader will probably carry him safely into the per-
manent post.
Carruthers has the record of .being the
only solicitor accepted as N.S.W. Premier. In
the Parliamentary half-century only four lawyers
have been so honored, three—Martin, Reid, and
Wade—being barristers:
Leo Nelken, promoter of the great Sydney
anti-tariff demonstration that didn’t demonstrate,
sued his treasurer the other day for £2 —a sub-
scription received and paid away for clerical
assistance. And this time Leo Nelken’s solicitor
didn’t turn up.
A noble sacrifice for others’ sake ended
the life of Mabel Goodman, a 16-year-old girl, at
Manildra (N.S.W.) last week. After rescuing
three children from a burning building the
stout-hearted girl was so severely burned in
striving to save her sister that she succumbed.
H. H. Burton Bradley finds more fame in,
flowering hippeastrums than in local or Federal
politics. He lately flashed out at a Sydney rose
show with the gorgeous result of a quarter cen-
tury’s special culture of these pompous blooms;
Mr. Bradley is himself a plant of striking
patriarchal grandeur, his face foliage surpassing
even that of Dan O’Connor.
A paragraph is going round that nearly all
the crowned heads of Europe could make good
livings by the exercise of their talents, if fired off
their thrones. According to this authority, King
Ned, on account of his . trained palate, would do
well as a wine merchant or in the ’bacca business.
The latter, however, is probably a misprint for
baccarat.
Consider how ambitions wax and wane.
A few years ago Wade aspired eagerly to a civil
service post at £lOOO a year. At that time Cohen
thought he ought to be Attorney-General. Now
Wade is Premier of N. S. Wales, and Cohen
thankfully takes the job of Chairman of Com-
mittees. It is a very small job, and only lasts for
sure one session, but it is about Cohen’s size in jobs.
Passfield, much spoken of during the late
bakery strike as one of the largest employers of
labor in the Melbourne bakery trade, came out to
Victoria 18 or 19 years ago in the steerage of a
German liner. He knew his business, and since
then he has made two pleasure trips to England
on the proceeds of the Australian daily bread—
and he didn’t travel in the steerage.
Mr. Sam Cook hasn’t lost his interest in
life, although he has ceased to measure up the ad-
vertisement space in the S. M. Herald and Mail.
Since he figured with a sword by his side in King
Edward’s company, he delights in bestowing his
patronage on Australian social functions; and
hostesses say there is something quite regal about
the way he enters and leaves an entertainment.
Queensland’s Philp shows in politics a
pettiness that doesn’t bear out his private
reputation for bonhomie. Referring to the ap-
pointment of ex-M.H.R. Higgs as agent for the
sale of Q. Government lands in Sydney, Philp
asked : “ Has that gentleman, who had signed a
solemn declaration that he was opposed to the sale
of land, now turned round and become a land-
seller ? ”
Wade is the fourth N.S.W. native to be
called to the Premiership. Squire Farnell, who
formed a Ministry in 1877, was the first, and Dibbs
next. Until Parnell’s time all the Premiers had
been of other lands. Cowper, Robertson, Martin
and others arrived as children ; several, like
Stuart Donaldson and Parkes, arrived in man-
hood.
The courage of J. C. Watson was never
shown more conspicuously than in his treatment
of the Lenehan case when Prime Minister. Wat-
son was convinced that Major Lenehan had been
badly treated and should be restored to his mili-
tary position. The then Commander of the
forces, Major-General Hutton, refused—with
obvious injustice—to follow the Ministry’s recom-
mendation for re-instatement. Watson then
brought down an Order-in-Council restoring
Lenehan. Had the Governor-General been so
unwise as to have refused to sign that (and many
thought that he would), Watson would have had
to resign. But he was the sort who, when he saw
a right thing to do, did it, in scorn of consequence.
THE BREED OF MEN.
“ So all this is kept up for the improvement of horseflesh, is it Reggie?"
“ Not only so, Clara, hut the turf has helped the building up of the Bwitish nation itself into
a sturdy self-reliant wace.”
The “ tired Australian ” has a fair amount
of energy sometimes. The other day a workman,
Charles Brown, fell off the Lucinda wharf (in the
north where the white worker can’t even live,
according to some) into the sea. He had a 141 b.
sledge hammer in 'his hand at the time, and he
stuck to it whilst he swam ashore.
N.S.W. Justice Owen, whose retirement
at the end of this year is foreshadowed, had, on
the 18th October last, been 20 years on the Bench.
He was appointed first as Chief Judge in Equity,
and was afterwards brought on to the Common
Law side to strengthen it. Whether he did
strengthen it is a matter of opinion. Still, as
Judges go, he was a success. There was a direct-
ness about Owen which was always valuable. He
had a pretty wit of a rasping kind. The junior
Bar did not appreciate him. In jury causes he
was fair, untechnical, and scrupulously impartial.
In appeals he always agreed with the Chief
Justice —they were very old friends, and it would
not have been civil to disagree too strongly upou
mere speculative points of law with an old friend.
His successor will probably be “ Dick ” Sly, K.C.
About N.S.W. Judges. There have been
six Chief Justices since 1823, viz., Francis
Forbes, James Dowling, Alfred Stephen, James
Martin, Julian Salomons, and Frederick Darley.
Three Acting C.J.’s have sat : James Dowling,
John Nodes Dickenson, and Matthew Henry
Stephen (son of Alfred). Of Supreme Court
Judges since the Charter of Justice, Wylde re-
turned to England after ten months’ service ; Wni.
Westbrook Burton, after 12 years’ service, was
appointed Judge of the Supreme Court of Madras.
John Walpole Willis was appointed Judge of Port
Phillip in 1841, William Montague Manning and
William Gregory Walker resigned ; John Stephen,
John Kinchela, William A’Beckett, Roger Therry,
Samuel F. Milford, Edward Wise (father of the
brilliant Bernard), John Fletcher Hargrave,
Alfred Cheeke, George Long Innes, Charles J.
Manning, died in harness; while Peter Faucett,
William Windeyer, Hibbert Deffel, and William
John Foster, retired. Of the Judges who acted
before the Charter of Justice, Jeoffrey Hart Bent
returned to England in 1815; Barron Field
“ sailed for Europe ” 1824, and John Wylde re-
mained on as a Supreme Court Judge for ten
months. The toughest of the lot is W. J. Foster,
who, after six years’ strenuous exertion, retired in
1894, but has retained sufficient strength to draw
a pension of £lB2O per annum during the 13 years
succeeding (£23,660), and is still going strong.
Talk about the strenuous life ! Alfred
Deakin’s health broke down ; and his medical
adviser ordered him complete rest. Alfied
acquiesced. He began to take complete rest by
travelling 8000 miles in trains, boats, coaches,
launches, ’buses, buggies and motors—in short, in
every moving vehicle except wheelbarrows. He
completely rested his mind by re-reading Gibbon’s
“Decline and Fall,” in six volumes; Momsen’s
“ History of Rome,” in five ; Grote’s “ History of
Greece,” in twelve ; Bruce Smith’s “ Liberty and
Liberalism ” (a short opuscule in one volume of
965| pages); J. C. Neild’s “Report on Old Age
Pensions,” and the same gentleman’s verses. To
vary his resting, so that it might not become
monotonous, he just ran through 335 Australian
newspapers, sent after him every day, to see
what was going on ; refreshed liis mind with the
transactions of the Colonial Conference, 900 pages,
demi-folio; perused Pulsford’s letters to the
Times, in 20 columns or so; and followed
Hansard debates and the general election
speeches of Joseph Hector O’Neil Carruthers.
He travelled with a railway car full of the latest
books. By this time, having got thoroughly
rested, he threw off further fatigue by inquiring
into the true inwardness of black labor in Queens-
land, and the prospects of tropical culture. He
then rode continuously in shaky trains back to
Melbourne, merely continuing the rest cure by
looking in at libraries, art galleries, or Chambers
of Commerce in the cities on the way back.
Having reached home thoroughly rested, his
medical adviser, after examination, prescribed
that his condition was such thab.he must rest from
resting with all possible despatch.
John J. Cohen, who becomes N.S.W.
Chairman of Committees by a solid party vote,
has been long waiting for something to turn up in
return for steady Parliamentary service. He is a
barrister, but has gone the round of several occu-
pations. He was an architect, and worked as an
engineer at Pyrmont. He set up sugar mills in
North Queensland and built churches in Brisbane.
S. Australia has a veteran, T. S. Reed,
who, at 89, lectured the other evening at Adelaide
University on a scientific subject. For 70 years,
when he hasn’t been lecturing on geography or
anthropology, he has been studying those pet
subjects 5 he missed the inaugural meeting of the
British Association for the Advancement of
Science, but he was at the second meeting
(Bristol, 1837). Andrew Mack’s friend, Tom
Moore, was one of the speakers, but if he in-
terrupted the proceedings to sing “ The Wearin’
o’ the Green,” Mr. Reed disremembers it.
MR. A. FISHER , QUEENSLAND.
Deputy leader of the Australian Labor Party.
Air. Watson's probable successor.
How’s this for indifference to pain on
the part of the native white ? Duncan
Chisholm, a young white Australian, was working
at a Castlemaine foundry on a crane, when the
wheel passed over and practically abolished his
right hand. Chisholm was standing on a ladder
30ft. up at the time. Did he faint, or drop off, or
yell, or do any other superfluous thing? Not he.
He descended the ladder with much deliberation,
and remarked., sadly: “Look at the mess I ve
made of things.” Then he went to a doctor.


“Now, Mr. Watson, you can smoke your HAVELOCK, in perfect peace.”


Charles Heidsieck Champagne still grows
in popularity, the delicacy of the 1900 vintage
having placed that year's wine well to the front
of all competitors, and we learn from Reims, the
home of good champagne, that the vintages now
coming forward are quite on an equality. These
will he soon arriving, but for the present the
connoi<4Seur can still revel in the glorious “ ’oo’s,”
the wine that ohristened the new century with
the best of its vintages, and is coming to Australia
in hundreds of cases. Now is our touring season,
and what better parcel can the tourist have than
one of Charles Heidsieck Hampers with a dozen
quarts of Champagne to be used on the way, to
enliven when wearied, sharpen the wits when
oenial, and give comfort in repose ?*
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
iV
Wholesale
for Australia —
Hogg, Robinson
& Co., Propty., Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
SUPERFLUOUS HAlR.— This is the most dis-
tressing disfigurement a woman can have. Other-
wise beautiful women are made utterly miserable
because of this unhappy affliction. “ Rusmo ”is
the best hair killer in the world. It won’t, mind
you, remove those little hairs for ever and ever—
only electricity will do this —but Rusmo Haib
Kiuleb will certainly make them instantly dis-
appear for the time, and so weaken their growth
that they will be slow to return. This alone is
great relief. Not only that, but all that is neces-
sary can be done at home in very simple fashion,
and in absolute privacy. RusMOcostsSs. 3d. a bottle.
It can be ordered from any chemist, or will be
supplied post free by Mile. Rubinstein, the Valaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney; or 274
Collins-street, Melbourne.*
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Ootobee 29, 1907.
Mt £>EAlt Arint,—
Mrs. Clara Butt and her Kennerley Rumford
closed their Sydney season last Thursday, not with
a full stop, but atsemi-colon, so to speak, for they
return here later for more song-giving. Mr.
NeVin Tait (lie’s the Tait who is going to niarry
miniaturist Bess went with the decorative
pair to Brisbane; The Large Lady has been
gowning herself well whilst drt platform duty.
Her matinee raiment was a white and grey
striped ninon, the stripes meeting diagonally in
the centre seam. Black velvet and gold tracery
of thread also entered into the afternoon
singing frock. When Mrs. Butt clips a pair of
big hooped earrings into the lobes below the
Burpie black Of her hair, and skewers her big,
lile, enamel butterfly over her heart, her Octoroon-
like beauty shows up most strikingly. Wish
she’d put On a hibiscus necklace and wear a mag-
nolia in her hair. Or, as she is singing in Brisbane
nowj what’s the matter with the vivid poinsettias,
if they are “in’*?
Mrs. Butt is an amiable party, and always
receives most kindly the damsel who breaks
through the crowd at receptions to say, “O,
Madame, I’m so pleased to meet you—you sing
three of my songs, and I like them ever so much
better after hearing you do them.”
The little Rummy-Butts went to hear Mummy
and Boppy at their last matinee on Thursday,
and sat in the front row. Boy made some very
confidential remarks to his mother on the plat-
form, who shook her head at him in the usual
admonitory fashion of ordinary mothers. He also
distinguished himself by successfully imitating
every roll and contortion of violinist Barre, doing
it so well, in fact, that the artist recognised him-
self, and nearly lost an arpeggio while laughing at
the youngster. ■ To all appearances the kiddies
enjoyed themselves fairly well.
A discussion—eom pared with the surf-bathing
dress controversy, it is only a discussionette— l ages
on the status of the lady help. The case of the
damsel who went up country as a lady help, and
left after a day or so, saying she was not cut out
for domestic work, was the spark to the grain of
gunpowder. Few persons knew that the phrase
“lady help” had got into a dictionary. Many
employers call it “lady’s help,” and it often
appears so in the advts. Demand for the lady
help is increasing in proportion as the domestic
servant difficulty becomes more acute. A lady
was advertising last week for three lady-helps. She
wanted ’em for cooking, housemaiding, and
nursing, and at 12s. a week. If the helps were
sisters or three chums the plan might work well
—if the helps were competent.
The young (Lieutenant) Rawsons’ furniture and
other household effects were auctioned with great
effect. Redfern, Paddington, and Woolloomooloo
ladies took a day off, and brought their babies,
and seemed to enjoy the going—going—-gone act.
“ Wallaroy,” the Mitchell place in Edgecliff-road,
has been let.
Young George Gaden, the solicitor, who married
Miss Ettie Hordern, died of pneumonia last week,
aged thirty-three. General and spontaneous sym-
pathy for the young widow. They had been
married barely two years. For years the Gaden
family resided in an old Darlinghurst house
named Belvidere, and the neighbors nicknamed
handsome George “ Apollo Belvidere.”
A correspondent tells me that Miss Khadijah
Cooper and Miss Usher are sinking up to their
necks in the soft spots in the hearts of the Tas-
manian people. They are with Allan Hamilton’s
lately organised co., playing in “A Message from
Mars.” Miss Cooper knocked them in a black
velvet robe, with a pink rose in her hair, and a
bandeau of pink ribbon. When she put on an
emerald-green chiffon velvet coat, and an ermine
stole, the women in the audience said they were
glad they came. In “Home, Sweet Home” Miss
Usher also got several whoops of approval for her
acting, and her frocking in geranium red, with
berries of the same lively color in her hair.
Mr. “ Coley ” Burke is back in Sydney, dressed
like King Edward, and wearing the latest color
in ties —“Congo,” which is a variation in bronze.
Of the faking of names for colors there is no
end. Pewter-grey may or may not be a very recent
fake, but it is said to be the most becoming shade
of grey for colorless complexions. Pewter-grey
is a dull shade, and the authority says “ it should
be brightened by a well-placed dash of crimson ”
(on the cheeks and lips, perhaps). A returned
Australienne tells me that a section of Parisian
women—the dark eyed, dark-haired ones—whiten
their faces to a magnolia tint, and wear crimson
on their lips only. This economy of red would age
blonde woman by years and years.
Miss Portia Geach has had word that her oil
portrait of her youngest sister has been hung in
the Liverpool Gallery. The judges were two
R.A.’s, Solomon Solomons and Stanford. Picture
shows a girl of about 17 with an uncommon shade
of red hair, and wearing a long white satin gown.
Girls’ Realm Guild sends the first copy of its
first paper. The bantling looks healthy, and
cheeps prettily about itself and the good the
Guild could, would, should, and shall do. Miss
Eadith Walker, Mrs. Ethel Curlewis, and Mrs.
John Hay are amongst its vice-presidents ; Miss
Rawson is president, and Miss Grace Burrows is
State organising secretary.
Death of Grieg, the composer, has given Percy
Grainger a heartache. The old man and Percy
Sunlocks admired each other enormously and
genuinely. Grieg had said often and openly that
no player had interpreted his music like the Aus-
tralian. The latter was on a long visit to the
Griegs, who were “like two little old birds.”
They gave him a serviette ring as reminder of a
promise to come back to them next year, and to
Sunlock’s mother they sent a quaint piece of Nor-
wegian jewellery.
Collins Bros, are showing some absolutely pet
ladies’stationery named “Monica.” Opal and
blue and grey shades make one feel like writing
pleasantly to one’s worst friend. These charming
papers are made in Sydney.
“ Ruru ” (M.L.): —
Had a letter recently from an Australian she-pal (you
may call her a paliasse if you like, or perhaps mattress,
as the feminine of mate) who informs me with much
jubilation that at a swell function in the Big- Smoke she
was taken on all hands for an English girl. In the name
of patriotism, why the rejoicing ? But it is a fact, as
“ Tryphena” notes, that the Australian woman at Home
(most of her) acts as if ashamed of her country. _ Not so
the Maoriland girl; everyone knows where she hails from.
A good deal of fun is made of the Maorilander with his
inevitable bit of greenstone and his colossal admiration
for his owh land, but surely that attitude is better than
being ashamed to Claim one’s birt.hland. Your Carrie
Moore was right up at the top of things before London
knew her for an Australienne. Our May Beatty, in her
preliminary ads., modestly announced herself as “ one
of Maoriland’s valuable assets.” Characteristic !
This writer, by the way, speaks persistently of
England as “ home.” Most Australians have got
beyond that stage* anyhow. Australia is “home”
to the bulk of our people.
Ranji, the lithe Indian Prince who was out
here with Maclaren’s band of flannelled oof-birds,
is to be married. Whether the lady is black,
brindle, or white doesn’t so far appear, but the
odds are she is black. Ranji is no longer a mere
courtesy prince, but a real Jam; and the Jam
who consorts with white trash may be turned out
of the Jam tin. Arthur Lilley, A. C. Maclaren,
and others well-known in the great world that
smites and hurls balls, have started for India in
order that they may stand by Ranji, and hold his
hand during the leashing ceremony.
Miss Winnie Austin, a Sydney girl, who
possesses both good looks and brains, has suc-
ceeded Miss Irwin as “leading lady” with J,
Superbus Knight. Miss Irwin leaves for London
forthwith.
If you want to be Right There and up to the
Day-after-To-morrow in the matter of dinner-
table decoration, you must buy a lot of small
animals, birds, beasts and lizards, and arrange them,
Noah’s Ark fashion, round a centrepiece of fruit
and flowers, packed in a market basket. Then,
with your dinner-gown, wear two big enamel
daddy-long-legses in your hair, and converse with
novelty and brightness. Say things like this :
“I think this continued dry weather must be
ruinous for the country, don’t you? ” “I think
Clara Butt’s voice marvellous, don’t you?”
“Headache powders make me feel so depressed,
and I hate to feel depressed, don’t you?” But
don't ask the company suddenly, “Why is a
piece of string?” or you might strain the com-
pany’s intellect.
The peace cure is the latest fad in America.
“ You make your mind lie down,” as Lord Rose-
bery says one of his children said. All the same,
you may go about your business as usual. You
don’t lie down with your mind :
Taking the peace cure begins at meals. The patient
must eat slowly, and think pleasant thoughts. Sit down
at the table, relax your muscles, clear your mind, masti-
cate your food thoroughly, and grow peaceful in contem-
plation. Imitate the cow, and your digestion will im-
prove.
People who practise the peace cure believe that the
first hour of the day is the most important one of the 24.
Your temper, your serenity, your very health itself, de-
pend upon your waking thoughts. Very few people have
any idea of the extent to which the day is governed by
waking thoughts, which should be made happy and
hopeful ones.
The peace-cure woman keeps a book, in which to write
the various items she desires to remember. This is to
avoid brain-fag.
Brain-fag will get even with her later when
she’s wondering where she mislaid the book, or
when she’s corrugating her forehead over the
entry “ T.p.g.b.” She has forgotten that it indi-
cates “To pay gas bill.” “T.0.g.b.” means “To
owe gas bill.”
The bluff some women can put up is superb.
At the annual meeting (in New York) of the
Dressmakers’ Protective Association, the Presi-
dent, a lady whose weight is four pounds short of
sixteen stone, said that next year the stylish
figure would be bustless and hipless and altogether
curveless. Her Association, along with others in
Paris and London and Vienna, had apparently
decreed the change. Questioned as to how she
would like being pushed out into unstylishness,
beyond the sacred circle of the slight, the lady
haughtily replied, “ When the time comes I shall
appear to be slight and curveless. lam not fat if
I do not choose to look it. ”
A Maoriland girl abroad, on attending the
opera at Oovent Garden :
We bought gallery tickets at 2s. 6d., and at the unseemly
hour of four o’clock took our places in the queue outside
the theatre. Quite a number of people were there before
us, so we settled ourselves in line on our little camp-
stools, and buried our confusion in magazines. We felt
that the eyes of the world were upon us. The regular
London crowd around was sublimely indifferent to the
gaze of the multitude. From 5.30 to 6.30 refreshments
came on. Can’t describe my sensations while
eating my modest little sandwiches in the public
street, trying to screen myself behind a magazine
and to look as if I were consuming nothing but light
literature. Some of the crowd had brought their tea in
what are here called market baskets, known at home as
the good old “ kit.” And they drank lemonade out of
bottles, and ate bread and cheese and fruit as calmly as if
they were in the privacy of their homes. The ordeal
ended shortly after 6.30, and we got front seats. During
the interval we marched round to the side of the gallery
to have a good look at the Queen with opera glasses. She
is pretty—looks about 35 or so, and her hair is almost
golden, but her expression is pathetically dull. She got
up and walked about the box. She is not tall, but her
figure is perfect. I have never seen anything like the
sight it is to look round Covent Garden Theatre. There
are about 150 boxes ; indeed, one tier is nothing else.
People wear evening dress in every part of the house
(except the half-crown part). The costumes and
jewels make a gorgeous, barbaric show. Never saw so
many diamonds in my life. I suppose they were genuine.
Anyway, they glittered ! The opera—well, the opera was
Melba and Caruso.
Adelaide has produced a cautious Don
Juan, who wants to see what’s ahead of him
before he gives way to Love’s madness. He called
at the Central Police Station to ask what could be
done to a fellow who bolted, say to Maoriland,
with another cove’s wife. The constable in
charge looked thoughtfully upon the lady—who
had been brought along, presumably to be marked
“A” and put in as evidence —and opined
that it might depend on the size and fighting
weight of the other cove. The devil of
a fellow, explaining that he referred to the
processes of the law, was advised to ask a lawyer;
whereupon he inquired earnestly for the address
of one who would give free advice. The police-
man’s wide experience of gents, one did not
include a single philanthropist, and he said so.
Then the man who was prepared for Sin, but not
for banging the saxpence, drifted away with the
mournful remark that he must “ chance it.
Presumably, by this time, the Girl is aboard the
Lugger, but a Scotch sinner’s bliss is a little dis-
turbed by a feeling that something may happen,
and Costs float before his eyes.
The Ladies’ Field (London) thus “rubs it
into ” the feminine ostrich :
As for a woman’s digestion, it is no exaggeration to say
that she can eat and drink things which would kill men off
like flies. The way in which women disregard Nature
would be appalling if it were not for the fact that it suits
them so well. Every now and again some envious male
endeavors to imitate them, with the result that he
invariably sinks into a yawning grave.
A man sends me this complaint :
Woman was late at the Creation, and she’s never caught
up. I suppose it’s the fault of her clothes. I remember
that once in Calcutta I was persuaded to go to a fancy-
dreSs ball, and because in those dead days I was a slim
and beauteous youth with a confiding eye, I decided that
I would go as the “Jersey Lily.” Pat Bathurst was in
India just then, and I became his debtor for many pre-
cious indications. On the fateful night I found myself,
in the costume of Calypso, all pearl and rose, surrounded
by mounds and billows of fluffy rustling oddities that
w'hispered confidences in peau d’JEspagne. I turned with
a modest blush to my amused assistant, and commenced
to put ’em on. As the corset snicked to—a 2-2 corset,
ah, but those were the days I —l glanced at myself in the
mirror, and chuckled to see how oddly I suggested one
of Phil May’s Dutchmen. Then I climbed into the top-
dressing, and was braced up all round. Well, I looked so
sweet that I could have found it in my heart to kiss my-
self. But —ugh 1 the discomfort of the sensation ! I felt
as though I was clothed in draughts and vestured with
pneumonia. It was October in Calcutta, but I had cold
feet, and I could feel the icy claw of a remote blizzard
scraping along my spine. Go to a dance in that refri-
gerator? I would as soon go to Spitzbergen in Annette
Kellermann’s bathing-suit. At last I learned what itis, that
pleasing punishment that women bear—it is the torture of
their clothes. Gimme trousers—the real article, y’ know.
Having lived a man, were I now transformed into a queen,
I would sell my tiara and all accessories of the day and
night for freedom to robe my serenity in a soft shirt and
a pair of simple moleskins. I know what I’m saying.
I’ve been there. Sooner than live there, I’d turn Trap-
pist and burn my books.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Lady Le Hunte’s visit to the Northcotes, for the Exhi-
bition’festivities, was spoiled by news of the death of her
mother, cabled from Britain. Her Ex. was formerly a
Miss Clowes (please pronounce it Clews), of Burton Court,
Herefordshire, and only returned a month or two ago
from a visit to the parental dovecote.
This city has been enlivened by concerts and amateur
shows as a kind of dernier racehorse (this is dog-French),
Sassiety being too busy trying on its Cup hat to indulge
in any more furious form of time-killing. First came
“ Lady Huntworth’s Experiment ” at Unley Town Hall.
Amateurs were under the stage direction of Percy Walshe
(who once Broughed it), and their aim was to add shekels
to the coffers of the Lyric Club, and the aim was good.
The first act was left pretty much to the imagination of
the audience, but thereafter the players caught the pitch
of the hall, nailed it down, and firmly declined to let it
go again. Miss Flo Berry, as Lady Huntworth, and Neil
Hepper, as that lady’s wobbly husband, were responsible
for the chief brilliance, and Talbot Smith and Miss
Kathleen Sutherland for the hilarity.
At the banqueting-room of the Town Hall, the other
day, Misses Nora Kyffin Thomas and Ethel Cooper
dispensed classic melody on fiddle and pianoforte for the
musical ton of the State. Which recalls that another
local fame-gatherer, contralto Ethel Hantke, returns
shortly from Europe.
At Mrs. Bosley Jenkins’ evening at the Lyric Club, the
premises were not large enough for the multitude. This
show was also dramatic, and included a skilfully-rendered
scene from “Mrs. Dane’s Defence,” a slip of “Twelfth
Night,” and four monologues from “ Camille,” by Mrs.
Bosley Jenkins. The monologues were particularly fine ;
and so were the gorgeous chiffons Mrs. Jenkins wore,
each more eye-filling than the last.
The Lyric Club is to host the great Butt on November
12, when their Exes, and the Chief Justice Ways are to
be there ; otherwise “ members only.” The programme
for that night is in the hands of Mrs. Fox, who, as
Adelaide Porter, was a chum and fellow-student of the
imposing Clara.
Miss Elbert-Orton has lost her hyphen in Adelaide, and
transpires here as Miss Elbertorton. But I don’t know
whether it is incurable or not.
We had a rose show last week, but as the weather had
been misbehaving it wasn’t much of a show. And,
besides, it was held in the Exhibition, for some deeply
mysterious reason—probably to give the jaded public
the hottest possible walk for its money. Mrs. Chief
Justice Way lent her energetic presence.
From Brisbane: —
The excitement of the hour is the fairly-well-founded
rumor of an engagement between the Attorney-General
and a charming lady with whom he is often seen driving
in his big new motor. Reports fix the wedding date
variously—at three months, the end of the year) and
when he climbs the Bench.
Beatrice Grimshaw arrived in Brisbane last Friday, and
sailed again on Saturday for Port Moresby and Papua,
where, armed with an automatic "33 revolver and a sheaf
of letters of introduction, she will devote some weeks to
investigating the habits and costumes of the natives.
Letters which arrived in Brisbane this week from Mar-
garet Ferguson give a cheerful account of that plucky
Australian composer. She is working hard under
Gadsby, and has sent out two fugues, written since her
arrival in London. They have her teacher’s warm com-
mendation, and Mr. Allan, of this city, pronounces them
very fine, and will perform them at an early date upon
ourbig organ. Miss Ferguson has also been turning out
some pretty song music, set to words of Edith Cross-
Buchanan —a well-known writer here—and Miss Freda
Knapp, the Fogland cousin of another Brisbane journalist.
Artist Frankie Payne, daughter of the sec. of our
General Hospital, has come back from Europe, and is to
do black-and-white work for the Queenslander. Speak-
ing of that hoary weekly reminds me that Mrs Sarah Jane
Bocock, who for some six years has wielded its social
club, has retired and goes south.
The resignation of matron Cross from the Infants’
Home is now announced. The Archbishop and his com-
mittee contemplate drastic reforms, so they say.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
District Court Judge Miller, of Banana-
land, until lately regarded as the antithesis of the
impetuous Justice Real, has suddenly developed
an antipathy towards tired jurymen. Twelve of
them, at Brisbane recently, had made no progress
towards a verdict after several hours’ disappear-
ance from the court room. At 10.46, Judge
Miller decided they had had their last chance for
the night. “ Shall I take them to rooms at the
hotel?” asked the Registrar. “No,” thundered
the Judge. “Shall I get them beds here at the
court rooms?” said the Registrar. “No,” said
the thunderer, “ they are considering their ver-
dict. You can get them some breakfast to-
morrow morning.” It was a bewildered-looking
jury which left the courtj to spend the night
where there was naught hut 12 chairs and a table.
Yet if Judge Miller himself were asked to tackle
a difficult problem at 10.45 p.m., after a long
day’s work and worry, he would be pretty sure to
reply that he wasn’t a perpetual-motion Miller,
and required a spell in order to get rid of the cob-
webs in his brain.
Philp again proposes reduction of members
in Queensland. Well, there is a whole House that
he can reduce without robbing one Queensland
elector of a vote. The members whom nobody at
all elects should be wiped out first. You can’t
have a smaller electorate than 0.
A useful Bill introduced to the Australian
Parliament by Attorney-General Groom is to
codify and consolidate the existing State Marine
Assurance Acts. The Federal Government,
whilst the House of Reps, is at work on the
tariff, might well refer to the Senate the Federal-
ising of the banking, insurance and bankruptcy
laws—strictly necessary tasks which have been
neglected too long.
It’s a hard row the Foreign-trader has to
hoe these days. Now his constituents urge Joe
Cook, ex-Protectionist, ex-Socialist, now Free-
trader and Anti-Socialist, to support a high duty
on condensed milk, as by that “the district would
benefit greatly.” Probably Cook will decide, as
Wilks did in regard to Balmain industries, to let
his constituents have the advantage of the curse
of Protection.
Maoriland is laying on the frills. It will
abolish the name of Legislative Council and sub-
stitute that of Senate. Instead of altering the
name, Ward would be better employed in altering
the constitution of its Upper Chamber. If its
Senate is to be a body comparable to the Aus-
tralian Senate, the mode of election thereto should
be similar.
Parson Edgar (Vic.), who lately got
back from the Cold Land, tells: In Greater
London, 80,000 families either live in one room
each, or share one room with one or two other
families ; this one room isn’t confined always to
even three families. An inspector, entering a
two-family room recently, found a 10-days-dead
man amongst the occupants! The unhappy
occupants hadn’t sufficient clothes amongst them
to get out to inform the dustman. There are
other families—24o,ooo of them, comprising a
million and a half people—who earn from £1 per
week downward.
William Pritchard, who died last week at
Sydney, aged 82, was the oldest member of the
N.S.W. Institute of Architects. He was a
native of England, and in 1859 went to Maoriland,
where, besides other prominent buildings, he
erected the historic Poverty Bay house, the scene
of a massacre by Maoris during the war. In
1868 he crossed over to Victoria, and was appointed
architect to Trinity College, Melbourne Uni-
versity. He came to Sydney in 1882 to build
Goldsbrough and Co.’s Pyrmont warehouse, and
afterwards did a lot of other big jobs.
“Janor” on an anti-Socialist :
The Victorian cookies who got off their land for a time
to pick up “ slugs” at Poseidon, are back again at their
old addresses, sadder and poorer men. Those I have had
speech with tell much the same tale. They arrived on
the rush to find pegs everywhere. They looked around
until they met philanthropists in moles and flannels will-
ing to exchange golden shows for bank notes. There
were drinks and a transfer, and the cow-punchers worked
on their purchases until the vain search for gold affected
their eyesight. Then they rolled up and got back to the
homely but consistent cow. Said one of them : “Digging
’Struth, it’s a rotten game, an’ the diggers is a poor lot.
If they’re off it, where are they? Why, they’ve gotter
come an’ work fer us. Gov’ment don’t do nothin for
diggers. They get no railway concessions, no State bank,
no experts ter teach ’em points. If they wants land fer
minin’, they gotter pay cash —no tick or time-payment in
ther Mines Department. Why, if er miner gets burnt
out or flooded out, he’s gotter graft fer a new outfit or go
without. There ain’t any fire fund or flood fund for him.
An’ I savs it’s good enough fer ’em, fer they’re all blanky
Socialists and oughtn’t ter be encouraged. O’course
selectors is different. We’re dead off Socialism all ther
time.” And he smiled not, nor even wunk.
Mr. Arthur H. Hasell writes :
In your issue of the 3rd inst., referring to my impres-
sions of Japan, you say : “ Hasell has not a word to say
about the Jap dog-in-the-manger policy which forbids a
white man to own land, or to conduct a retail trade, or to
hold shares in Japan, etc., etc.”
In reply, permit me to say that I had excellent reasons
for not so doing in view of the real facts, viz: Any foreign-
ers may own land in Japan, if naturalised, but not other-
wise (excepting as members of a public company regis-
tered under the Japanese Companies Act). Naturalisation
is conferred upon applicants under certain regulations,
without discrimination of any kind whatever. Foreigners
may hold land under lease, for any term, whether natural-
ised or not. Any foreigner may conduct a retail trade, in
the same manner as a native, whether naturalised or not.
There are many foreign firms in Japan at the present
moment doing a retail trade, from whom I have bought
numerous articles from time to time. Foreigners aie
allowed to hold shares in companies in Japan, with some
limitations—which, however, are removed by the fact of
naturalisation. It is no secret that several Australians
have done remarkably well out of shares in. public com-
panies in Japan. Unfortunately the writer is not one of
them.
“P.S.”: Be “Japanese Justice.” Was
in Japan in 1902, and was much interested
in a local case. A Chink and a Jap had
jointly purchased a vessel for the coasting trade.
On the grounds that the Chinese navy was im-
potent for protective purposes, the vessel was
registered under the Japanese flag. End of the
year, as no settlement was made by the Jap,
the Chink brought suit for his share of the vessel
and an accounting of profits; and upon proofs and
books being produced, the Court ordered defen-
dant to produce 50,000 yen and divide the profits
as arranged. The Jap, who had made no defence
except a general denial,that Chink had any rights
whatever in the matter, appealed, and the case
came before the Supreme Court. Here it was
ruled that the Chow was not entitled to a single
yen, as “no foreigner could, under any circum-
stances, own an interest in a vessel flying the
Japanese flag.” The maxim of the modern legal
Jap is “ the maximum of law and the minimum
of equity.”


.CLEINERT’S
HINTS TO SMART DRESSERS.
Tl)g Etoi> Sbigltl,
Cellular Fabric for Summer Wear.
DRESS MAY BE CHANGED WITHOUT
REMOVING THE SHIELD.
YOUR DRAPER HAS IT.
B£S>
FRT
TKe IMP9RTANCE: °J FIGURE
i AWell Drgjcd Lady Mvjt
1 H&Ve a Good Figure,
I Ervwr&lhij by\V&&rii\<j j
\ u ***. Onlv /
* &
D
o
o
s
COR
/2k
ASK
FOR THEM
A AND a
® SEE 9
THAT YOU
Lthem-J
T. M. Go.
Tarrant Motor Co.
104=112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS
AND
AUSTRALIAN MOTORS FOR
AUSTRALIAN ROADS.
The Australian-built “TARRANT”
Motor Car is guaranteed by us to
hold its own against all imported
cars. It is manufactured complete
from Radiator to back axle in our
own workshop, and every detail has
been carefully studied, with the re-
sult that the “TARRANT” Car is
without doubt one of the finest to
be had in Australia.
The ‘TARRANT" Car
8-h.p., 10-h.p., 12-14-h.p., 16-20-h.p.
A cordial invitation is extended to
all to visit our Works, where
Tarrant Cars are to be seen in
course of construction. We have
now turned out a goodly number
of these Cars, and their owners
will testify to their excellence,
quality, reliability and speed.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.
104.112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 28, 1907.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The opening ceremony of the Women’s Exhibi-
tion was fine. No great function has ever gone
so smoothly. The weather behaved gently. The
fluttering in of the thousand-and-a-half choristers
to their angelic seats on high was a peaceful poem
and gave no strenuous hint of the training and
drilling that Director Lumsden had been in-
dulging in for weeks. The uprising and down-
sitting of the mighty host also was an orderly
flutter. Important men-members of the execu-
tive acted as ushers, and drafted the sheep and
goats, who carried variously-tinted cards in their
horns. Besides the orchestra and choir, only
Governors and Governoresses were seated on the
platform (banked up thickly, of course, with
aides and other escort), and Giant Admiral
Fawkes and Chief-of-Executive Alfred Deakin.
All the other Importants were packed in order in
the frontest chairs. The speeches and applause
were all nice and correct and pleasant. What I
liked was a cheer (quite a glory cheer) after the
Lady Northcote speeched her small opening
speech. It was not for the Governor Lady merely
—it was for the bully worker.
Miss Mus. Doc. M‘Burney, in imposing robes,
conducted her orchestra. Then the strenuous
Mrs. Prof. Ewart conducted choir and all in her
Ode, and, after that, gentle little Mrs. Prof.
Peterson curtsied into the big box to conduct
Elgar’s “Snow.” There was a mild welcome of
applause from the choristers. They do love their
little professor lady. She gowned snowily in soft
chiffons, with a duck of a little fitting coat of lace,
nd her hat drooped snowy crepe veiling. Talking
1 lace, the Northcote Lady wore much garniture
• Australian-made lace on her Melbourne-made
t»ck -and hat.
One incident in connection with the opening of
the Women’s Exhibition just outside the building
before the ceremony commenced : There were
two entrances to the building, No. 1 being
reserved for the “quality,” and No. 2 for the
“quantity.” Owing to a mistake on the part of
the coachman, the Northcotes found themselves
pulled up in front of the crowd at No. 2. There
was a momentary pause. Someone had blun-
dered. A peanut man, with a keen sense of
business, seized the opportunity and rushed the
carriage with his wares. “’Ere y’ are, mister,”
he bawled, “peanuts, a penny a bag. Fresh
roasted peanuts.” There were no sales.
Lady Northcote acted with dignity, if with a
little cruelty, in connection with the Women’s
Exhibition opening. She sternly vetoed any
allusions to herself. The idea of the Lady deny-
ing the Exhibition Crawlmittee an opportunity to
gush over her most admirable labors, and to
announce her dignified decision so late in the day !
What a waste of laborious meditation, of inspired
fatuity, of carefully-elaborated inanities was
occasioned ! Had she refrained, a capital comedy
would have been played. One can picture the
efforts of the first speaker who discoursed about her
Gargantuan efforts (that’s the sort of adjective the
first groveller inevitably employs, while the others,
unto the tenth and last groveller, sit back and
smirk at his clumsiness). Then would have fol-
lowed gush Upon gush of turgid eloquence, all
with the same theme of snobbery and servility;
each worm vieing with the others to be more
abject in praise. The General Public is sorry that
the farce was omitted.
The night before the opening ceremony of Our
Exhibition was the most amazing thing in the
way of whirl. Armies of men thundered and
hammered. Dainty women, like so many
pigeons, fluttered about the Arts and Crafts
balconies. The whole choir rehearsed full
forte, as did the orchestra with its loudest drums.
Presentations were being made with speeches and
smiling curtsies among all the din. Dear little
Mrs. Prof. Peterson, hot with wild waving at the
rehearsing choir, suddenly had a diamond spray
thrown at her. Mrs. Ewart received several silver
tiers of fruit-dish from her “sectional girls”—
some of Miss Toorak Pye’s pupils, whom the
energetic lady has been drilling musically.
“Spring cleaning’s not in it,” declared one
fashionable dame. “Every day, all day and
night, have I toiled ; night after night the Ex-
hibition lights have been turned out on me.”
And that was a usual experience. But they were
making for a success —and success they got.
In another corner Lady Northcote was being
presented with her Sydney-made carpet, and the
Rawsons helped in the ceremony, though Mrs.
Edwards (the chief worker) did the presenting.
It was the most extraordinary medley. There is
no doubt about it being Our Exhibition (as the
Northcote Lady dubbed it). The whole thing is
simply owned in the most personal way by every
woman, almost, in Australia.
And there are other viewpoints taken of this
Exhibition. Honest, reputable women who have
never owed their dressmakers a penny in their
lives, “and I defy you to prove it,” may be heard
at any tea-house in Collins-street just now offering
over a B. and S. (butter and scone) new
suggestions for exhibits. Thus a severe-looking
matron, who was wearing her Cup hat for a trial
run, was warmly urged by some friends to
exhibit her husband, who, by general consent,
had a useful dash of pace before marriage, and
was much given to late hours, hot birds and cold
bottles. Since the ceremony he has settled down
to early hours, carpet slippers, and weak tea.
The idea was to label the exhibit “ Reformation :
Woman’s Work.” Yet another fair chatterer held
that amongst the chair-menders, match-sellers,
and race-book vendors might be found many fine
specimens of women’s work. But there seemed
to be a suspicion of cynicism lurking there, so the
proposal was disregarded. Anyhow, the women
are taking the keenest interest in the show, and
have got to such a stage that they’re willing to
exhibit the family shrub sooner than have a frost.
The Gaud Mayor gave a “to meet’’ball on
Thursday night, and it was full of all the vim and
stir. First the Gaud and Gaudy Mayoress held a
eption—sometime after dinner. Then Prime
lister Deakin arrived, and, reinforced with
some Bent and Forrest and such bulwarks, a fresh
reception was held on the arrival of an imposing
procession of Madden. All this decoration was
carefully flung round the spreading dais, when a
full blare was turned on to receive the G.-G.’s
and all the visiting G.’s. They made an important
procession, with aides fore and aft, and the big,
handsome Admiral Fawkes accenting the glamor
of uniform.
Supper-time descended with a bounce, and the
Importants processed to the sacred Upper Hall
for things in aspic. To the delight of the younger
folk who wanted to dance, the Importants were fol-
lowed to a man by all the corporations (now, should
that be in the singular or should it be “council-
lors ” ?), and there was a fine floor, good music,
and breathing and dancing space for the fluffy
pretty girl and her pal.
Some kindly decorator had hung a soft blue
gauzy canopy, full of pink rose petals, to soften
the blaze of the big electrics, and it gave every
feminine a complexion like peaches. Round the
balconies the flowers were not strung and killed
and garlanded ; they hung in great bunchy masses
of bloom, real hedge roses—red and luscious and
pink.
Admiral Bridges and his wife had a nasty ex-
perience rushing hansom-ly to president Mrs.
Grice’s Tea at the Exhibition on Thursday. The
hansom collided with a lorry spike, and the glass
of the windows was shattered. The lady had her
ear badly cut. She went to the hospital, had the
wound stitched, and turned up eventually at the
Tea. She-of-the-wounded-ear also danced at the
Mayoral Ball that evening, not with pain, as you
might suppose, but decorously and decoratively.
A flock of mumming-birds, who just now preen
their plumage before a setof local footlights, are not
behaving as birds in their little nests should, but
don’t. (Thereisnothinglknowinlifesocantanker-
ous and cruel as the strongest nestling in a
swallow’s mud flat or a dove’s little cooery.) These
human birds are fighting with all the vehemence
and energy peculiar to cats of the Kilkenny
breed. One lady is in possession of the mana-
gerial ear (and, they say, heart, too, for that
matter); the other gnashes her teeth and chews
over a less profitable menu. The one lady wears
the prettiest frocks and coquettes with the great
little man. The other lady communicates with
him only through her lawyers, and talks darkly of
the particular sort of agony he’d suffer if only one
of her large brothers were beside her. Meantime
the hated rival wallows in what vulgar stage-folk
call “ fat,” and says “ miaow ! ” with a variety of
insulting inflexions.
Our smartest pubs are inundated with miraculous
young men, this season. Local males can’t vie
with these touring birds of paradise; they can
only twitter enviously in comparative obscurity,
and commonplace coverings. F’rinstance, who,
amongst our own toiling brethren, could compete
with sweet Sir Wilfred Peake ? He wears a
waisted, skirted coat, which would amply fulfil
surf-bathing necessities, with a chic frilly effect at
its tail end. Beneath this garment is worn a
naive waistcoat, which bears delicious pearly
buttons, and blends the tenderest tints of a
summer moonrise. Also may be noted his pants
—his most poetic pants. They are brief couplets,
with never a jarring emphasis in their harmonious
lines, even in the places where one might reason-
ably expect his knees to be. And his hose —his
most inspiring hose ! Brave Peggy Pryde never
sported such symphonic socks in her vivid career.
They are silken, sheeny, and hooped with strident
scarlet, purple, and gold, which merge into shoes
that look like an advertising picture. In addition
to all these glories, Dear Sir Wilfred is a quiet-
voiced debonair young man who pays chivalrous
attention to the wilful sex, sepecially when it’s
young and pretty. And the unhappy local youth
looks a mere hen-bird besides this gorgeousness.
The Orontes returned to a large circle of glad-
some chums Mrs. W. J. Dunne, once little Miss
Brentnall. The pocket matron bustles round,
receiving “ welcome homes ” in a variety of frocks,
charming enough to make their wearer hated.
However, Mrs. Dunne wears tact as well as con-
fections, and manages to overshadow her indis-
cretion in being perfectly dressed.
Mrs. Ernest Brookeslaunchesout into hospitality
during Cup week. Her donation to the gaiety of
some of the Naicest People (0, eloquent phrase !
it hints at more inanity than a Freetrading
Aunty-Sosh could compass in three hours’ bab-
bling) will be a dance party. Certain imported
personages of heavy social tonnage are expected
to adorn the occasion, and make the hours in-
teresting to invited spinsters.
The Sydney-siders’ art show is proving a most
successful business. Beside praise, the “boys”
are earning good sums from their sales (which is
more than they did in undiscriminating Sydney).
The Lindsays have parted with some of their
desirable handiwork for cheques that soar into
three figures. And two delicious examples of
Minns found an eager purchaser. There is some
talk of a cargo of local canvases going over to
N.S.W. But poor cash results are the only ones
expected from art patrons in the step-mother
State.
“Is that Norman Lindsay? He’s got quite a
pleasant young face ! ” someone remarked in
audacious whisper at the N.S.W. Picture Show
on opening day. Evidently that part of the
public had thought of him as a sort of spirited
ogre—something phenomenal. Promoter Publisher
Lothian, grey-suited and important, was explain-
ing that the contentiously-discussed hero had sold
over £lOO worth before opening day.
The literary lass smiles approvingly upon the
show —what a change in that sort of lass lately !
The pince-nez-e d, flat-heeled lady, who spoke
severely and knew not men, has got lost; and
the smart-styled maid of early summer, with a
train of the sterner sex following her clatter, takes
the other’s place. The literary lass, the writing
spinster, dines royally, smokes after it, and is not
infrequently a “peach,” in the mere-man way of
speaking. (There seems to be no authenticated
instance of one woman having ever referred to
another as an item of stone-fruit.)
Mrs. Alfred Deakin and the keeper of Aus-
tralian Eloquence give a garden party “ to meet
their Excellencies ”on the Bth November. A
charming hour is a certainty. When Dame
Deakin is lured into the open she’s pleasant
enough to adorn Arcadia.
Mrs. De Satge and her naval attache, other-
wise her medical husband, loiter in Melbourne
until after the Carnival. The charming dame
disports herself with an entourage, most times,
of which the Peake bart. is the star mem-
ber. It’s quite edifying to watch the friendly
constancy of the de Satge couple, the Ernest
Brookes’ Sir Wilfred, and plump Guy of the inter-
mittent A.D.C.-ship. The party dines together
in pomp, sleeps dinner off at sundry theatrical
shows, and then sups, still exchanging the wide
yawns of comfortable intimacy.
The Lone Hand this month launches into the
stormy waters of discussion a Dress Sympo-
sium, dealing with the philosophy (if there is any)
and the phantasies (they are sure) of frocks.
The romance of fabrics needs some exposition.
The majority of women don’t even guess at the
potency of the right frock in their sentimental
relations, for instance. They will insist on making
their appearance in a scene likely to end in tears
and upbraidings, in a tailored suit that will ride
up from their waists, and a stiff collar that gets
crumpled and sloppy at the very idea of sentiment
or sorrow. Or else they wear silk-lined frocks
when they’re paying surreptitious visits to poor
relations, and fortune-tellers. A little sane dis-
cussion might suppress such sartorial solecisms.
Henley-on-the-Yarra had a bright blue day.
Folk and boats were clad in their gayest, and
river banks and bridge were thronged with sight-
seers. Henley is becoming an institution, and the
Yarra banks are contriving to live up to it
better every year. Little private rowing
boats were the most fashionable jaunt of
the day. They were pretty as butterflies.
Mrs. Donald Mackinnon and Mrs. George Fair-
bairn took the special bun for beauty in small
house boats, but the Athenaeum Club house-boat
was champion in the large class. It had a wide,
scarlet gangway that made a joyous background
to the daintily-clad, daintily-shod maidens going
a-visiting to the hospitable Clubites. The
Australian Club came a good second. The
Savage. Club buried itself in an immense
tent, guarded by spears and boomerangs,
and hung with grass-fringe dresses (perhaps the
Savages were in swimming) and strings of teeth
and other horrific insignia. Yet they managed to
inveigle many a dainty fluffy maiden in to drink
tea, or for some Such orgies.
The day part of Henley was fine, but the night
was grand, every dinky little boat flaunting its
glow-worms. All the houseboats outlined with
colored electrics ; fireworks ; music ; the blaze
of light and color from Princes Court and Wirth’s
Olympia added to the Carnival effect.
For once a highly respectable church vestry has
done its duty to the basic tenets of its creed. In
a rural district lives a lordly land boomster (at
least that was his occupation when he wasn’t pur-
suing folk who figure in ’igh society). Some years
ago he was merely one of the few men who un-
deservedly escaped bankruptcy. Now he’s a
superiah capitalist, with large social aspirations.
T’other day, he proffered a gorgeous gift to the
building fund of a new Bethel for his district. It
was handsomely refused by an honest committee,
which added to its uncomplimentary rejection an
exhortation that the philanthropist should pay
his just debts to poor men first. Cynicism sug-
gests that that committee was made up of unse-
cured creditors. But it may be that they were
merely Christians —real Christians. If so, surely
some steps will be taken to preserve these
survivals of an almost extinct order of fauna.
With Christmas, and other nice things, proba-
bly ex-Senator Matheson will come to Australia
to enjoy some smiling sunshine for a while. Eng-
land has proved a veritable martyrdom to the
amiable flaneur. Gout and sundry other ailments
have dragged him from the buzzom of his family
time after time, and driven him to sequestered
spas, where, he alleges, he found folk raffishly
waving one leg, with the other firm-set in the
grave. Now he takes refuge in the idea of a sea-
trip and a season of sunlight as a specific for his ills.
At one of Melba’s suppers at The Grand —a
small, comfy, toney supper—the table carried a
real, live, up-rooted, wattle-tree, that spread its
gorgeous yellowness and feathery blossoms all over
the adjacent circumference.
A wedding of some fuss and frill was that of
Miss Rose Evans and artist Jack Goldsworthy,
who were noosed in the white satin knot on
Tuesday. St. John’s was the scene of the cere-
mony. An elaborate dinner helped to sustain
the many guests after the Voice had breathed. A
programme of music followed, and then a dance.
It was a very jolly wedding.
The Railway Taits have taken “Lanark” (the
house of the Charlie Wallaces) for quite a term.
Mrs. Charlie spends most of her time with sister
Mrs. Vivian—driving about, and looking prettier
than ever. Mr. Wallace has just taken “Eulynia,”
in East St. Kilda—that very pretty red house of the
Mackenzie clan. The Mackenzies grow restless
since their last jaunt abroad, and show signs of
more wandering. The last remaining chick pro-
bably chums with pretty sister Mrs. Sydney Jim
Mitchell, who goes north to Japan.
An engagement is announced of a very youthful
maiden, just out of “flapper” frocks, and a
mining man of note —Miss Flo Stewart (Mrs.
Keith Travers’ young sister) and Mr. Hal Alston,
a younger brother of the Alston and Brown folk.
Also, young Rigby, of the Westralian Rigbys,
of Orient shipping doings, has just annexed a
very pretty Sydney girl. That engagement will
be formally announced within a week or so.
Hal Cohen, the blue-eyed tenor adored of Mel-
bourne girls, sends authentic word of quite a heap
of shekels offered him by an American manager.
George Castles, of the warbling Castles clan,
has just been engaged by Williamson for comic
opera work. He leaves London immediately for
Australia. The Castles family also have word
that pretty dimply Dolly has had a proposal from
a real live Lord.
Neil, son of Malcolm McEacharn, thrice Gaud-
Mayor of Melbourne, has returned to the land of
his birth. The youth has been enjoving the
educational advantages to be found at Eton and
Cambridge, and is quite a finished Bull pro-
duct. He sports astounding suits and other
masculine etceteras, including a dear little
moustache which looks as though it had been
inked in by a loving artist hand.
A wail from “ Smig ”
Re the Hog in the Car. He’s not in it with the Hogess
in the Observation Car that I met going from Albury to
Melbourne last week. It was a hot morning, and the
luxurious car fascinated me into diving into my slender
purse for an extra 4s. But I had reckoned without the
Hogess, who, with her family and two servant maids,
completely took possession of the car. They were from
’Murica, which fact they didn’t let us forget for one
moment. The family consisted of ma and two little
daughters—such cats. My fingers ached to give them just
one large, hard, bitter box on the ears. It was—“ Nurse,
I’ve dropped my book,” and “ Nurse, I want my candy-
no, not that box, the big red box ” ; or, “ My handker-
chief, please, nurse, ” and so on all the time. They dragged
the chairs in every direction, and kept the whole car in a
turmoil. The conductor, who was very human, antici-
paterl their every whim. Most of the passengers, being
male, tired of the circus, and left myself and two other
females to the nSrcy of the Hogess, who glared down her
huge proboscis, and treated us as canned beef or some-
thing equally common.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
In the Lanarkshire (Scotland) “ black
country ” there are numerous Poles, who have in-
troduced a new cheap drink. It is a mixture of
methylated spirits, ether, and paraffin oil. As it
is not excisable, it can be hawked about the
streets. A small nobbier will make one see all
the signs of the Zodiac, and sixpenn’orth contains
as many snakes as a keg of Queensland rum.


Chamberlain’s Pain Balm has an enviable
reputation as a cure for rheumatism.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artiftic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION.
ESTB. 1802.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
261 George Street, SYDNEY,
MODE HATE HATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
wtr
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
PM
GrO TO TT-FIT.T.-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by throur/hout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE 8t SONS, BRISBANE.
Amazing are the anti-tariff wails that reel
bewild'eringly into the columns of the Sydney
Herald day by day, and there gibber insanely for
the world to mourn over. Thus a person who
signs himself “G.P.H.”—a misprint, plainly, for
“ G.P.1.” (21/10/’O7) :—-
What New South Wales wants is a saviour, and that
now without a minute’s delay, for we are mere creatures
of political vampires, who sit in judgment on us at Mel-
bourne. . . . We are in the grip of an octopus.
The efficiency of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm
in the relief of rheumatism is being demonstrated
dailv.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^-.
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Freefcrade is in a bad way truly in Sydney.
Neither magic-lantern pictures nor G. Reid’s
clowning can draw an anti-tariff meeting.
The secesh movement in Queensland has
found its proper level. It formed the subject of
an impassioned speech in the Laidley Shire
Council the other day. It now ranks with the
culvert, and the goat, and the hole in the road.
Senator Neild makes the first move in the
Australian Parliament for a Public Works Com-
mittee. It opens up a fat prospect of fees. If the
Federal Parliament is wise it will have nothing to
do with an unclean thing, which has been the
cause of so much jobbery in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. What advice is needed on public works
questions can be better supplied by a committee
of experts than of Parliamentarians.
APRON-STRINGS.
We cannot afford to rely on the assumption that
Britain will beat her enemy in the event of war.—AGE.
BRITANNIA: "Fear nothing, my son! This
arrangement's all right. I am invincible! ”
AUSTRALIA: "P'raps. But I want to learn to
be invincible too!"
The contemptible weakness of the Speaker
of N.S.W. Assembly was shown last week, when
Wood (a Minister) and Norton engaged in a row,
during which Norton threatened to shoot Wood,
“by God.’’ The Speaker said never a. word.
Later in the evening Norton apologised. The
Speaker didn’t.
Concerning those 200 deserters from the
Pah’f’l, who are being hunted for in Sydney and
elsewhere, it might not be a bad idea for Australia
to offer Britain £lOOO to drop the subject and say
no more about it. Australia wants population—
good population of British descent preferred ; and
this frantic hunt for 200 fairly good population of
British descent is a lamentable waste of shoe-
leather in the present, while if the men are found
it will be a lamentable waste of gaol rations in
the future.
Had Solomon lived in
Victoria he would noc have
been puzzled about the way
of a man with a maid and
the doings of a serpent on
a rock, or a snake on a pre-
cipice, or anything like that.
All his bewilderment would
have been used up over the
political methods of the
Victorian up-country store-
keeper. The northern town-
ships—Raywood, Elmore,
Rochester, and a few score
other places are being
slowly strangled by the
accumulation of big estates.
These towns started when
the surrounding land was
held by cookies, and their
inhabitants made a good
living ; but the cookies have
given place to huge estates,
each managed by a man
and a few boys, and stores
go direct to the station from
a Melbourne warehouse.
Yet, when democratic can-
didates came round advo-
cating a graduated land-tax
and a compulsory resump-
tion scheme similar to that
of Maoriland, to break up
the estates and make the
dead towns boom again, it
was the traders of the up-
country townships that
kicked them hardest and
supplied bad eggs free of
cost as Tory ammunition.
Now the election is over
they have their reward, for
the stations go on bringing
supplies from Melbourne.
“Another Freetrade
triumph. A hundred thou-
sand sets of horseshoes for
the British army have been
ordered in America. London railway company
motor-cars now make ‘dollar’ trips, and the
railway stations are placarded in Yiddish. Good
old England!” “ Dagonet ” Sims, viciously , in
London Referee.
In consequence of the tariff on matches,
Bryant and May, Ltd., of London, have decided
to erect a large factory in Australia for the
manufacture of wax vestas, wooden matches and
other things. It is a curse this tariff, and will be
filling up Australia with people in no time unless
G. Reid does something to save the country.
The white-labor policy is killing the sugar
industry all right. Director Maxwell, of the
Government mill at Proserpine, advertises at
Bowen that he is very sorry, but the mill is work-
ing now at very nearly full capacity, wherefore
settlers are warned against planting more cane
till the mill capacity is increased.
Queensland shire councils and other local
bodies that haven’t got anything to do with the
matter are still responding to Tory wire-pulling
circulars, and passing resolutions deploring the
Federal Government’s financial proposals. About
the last to do it is the Balmoral shire, and this is
its record of fitness for the job of financial
critic : (1) It offered £52 per an-
num for a shire clerk,
and got one at the
price. (2) It
sold for £l,
on account
of overdue
rates, a
block of
land worth
£250. It was
sued, and cast
in damages and
costs to the ex-
tent of £BOO. The
remarks made by
the Judge about the
council blistered the
paint of the court-
house. (3) The
council conclud-
ed, in a spasm of
consciousness,
that itreally wasn’t
fit to go on running a
shire, and applied to the
Government to put in a receiver.
Minister Airey refused. When, there-
fore, Deakin and Lyne are informed of the in-
dignation of Queensland on the question of the
tariff and other matters, they can call to mind
Balmoral and its record, and smile.
The proposal in the Lyne tariff for a duty
of 3d. per gallon on kerosene coming to Australia
in packages of less than 10 gallons is a blow at
an infamous foreign Trust, which badly wants
hitting. For nearly 40 years the Standard Oil
Trust had a monopoly of the Australian oil
market, and it charged consumers just as much as
they could bear. No small portion of Rockefeller’s
colossal fortune has been wrung from the people
of Australia. Seven years ago a powerful com-
petitor made a bid here for a portion of the trade
in illuminating oils, importing in bulk and tinning
here. The Standard Oil monopoly has been
using every possible means since the advent of its
rival to oust it from Australia, chiefly the “ con-
ditional rebate ” system. This, to put it plainly,
is a boycott. Distributors have to make a
declaration that they neither buy nor sell any
other oil than Standard Trust’s. This is done
every three months by the wholesale distributors,
and every six months by the retailers. When the
declaration is signed the merchant is allowed a
rebate of Id. per gallon on all he has sold, and the
storekeeper per gallon, provided the exclusive
conditions are complied with. Since Standard
Oil comes here in tins, it will have a hard knock,
for a while at least.
PRACTICAL AUSTRALIAN PATRIOTS.
Upper table (left to right): Jeffrey Dennis (N.S.W.), Vice-President; J. M. Reid (S.A.),
President; C. A. Loney (N.S.W.), Treasurer.
Back row (left to right): Charles Anderson (N.S.W.); J. Jackson (N.S.W.); A. Milne
(N.S.W.); H. Sparks (N.S.W.); Charles Barnes (N.S.W.).
Second row (left to right): G. T. Clarke (N.S.W.), Secretary; F. Gunn (Tas); Octavius
Beale (N.S.W.); C. E. H. J. Ludowici (N.S.W.); J. G. Farleigh (N.S.W.); Dr. R.
R. Hardman (N.S.W.) ; A. Wunderlich (N.S.W.).
Third row (right to left): R. A. Pryor (Vic.); W. McNeilage (Vic.); Burns-Summing (S.A.).
Fourth (front) row (right to left): J. M. Joshua (Vic.) ; G. F. Cleland (S.A.).
The Jap goes on feeling his way in towards
Australia’s throat. “At the instance of the
Japanese Government,” the European captains of
the Monkey line are being superseded, and the
Yawata Maru has just arrived in Australia under
command of Captain K. Homma, who—signifi-
cant this ! —“saw a good deal of service as com-
mander of troopships during the Russo-Jap war.”
The S. M. Herald continues to wail that
the new tariff will simply ruin the mining in-
dustry. But while its mind was off the tariff for
a moment, the other day, it printed a “leader”
lamenting that Australian copper-producers
couldn’t work as cheaply as the Americans,
beca; e the latter have “ perfected their
machinery.” In fact, America “ can profitably
work ore that here would be quite useless under
existing arrangements.” Yet when somebody
proposes to alter the “existing arrangements ” by
bringing in those that prevail in America, the
Herald gets out its handkerchief, and sobs over
the wickedness of the idea.
The indications are that the long alliance
between Labor and Liberalism that has done
such good work in Maoriland is about to come
to an end. Exactly what is going to happen
is hard to say, but of late there has been
mutiny in the ranks of Ward’s followers,
and though the rebellious Liberals have
always responded to the crack of the party
whip, the Laborities have not. They talk of
forming a separate party under their own
leaders. Whether they will break away
from the Ministry during the life of the pre-
sent Parliament is doubtful, but if the pre-
sent spirit lasts Labor will fight the next
general election on its own platform of
straight-out Socialism. The few papers that
support the Government seem to be seriously
alarmed, and beg the Labor men, in an
alarmed voice, to “look at Australia.” If
Labor breaks away it is regarded as certain
that the real Government party will also
split, and that the gentlemen in favor of the
freehold will hie them over to Massey and
the ancient Conserservative Rump. Alto-
gether it is a weird situation, and greatly
depends upon the sort of leaders who arrive.
It is one of the positions that make an ideal
opportunity for the right man, and it is just
possible that the right man may throw up the
steady job of High Commissioner in London
and return to the fray.
“ In justification of the resolution against
an increased duty on imported cycles, on account
of the exceedingly low wages paid in the craft, ”
says a daily paper, “the President of the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall Council quoted some wages
paid.” In other words, because the owners don’t
pay good wages, the crew is going to knock a hole
in the bottom of the ship. The ship will sink
certainly—but so will the crew.
When John Williams was brought before
a Sydney police court, the other day, charged with
being a deserter from the flagship Pah’f’l, it was
stated that, just before the ship left for Colombo,
to exchange crews, no less than 200 seamen and
others deserted. What a whoop a live Australian
immigration and anti-Stinking Fish agent would
have made of that in England ! Two hundred
men, who had tasted Australia for themselves,
preferring to risk capture and gaol rather than
leave the country and return to England !
The Federal Government, which found
power to stop bookmakers’ letters this month,
might, with better advantage, turn its attention to
postal prohibition of some of the medical frauds—
for instance, the Yonkerman “Consumption
Cure,” fully exposed in The Lone Hand and
Bulletin, but still shamelessly advertised in the
daily papers.
A feature of N.S.W. Lands Department
these days is a label bearing the inscription in big
red letters, “ BINGARA ELECTORATE.” It
is alleged that when S. W. Moore became Lands
Minister he ordered about 11 gross of these
tickets, and they are attached to all papers re-
lating to land matters in his electorate. The
result is that Bingara matters go through with a
roar and a rush, and a fresh speed record is
made every day for matters relating to Bingara
Electorate.
AN UNHOLY ALLIANCE.
THE CHURCH: “ Don't touch him, my friend ,
lest you he defiled.”
IKET MO (bookmaker): “Help me, I defile every -
thing. Don't let him touch me.”
WHEN ABDUL HAD GONE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Afghan camel train has departed, and the air is
perceptibly sweeter.—Queensland weekly.
When Abdul had gone with his camel, the town had a
feeling that Peace,
Sweet Peace, had come down as a dovelet, and lent us a
gentle release.
The bandicoot played in the moonlight, the bun.yip came
out of his lair,
And drank in the absence of Camel, that swam in the
odorless air.
When Abdul had gone with his Camel, we all felt as sad
as we should,
We put on the raiment of Sorrow, and shed such a tear
as we could,
We watched how they faded in distance, a peerless and
wonderful pair,
Whose trail you could trace by a wafting of sundry mean-
ders of myrrh.
....
W cavorted in d B ' one ~ how tlle horses arose and
some put on antics as crazy as if they’d been fed on
The d, a rtand a hi, n gea'r? nd k " CW ' t ~ WiU “ Abdu1 ’ his
And the quadrupeds quadrupedanted, while we blew the
froth off our beer.
wv. ~ , 1 , ,
Wh i'!L ha<l B ? ne Wlth the odor Incarnafce tha t
w . t 1 10un > ... ... .
lurid butToun°d ye m a ’ W senfclmenfcs
Then night came along, minus camel, and folded us all to
her breast—
For the fragrance of Abdul had parted, and the soul of
the town was at rest 1
N.S.W.
BAKHLOX.


KM
o
a
VICTOR PIANOS are to be found throughout the
length and breadth of Australia*
No matter what the climate may be, we guarantee
them to give satisfaction.
They are grand wear resisters, and are specially
recommended where work is heavy, as they are fitted
with an extra pedal or a moderator stop acting as a
pedal for use during periods of practice —this adds years
to their life.
We sell them on easy payments.
VICTOR
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
Catalogue and Full
Particulars Post Free
0
a
W. H. PALING & CO. Ltd.,
338 <S€OR<S€ STR€€T,
sypNey.
BRISBANE ♦.
and
NEWCASTLE
• •
• •
WEAR
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. 10 mt
ALL SIZCS and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
STAG'S
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
Makes you look manly
Before
After
1
Take a Little CAPILLARINE
on the Tip of Your Finger
and rub it firmly on the lip about three minutes each day—then
watch the hair come along.
CAPILLARINE is easy to apply—absolutely certain in its
action. For 20 years it has been doing its good work—for 20
years it has given satisfaction to many thousands of grateful users.
POST FREE ANYWHERE FOR 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sr he
|r all c
Bole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
THE ACOORDEON for Country Residents.
<2
&
r
<fj
ii
o
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 3 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musloal Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from "The
illetin ** Office
Btil


CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Intestinal Worms Eradicated by Comstock’s
Worm Pellets.
Many a mother is puzzled why her child is so
fretful and cannot be pacified. The bowels may
be regular, but more frequently are alternately
constipated and very relaxed. Invariably the
cause is due to intestinal worms, which irritate
the bowels and set up a slight inflammation.
Ordinary laxatives do not remove all the worms,
and consequently the irritation is not abated.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
safe and reliable remedy for children and adults.
Full directions on every box. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores, or will be forwarded on
receipt of price. Is. 6d. (6 boxes Bs.). The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES .
V/3st Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The most significant feature of the Poseidon-
Apologue business was the deadly silence of the Melbourne
daily papers what time race-goers were looking for perti-
nent comments on the Caulfield Cup running of the two
stable companions. The horse-reporters spoke of the
result as being a cause for general rejoicing, and in one
case the public w'ere told that Poseidon, under any cir-
cumstances, would doubtless have won, because he was
“ holding ” Apologue in the last 100 yards, a statement
utterly at variance with the facts of the case as they
appeared to the public eye. Twoorthree days later came
the admission that the owner of Apologue was dissatis-
fied with the performance of his horse, and that the
stewards of the V.A.T.C. had invited him to ask for an
inquiry, said invitation being saddled with an official
remark to the effect that they had seen nothing to excite
suspicion. From which anyone was at liberty to assume
that the stewards, like the daily paper reporters, had
backed Poseidon, had watched his excellent performance
in the race, and were happy and contented.
The fact of Apologue being in the same stable
as Poseidon accounts for a public misunderstanding of
the position as regards the backing of the horses for the
Cups. The two interests were supposed to be leagued,
whereas the Apologue party, it seems, are only of the
“ stable ” and not in it. The Poseidon party are the
“stable,” and the big money secured from the books—
straight out and in doubles—was for them. This ex-
plains why the owner (or owners) of Apologue, looking
for at least one good bet on the Caulfield Cup, and not
having any share in the “’stable double” wagers, negoti-
ated with the Buckley and Nqnn employees who drew
Apologue in Tatt.’s Sweep. The inducement which the
workroom employees offered was 20 hundreds to 1 (not
30, as was stated in last Bulletin), and the taker lost
£lOO by the deal.
The two Poseidons have been backed, of course,
as well as the Poseidon-Apologue double, but if the Ring
speaks truly, the latter animal would be by far the bigger
winner for the “ stable ” in the Melbourne Cup. Such
being the case (presumably) it would seem certain that
the Apologue party will be accommodated with a share
in the wagers which were secured at long odds. But this
is not to say that the Poseidonites, pure and simple,
would sooner win with Apologue than with the
gallant gee who cleared the board last year.
In short, the Apologue-Poseidon connection is
very different to the Revenue-Wakeful connection
of six years ago. When Revenue started at 6 to 4
and won the Melbourne Cup, the horse was in the same
ownership as the mare, and the latter would not have
been started against her stable-companion, the “dead
bird,” but for sentimental reasons. The public had
backed her, and the owners gave the public a run for
their money, although she had no chance against the
lighter-weighted Revenue on private trials. Nor was she
in anything like her best form at the time. Now, the
two good horses in Earnshaw’s stable are both in their
best form—at time of writing—and the question as to
which of them will win is seemingly a disputed one in the
best-informed circle.
Leaving the relative merits of Apologue and
Poseidon out of the question for a moment, there are about
a dozen with some pretensions to have a look in for the
Melbourne Cup. Tartan, Tulkeroo, Melodrama, Mool-
tan, Dyed Garments, Myra, Spinaway, Lady Rylston, and
Bendigo among the older ones, and Mountain King,
Master Foote, and Welcome Trist among the
youngsters are most conspicuous. The writer has
a ' notion that a 3-year-old will not be very
dangerous this year, unless Welcome Trist should
just miss the Derby, and save the penalty that victory
entails. Handicapped at 6st. 71b. for the Cup, the penalty
for a Derby win would be 131 b. for Welcome Trist, and
91b. for Master Foote, whereas Mountain King is already
fixed at the regulation 7st. 61b. The King’s chance of
winning Derby and Cup is rosy enough if he is as strong
in wind as in limb, but the staying power of the big colt
has yet to be tested in a fast-run Derby. Given a fast
race next Saturday, it is on the cards that Welcome
Trist will beat both the favorite and Master Foote, the
speedy colt that got away with the Caulfield Guineas. At
any rate the King is not a very tempting investment
at even money for the blue-ribbon race. He may win
handsomely and come to a short price for the Cup. But
he has yet to do it. And the large, listening ear of Moses the
metallician will be outstretched to catch any suggestion
of the “ noise ” which the son of Wallace and Bonnie
Rosette has been accused of making in his gallops. Does
he make a-noise or did the Randwick touts dream it ?
If the consistent, up-to-date Poseidon (lOst.
31b.) cannot give 81b. to the aged Tartan, the
followers of “ form ” will be surprised. When we
come to Melodrama (Bst. 81b.) and Mooltan (7st.
111 b.) we arrive at the question—“ What chance
have they of beating Apologue at the weights?” On
their latest performances the Maorilander holds them safe
up to I.]- mile, nor is there reason to suppose that he
isn’t just as capable as they of going two miles. None of
them is a proved stayer. Dyed Garments and Myra
are certain to get the distance, but their performances
are not quite good enough to make them tempting
chances. The handicapper has given them all the weight
they deserved—and a little more. Spinaway, an Adelaide
Cup winner, and trained by a man who understands his
business, may be noted as a possible surprise, yet not so
possible as Bendigo. Excuses have been given for
Bendigo’s poor running in the Caulfield Cup, and it is
certain that the big fellow suffered considerably from
interference. He trembled a lot after the race, and was
more distressed in mind, perhaps, than in body. But
interference is one of the ills that Australian racehorses
are heir to. They have to battle for themselves a bit in
a race around the Melbourne Cup course. It is in this
capacity for battling, for making his own way through a
crowd, and keeping his legs and his pluck amidst a sea of
troubles, that Poseidon shines.
One hears people say that Poseidon would need
to be “asgood as Carbine” to win Melbourne Cup with
lOst. 31b. up. The popular assertion is subject to a heavy
discount. Carbine carried lOst. 51b. and won by four
lengths. The son of Positano starts with an advantage
of 21b. on the comparison, and it is open to him to
win by a nose instead of four lengths. All going well, he
will be fitter next Tuesday than he was on Caulfield Cup
day, when he proved himself 2st. 81b. and alength-and-a-
half better than Welcome Trist. There is no doubt of
his being equal to the long journey. After he has won
the Melbourne Stakes on Saturday—as he probably will
do —Poseidon will look mighty dangerous for the Cup
notwithstanding his weight.
The champion’s weight doesn’t appear too
crushing until he is matched (on paper) against his stable
companion Apologue. Since he came to this country
from Maoriland the big horse has never failed to shape
respectably, and he has been improving all the time.
Seven weeks ago Apologue made his Australian d6hut in
the Spring Stakes (Sydney Tatts.) at Randwick. Start-
ing at 10 to 1, he ran a good third to the hot favorite
Mooltan, who had 161 b. the better of the weights. Then,
on Sydney Derby day, he followed Poseidon, and
finished two lengths ahead of Tartan in the Spring Stakes
of 1J mile—a fast-run w.f.a. race. Three days later he
gave 221 b. to his old opponent Mooltan in the Metro-
politan, and ran him so close that many people thought
the judge made a mistake in hoisting Mooltan’s number.
The improving battler came to Caulfield and won
the Coongy Handicap (11 furlongs), with 9st. 61b up.
Then came his unsatisfactory defeat in the Caulfield Cup,
where a long belated rush from the ruck brought him
within a length of Poseidon at the finish. Apologue,
with Coffey on his back (on two occasions), came along
gamely at the business end of the journey, the same as
when Clayton rode him. His running in Australia has
always suggested stamina, and has consistently belied the
character which the “ stable ” gives him—that of a “plod-
der,” and one “likely to get into trouble ” in a crowded
field. Given the assurance that the burly Maorilander
was a genuine stayer, one could confidently call him a
certainty—as racing “ certs ” go for the Melbourne Cup.
But inasmuch as the records show that his best W'ork,
hitherto, has been in lj-mile races, and that he was beaten
out of a place in last Auckland Cup, which was the only two
mile race he has attempted, there is still a doubt as to his
stamina—the same doubt that applies to Mooltan, Melo-
drama, and sundry other candidates of lesser pretentions.
Therefore, this scribe recommends hopeful punters to
divide their main hope between the two stable com-
panions at their respective prices, and back
Poseidon and Apologue.
Also Dyed Garments for a place.
-**«•*
The Balmain sweep promoter still goes on his
profitable way, and his business spreads across the southern
and eastern suburbs. Also, quite a number of other
sweeps have sprung into existence, mostly named after
prominent horses. Up to date writer has struck the
Mooltan, the Poseidon, the Apologue, and Bandicoot
sweeps. The collecting is mostly carried on at private
houses, by grocers’carters and other tradesmen. In the
original Balmain sweep the Caulfield Cup had 19,130
subscribers at one shilling each, and no less than
40,000 tickets have been taken on the Melbourne
Cup, w'hich closed last Monday. Just think of the trust-
fulness of the gambler—£2ooo voluntarily given up to the
care of an individual whose name and whereabouts are
quite unknown to 999 in a thousand of the subscribers.
It’s bewildering.
* * * *
Crick’s Collarit has dropped out of all his
V.R.C. engagements, and followers of racing deplore the
bad luck of an undoubtedly good nag.
Almost every night now some ladies’ swimming
club is holding an annual meeting, or opening its season,
or something of that sort. It is pleasant to have to
record that they are all doing well, and all so far have
managed to carry a balance forward, although in some
cases it is a very little one indeed. The movement is
spreading, and what between lawn tennis and the swim-
ming clubs the rising generation of Sydney girls promise
to be about the most healthy and lovely females in the
world. When the surf-bathing girl and the laum-tennis
girl begin to give sons to Australia, the world records in
every line of athletics will come tumbling in ruins.
Lovers of cheap entertainment can get plenty
of excitement at Manly just now. The Surf Club and the
Council are holding a series of meetings, in which the
members of both bodies tell the truth about the other.
Last Saturday saw a cheerful upheaval, in which Dan’l
O’Connor figured ; and the old men of the place felt sud-
denly younger at the sight of that brilliant, admirer of
the ancient “Grakes.” They gave him an ovation, but
carefully" guarded against him speaking. The meeting
came to a sudden end when the news spread through the
hall that Alderman Quirk was giving the Surf Club beans
from a balcony opposite. When the last boat left, some-
thing like a dozen different orators were addressing a
cynical and ribald crowd simultaneously. Altogether, it
u'as a great night, and left the question of whether the
Club or the Council should control surf-bathing exactly
where it was in the beginning.
* » * »
Last Sunday saw a number of narrow escapes
and gallant rescues at Sydney surf-bathing resorts. In
several cases the men who first went in to save life be-
came exhausted, and had to be rescued themselves. An
important question crops up hereabouts. Is it right for,
say, a married man, with several young children de-
pendent on him and totally unprovided for, to plunge
into dangerous water to rescue some fool who has de-
liberately wandered or paddled into a death-trap? The
Bulletin says most emphatically it is not. His first duty
is to the wife and kiddies who have not tempted Provi-
dence. A halo of transient glory gilds the memory of a man
who dies striving to save another life, but, unfortunately,
it does not pay the rent or provide proper food and
clothing for his widow and babies. There was a case at
Manly where a brave gentleman went in to save the
life of a woman. He was drowned, but the woman was
saved, and when it came to providing for his widow'and
children, a paltry £9O or so. was collected. People who
go down to the sea in the surf-bathing costume take their
lives in their hands, and they have no right to expect
other people to risk death in order to save the life of the
original gambler.
• * * »
W. Cutler’s rifle-shooting win in the King’s,
following on Addison’s at Bisley (both against the crack
shots of the Empire), demonstrates again the marvellous
physical qualities of Australians. With less than the
population of London, the Commonwealth has supplied,
in recent years, the world’s champion sculler, the world’s
first bat (V. Trumper), and best all-round cricketer (M. A.
Noble). F. S. Kelly, “ the most perfect Diamond-sculls
winner ever seen at Henley,” is an Australian. There is
a crowd of swimmers in N.S.W. alone better than the
best abroad, Mclntosh, the world’s deadliest pigeon-
murderer (and, awful as this occupation is, it requires
extraordinary precision, undoubtedly, to kill from the
mark Mclntosh is handicapped at), is a Sydneyite. Our
tennis and billiard players can hold their ends up : Melba,
J. Neild, and a few others, indicate that the local larynx
is in good order. Has there ever in history, one wonders,
been a country with a like population producing the
same number of marvels ?
« * * •
The most accurate rifle-shooting at Randwick,
last week, was by G. Kefford, of St. Arnaud (Vic.), who,
in the final of the “ Sydney,” tied with A. J. Raven
(Great Britain), by scoring 10 bull’s-eyes at 800yds. In
the shoot-off, the Australian lost the Briton, and
scored six bulls and an inner in seven shots. In all,
Kefford scored 16 bulls and an inner in 17 shots—B4 out
of a possible 85. Kefford originally came from Bathurst
(N.S.YV.), from which town came A. Cutler, E. G. Webb,
and other big winners at the rifle meeting.
* * ■* *
A feature of Sydney cricket on Saturday last
was the outbreak of Victor Trumper, who smacked 89 in
35 minutes, all told. Carried away with the intoxication
of smite, he banged one over for two fours and four sixes,
and made 50 runs in 9i minutes. Although this dancing-
Dervish style of play is good for the gate, and pleasant to
the onlooker, it is not nearly so useful to the side as the
steady, reliable work of Payne for Central Cumberland.
The previous Saturday saw him not out with 40
to his credit. He star ed slowly, and, playing
carefully, plodded stei di y along to the cen-
tury, where he opened out and added 72 in 45
minutes. Of the 399 runs made by his side Payne made
172, his score including six sixes and 18 fours. It was a
remarkable match. Sydney had made 201 in its first
innings, and Central Cumberland stood in and painted
399 on the board for the loss of four wickets only. Other
good scores were White’s 75 for North Sydney against
University, Iredale’s 87 for Gordon against Balmain, and
H. Cranney’s carrying of his bat for 83 for Central
Cumberland. Lillyman, of North Sydney, also did
reliable work, and left 72 behind him when Allan and
Lane butchered him.
* * * *
Noble headed the list of bowlers with seven
wickets for 37 runs, which had a lot to do with Waverley’s
miserable showing against Paddington, when the former
club was beaten by 110 runs on the first innings. Bowden,
of Balmain, smashed up six Gordon wickets for 54 runs.
Carty backed up Noble by taking two for 17. The end of
the struggle found North Sydney still in the van with
seven competition points, and the second place occupied
by Central Cumberland with four, Paddington third with
(appropriately enough) three points, and Gordon and
Middle Harbor dead level with two each. So far North
Sydney, Central Cumberland and Paddington have not
lost a match, while Gordon has been debited with only a
first innings defeat.
* • * *
With the cobwebs of a long sea-trip still thick
upon them, the Marylebone C.O. team attacked Westralia
on Saturday last. The Perth press stated that the players
did not impress spectators much with their form, but the
solemn fact that they scored 350 for a loss of seven
wickets would indicate that the ’Gropers were in a hyper-
critical frame of mind.
* * ■* *
Adelaide (S.A.) cricket provided some good
scoring by inter-State reps, in grade matches on Satur-
day. Gehrs (possible wicket-keeper in the Australian
team) put together 181; Dolling (the sensational school-
boy a couple of seasons ago) scored 156; and Jennings
(ex-inter-State player) made 106. Waters (a candidate
for big honors) was the other centurion, and impressed
by a score of 104. The chief trouble with cricket nowa-
days is a sacrifice of bowling at the “ century ” shrine ;
and, unless encouragement is extended to nevv bowlers,
cricket will become a game of batting endurance—also
spectators’ endurance. , ... .
* * * *
Sydney Grammar School cricketer E. P. Bar-
bour is in fine all-round form. Against University, he
scored 104 (out of a total of 206 for four wickets), and
gathered in five wickets for 34 runs ; then, against Rydal-
mere, he compiled 122 retired (in a score of 296 for
seven wickets), and took five wickets for 37 runs. Bar-
bour is the most promising boy at present playing schools
cricket; and is more than likely to be heard of in N.S.W,
big cricket in the future.
* * * *
“ Tom ” Horan (“ Felix,” of the Australasian)
was a mighty Victorian cricketer in the years ago ; and
his sons are at present keeping the name bright. Young
“ Tom ” Horan scored 121 not out a couple of weeks ago
in Vic. premiership cricket; now brother James Horan
comes along with a well put together 152. Both players
will possibly find places in the Victorian State XI.
*•«■•**
Oliver H. Brook, the N.S.W. cyclist, created a
mild sensation last week by announcing that he had got
religion, and was abandoning the sordid earthly tracks
to enter for the Heavenly Handicap, and would hook on
to the Wheel of Eternal Life. The lingering remnants of
the Old Adam prompted Brook to announce the fact
through the press. Brook caught religion just before
arriving at Port Said, and there is no better time to catch
religion than when Port Said is in sight. Incidentally,
Brook stated that professional sport is no good to any-
one. Which is a solemn fact. Miss Ada Ward’s example
seems to have prompted many professionals to seek a
Higher Life as paying better than the show 7 business.
* * * *
The latest cyclingiion is W. Welsh, of England.
Riding from Land’s End to John o’Groat’s Cape (these
two promontories form the north and south extremities
of Britain), he broke the record for that particular ride,
and also the world’s record for 1000 miles. As the
distance is 867 miles, Welsh had to take a roundabout
course to make up the 1000 miles, and reduced the time
for that distance by about 80mins. His time was 4 days
7 hours 40 minutes 38 seconds.
* ♦ * *
The Speedwell Fifty Miles Road Race, the
annual affair promoted by the Sydney firm of Bennett and
Wood, was punctuated by another tin-tack outrage. The
course w»as a triangular one from Parramatta to Windsor,
thence to Kingswood and back to Parramatta. On the
return journey the wheelers ran into a perfect carpet of
tin tacks, which were quite invisible in the heavy dust
that was thick along the route. (The road is also dotted
over with holes and fissures, which being filled with dust
are quite invisible, till the rider has crashed into them
and experienced the injuries that killed William of Nor-
mandy.) This tack business will have to be grappled
with. If there is any efficacy in prayer, something par-
ticularly sudden and horrible will fall on the perpetrator
of .Saturday’s outrage. But that is not enough. The sooner
the tin-tack scatterer is made to understand that what
he considers a good joke is really endangering the life and
limb of every cyclist, and also his own liberty, if not neck,
the better for everybody. When a man is rushing along
at 20 miles an hour a sudden puncture is liable to cause
fatal injuries.
The entry was a record one for the event, the
number being 168, of whom 119 faced the starter.
Everything went well till the tacks were met with,
and then the ring of steel and the oaths of cyclists
split the welkin. Of those that struggled through, scratch
man F. R. Ray (wbo ran through in 2hr. 34min. 39sec.)
finished first, followed by D. Kirk and E. Sievin, in that
order.
**- ■ * *
The international balloon race that started from
St. Louis was won by a German aerostat, with another
of the same nationality second. The winner finished 25
miles ahead of the second gasbag, and covered 880 miles
of country altogether.
* * * *
Secretary Holdsworth, of the Motor Boat Club
of N.S.W., is not receiving much encouragement for his
Australasian Championship idea. Auckland (Maoriland),
which was expected to rush the idea, did not even reply
to the letter; while the Victorian Launch Club wrote
wishing him all sorts of luck, and regretting that there
were no speed boats in Port Phillip capable of taking
part in the contest. The only support came from Bris-
bane, the Royal Queensland Yacht Club stating that it
would like further details); and if time allowed would
build a boat to represent Bananaland.
Sydney Sailing Club’s race on Saturday was a
humorous circumstance. Sixteen started, and, after a
more or less exciting struggle, in which places were
changed frequently, all but two boats were suddenly
becalmed under the lee of Clark Island, and just lay help-
less as “ painted ships upon a painted ocean.” The excep-
tions were Scot and Mona, and Scot romped home an
easy winner by lmin. 38sec. from Mona, which beat the
third boat, Eileen, by over 6min.
* * * *
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s openihg
of the season took the usual form on Saturday last. The
yachts rendezvoused off Carabella Yacht House, dressed
ship, and then crewswent ashore andswam in champagne
and held races over the flowery fields of metaphor. There
were some evolutions on the water, but thev Were not
taken seriously ; the important business of the' afternoon
was the waving of frills, and they were waved with due
magnificence.
* * * *
Melbourne Amateur Regatta occupied its usual
share of the Yarra, between the Monier and Prince’s
bridges, on Saturday last, from 1 p.m. till the drunk
tumbled ’ome with a crayfish, A more thah usually large
brigade invaded the glorified mud barges. From a cake
and millinery point of view the show was a success, but
regarding the athletic end of the stick—Henley-on-the-
Yarra is never any great shakes. It’s too early itl the
season, and crews are not Up to true form, For instance,
in trial spins during the week maiden and junior crews
were settling senior men. Except for the maiden eights
and fours, entries were poor, and two half-hour intervals
were included to bump out the show. As Usual, the
heats provided better racing than the finals, the
fourth heat of the maiden eights being the go
of the day, Banks settling Essendon by 3 feet.
In the second round Banks succumbed to Mercs by 4ft., in
smin. 48 sec. ’Varsity won the final in smin. 46sec. from
Mercs by a good length. Nagambie, a tough couhtry
crew, simply paddled ’ome in the Senior Fours. The
Grand Challenge went to Mercs, with champion sculler
Ivens stroke. Jim Donald took Park to the front early,
but couldn’t stay. Mercs got there by a clear length, in
6min. 43sec.
* * * *
The effect on N.S.W. Soccer football of the
Gardiner Cup passing from Sydney to the country club
(Broadmeadow) is already noticeable. Several country
centres are considering the advisability of forming clubs.
Moreover, the State-aided immigration is bringing large
numbers of Soccer players to the State, and if the Asso-
ciation could only get good grounds in Sydney the
game would boom in both city and urban dis-
tricts. With the sale of the Epping ground to
the Metropolitan Rugby Union, the Soccer players
have lost their main settling ground. There is plenty of
room in Sydney for all three forms of football, and it is a
pity that some arrangement could not be come to with
the Rugby people, who have options over all the best
grounds, to allow the early matches to be played by
Soccer teams. Soccer has a considerable following in
Sydney, and Rugby would not lose by it, as Soccer
patrons would contie to see their own game played and
stay on to get an idea of exactly what sort of an animal
Rugby is.
* * * *
Being impresario to the pugilistic profession
has its disadvantages, and Jack Wren has struck a few of
them. The latest left him nursing an eye like a large
ripe magnum-bonum plum. At one of the important
scraps in the Pavilion two lads were put on to box a pre-
liminary. They put up a hilarious fake, in which, after a
little casual brushing off of flies, one lad lay down, and
gasped, with a weird simulation of dying moments. The
referee, in a lucid interval, said “No fight!” and the money
was supposed to have gone to the needy and afflicted. Next
day the pug who remained standing called at the office
of the bash impresario, and demanded his money. He
said if he did not get the winning end he would batter
the management and wreck the building. He was taken
up by crowds, and bumped down stairs, but he waited
till John Wren was going to lunch, and swung a left on
to the gifted management, setting up the striking dis-
figurement above mentioned. Furthermore, the pug
said he owed John four more just like it, but as Wren had
not eyes enough to take delivery in full he would be
handed one at a time. Wren is going out of the boxing
business; he says it is bad for the eyesight.
* * * *
The family name of Griffiths, of March, near
Orange (N.S.W.), appears to have a grip on the record for
the number of cyclists it possesses. Last week, the
country club affiliated with the N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men, and, of the 20 members, nine were sprigs of the
Griffiths family.
* * * *
The Rev. W. I. Carr-Smith, who has espoused
the cause of the trapped pigeon, the coursed hare, and
other victims of decadent “ sports,” should be able to get
some good work in at St. James’s, his headquarters, as
some of the prominent dove-slayers and hare-murderers
take their spiritual snacks from that establishment.
* * •* *
The Commonwealth Government has placed
£9600 on the Estimates for the building of eight motor
cars, to be utilised in conveying mails from the metro-
politan post offices to the railway stations. Melbourne
and Sydney are to have two each, and each of the other
capitals one. If possible, the cars are to be built in Aus-
tralia, and the suggestion has raised the usual howl that
it is quite impossible. Probably had it been boats instead
of cars, the same silly yell would have been raised. Cap-
tain Tarrant, of Melbourne, built a car and engine in Aus-
tralia that held its end of the stick up very well in the
big Dunlop Reliability Test two years ago, and, presum-
ably, he could build the cars required by the Common-
wealth Government.
*■ * * *
There is growing up a strong suspicion that surf-
bathing, like motor-driving, produces a recklessness
approaching insanity. Once a person acquires the habit
of surf-bathing the sense of danger begins to diminish.
During these recent moonlit nights Manly Beach has
been crowded, and numbers of most indifferent swimmers
were seen vigorously paddling oceanwards to where
undertow and sharks pointed the way to the Pearly
Gates. Almost every day there are cases of exhausted
and immature swimmers being assisted ashore, and on
the beaches where the surf-bather raves and rages the
sight of a knot of people is always taken as an indication
that someone has been fished out.
BACK AN ’ORSE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, our Bill is independent—’e’s as plucky as they’re made
(Tho’ ’e don’t go out to work like you and me'!)
’E’s th’ sorter bloke yer read about —’e never is afraid,
An’ w’enever ’e ’as money, spends it free.
I ain’t never seen ’im cornered since I’ve knew ’im—that’s
a fact —■’
An’ I’ve met ’im ev’rywhere. Out on th’ course,
If ’is luck’s been pretty rotten, well, ’e knows th’ way t’
act—
’E just borrers 'arf-a-quid an’ backs an 'orse !
Now, it takes a lot o’ schemin’ when yer puntin’ f’r a
crust
(Any fool can bet with wages coinin’ in !)
When 3 7 er ’aven’t struck a winner and yer absolutely bust,
Well, that’s when yer blessed ’ead begins t’ spin.
F’r yer must keep goin’ some ’ow, tho’ yer know yer luck
is out,
An’ yer can’t afford t’ go an’ make a loss.
Now, take Bill! ’E doesn’t worry, an’ ’e doesn’t run
about !
’E just borrers ’arf-a-quid an’ backs an ’orse.
Bill, ’e’s got a wife and kiddie, an’ ’e keeps ’em jolly well
On ’is winnin’s (yes, ’e strikes it now an’ then !).
If ’e ’as an extra-special day, ’e gives th’ game a spell,
An’ when cash is gettin’ scarce ’e comes again.
But, no matter ’ow ’e’s doin’, ’e won’t never take on
graft!
Work’s a’ argument in which ’e sees no force.
W’y, I’ve seen ’im twice dead-stony, an’ th’ beggar only
larfed !
Larfed I —an’ borrered ’arf-a-quid an’ backed an 'orse !
Now, I reckon Bill’s an ’ero, f’r there’s lots o’ blokes with
cash—
Them as thinks th’ punter ain’t a man at all —
As would never dream o’ riskin’ it, they’d say as it was
“ rash,”
An’ “It mightn’t get ’ome first! ” or “It might fall 1 ’
But ole Bill ’e never funks it, s’long as ’e can get it on.
That’s th’ main thing—never mind th’ bloomin’ source !’
So sit tight, an’ don’t start squealin’ when th’ blessed
money’s gone !
Only— borrer ’arf-a-quid an’ back th’ ’orse !
VICTORIA.
KODAK.


Hill.
As a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill”—the
Badie Two=Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them all
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits”—it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill—a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
ana have this built of
EHDIE FITTINGS
[Ask your Dealer..]
D. T. RENNIE, representing Birming-
ham Small Arms Co., Ltd., i Stock Ex-
change Buildings, Collins St.,Melbourne
Works : REDDITCH, ENGLAND.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says :—“ The prince of living
Astrologers. ”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R-* HERSCHELL (of London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Pill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name....
Address
Date of Birth
Amusements.
T H E AT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
• Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
T. C. Williamson presents the Delightful Comedy,
in four acts, by Winchell Smith and Byron Ongley,
adapted from George Barr MeCutcheon’s Novel,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted by J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
On SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 2,
Jr. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY (CO.
(to the advent of which theatregoers ane looking
forward with pleasurable anticipations)
will make its dbbmt in Sydney in a New Musical-Comedy,
entitled
THE BLUE MOON.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CITY, BONDI.
The Giant of Australian Amusement Enterprise.
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY DAY AND EVERY NIGHT,
FREE CIRCUS.
Aerial, Arenic, Gymnastic Creations, Horse and
Tumbling Acts.
THE RIVERS OF THE WORLD. THE FLYING
MACHINE.
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
PLEASANT SUNDAY AFTERNOONS.
FIFTY The World’s Greatest Novelties FIFTY
Adults, fid. ADMISSION Children, 3d.
fIV O L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists—
SEELEY AND WEST,
the Popular and Talented Comedy Musicians.
Cyclonic and Whirlwind Dancers.
MDLLP. RHODESIA, the. Society Lady Juggler.
MR. EDWARD CRANSTON and Company
„ in “ Nailed to the mast.”
Nellie kilburn. lottie kay. fred bluett.
OPE0 PER * HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES—Grand Prix Motor Race.
FIVE WHITELEVS, .Acrobats, Wire Walkers.
LA SYLPIIE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS.
Plan at Allan’s. iKT PRICES—3s, 2s (id, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
ARITEBION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
FOR A LIMITED. SEASON.
THE MYSTIFYING DETECTIVE STORY,
the female swindler.
B.y WALTER MELVILLE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
TOURING VICTORIA,
THE MUSICAL
ALL B LACK S
AND THEIR
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES.
L|ER IVIAJESTY'S THSATR2, MEL3OURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. ,1. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
[y|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 2,
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn's New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
TIIE midnight wedding.
HALL, MELBOURNE,
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 2,
The Great Australian Story,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Illustrated by the Latest and Most
Up-to-date Biograph.
lU|EW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the direction of Charles Holloway'.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Reigning Racing Carnival Attraction.
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
in the Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE ROGUES OF THE TURF.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH,
—IN THE—
WORLD’S GREATEST CIRCUS BUILDING,
“ OLYMPIA.”
Cool, Fresh, and Comfortable. The Most Pleasant
Play House in Australasia. SIX WEEKS’ SEASON.
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME & MENAGERIE.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tf you want
long, thick
hair, hair
that is really
beautiful,
you must
nourish the
source from which it grows.
Your scalp must have attention.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the flesh tissues of the
scalp with good hair-growing
energy. That’s its special mis-
sion. It makes strong, healthy
scalps, and strong, healthy scalps
grow strong, healthy hair. Be
sure you get Barry’s.
Renter’s Soap Cures Eczema
2
[
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat^
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “MONTSERRAT
KUGELMANN\S
6S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-I6 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
DUHLOP
CARDEN
HOSE.
%
&
4
a
6
No. I —Section 1-in. Dunlop Hose,
No. 2 —Section it-in. Dunlop Hose.
No. 3 —Section f-in. Dunlop Hose.
No. 4— Section Dunlop Armored Hose.
No. s—Section f-in. Dunlop Cotton Hose.
No. 6—Section J-in. Dunlop Cotton Hose.
When purchasing Hose think of these facts:
DUNLOP HOSE is unsurpassed for Strength, Durability and Workmanship, and
is equal to any Hose in the world. It is made by Australians, with Australian capital.
It is warranted fresh and free from perish, which means increased life and less cost.
L ls buying 1 on its merits— apart from the fact that, by purchasing
Dunlop Hose, you support an Australian Industry that employs 800 hands. By
purchasing our Hose you keep your money in this country —which is to your own
benefit indirectly.— Specify “Dunlop” Brand.
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES. Any difficulty in obtaining “ Dunlop ” Hose, kindly drop us a Post Card.
Sample Posted on Application.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO., OF AUS., Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch (N.Z.).
One Ted Storey to Sydney Herald :—
ea d has already advanced, and I have it on the best
,'uthonty that if the proposed legislation is passed our
breakfast foods will at once be increased in price.
And the Herald, though it ought to know,
uoesn t tell Ted Storey that bread is “up” all
over the world—not as a result of the Lyne tariff,
'>ut owing to a shortage of 100,000,000 bushels in
i 6 w^eat supply. In Freetrade England
ri vl ' as gone from to 6d., with a
ukelihood of yet touching 6id. And there’s no
tariff there.
Q. Premier Kidston says that the need of
supplying Queensland with reliable and impartial
ie\ys is becoming so urgent that he has been
seriously considering the matter of asking Parlia-
ment to approve of the establishment of a daily
Cxovernment newspaper. The function of the
paper would be to report news and to publish
opinions only as signed articles. The bitter un-
fairness and lack of patriotism of the daily press,
is bringing the socialistic paper nearer.
Urquharfc, Treasurer of Tasmania, bedewed
one part of his Budget speech with tears. It was
because of the new duty on stationery. Still, he
had hopes that “the action of the Premier of
N. S. Wales” would result in the State getting
pens and things in free, “and thus remove the
disability under which the Government Printer
labors.” It is a tremendous grievance before it is
boiled down—it might make as much as
difference to the estimate for the Government
Printer’s office—but when it is boiled down it
doesn t amount to even a grease-spot. Last year
the Commonwealth paid Tasmania £10,209 more
than the statutory three-fourths of the Customs
revenue ; and, even if the Commonwealth collects
Hid. more from Tasmania as duty on pens, it
won t add anything to the Commonwealth ex-
penditure, wherefore there will be another llid.
to refund to Tasmania.
Freetrade is getting some hard knocks in
practice in England, where it is still worshipped
in theory. It has been found that the removal
of the export duty on coal has actually made the
black stuff that you put in the grate dearer in
Britain. When the duty was first imposed to
help keep the coal in the country, Cohdenism
shrieked, and pictured the miserable poor dying
of cold. But coal actually fell in price in
England. Now the duty comes off, and the un-
patriotic coal-owner, who has open to him again
the foreign market, takes advantage of Freetrade
to raise his local prices.
Sydney Mayor Hughes said a sensible
thing when he pleaded, the other day, for a
Federal Capital away from the big cities and from
the influence of the daily papers. No Australian
Government can get quite into the proper atmo-
sphere for its duties in a provincial capital fevered
by a bitter provincial press.


YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS IS ALL WE NEED
I UUII linm*- _ chnws all the latest
to mail you a copy of our Illustrated
f«,“ » L°?f“ » vT. r i«d*lydnay p«roo.ily. All dood. dolivor.d oarri» S .
Free to any address.
OPEN
FACE,
8/6
OPEN
FACE,
A. SAUNDERS.
ILadies’ Black- Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8!&-
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Nurses’ Lever, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
l'set Gold* set rubies,
pearls, and turquoise, or
all pearls, £3/10-
Rubies, olivines, and'
pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold %-Hoop RING’,,
diamonds and rubies
or sapphires,
£3/10/-
Five diamonds, £5-
A. SAUNDERS:
15ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH;,
set opals and diamonds,
£2/ iO/.
Larger size, £3/10/*
POCKET-BOOK, Morocco
leather, silk-lined, pure sil-
ver mounts and lock, 10/ii-
With shield, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
SOLID
SILVER,
2/-/-
SOLID
GOLD,
6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, fully jewelled, £J£.
£2/10, £3, £3/10, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold-cased, £4/4, £5/5, £6/6.
Solid Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O,
£5O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bee BROOCH,
Bet opals and amethyst,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Shamrock Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £2/5/*
A. SAUNDERS.
lBct Gold, set pure double-
cut diamonds and opals*
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pearls and
amethyst. £JS/ 10/.
Tourmalins and pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold ’Xmas Bell
CHARM, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamond,
Rubies or Sapphires
30/.
and
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set
pearls and rubies or sap-
phires, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS,
12/6-
15ct Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set pure white pearls, olivine, and
rubies, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BRACELET, set diamond and rubies or
sapphires, £4/ 10-
All Diamonds, £5/10/-
EIGHT - HOUR.
ART UNION.
Ist PRIZE,
DIAMOND TIARA, VALUE £5OO.
2nd PRIZE,
DIAMOND NECKLACE, VALUE £lOO.
NOW ON VIEW IN OUR SILVERPLATE WINDOW.
TICKETS
11=
EACH,
OBTAINABLE FROM
A. SAUNDERS,
OR SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
AS THE MANUFACTURER
AND DESIGNER OF THE FIRST AND SECOND
PRIZES, WE GUARANTEE EACH TO BE
OF ITS FULL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with safety
chain, £3/5/•
Smaller, £2/6/, £2/16/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
set pure double-cut diamonds
and fins opals#
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
set pearls, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart and Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £3«
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 6 fine opals,
£3/10-
Large opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pure pearls and
amethysts, £4- 15ct Gold,
£5/10/.
Set pearls, tourmalines, and
peridots, 15ct Gold, £6/10/.
FO6§S
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10/-
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds, and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold, 2-Bar Wishbone
BROOCH, set pearls and
ruby or sapphire, 15/*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval LINKS,
22/6- t _ ,
Isct Gold, £2. Initials
engraved free.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Fully Jewelled, U5/-
30/, 35/, 40/, 50. Solid
Gold, £3/, £3/10, £4/,
£4/10. £5, £5/10, £6/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Harp BROOCH,
get fine white pearls,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £lO-
- centre, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBet Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, set fine pearls
and turquoise, W/IU/-
PURSE and CARDCASE
combined, Morocco leather,
t)ure silver mounts and
lock, 8/6-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6.
OPEN
FACE,
extra
quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Higher grade, 25/.
All Guaranteed.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith
and Optician*
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
Opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
IT’S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having' its origin in
filth, it brings with it the badteria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
e ips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
ivmg rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
Is the Greatest HILLER
o/ FLIES other Insects.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
ZM
■
jT- .
IS
\>/
Wi
SB
<g)
*€
Evfery Fly is
Mmv Killer
at He&rt.”
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
'Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy,
SYDNEY.


■ M ■'
*■* - "i
i
- .
i«" ' -
~/iW
V
sM
*
>O.. ■> i
l|gj|' I
V
3
iiftfet .<■ •, -
NP'
11 ' * *'
3® ■■"•:
*m
.;j5»
■ -
•;:
■
i: . v ; r"
|
.
■‘V " TffMßg
niw»i» "' 'V'.'c* "s**
.
■'** •
X,
HI /■’■ V \ :
/ .-■
:
-
■
**
-
»dteJ
■:.«; k."■'.■■ •.■>*;
y, ’ "* " :
- - --
Pr
*4
s.
£L‘
rr
*
05
i-3*=
<£
/. '
•' „> a
:>;
&
ik :fif9Eh^y
o
/
f . V
wmm
,
: ii
SB
. ;
<b
Or
5C
o
■j:
V
Interstate Mail
Steamshin Lines
SIHE steamer passing the
*Bl ocean cave above repre-
»| sents the very pinnacle
KM of the Australasian
Coastal Marine, which
sl W as attained when the
famous Australasian United Steam Naviga-
tion Company brought out the great 7000-ton,
twin-screwed steamers, Kanowna and Kyarra.
These magnifioent boats rival the great ocean liners
t'i it traverse the three oceans that lie between Aus-
tr ilia and Britain. They are the first steamers on
the Australian coast to be fitted with first, second
and third class accommodation. Another magnificent
steamer for the Queensland trade is to be put in com-
mission at the beginning of the coming year. This
vessel will be known as the Wyreema, and will be
5000 tons register and fitted up on a scale of magnifi-
cence hitherto only devoted to ocean liners ; the best
feature being the large number of single and double
berth state-rooms, which are replacing the now
obsolete four and six cabin, which were necessary on
smaller boats, bringing the Wyreema into line with
the best steamers of the world. After the Wyreema
arrives on the coast the fashionable and popular
trip will be among the blue waters and fairy islands
that lie between the mighty Barrier Reef and the
coast of Queensland.
The oompanv dates back to 1883. A small com-
pany, called The Queensland Steam Shipping Co.,
was formed for the purpose of participating in the
Australian coastal trade, then being conducted by the
Howard Smith and old Australasian Steam Naviga-
tion lines. It was the intention of the founders to
identify the co. particularly with the northern State,
hence the name and the establishment of the Head
Office in Brisbane, where it has remained ever since.
The beginning was modest enough, the largest
steamers being the Corea (606 tons register) and the
Archer (694), which ran between Queensland ports
and Sydney. The rest of the fleet was composed of
steamers of very small tonnage, some of which will
be remembered by middle-aged Queenslanders, such
as the Polly (194 tons), Truganini (203 tons), Gympie
(220 tons), and the little Gunga, of 357 tons, which
ran between Cooktown and the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. Theadvent of this little fleet of steam
yachts was the signal for the commencement of
a prolonged war of rates. In spite of the
fearful losses entailed by this competi-
tion, the company steadily
built up its fleet and
battled on, bringing
in to the fight in
turn the War-
rego, Mara-
noa, and Bar-
coo, which
marked a
distinct
advance
in the
class of
coasters in
those bad
old days.
This was
followed
up by what
was probably the biggest shipping deal ever nego-
tiated south of the equator, in which the Queens-
land S. S. Co. bought out the old Australasian Steam
Navigation Co., taking over the whole of the latter s
fleet and good-will. When the amalgamation of the
fleets was accomplished the name of the joint concern
was changed to The Australasian United Steam
Navigation Company, Limited, and which it still
Since the amalgamation the A.U.S.A. lias been
going full steam ahead. At the present time its fleet
almost girdles the continent, the only portion of the
Australian coast line not served by its steamers being
that which lies between Wyndham, on the extreme
north-west, to Burketown, in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
During good years, medium years, and bad ones, the
directors of the A.U.S.N. have kept steadily to then-
purpose of building up a great and improving fleet;
and it found expression in the Aramac, Arawatta,
and Wodonga, of 2500 tons each, steamers that are
still regarded most favorably by the travelling public.
It was the same policy that brought along the mag-
nificent Wyandra of 4058 tons, and the turbine mail
steamer Bingera, the two steamers whose accommo-
dation is taxed to the uttermost during the winter
months by tourists fleeing from the rigorous cold ot
the south to the genial warmth of Queensland shores,
where the roses bloom through the winter, and the
skies are always blue and the air balmy. Next the
winter and the sky shines bluely through an atmo-
sphere that is always charged with balm and vigor.
Having established the Queensland trade on a firm
basis, the A.U.S.N. next turned its attention-to the
traffic between the Eastern and Western States of
Australia. The boats Pilbarra and Paroo, each
2700 tons, had done yeoman service, and were still
filling the bill to the satisfaction of passengers ; but
the Co. determined to put on steamers that could
hold their own with the great oversea liners that
were competing for the passenger traffic, and stag-
gered Australia and the oversea rivals by suddenly
producing the great 7000 _ ton, twin-screw liners,
Kanowna and Kyarra, which, as before mentioned,
represent the highest achievement ot the Aus-
tralasian coastal marine. There are no better boats
of their kind in the world, and the comfort, cuisine
and conveniences on board these two great liners are
equal to that of the best liners in the world, which is
a big thing to say, and is said deliberately.
There is no more charming trip in the world than
that along the Queensland coast. Some idea of the
extent of the great Northern State can be gathered
when one is reminded that it could contain 13 Eng-
lands, or the whole of Prance, the German Empire,
Spain and England, and still have a decent patch
left over. Naturally, along the coast-line of so
extensive a domain there are many varieties of
scenery. Ije&ving Brisbime, the stefimer runs through
the smooth waters of Wide Bay into the quiet recess
of Sandy Straits, where, on the right, looms up the
huge expanse of Fraser Island. Ninety-two miles
further on the steamer enters the Burnett River and
drops anchor off Bundaberg, where the sugar grows,
and where a few pleasant hours may be spent going
over the plantations and mills. Out again through
Burnett Heads 100 miles of varied coastline ends in
the magnificent Port Gurtis, after which the course
lies in and out of beautiful islands till Keppell Bay
is reached, where the steamer leaves the ocean and
wends its way up the Fitzroy River to Rockhampton,
where passengers land to explore the beautiful Olsen
and Johansen Oaves, which are almost equal to the
famous Jenolan caverns of N.S. W. Back on board the
steamer, northward for 80 miles the track lies between
beautiful islands of emerald green, and past a coast
line broken into the most picturesque succession of
bays and promontories. The water is absolutely
smooth, for the roll and surge of the South Pacific
break on that series of wonderful coral breakwaters,
the Great Barrier Reef, and the steamer ploughs
through waters of glassy smoothness, till Percy and
Northumberland Isles drop behind, and Round lop
and Plat Top Islands announce that Mackay is
reached. Northward from Mackay to Bowen the
islands increase in number, and the scenery
becomes more beautiful still. The islands use
from sparkling green water to show another green
of grass and tree, ringed with white, gleaming
coral and shimmering sand. The shore grows more
rugged and precipitous till Bowen reveals itself lying
snugly in the corner of Port Denison. Behind it the
mountains tower up to 3500 feet. lor the person m
search of health Bowen is an ideal spot. The air is
beautiful and the shores of Port Denison are full ot
delightful spots for sketching, fishing and boating.
The tourist who is out to see Queensland will go on,
ever northward, till 100 miles of jagged coastline, in-
cluding three very distinct promontories, Capes Dp-
start, Bowling Green and Cleveland, have been left
behind, the steamer nestles down at the wharf at
Townsville where, right at the back of the town, Castle
Hill shoots up 1000 feet into the clear Queensland sky.
Townsville is situated right on the shores of the
Pacific, and the cool breezes blow up from the ocean
every morning and make life joyful.
£52?
Prom Townsville the journey continues in one of
the beautiful steam yachts of the A.D.S.iN. Co.
There is no pleasure on earth like threading a tortu-
ous track between myriads of islands in a comfortable
steam yacht. From Townsville to Cairns the passage
is Sydney Habor on a large and more magnificent
scale. Entering Hinchinbrook Channel the steamers
run into a veritable Elysium —water without a ripple,
save that of the steam yacht, full of fish and swarming
with waterfowl, dotted over with islands that seem
to float in it, with waterfalls tumbling down
from towering heights. This part of
the journey is an enchanting suc-
cession of sea lakes formed by the
broken shores of Hinchin-
brook Island ; and had
Moore seen it he would
have located the scen-
ery of Lalla Rookh
therein. The beauty
is beyond descrip-
tion, and there are
25 glorious miles
of it. The most
lovely sea trip in
all the world. In
a future issue the
trips to the Gulf
of Carpentaria,
and down to Nou-
mea and Fiji- will
be described in
detail.
:lai,
6-
V


e
le
©
SUPERIOR TO ANY IMPORTED.
The Beale-Voider Patent
Steel Tuning System „
S PAC E
FOR
ACCESS
(SCREWS. 2)
Showing SOLID IRON FRAME with
steel screws and tuning pins, A glance will
tell you that this construction will endure
for generations. The pins are lubricated,'
and so can always be turned with delicacy.
Patented throughout the world.
A Unique Feature of
the BEALE PIANO is
a Steel instead of a
<• ■ ; ~\ ..."
Wooden Wrest = Plank.
EXPORTED PIANOS
ALL HAVE WOODEN
WREST-PLANKS.
The Tuning System of
imported Pianos .
Pins put through holes in iron frame into
a WOODEN PLANK, which, sooner or
later, must give way. In a space of 1| square
feet, 216 pins, each l|in. x jin., are driven.
Timber cannot resist such honeycombing
under a strain of 20 tons. The holes become
oval, as shown .above, by the crushing of the
wood fibres.
European and American piano-makers have for generations sought after a simple and practical metal tuning-
system (vide Edgar Brinsmead, of John Brinsmead and Sons, and Julius Bluthner, Leipsic); but though various devices
have been patented almost every week, the Beale-Yader Patent Steel Tuning-System is the only metal tuning-system in
practical use. More than 9000 Beale Australian Pianos are now in use throughout Australasia, and are giving
universal satisfaction.
• .( ;
In addition to the above patent we have originated many other improvements in piano-construction —a system of
building the cabinet-work which assures absolute immunity from warping or splitting; a sounding-board which gives a
softness and sweetness of tone unapproached by any other piano (as vouched for by Herr Emil Greder, Miss Sara
Anderson, and Herr Karl Studemund, of Musgrove’s Royal Grand Opera Company) ; a hexagonal steel core for the copper*
wound strings in the bass, securing a firm hold for the copper on the steel; hitch-pins cast in the iron frame, instead of
laboriously drilling holes and inserting the pins—thus effecting a saving in cost, while improving the efficiency; and marly
other details of minor importance, to instance one of which we mention a hinge for the lid of grand pianos which allows of
a moulding on all sides, whereas all foreign pianos have one side of the lid without moulding, due to the construction
of their hinges. - <
We do not neglect the lessons and experience of the old-world makers ; in fact, inasmuch as we hold the only
patents registered in Australia for pianos, we can and do use all the best points of foreign pianos, with the added improve-
ments above mentioned. The same energy and the same ability, inventive and directive, which have effected these
important improvements where older manufacturers have failed, are used throughout in the construction of the Beale
Australian Pianos, and the result is that the people of Australia can buy pianos made here by their own countrymen far
superior to any they can import. We invite you to compare our pianos with the best imported instruments, and you must
acknowledge that the Beale Australian Pianos are unequalled.
Jp*
&SH OK EASY TEEMS ANYWHEE
BEALE <a CO., LIMITED,
OF SYDNEY,
AUSTRALIAN PIANO MANUFACTURERS,
j ....
4-74- George Street, Sydney; 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; George Street, Bathurst;
28 Hunter Street, Newcastle; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Mitchell Street, Bendigo;
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 615 Hay Street, Perth .
PLEASE NOTE.—ONLY Address in Brisbane, 291 Queen Street.
Three times as many Beale Australian Pianos are sold yearly in Australia as of any other make;
They are sold direct from factory to user—NO fIIDDLEiTEN.


ON LITTLE GIRL
Not Washed for Eight Months, by
Doctor’s Orders—Was Miserable,
Suffering Terribly—Had to Tie
Hands to Stop Scratching—Pa-
rents Lost Heart, but One Cake
of Cuticura Soap and One Box of
CUTICURA TOoiToFF
EVERY BIT OF HUMOUR
“I want to let you know what a
wonderful cure Cuticura Remedies ef-
fected on my little girl. There came
a rash over the little one’s face when
she was a month old. My wife took
the child up to the doctor’s to see what
it was, and he told her it was gum rash.
She brought her home and let it go
on for a month, but as it got no better
I would have her take the child to
another doctor’s. He told my wife
that the baby had got blood eczema
and gave her some medicine and oint-
ment, and told my wife not to wash
the child. We were doctoring the child
for eight months, but she was no better
at the end of the eight months than
she was when we took her first. You
can imagine how miserable the child
was, not being washed. We had to
tie the little one’s hands when we took
her to bed, to prevent her from scratch-
ing her face, as she made it bleed so
if her hands were at liberty. I was
recommended to try Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment, but we were doubt-
ful at first, as we had almost lost heart,
but my wife said we had given the
doctors a good trial and they had done
no good, and the child was so miserable
not being washed, so we said we would
give the Cuticura Remedies a trial.
The first time my wife washed the child
with Cuticura Soap and used Cuticura
Ointment our daughter seemed like a new
child, as she did not offer to scratch so
much and seemed a lot easier. She was
one mass of eczema about the face and
shoulders, but the first box of Cuticura
Ointment and bar of Cuticura Soap took
every bit off her. The neighbours said it
would come on again, as it had gone off
too quick, but the child is three years old
now and she has not had any signs of it
since. G.Williams, 86 Sea Brook Rd.,near
Wednesbury,Staffs.,Eng., Aug. 26,1906.”
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul.
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
»S“ Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
Smart American
Shoe for the Cup.
This Snoe is made by Helliard and Tabor, the most
renowned of the American Shoe Manufacturers. It
is an exquisite Shoe, coming in enamelled kid with an
extra high Wurtembnrg Heel. All the best garbed
women at the Cup will be wearing this Shoe—if you
are in Melbourne, call at our City Store, opposite the
Town Hall, and get a pair. 23/6 pair.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price it can bs had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, /4/6. Posted in Victoria, lextra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMSNG’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed 111 No. S.
and keeps laughing. Bed Harry Is.
gum
m
f
m
OF
An Agreeable
, Mild and
Efficacious
Laxative-
Gentle
yet Prompt
in Action.
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleacant h results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation —is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., a? Snow Hill, Lori&on, Eng.
31IX
aUKlKvfl
3HX
-aa3X3in
WARRNAMBOOL
TO MELBOURNE
(DUNLOP)
ROAD RAGE
WON ON
“FUTE”
TYRES
AT this important con-
test the machines of
the 237 competitors who started repre-
sented several makes of Tvres, but the
RAGE WAS WON ON “FI,iTE” TYRES.
M. B. Dobie, the successful contestant,
covered the 165 miles in 7 hours 45 minutes
87 seconds, thus only being 2 minutes over
J. Arnst’s world’s record. The severe
weather conditions of the race, and the
speed attained by the winner speak elo-
quently for the durable, reliable, sterling
qualities of these famous Tyres.
Ask your dealer for the “ FLITE ” (the
guaranteed-for-12-months Tyre), or the
“ DADDY ” (the guaranteed-for-6-months
Tyre).
Manufactured at the Footscray Works of
BARNET GLASS C&h CO.
Back to the Old Address : 85 Clarence Street,
Sydney. 226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne;
10 McHenry Street, Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
m
a 565
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.] [2
THIS
RAGING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO /.NY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
60/-
r
>/
m
mmm
.N
?s;
S
•V
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and 1
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted —the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING
The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2ld. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd,,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lana, Melbourne.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane.
48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
This horrible tariff is just going to add
another item to Bananaland’s list of merchantable
timbers. Until recently, crow’s-foot elm was ruthlessly
destroyed ; but the firm of Brown and Broad, with an
eye to business, found that the timber bends like whale-
bone. To prove it, they exhibited a piece made into a
complete hoop of 27in. diameter ; and at Melbourne Uni-
versity the breaking strain of the timber was found to be
17,5G01b. per square inch. The Freetrade crank who
thinks Australia has no timber for chair-making will no
doubt read this with great disappointment.
* * * *
“See Em”: Under the new tariff, jew el lery,
n.e.i. (which includes rings, brooches, bracelets, studs),
is taxed 30 percent, ad valorem, with 5 per cent, pre-
ference to Britain. Unfinished jewellery, being settings
and mounts, pays 40 per cent., with similar preference.
Unset precious stones are on the free list. You would
think from this that, if a jeweller imported diamond
rings from Germany of an export value of £lOOO, the
duty would be 30 per cent, this value plus 10 per cent,
(or £330 in all), and doubtless that was the intention of
the framers of the Act. The amount paid on this ship-
ment, however, would only be about £44. The shippers
(under instructions) detach the stones from their settings,
and invoice—
Unset diamonds .. .. .. .. £9OO
Unfinished jewellery .. .. .. 100
Total £lOOO
The only duty paid is 40 percent, on £lOO, plus 10 per
cent. On arrival, the stones, which have all been labelled
with a number or mark corresponding to the places to
which they belong, are easily reset. This loophole was
present in the old tariff, and has meant the loss of thou-
sands of pounds to the revenue.
* ft *
Bradford, where they do for Australian wool
what Australia ought to be doing for itself, has for some
years been growling about the large excess of vegetable
matter in the wool. After a good deal of incoherent
scolding, Bradford let out that all the trouble arose from
the fact that the wool-packs are made of inferior jute.
Once all the packs and most other jute goods were made
at Dundee, or some other place in Scotland ; but Free-
trade knocked that business out, as it has knocked-scores
of others, and to-day the jute-making is done in Indian
factories, and, according to Bradford, it is being done
very badly. Incidentally, the Indian Government has
taken a hand in the discussion, and has appointed a com-
mission to consider the whole question of factory labor,
and some amazing things will probably transpire. Years
ago the business of indigo planting was made the subject
of a similar inquiry, which disclosed oppressions that
would have caused the planters to be deprived of their
statutory powers over the cultivators if it had not
happened that the discovery of aniline dyes had already
killed their industry.
t * * *
“Agricola”: A certain reverend gentleman is
not so enthusiastic about the high probity of our im-
porting magnates as he used to be. For many years
York-street has stood firmly to bis church, and the sove-
reigns of the importer gave quite an auriferous appear-
ance to the dish. The very mention of Protection took
away the sky-pilot’s appetite, and he would talk at
length on his pet view, that Australia was intended for
primary production only. Some weeks ago, one of the
Church Props consented to take on the Rectory hopeful
and initiate him into the mysteries of the importing
trade. The first day he did some label-faking, lie was
set in front of a large pile of stuff branded “ Packed in
1905,” with instructions to mop off those out-of date in-
scriptions and replace them with “ Packed in 1907.” The
second day he learned some tea-blending. Various chests
of damaged and unsaleable stuff were emptied into a
machine, together with a couple of chests of fair-quality
tea. Then he turned the handle till the Prop told him to
stop. Next he discovered how the lot was made up into
111), pack. ts. Third day he put in labelling the packets
“ Specially packed for the Australian climate.” Fourth
day he left, and the parson is thinking of making him a
blacksmith, or something honest.
♦ * * *
“Snell”: I met a man on the St. Kilda pier
the other Sunday morning, whom I knew a year ago as a
confirmed Yarra-banker and an ingrained deadbeat. For
sundry “ thrums ” and an occasional bottle of beer he
had favored me with a great deal of useful in-
formation about ’beats, their manners and costumes.
He was then a deplorable cuss, but when he greeted
me on the pier this pleasant Sabbath morning he
was clean-shaven, well-bathed, becomingly garbed, and
undoubtedly prosperous. His dress was black, his linen
white, his manner subdued. He resembled a Cousin Jack
lay preacher in a- mining township. “Hello!” I said,
“you have inherited wealth.” “No,” he replied with a
wan smile, “ I’m practisin’ me profession.” “ Your pro-
fession ! What’s that?” “I’m a chief mourner.” “A
what?” “ A chief mourner. I’m connected with a num-
ber iv undertakin’ establishments, and whenever a chief
mourner’s wanted I gets a fee fer attendin’. You wouldn’t
think there was anythin’ in it, but there yer wrong. It’d
surprise yeh t’ know what a crowd iv quiet funerals there
is—rich people buryin’poor relations or old dependents,
’n’ all that sort o’ thing—where the folks themselves don’t
want t’ be bothered attendin’ the buryin’, but are willin’
t’ pay a man iv good, presentable, woebegone appearance
t’ represent ’em. Then, in many cases, well-t’-do folks
what sends their carriages t’ their friends’ funerals, is
willin’ t’ pay t’ have a person sit in th’ vehicle ’n’ look dis-
tressed. An undertaker what found I had pecular natural
gifts fer th’ game first put me up to it, ’n’ now I’ve got a
fair connection. If you ever want anyone t’ represent
yeh at funerals, Mister, I’ll do it for yeh at art rates.” I
was surprised at all this, but thinking it over I find the
germ of an excellent idea in the “profession,” The
average busy man with a large circle of acquaintances
finds funeral-going a great tax on his time and patience,
and he badly wants a hired substitute with an appearance
and manner in keeping with funerals. There is no greater
strain put upon the happy, comfortable citizen than having
to look depressed at the buryings of people he didn’t care
a cent for. The professional mourner fills a void.
* * *
Helidon Spa is the latest Australian article to
make a name for itself abroad. On the advice of the
Army doctors, the United States Commissariat Depart-
ment at Manila has ordered 20,000 dozen bottles, repre-
senting the quantity that Uncle Sam reckons the Philip-
pine troops ought to conquer in 12 months. The water
is obtained at Helidon, between Brisbane and Toowoomba,
and you can take it with a stick or otherwise.
THE MORTGAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mortgage is a merry wight,
No need of timely rest hath he
He works away by candlelight,
At dawn he labors merrilee ;
At Yuletide’s gay festivitee
He takes no heed of song sublime,
But toils away with holy glee—
The Mortgage worketh all the time !
The Yeoman takes his rest by night,
For rest and weary bones agree ;
But nought can stay the busy sprite
That lives beside the Mortgagee ;
No busy ant or,buzzing bee
But takes a spell from toil and grime,
And holds an hour from business free —
But Mortgage worketh all the time !
No man can cause his soul affright,
Or bar his tireless industrie,
Or ban afar the evil blight
That dogs his course o’er land and sea;
With years our Hopes and Visions flee,
And Earth becomes a Weary Clime,
But lo ! with dauntless energie
The Mortgage worketh all the time !
We’re slow of gait and weak of knee,
Our one-time raven locks are rime,
He sucks our failing blood for fee —-
In sooth he worketh all the time !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
SULPHUR
mum
THE BEST
Blood Purifier
IN THE WORLD.
WHY SUFFER with that chronic
disease? Do you want to die ? Sul-
phur Bitters will cure you as it has
thousands.
Why do you suffer with that
FOUL, OFFENSIVE BREATH?
You need not if you use Sulphur
Bitters. They never fail to cure.
Operatives who are closely confined
in the mills and workshops; clerks
who do not have stifficient exercise,
and all who are confined indoors,
should use Sulphur Bitters. They
will not then he
WEAK AND SICKLY.
Is your Breath impure. Your
Stomach is out of order. Sulphur
Bitters is the best medicine to take.
Sulphur Bitters will build you up
and make you
6TRONQ AND HEALTHY.
At the dawn of womanhood, Sul-
phur Bitters should be used.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, lumbago,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
P53&;i
ms
Medlcatsr. slzs
3i laches lonjj.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages w hich lead
from the nose to the head, e. , throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consult as the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
•want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post bee anywhere.
with 4 months
Address: Star Novelty r o., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.O.J
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily.
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole District Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing 1 Kits, Novelty Glass Churns, and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George Street, Sydney.
>a
Reader* why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
[that are possible to the Hypnotist.
I Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
|conquer painj win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
I Hypnotism, which fully explain,
[the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
1 hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY. »'•
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials,
McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
positive cure for all forms of
Varicocele Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT CAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Thousands of men have Varicocele and are ignorant of the harm which may result. They only know that something is
draining the vim and ambition from their bodies and brains, and know of no reason to account for it. This terrible
affliction is the most treacherous, silent and certain in its work of all known ailments. It comes on without apparent cause,
and never ceases in its destructive influence until it robs a man of all his vitality and leaves him a physical and mental wreck.
Va
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its concurrent or attending weaknesses. Applied exter-
nally or internally drugs usually prov.e either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity. We
have devoted twenty years to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and kindred
ailments, and have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing, where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief,
and who came to us in a state of complete debility. DR. MeLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory—our method—has cured after the
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawyers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own ; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years. We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control.
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every night in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless drugging and have spent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over 50,000
people strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedy.
it is a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality, Stomach,
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and when used with our
newly-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure for Rupture. ... It is easy to use ; no sting,
burn or shock j put it on when you go to bed, and you get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-old
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men.
They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up. Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVIGE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. F. B. Co.
THE McLAUGHLtN CO
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R, COFCORAM
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
9
TpOJ® 5 "'"'
I
It aets like a charm in
DIARRfHEA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is. ; 20z., 2s. 9d. ; 40z., 4s. 6c?. each.
GAUTlOFjS.— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Kocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CUBE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district. If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH CFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.


.11,
a
To Know Australia
You must read
THE LONE HAND.
% '
l
This month S. H. Prior,
Financial Editor of THE
BULLETIN, continues “The
Australia Felix ” Series v/ith
“ Our Mineral Wealth,” giving
in a bright, picturesque sum-
mary, with numerous diagrams,
the staggering figures as to the
Commonwealth’s great mining
resources.
, “The Celebrity Confidential’’
—some Australian Premiers
confess to their hobbies.
“The Beale Book”—a sum-
mary of this startling report to
the Australian Parliament.
CONTENTS.
Vol. 11. NOVEMBER i, 1907. No. 7.’
■ pa<Je
On the Spanish Main—(in colors) —Norman Lindsay - - - Frontispiece !
Of Many Cups—(with Photographs)—Frank Myers - - - - - - 1
Cup Day at Bluegumbewabba—Norman Lindsay - , - , - - - - 10
The World's Beauty—A Challenge - 12
The Evolution of the Horse—“ Hop” - - ‘ - : ' . ' . . . - 16
The Strangers’ Friend—(lllustration by Norman Lindsay)—Henry Lawson - - - 17
A Triolet—C. I. Atkins - - - 21
Two Battlers and a Bear—:(lllustrations by “ Hop ”) —E. Dyson - - - - 22
The Cricket Enemy at our Gates—G. M. Long-Innes - - - - - 28
Woman’s Work in Australia • . . - 32
The Celebrity Confidential—Fred Johns-and the Editor - - . ... - - 33
Wind and String—Arnold Wall 36
A Middle Harbor Mystery—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter)—E. Nevell - - - 37
Brown and the Monster—(lllustration by Lionel Lindsay)—“Kodak” - - - 43
His Confession—Roderic Quinn 45
Cuts —A Study in Anguish—Norman Lindsay - 46
Australia Felix—No. II.: Our Mineral Wealth—S. H. Prior ----- 48
Views in National Park, N.S.W. - - -* - - ' - - - - - 55
For The Public Good—
The Three-Card Man—M. P. Adams - . - - 56
The Beale Book - - - - - .• . . . . . -59
Prize Announcements . . - 63
Printer’s Errors - - - - - - - . . . . . - - 63
To Would-be Contributors 64
The Genesis of “The Bulletin ”—W. H. Traill- 6$
Vagabonding in Asia —Written and Illustrated by Alf Vincent ------ 72
■Karma—M. Forrest - - - - - - - - - - * . . . yg
Brewing Eucalyptus—E. S. Emerson 79
The Troubadour Up to Date—(with Decoration by Alek Sass)—Edmund Fisher - - 84
A Dress Symposium—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) —" > - , '
The Hat—ls it a Devil ?—A. Conor-O’Brien - - - - - , - -83
In Praise of Simplicity—Grace Palotta - - - 88
Dress and the Woman—H. C. McG. - - ; - - _ - - - - 90
A Bride Song —Sydney Jephcott - - - - - - - - i - 93
The Snail Club—(with Decoration by D. H. Souter) —A. F. Brasch 94
The Letters—(with Decoration by G. W. Lambert) —“T.T.” ----- 96
Kate—(with Decoration by Ruby Lindsay)—Frank Morton - - - - - 97
The Secret of Ledger “ D ’’—(lllustrations by D. H. Souter) —Randolph Bedford - - 98
The Secret Garden —(with Decoration by Hans Heysen)—Elsie Cole - 106
The Perturbation of Doris De Lolme—(lllustrations by Alek Sass)—Frank Morton - 108
The Game of .Life—B. E. Minns 112
Editorial - - - 03
The Judicious Thief • - - - ■ xxxiv.
The Month of the Horse,
November is the month of
the Horse in Australia. THE
LONE HAND for that month
will have a brilliant Sport
Article by the late Frank
Myers, and humorous racing
pictures by “Hop” and Norman
Lindsay.
The Beauty Quest,
. Pictures of the. American
prize-winner, with full particu-
lars as to the Australian Com-
petition.
“A Dress Symposium,”
By Grace Palotta, A. Conor-
O’Brien, and H.C.McG.
The first bound volumes of
THE LONE HAND are now
ready. Price 6s. 6d. to any
part of the Commonwealth.
The Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
. attention to country orders.
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS.-In send-
ing your orders to us you run no
risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory. We are not
satisfied until you are.
D 127 Diamond, Pearl, and
15ct. Gold Brooch, £ 9/10 /-.
G 3334. —15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearls,
and Australian Bubies, £3/3/-.
F927S—lBc:t. Gold Ring-,
Half-Uoop of Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-.
H64o.—lBet. Gold, Dia-
mond- apd Ruby Ring,
£7/10/-.
Lsaiiiu
H64l.—lBet. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-.
GB9B2.—Kine' Diamond,
18ct. I-Honp Ring,
£lO 10!-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7llOl-.
« 5274-
18ct. Riiisr, Diamonds
and Olivine, £2/15/-
G27D3.
18ct. Gold, Ruby, and
Opal Ring, £2/7/6.
GB9B4.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lBllOl-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£ll/101-.
1911. —lSct.Gold Ring,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£2/5/-.
H 731
Diamonds or Sapphires,
18ct. Gold, £5/15/-.
G 8986. — K.iii.- Diamond,
lSct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
■Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/10/-.
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring-, £B/8/-.
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring-, £ 3/10 /-
GB9SO. —Fine Diamond
Riny, 18cL, £5/5/-'
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
i
171 A. —Isoi.i G Ad, Five
Fine Opals,* <€2/70/-.
G529(i. —Fine Diamond
andSapph.re Riny, 18ct.
Gold, £lO/10/-
DI27G. —locf. Gold, Pine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £.71101-.
Mi ■ L 4
jy. tj
Btt
C3S"2. —15ct. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Cape
Rubies, £4/15/-.
C33l4.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, £ 2/7/6 .
m*
03312.—15 ct. Gold and Keal Pearl Brooch, £,21151-.
You iflay have seen this style of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price, only no quality'©! ffold is mentioned, and the word
paste is omitted before “ Pearl Set/’
03313. —Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, '£2/5/-.
02619.—Handsome Bangle, Real Pearls and Sapphires,
15ct. Gol 6r^dß7/10/-.
Es4lM.—Two
Diamonds, Three
Sapphires, 18ct.
Gold, £2.
iu
C3324.—Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, 15ct. Gold, £3/15/-.
H 1228
Five Diamond
RingylSct. Gold,
£5/5/-.
C 3322. —Fine Scroll Bangle, j.veal Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
ORDER BY MAIL IF UNABLE TO CALL. MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SENT FREE ON REQUEST.


PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Invite Visitors to Melbourne to inspect their
stocß. of up-to-date Millinery, Costumes,
Novelties, and all requirements for the
Racing' Carnival.
Mi
¥
fed
,*2K
mk
sr
Mi
I:
«¥#
T
K
■ M
'i
m
I :>,J
i
r
1
sli
JSS
>
is
rrS
M
n
Si
i-
m
m
m
I
IB
3S
IP
il
■
V-j
’’ ••*.. ■:
,:AI
\
S 3
■+•'*
■ ••
■«
H
:4"
... .
a’#
■
180-188 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. . . •• £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M klrourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , IS6S.
Bankers to the Government oi Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital ..
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Government Stock)
Interminable deposit Stock
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
.. 413,289 5 0
.. 59,000 0 0
..3,116,621 0 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and Ihrougnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Ameriea, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. .1.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. : F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Brock Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Brandies and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
GRANTS
DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
UNT.S. W.
(DontdepieteO.A<i|.C°'>|jtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S I'., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
jhe Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors-Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq. J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Accident and Guarantee
the trustees, executors
I AND
agency company limited
HVac.l 412 Co ||j„ B . B t. f Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. •• •• £9 ° 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) •• •• £25 ’ 00 “, 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman: R. Murray
Smith. Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Esq.,
Hon J M. Prate, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene,
lion. J. m. rr B0 * RROWMAN , Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
F
IACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Best book of Australian humor, 4s. bd.
Shipping.
IST. D. L.
(NOUD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to E"ypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMII’JCD,
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69.000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw Steamers.
• TROPIC, to sail about 2nd Nov. ( 8250
*CUFIC, „ ~ 20th Nov. ( tons
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th
November.
EUNIC, MEDIO, AFEIC and SUEVIC
to follow.
* Cargo only.
FARES—Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, -Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS .. .. IR. McKilliam .. 1 Noon. Nov. 2
+DAMASCUS .. | 11. A. Schleman .. I Noon, Dec. 6
*MILTIADES jA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, Jan. 4
♦Twin Screw. f One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
F HO LI PAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Oooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for lUus-.
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
Bank of |)ew South ||)ales.
ESTABLISHED 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital . ». 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. •• 1.500,000 0 0
Reserve Inability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 55,00,000 0 0
Directors :
The lIon.OHARLKS K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo:Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
The gank of J|ustraiasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. • • £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. -. •• 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Ad™ the eucrasy CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B*C*,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States*
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA*
£? Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
DON’T BE HARD UP.
This can he easily avoided by writing AT ONCE to
THE MINING INVESTMENT AND AGENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE.
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.
mmm
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Glerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
billing typewriter.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George SU Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabasii Systems.
SUipping.
THE ADEDUDESTEAIVISHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, •»
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Raven sthorpe Goldfields. J
Grantila. Saturday,
November 9, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, November 2.
S.S. Wollowra, November 9
Jiest, and Cliea/ie.st Iloute to (iold/ieldH.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ESSAGERIES
M
ARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F.— H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
(Calling at DURBAN only to land passengers.)
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“SUFFOLK”
11,000 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from Svdney on the 27th November
„ „ Melbourne „ 2nd December
’’ ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 7th ~
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £22 £lO £ll £l2
CAPETOWN .. £24 15s. £lO 10s. £lllls. £l2 12s.
LONDON &
LIVERPOOL.. £49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED,
7 Macquarie Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOM BALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 2.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 9.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
ADELAIDE \
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDXON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
DAY, November 16.
OOOLGARDIE, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, November 30.
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON V
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 2.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
November 5.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 9.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Train).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
If you Employ even
one Shorthand
Writer . . .
vou cannot afford to be without full in-
formation with regard to the Edison
Commercial System conducted with
the Business Phonograph.
Arthur Brisbane, the famous
editorial writer for the New York
Evening Journal, says ■
On behalf of all men living
and to come that must
write in a hurry, I thank
Mr. Edison for the wonder-
ful machine that he has
given to the world in the
Business Phonograph.”
Ask us to mail you the latest book-
let—“ From Brain to Type” which
gives all details.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED,
Dept. “ B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERT.
It will interest sufferers to know
*k. a V a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toida, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
•j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and inteimal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid.y on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose ot Froo'coids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
m getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, c storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Branch Office :
No. 5, First Floor. Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated, Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY,
If?
IMPERIAL
f».EYE„
ointment
CURES K
TO
THE
11033
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises ’
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
“ Hamer ” is puzzled :
I have been worrying- over it ever since—was I really
sober ? I had made a resolution to keep very straight.
I told my friends so, and also the barman, w hom I termed
a Bacchanalian miscreant when he filled the glass. I
wouldn’t fill it myself, and didn’t want it filled. Still I
drank it, because I hate waste ; then I went out and
slammed the door to show- my annoyance. I thought I
could not be too emphatic over this, so I slammed it
three times ; and when a policeman, Who happened to be
adjacent, aske 1 me what I did it for, I told of my
resolution, and as he seenied a decent man, and sym-
pathised with my aspirations, I invited him to have a
drink. He looked grieved, and told me in a voice of re-
proach that the sergeant was somewhere about; so I
said I would find the sergeant and explain my resolution
to him, to show that he could safely trust the policeman’s
sobriety in my keeping. My search for the sergeant was
protracted ; the ladies of whom I inquired - a tea-
meeting or something was just out—seemed scared, and
didn’t wait to hear me ; but finally a young man told me
that the officer had gone to Bondi. So I took the next
tram that happened along, and explained matters to the
guard. After he left to collect tickets, I sat beside a
respectable-looking old gentleman, who wore a white
beard and gold-rimmed glasses, and admitted him to my
confidence. I fancy, however, he was not sober. After he
had gradually moved away to the end of the seat, he
goc up in a heated manner, and fell off the car, and
dirtied himself in a puddle. I remarked on the sadness of
this spectacle to some other passengers, and acquainted
them with my determination to remain sober; and
we got out at Bondi Junction and had some
drinks. After a few, I refused to indulge any
more, and imparted my inflexible determination to
the barman. That mercenary wretch, annoyed at my re-
tusal, saul I was fairly gone as it was, and bet me drinks
that I coil Id n t walk a straight line—a tram-line, for
instance. So I took him and others out, and walked three
tram-lines at once. While I was doing it a tram came
along with gong clanging ; but I wasn’t going to lose my
bet, and I called out to the driver that he could use the
other line till I had finished. Afterwards it struck me
that my action must apptar strange to the tram-driver, so
I climbed up beside him to explain the night’s histori',
and shouted to the barman that he could drink the bets
I had won. Still, that evening has puzzled me. 1f I had
not been sober, how was it I managed to walk the tram-
line > And if I was sober, how did there happen to be so
many tram-lines ?
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S°° u °AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb to Co. on each Bottle.
a
5 Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & SOHN,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF'S.
Sole Agents i LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Australia’s Exquisite Production.
“BOOMERANG
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895-
THE LANCET says :
"It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
It is supplied
under Royal Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
1%
m
\
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
r pil£! Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, ±-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Business Announcements.
(lllR89SSl!li!!R!:l!i!
lilibiiliilaii!!: H
iiiiiiiBiiiili!i!.jl
mis
pace fencer's,
—from theattractive lawn fence shown,
coated with special white enamel, to
the heavier and special fence we have
sold so extensively to cattlemen,
ranchmen, etc. Page Fences, built 19
years ago, are still giving-good service.
Wouldn’t this sort of a fence be a
good one to have the agency for’
Write to-day for special offer.
CHAS. DOBSC N, FRANKS & Co., Sydney
THE LAW OF
FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
rpHL Book that tells how to succeed and make money
by following’the Law. Everybody needs it, whether
rich or poor. Big firms buy in quantities. Agents
wanted. 200 per cent, profit. Make £5 a week easy.
Send Is. for Sample and Agency.
The Fiduciary Press, 1532 Tacoma Building, Chicago.
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d, EACH.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
When the Harvest Days Are Over—Stop
———- Yer Tickling Jock—Blue Bell—Walking
With Angehne-Little Boy Called Taps-In the Shade
of the Old Apple Tree—Keep a Little Cosy Corner—Hear the
Pipers Calling—Singer Was Irish—Waiting at the Church—
starlight—We Parted on the Shore—Somebody’s Sweetheart—
I easing - —-I was Sharing- Myself at the Time—For Old Time’s
bake—l Wouldnt Leave My Little Wooden Hut—Just a Little
Kockmg Chair—Miner’s Dream—My Irish Molly-Navaho—
Cheyenne—What a Mouth—We All Walked into the Shop—
Ftc. Our big - lists and Illustrated Novelty Catalogue posted free.
STAR NOVELTY CO., ££.9 Collins St., Melbourne.
2
CUARAN^t-t-^
BRIARS do not
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
23ICIarence5tSydr\ey
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
0
s mm
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, fhe natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the "Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The ■ Allenburys Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRVS Ltd., LONDON* $ Bridge Sts., Sydney


Australian
Established^ B49.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security o t Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
. - .x Oa«+oral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Freehold and C.P. (C o mb , nfld),P Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
of Government Debentures, Inscribed StocK JJ, WES T CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
t a S a „. npw Mor Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
° of the loan during any year, without notice or payment ot any fine,
up to -0 p r • rhairman • Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Sleeks, M.L.C., ’ ,) 'o j gi ac ic m L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcovnbe, M.L.C. ;
Short, Esq ; dames Burns. Esq’ ™ : Btohart Teece, F.1.A., F.P.A., F.S.S.
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. aV nwv ° ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. _
The Colonial Bank of Australasia limited
THE TWENTY-NINTH REFORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Twenty-ninth Ordinary General Meeting,
to be held at the Bank, 126 Elizabeth-street, at noon on Thursday, 31st October, 1107.
REPORT.
C-mr nTDI7PTOHK W to submit to the Shareholders their Twenty-ninth Report, with
bS»S Profit a„d Loss, for the half-year ended3oth September, 1907,
duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on WUs on note
circulation, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the profit amou t .. . - 3 ’ 56g gfJ
Less bonus of 10 per cent, paid to staff •• •• •• " ’ :
1219,532 2 2
Brought forward from 31st March, 1907 4,503 16 0
£24,035 18 7
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. : - R ,
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on preference shares .. .. • ■ L9,12l o
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares 4,95/ i ±i
To Reserve Fund (making it £115,000) .. •• •• •• •• •• •• " ’gs7 10 3
Balance carried forward ’ .
£24,035_18 7
The Dividend will be Payable at the Head Office on and after the Ist November, and at the Branches on receipt
° f "The Twenty-ninth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the Company,
126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 31st day of October, 1907, at noon.
By order of the Board,
Melbourne, 11th October, 1007. ■ SEbBY PAXTON, General Manaqer.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Dr For the Half-year Ending 30th September, 1907. ° R -
To capital paid up, viz.
31,184 preference
shares paid in cash
to £9lss £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £1 15s. 135,236 10 0
To reserve fund ••
To profit and loss
To notes in circulation
To bills in circulation
To balances due to other banks
To Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£46,451 15s. 3d.; bear-
inj - interest,
£369,856 2s. 7d. .. £416,307 17 10
To other deposits, rebate,
and interest accrued —
Not bearing interest,
£995,307 Is. lid. ;
bearing interest,
£1,569,927 Is. 7d. .. 2,565,234 3 6
To contingent liabilities, as per contra..
£439,280 10 0
115,000 0 0
14,035 18 7
110,241 0 0
134,064 8 3
57,701 4 4
2,981,542 1 4
129,511 9 0
£3,981,376 11 6
By coin, bullion, and Cash
at, bankers .. ..£539,975 0 10
By British Consols,,
£70,668 15s. 2d. at £B2
per cent., £57,948
7s. 6d.; Victoria Govern*
ment stock and munici-
pal debentures at valu-
tiojn, £44,644 Os. 3d. .. 102,592 7 9
Bv bills and remittances
in transitu .. .. 183,917 19 1
By notes of other banks.. 844 0 0
By balances due from
other banks .. .. 26,151 6 9
•By-stamps... . ... ... 1,225 19 0
By real estate consisting of —
Bank premises at cost to new bank ..
' Other real estate at valuation
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. ~
£854,706 13 5
198,077
47,717
2,751,364 1 3
129,511 9 0
£3,981,376 11 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (includin'*- salaries, ;
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.) .. .. £27,502 12 11
~ bonus to staff . .. 3;f>69 0 0
~ bank-note tax .. 1,216 6 9
~ transfer to reserve fund .. .. ' .. 10,000 0 0
~ balance .. .. .. -• •• 14,035 18 7
//
£56,323 18 3
Bj' balance brought forward .. .. .. £4,503 16 5
„ gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on deposits,
rebate on bills current, and making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts .. 51,820 110
f
£56,323 18 3
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
.£115,000 0 0
£115,000 0 0
By balance brought forward .. ~
transfer from profit and loss
.£105,000 0 0
. 10,000 0 0
£115,000 0 0
m
*-*:• -
H
W.
Li
mm*
r f r ;
f '
TTPirr®.
II
rt
15he DICTAPHONE
Actually saves 50 per cent, of your time and experfse in handling your’daily correspondence. You can dictate
at any tinte and any speed. Letters so dictated are more, eonyincing and accurate if you
TELL IT TO THE DICTAPHONE.
The Result? Better Letters and Increased Business.
Send for Dictaphone Booklet “ B,” which explains what the Dictaphone System is, does and costs.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO, GENT, 255 Clarence Street, Sydney,
London, New York, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg.
(M>
The Edge & Plum Razor!
The edge of every Plum Razor is specially fpr
shaving before we send it out. It has a perfect “shaving
edge,” which is what a great many razors HAVEN’T got,
-Price, 10/0 Post Free. *
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair Hi Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
ELECTRICITY IS USED IN EVERY
HOSPITAL.
Electricity is used ail over the
World in every Hospital and by
every Doctor/
But you can have a Battery right in
1 your own home.
Our Medical Battery is of the most
modern type, and is worked by means
of simple dry cells. There are no
acids to spill or burn, and there
is no trouble. The Battery will last
six months with daily use, and the
refill Battery is cheap, and can be put
in by a child.
Many drugs are poisonous, and,
therefore, harmful ; hence the argu-
ment in favour of electrical treatment.
Electricity does nearly all that drugs
can do, and leaves no poison behind
in the system. It is both a tonic and
sedative. Properly used, it is a safe
remedy that can be placed in the
hands of any person of ordinary
intelligence.
This Battery will Cure Rheumatism,
•Sciatica, Lumbago, Nervous Disorders,
Etc.
Price 35/- Post Free.
Booklet of Full Particulars sent Free
Anywhere.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., *2225
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
WE MOPE YOU WILL
ft
Excuse us
if we Crow
about our ** I.H.C. ” Gasolene
Engines.
Some few weeks ago we
made a Special Offer relating
to the first hundred engines
sold. When we made it. these
engines, although used exten-
sively throughout other parts
of the world, were practically
unknown in Australia.
THEIR UNDOUBTED
SUPERIORITY, however, was
so apparent to those who in-
spected them that we placed
the hundred engines WITHIN
FORTY DAYS from the date
the offer appeared—a truly re-
remarl<able, a.chlevemen t t -un-
der the circumstances.
Although the special offer
Is now withdrawn. “1.H.C.” buy-
ers who place their orders be-
fore and up to Nov. 14th, 1907.
inclusive. WILL GET THE
BENEFIT OF HAVING THEIR
ENGINES SHIPPED FREIGHT
FREE to their nearest Railway
Station. Northern Territory,
North Queensland and Western
Australia excepted.
[237]
1
V
This * applies to vertical
stationary, horizontal station-
ary. and horizontal portable engines. In sizes from 2 to 20 n.K,
BUT
On the morning ol 15th Nov. a new Gasolene Engine Price List,
which Is now in the printer’s hands, and in which prices are
slightly raised, and DELIVERY IS MADE F.O. B. at the
Principal Seaport of the State from which the engine Is shipped.
WILL POSITIVELY TAKE EFFECT.,
These engines are such time and labor savers that you
are to buy one sooner or later.
Are you going to SAVE YOUR POCKET by ordering BE-
FORE Nov. 15th, or HAVE YOU MONEY- TO BURN ?
tDGBT" There’s one thing we nearly forgot to tell you WE are
not the ONLY people who are crowing about these engines
“ l.rt.C. ” BUYERS' ARE CROWING LOU DER THAN WE ARE.”
Address your letter to Department B of our Branch House
In the State in which you live.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
•(incorporated)
Roma Street, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney ; 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Bank Street, Adelaide, and 75 York Street, Launceston
high quality and low price
Lovely Cushion Tops
Beautifully Printed in Brilliant Colors
on Fine Heavy Canvas 21 inches square.
Only 2/6 Each, wii pay carriage
T A.DIES, we have a
very large number
ot these Handsome
Cushion Tops, but
they are so gener-
ally admired you shou d
o r d<-e r, a<t onee or
you may be disappoint-
ed. The designing of
the F IjO ra 1 Decora-
tion is most graceful
and the coloring of the
flowers and foliage if
true to nature and ex-
tremely beauti-
ful, the texture of
the buds and blossoms
and the veining of the
leaves being remark-
-21 Inches Square. ably effective.
These goods will grace the most elaborately furnished man-
sion and will be equally suitable for the.cottager’s comfortable
sitting-room; they combine high quality and low
cost. The price is only 2s. 6d. Each, including
carriage to any address; Two Cushion Tops for
4s. 6 d Send Postal Note of any State to THE UNION
MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
MOTOR GARS !
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission.' Cables : “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference —F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Rand wick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE DAZZLER
ELECT
Only 31- Post Free.
Although sold at a low price this is the best Electric Pocket
Lamp on the market, INSTANTLY AVAILABLE. Press
the button- and a brilliant light floods forth. Can’t blow out, no
smoke, no'oil, no matches. Has its own powerful simple bat-
tery, which can be re-charged with cold water. Strongly made
metal case, finished in imitation leather, &c. Fits the hand and
fits the pocket. Useful for mmy purposes. A wonderful dem-
onstration of the every-day use of electricity. A NOVELTY,
AND GOOD FUN. May be used in a hundred mirth-pro-
voking ways. Every lamp tested, and will reach you ready for
immediate use. Price, only 3/-, post free to any address. Or
with BUIiL’S EYE MAGNIFYING LENSI increasing the
light threefold—a perfect dazzler, price 6/-, post free, Remit
by postal note to;
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St.. Melbourne.
SCARF PIN 'ATTACHMENTS, 1/6, 2/-, 2/8 extra.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Genturie* •
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
• -
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask vour chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
* POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd.


“Pick ” (from a quiet part of N.S.W.) :
In my district there, is a village of scarcely 300 in-
habitants, which, by having two public recreation
grounds, each governed by its own set of local trustees,
provides a fine example of the way in which the tax-
payers’ money can be wasted.
Periodically, sums aggregating from £lO to £2O are
granted by the Government for expenditure upon the
reserves, and at such flush times the trustees suffer from
insomnia, through over-taxing their brains in endeavor-
ing to find a legitimate excuse for spending the sub-
sidies. Sometimes they have a fence greeted, at other
times they pull one down. They had all native trees
uprooted, and foreign ones put in their places, but (unlike
the Chinaman and the Afghan) the strangers all died
young. A pavilion has been built to grace each reserve,
the only apparent use of which is as a nesting-place for
swallows and a storage room for park seats that were
purchased but never used.
Some time ago an athletic club was formed in the
village, the members of which, in their rural simplicity,
purposed using one of the reserves for their sports
meetings. Bicycle and running tracks were formed,
and a programme of events was duly advertised. Then
the trustees arose to a sense of their importance. They
belted the sports committee over the head with Govern-
ment Gazettes and regulations relating' to the manage-
ment of parks, and finally refused the use of the reserve
for the sports, because it was proposed to allow a publi-
can’s booth on the ground, and they, being godly men,
had not accustomed themselves to the taste of beer. The
athletic club thereupon disbanded.
On the other reserve a concrete wicket was laid down,
and the oldest inhabitant remembers that a cricket match
was played there once, but he forgets which side won.
Things have come to a sorrowful pass in
the British House of Commons. Since the advent
of the Laborites, a member may not even get
drunk, like a Britisher and a gentleman, in a
place that was once the best club in Europe ; and
the days when a Pitt could call for his “stoup,”
and, with the sympathetic approval of all present,
retire for a brief agonising space behind the
Speaker’s chair before plunging into the heat of
debate, have vanished like an industry under
h reetrade. Last month, Labor member Pete
Curran complained openly of the disgusting
drunken habits of certain of the gentlemen of
England, and, though the press united in con-
demning his action, he wasn’t sent to the Tower,
or anything, and in fact went scot-free. For
that matter, another Laborite, T. F. Richards
(Wolverhampton), got up and supported him :
What Mr. Curran said was quite true. One of the
members referred to represented an important con-
stituency. (Shouts of “Name.”) It was a burning-
shame that a leader of men should constantly go to the
House of Commons under the influence of drink, and if
he did nob stop it he (Mr. Richards) would name him.
This sort of spirit connotes the beginning of the
Downfall and Coming Calamity that Greid and
B. Smith have given notice of, and indicates the
near approach of the Home and Marriage-tie
busting epoch.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
• ® •
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
o(t Th , oSe who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS
THE I CHEST m p "ne,. P °„ C °™?’ EIFFICULTY <>P BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
aWe asitEFFECTS A PriMPT^i^pT 11 f 1 a '' d . to th ° Se who are sub J eet to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
v . ’ n , . A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
known to X ‘lf’? 11 or , Asthma to , become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it as taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN. ’ ’
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
com^i^ e ormin? e H a L S T r^L h o SVe^ d a « n^l l lu erof bottles of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic
jroved a T u ke medicines I have taken (including those from Drs.) none have
I ea so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended it to many others. Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER, Proprietor of “ The Lilydale Express,” Lilydale, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
] Thl Please send by post to Copmanhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine for
Plmlp I m Th ] ast me <bcme you sent t 0 me oure d one man that had a distressing cough for twelve years.
Please find post-office order enclosed for payment. Yours thankfully, y
WILLIAM CANHAM, Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES GRATITUDE,
of influer^v rne whPp a T Si Y’ —Your Broncliitis Cure has relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
offer mv lnthan tha 1 t al }, good comes from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
very truly a tthks t 0 you, through whom this particular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours
GEO. S. CALDWELL, Camberwell, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your Bronchitis Cure with very speedv and good results for
11 sp^ 1 * 6 < oUff l a "v! co < -,. ori the chest. lam sending you this testimonial to make any use of it you wish I have
been troubled'“lithTwcSlf can unhesitatingly say that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
Sit th th cou g h . smee - I have also given it to my little boy, aged two years, with equally wood
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you every suceess-I am, yours truly, 3 g
. J. ERSKINE, Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
„ „ ■ . AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
i™ 0 aB '° ’ n Sydney, I suffered from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my
room foi about aweek, at the end of which time, feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact mv bush
rioPfnr S' But I r tU P t 0?, i oon - *°r. the very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the
f A °_ C f“ r t< ? , l me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders was frightful and
mo< l \v lr lonff week f I v y as confined to my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his
medicine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where I resided told nm of a
hearne s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in
the chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude to you, tell you that after the second
bottle, my cough had ceased ; but what is more astonishing, the pains from pleurisy entirely left me and in about
a week I was able to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully, y ’ about
[ J- BRAHAM, Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Pl ar S ! r '7~ We , havo t 0 thank your bronchitis cure that we have one little boy spared to us as wp
nearly lost him. Aiter doctors had given him up, we saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure and <>a ve it a
trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours faithfully, ure > ana gave 11 a
(Mrs.) E. GRANT, Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
, . We .°P en bear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of. A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a ohihl
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite cured in three doses. We are, faith full v^vours
THOMASON, CHATER and CO., 69 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREATMENT BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE,
to S . ir --H a . vin S been a sufferer from bronchitis for a number of years and not being- able
sinL f TmiThanni to tel? vn kl tT m' Br o nc . Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it on and
am yours truly, * " PPy to tell you that 1 now feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its worth.-l
W. J. CLARKE, Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
I cannotTpeakVibovTa S ? a J! l bo , ttle of y01 ? r Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible, as
seven months old She had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she was
not had a return of it sineo tt • u ® ei jin„ from bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old, and has
not naa a return of it since. It is a splendid medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.-I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE, Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.—COMPLETELY CURED.
suffered for whiffffner'rirfT me , of bronchitis and asthma from which I had
difficulty of breathing-was so dfstre’ssimr thaT^nr h n?,Tt d - IWaSSCa - rCe x V u V | r fr ® e from cou " hs , and frequently the
lodgment from a sense of dutwll in mf nat "succession I had to sit up. I write to you this acknow-
getting very much worse and’ at the time T itl treatnl ? n . t had failed. For a year previous I had been
violent cough, yoUr m f f dl « lne confined to bed suffering from a most
medicine gave me Welcome belief and I stadH v im„ d «5S are ? t,y heyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the
quite well.—-Yours sincerely, ’ y mproved as I continued the treatment, until I became as lam now,
. . H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
bottßsoTy^r^ronchitisTnd lAsthma 1 Asthma Cu^ th ?h«d thankfulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
and had tried everything and had ad vice but ter / iWy from asthma for about three years,
day or night out of my chair If I went to hedT t-ui / £ ad been for a fortnight at a time without moving
years ago from Tasmania. One of mvundes«,*2£ ble -& lle dow, l’ We ca “ e to New Zealand about three
about five years ago and has never had the ffcred w 1 1h asthma for a number of years till he took your cure
ing your advertisementin TasmanLn vf lnoP l,e ?A" ew thls ’ but it; had passed out of my mind until read-
*—*• - h * ««• >•»"'
W. McCOMBE, Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS A
SUPPLY TO LONDON.
order for Bronchitis Cure tc^be^mt’toVny 1 the 27 f h in 'i'hich you acknowledge my
greatly relieved if not cured or your viduable w their annual bronchial attacks will be
tion with my two-year-old son has been nre eminentlv >f?titfa r e Parat l 3 ',, 0 '' 11 experience, and that in connec-
both old and young, and I offer you the use of this letter S° y nimend iC for
HERBERT E. WHITE, ’
Holmsdale,” Bowral Street, Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Hearne’s Cpre. "an I'ZZZlfmTute* g f at * eneflt teking
taking it. I trust this letter will induce otheK try it -Yourl truly, malrtyr t 0 Acute Bronchitis before
’ E. F. BROTHERTON, 223 Chapel Street, Prahran, Victoria.
unprincipled persons to make imitationsffa'ch lafflngUs* medicine f dU — d a number of
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which’has none of the benS effects that Mb PTlfe
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fnr>f and fn vor. + • HRONCHITIS CURE
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that yon get it ’ rGqUest y ° U m 7° Ur own interests-to be
HE ARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d. • Earo'e Size 4.s fid Q n i r i n-v pr, * + inr t • TT
Pronrietor W p TTT?AT?TVP pi, • f n , ‘’ r * * * Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Propnetor, W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Porwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally. J
NOTICE. Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person. *
fl/ sw - Branch Office : Wo. 5, First Floor , Greeks Chambers, 522 George Street , Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable*
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarßet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
K6c LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
of 12-gauge, 6g to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 64 to 6|lb. Post Free* it»3 l^S.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, 'posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
for.d), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. U*r- Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT,
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. 1)r. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS* iifit Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all' I*egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Oaiine
HAVE YOU TRIED THIS
FACE CREAM YET?
Do so now. It will remove all dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, from
the pores, and keep your skin soft and clear.
It is the one thing that will enable your com-
plexion to withstand the dry heat of the
Australian climate.
Whatever the weather, Oatine will not go
bad. It contains no animal fat or dangerous
mineral salts, being made from pure fresh
oats. It does not grow hair. Men use it
after shaving.
Get a jar of Oatine now. It costs 1/9,
or a larger size, holding four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
HYPNOTISM
A HYONE can learn to exert a magic
influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
-power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” M pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism. Magnetic Healing. Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29
V
YSON’S
lightful
“Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
and wickedly true.”*
6d.
De-
B
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOUK” HOOK STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SA PODIA ” AII'KIA JM EMAMED gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE" GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
o rr n FULTON COMPOUNDS.”™^
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Tshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Britisb=flustralasian
8*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Prirf* POST FpEE > P er y e^>
* * *vV uu* j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham & C-
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS SUITINGS
for SUMMER.
Periodical Shipments reach as right through
the Season.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Samples and
Self-Measure Charts.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
TAILORS,
—94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.—


Mother Seigels
SYRDP
The World-famous
Remedy
All the world knows that Mother
Seigel’s Syrup cures Indigestion and
all the ills that arise from that dis-
tressing complaint. It has been
nearly 40 years before the public of
five continents, and in that time has
effected unnumbered cures. Many
thousands are well to-day, who but
for this great remedy would be feeble
invalids—if alive at all! It always
cures, and it cures because.it acts
directly on stomach, liver and bowels,
cleanses the blood and tones the
whole system.
“Mother Seigel’s Syrup has
been worth its weight in gold
to me. For a long time I
suffered severely from Indi-
gestion. My food seemed to
stop half way down, where it
lay on my chest, causing
intense pain for hours. I had
no appetite and got so weak
that I could hardly stand. My
head ached dreadfully and
there were dark circles under
my eyes. Nothing relieved
me but Mother Seigel’s Syrup;
that quite cured me.”—From
Mrs. Rodas, Orient Dining
Rooms, 54, Bpurke St. East,
Melbourne, May 2nd, 1907.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup cures Indi-
gestion, Biliousness, Constipation,
Headache, Wind, Palpitation, Loss
of Appetite,Dizzinessand the many
other ills that arise from a disor-
dered slate of the digestive system
Prevents and Cures
Indigestion
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is a true food and contains Albumen and Fibrine which go to
form Blood, Bone, Brain and Muscle. Beef-teas and Meat-Extracts
are stimulants only.
BOVRIL is liquid life.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Works s England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
I paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
&
i£\l
5
Marvellous Reduction
of Excess Fat
WITHOUT DRASTIC EXERCISE OR STARVATION
AND WITH ABSOLUTELY NO ILL, AFTER-EFFECTS
We can turn your present ugly, unshapely outlines into lines of
beauty and grace, giving you instead of your present cumbrous,
ungainly figure, one that will be neat, trim and symmetrical.
“FATCURE”
the absolutely NON-poisonous pleasant-to-take fat-reducer, cures
Obesity and overcomes Corpulency. The worst cases permanentll
cured in a few weeks. The cure is permanent and lasting/ No return
to the old condition after treatment is discontinued. In everv
case treated, improvement in general health is at once ’ noticeable
“Fatcure” is the only NON-poisonous remedy known to science
Send a 2d. Stamp for Free Trial Sample.
•Enclose 2d. stamp to ns and let us send you-under closed
cover, without marks-a Free Sample of “ Fatcure » and our book
giving full particulars. All treatment sent in plain wrappers
WIL HAVE, HUNDREDS of GRATEFUL LETTERS.
Manager,- Wat worth Co.—You are at liberty to refer any scenties tn me j . ,
over two stone under three months, and improved my general health I now feel snlenrhH UCe< H Wei *^
formerly a hardship, is now a real pleasure!* Vrs. W. J. PERRETT"°FrSSoS*S? ’
Hours : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
CAEE, if convenient, and we will weigh you privately and furnish you with full particulars.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
Twilight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIS vaunted twilight ! That romantic time
Extolled in song as mystic and superb.
The scene’s a city thoroughfare, and I’m
A morbid minstrel sitting on the kerb.
No pensive landscape I behold, nor wide
Horizon glimmering, for the sun does not
Descend midst riven gold, but seems to slide
Down Smith’s dilapidated chimney-pot.
In vain I seek for panoramic beams
Of gold, but find none to apostrophise,
Except the pork-shop’s lurid lamp that gleams
In iridescent saveloys and pies.
Bards sing of purling streams, and vesper bells,
And aspen leaves, but nothing they disclose
Of women’s screams, and teething babies’ yells,
And Kelly when he’s yowling with the “Joes.
And Dawson sawing on his violin
Preparatory exercises that
Sound more like scraping out a salmon tin,
Or treading on the tail of Thomas Cat.
fhe wand’ring scents that wander up to me,
Are whiffs of burning soot, and Irish stews,
And Bradley’s breath—who’s always prone to be
Communicative when he’s on the “ booze.”
And cometh ever in the twilight air
The fragrance of adjacent breweries,
Commingled with that whiffy wanderer,
Eve’ssisterfrom the South—the bone-mill breeze.
If haply tranquil eve by me is spent
In subtle thought, ’tis as I meditate
Profoundly how I’ll square the blessed rent,
And all I owe the grocer up to date.
And mute reflections touching bills-of-sale,
And warrants of distraint, and garnishees,
Fraud summonses, writs, income-tax, and gaol,
And other earthly probabilities.
Of drifting song the cadences I meet
With no enchantment make my bosom throb ;
One twilight song that echoes down our street
Is “ Fresh rock oysters ! Thirty fer a bob ! ”
Another from the girl next door is heard,
Whose supplication rends the twilight air,
To Take me back to Dixie,” and, my word,
I’d pawn my Sunday clothes to pay her fare !
No thirsting quadrupeds stray down to drink
At crystal streams, as minstrels say they do ;
But bipeds to the pub plod, whom I think
Need four substantial legs instead of two.
Nor careless shepherds homeward to the fold
Wend merrily beneath the waking stars ;
The only careless mortals I behold
Are mad-brained scorchers driving motor cars.
Who ever rowed at even-tide and found
Recumbent herds and rest-inviting logs ?
When (d— nit all!)—there’s nothing scattered
round
At twilight but banana-skins and dogs !
There was a time when I could sit and see
The rising moon, and consolation find
Erewhile the flue of Parker’s pottery
Was built in front of it; lam resigned.
The tallow mill blots out the evening star,
And other glorious orbs. The twilight’ hour
S monopolised by Fire Brigades that are
The vain possessors of a look-out tower.
Meanwhile I gaze up at a ragged bit
Of twilight sky, whose line is destitute
Of any transient object prone to flit,
Bar McNamara’s thieving eat—the brute !
Hence oft to poetise my bosom pines
For inspiration, but demurs to write
An ode to a gasometer, or lines
Inspired by an incandescent light.
VIC.
ALFBED E. BRIDGES.
The Picture.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WELL,” said the Black-and-white Artist,
“I must be off. My editor expects a
drawing by half-past-eight this even-
ts- I must really let him have it some time to-
morrow. I have a conscience.” He rose from
the table and bustled into the street.
“ Nice c hap, Ketts,” commented Arthur Mowle
cheerfully.
Carson nodded. He had just made the ac-
quaintance of Mowle per favor of Ketts—a casual
affair of the same table—and had at once fallen
under the spell of the quiet voice and not unkindly
cynicism of the best talker he had ever met. He
was, in spite of his profession of the Law, a simple
soul, fully charged with the romantic notions of
the layman, to whom a studio, with its uncon-
ventional inhabitants, its long-haired enthusiasts,
its velveteen coats, its models, is a kind of en-
chanted wood. How should Carson know that
long hair is out of fashion amongst the modern
craftsmen, that they no longer wear velveteen
coats, that some of them are total abstainers and
respectable married men ! The models certainly
remain, but the lawyer’s fervid ideas of their fasci-
nating wickedness would as certainly have
flattered those usually dull young ladies.
Upon the mysterious subject of the nude,
the only topic which Art holds for the utter
Philistine, he found Mowle absorbingly interest-
ing. Yes, it was all very delightful and
Bohemian, this peep into a new world. But
here, too, he was out of date, for Mowle would
have bitterly resented the accusation of Bohemian-
ism. To him the word stood for personal unclean-
liness, bad beer, and frowsy immorality. It was
indeed one of his amazing theories that high
artistic attainment did not necessarily rest upon
neglect of one’s wife and children. He was not a
little amused at Carson’s artless curiosity concern-
ing what were, to him, the veriest commonplaces
of his craft.
“ Come along to my studio and have a smoke,
Mr. Carson,” he said, reaching for his hat. And
so they left the cafi, and walked through the
glittering dusk of a winter evening, Carson finding
fresh beauties in the familiar streets as the artist
drew his attention to them—the long golden
reflections of the lights on the wet blocks, the dim
fronts of the tall buildings melting into the sky,
the brilliant gowns of the women under the
electric arcs of the playhouse entrances. Really,
one needed a guide to one’s own city.
Ten minutes later found them stumbling from
the fourth flight of stairs across a landing to the
studio door. A rat scuttled away along the wains-
coting ; Carson heard the patter of its feet in the
dark. Then came the rattle of keys, the creak of
the dooi, the snap of a switch, and there was
light. “ Come in,” said Mowle.
Carson, as he cut the end off a cigar, looked
curiously about the room. Studies of men and
women in every stage of undress were pinned
along the walls. He got up to examine them.
“Students’ work,” explained Mowle. “That’s
a clever one you’re-looking at, eh? Quite a
young girl, too.”
“ She looks—er—mature,” said the other.
“ I mean the girl who drew it,” laughed the
artist.
“ D’you mean to say,” inquired the startled
Carson, wheeling round, “ that girls—young girls
—draw this sort of thing ? ”
Mowle nodded. “ Why not ?” he said.
“ I wouldn’t let any daughter of mine do it.”
Carson was smugly scandalised.
Didn’t imagine you had any old enough,”
Mowle answered. “ You must have married at
ten years old. ”
“ course I haven’t. But if I had one.
Don’t be so literal. Anyway, I wouldn’t let my
wife—l can fancy myself suggesting it to her !
She wouldn’t speak to me for a week.”
“ Why not ?” asked Mowle again.
“ Because—it must give them ideas.”
“Well,” Mowle leaned back in his chair,
“ you’re the first man I’ve met who has frankly
objected to ideas. Very few have any, I know,
but ”
“ You are wilfully misunderstanding me,” inter-
rupted Carson. “ It’s the sort of ideas.”
“You Philistines,” said Mowle, “frequently
make me tired, but sometimes amuse me. D’you
know what I’d do if I had the education of the
Commonwealth on my hands ? I’d put every kid
from the age of 14 to 16 through two years of the
life-class. It would give them ideas—sensible
ones. It would knock all this infernal, giggling
nonsense out of the girls, and teach the boys the
clean facts of natural beauty, not the false conceal-
ments of society. You ought to see my girls—
they’re the nicest lot of youngsters, and the most
sensible, that I’ve come across. I’ve often felt
tempted to marry one of them myself. When
they do marry, they’ll make better wives and
mothers for having learned to appreciate the
beauty of the body instead of prudishly despising
it. Prudery is not modesty, my dear Mr. Carson.
And the boys are a healthy, clean-living set for
the most part, with a comradely feeling for the
girls. They are all so used to the flesh that they
have ceased to have any morbid curiosity about it.
They’re fine girls and boys—just fine. There are
exceptions. But, then, one will always find ex-
ceptions. ”
‘ ‘ But the models ! ” object ;d Carson. “ Surely
they’re an immoral class.”
“Good God!” cried the artist, “don’t talk
like a Sunday-school superintendent. Immoral!
What exactly do you mean by that ? ”
“Surely there can’t be two meanings?” said
the lawyer.
“ There are two thousand. The exact reading
varies with climate, with race, with the indivi-
dual. Ido hate this cant of morality. Some of
these girls are not what they might be, but are
you ? Many of them are beautiful. That’s all
that matters, really. From an artistic standpoint,
beauty is the one justification for existence.
Beauty either of mind or body. Don’t cant, my
friend. And don't fling stones. ”
“They must be immodest,” persisted Carson.
“ And ‘ what is modesty ? ’ said jesting Pilate.”
“ Oh, well —to show themselves like that to a
man ”
“You are a little coarse,” answered the artist,
“ but I can forgive. They are beautiful, and for
what is beauty save for admiration ? ”
“Look here” (Carson was roused), “would
you let your wife sit for the nude ? ”
“ Haven’t got one,” replied the artist.
“Well, your sister ? ”
“ Nor any sisters. If I had, I really don’t
know. You see, there is a certain deplorable and
selfish jealousy in human nature —a kind of mono-
polistic idea, whose emblem is the Turkish
yashmak. I should probably develop it with
matrimony. But I don’t think it’s necessarily a
worthy sentiment. ”
“ I do. I have a wife. The very idea is sacri-
lege. The fact would destroy my love for her.”
Mowle waved a deprecating hand. “ Don’t
let’s get down to the personal—it’s so apt to spoil
argument. But I assure you, you’d be astonished
if you knew one or two experiences I have had
with women who actually wished to sit for the
nude. Women of unimpeachable morality—so
far as I know —but with beauty and vanity. One
woman came up here for a portrait-sitting in the
usual evening dress. One day, poking about the
studio, she came upon a sketch in oils I’d done for
my ‘Psyche ’ —you may remember the picture. She
was charmed with it—the model was a very lovely
girl. She sat looking at it. ‘ How beautiful ! ’
she said, and then, half to herself, ‘lf I only
dared!' I was paralysed. But, though she was
timid at first, she did dare. She had the two pic-
tures sent to her house. And that woman’s name
is on the lists of a dozen charity organisations, the
Government House list, and a hundred other
places where respectability is rampant. But she
had a fine shape, and was proud of it. I think I
(Continued on next page.)


ACCIDENTS
WILL . .
HAPPEN
Zam-Buk Balm Heals all kinds of Injuries.
Accidents will happen in the best-regulated families,
and the necessity of keeping a reliable “ first-aid ” for
home use cannot be too strongly insisted upon.
Where a pot of Zam-Buk is kept on a handy shelf, no
member of the family is at a loss in emergency. The
breadwinner dresses his injuries with Zam-Buk Balm,
and knows that its powerful antiseptic action
.will clean out the wound, preventing suppuration
or poisoning. The housewife flies to the
useful little pot for her bruises, cuts and
burns, and the little ones cry out for
Zam-Buk when they fall, because they
know it will soothe smarting pain and
heal quickly.
Zam-Buk is a pure healing balm made from rich
medicinal herbs. Prompt use of Zam-Buk Balm after
an accident soothes the pain, and induces a clean,
rapid healing right away.
Mr. S. Riley, c/o The Court House Hotel, Cobar, N.S.W.,
says “ I can testify to the healing and soothing virtues of
Zam-Buk Balm. Whilst my premises were undergoing a few
alterations, I did a little carpentering and bricklaying, and
very often my hands would be cut, bruised and knocked
about considerably. After my day’s work they used to ache, and
it was with difficulty I could get to sleep. I secured a pot of
Zam-Buk Balm, and applied a little to my hands, resulting in
reduced swelling, and perfect healing of the parts.”
m
mm
W/A
Zam-Buk, the great herbal healing balm, proinptly cures Boils, Eczema, Bruises, Outs,
Burns, Scalds, Ulcers, Barber’s Bash, Bad Legs and Ankles, Sore Backs, Eruptions, Piles,
etc. Zam-Buk is a household necessity—a family safeguard— because of its marvellous
range of utility. Sold by all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 per pot, or 3/6 for special family
size (containing nearly four times the 1/6), or direct, post free, from the Zam-Buk
Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A
. SOOTHING • flNT<SEp r , r
honor her more for that very pride.”
“You don’t mean to say that all women are
like that, I hope ? ” said Carson.
“ I mean to say that, though what you call
modesty is strong, yet it can be conquered no less
by vanity than by necessity. Not in all women,
but in most of ’em. When a women who is justly
proud of the gift which Heaven has given her
beauty—comes across the man whom she in-
stinctively feels thinks more of that beauty than
of modesty, she may be induced to display it.
With an artist, a specialist in beauty, she is no
more ashamed than with a doctor. Ask even the
photographers—they’ll surprise you.”
“ My wife,” began Carson unctuously.
“Is a paragon,” said Mowle, laughing. “ She
is beautiful and modest. Withal she is none of
your silly girls, but—l have heard it from dozens
of men about as many different women. And
each time I make it a point to believe it. But
why will you drag her in ? It isn’t quite the
thing.”
“Well, you’re a man of liberal ideas,” com-
plimented the lawyer awkwardly. “You will
understand there’s no disrespect. But a man
must judge women by what he knows of the one
nearest to him, and ”
“ The worst of it is, he knows so devilish
little.” . .
Carson puffed at his cigar. It had gone out.
He had never been so interested in a discussion in
his life. Intellectually, Mowle antagonised him ;
personally, there was a strong attraction. His
point of view was so new. But he could not have
any depth of feeling, nor any real respect for
women. The lawyer began to pity him a little-
had he only a charming, sensible girl-wife he
would soon lose these inhuman ideas. Please
observe that Carson was just like you or me ;
any point of view which was barren of cant and
cheap sentimentality was inhuman. Darwinism,
Paganism, Socialism, all those things which deal
in elemental fact repel you and me and Carson.
What the latter could not understand was how
this cynic should possess a sense of the beautiful.
For, of course, Mowle was a cynic.
“ I’ll give you one more instance of what I was
saying,” said the artist, suddenly. “About four
years ago a student brought a friend up here. I
wanted a head for a Diana—for obvious reasons
beyond the ordinary range of my models. This
girl was the very thing. I asked her to sit. She
was immensely flattered. I showed her into the
little room where the models get ready when she
came for the first sitting, of course only expect-
ing her to take off her collar and to do her hair
in the way I showed her from a photo. I got my
palette ready—she seemed a deuced long time.
Then she came in, and I give you my word she
was clothed in one charming blush, and nothing
else. ‘ But, my dear young lady ! ’ I gasped,
‘ I only wanted your collar off.’ She was quite
hurt. It appears that she had got the idea from
the friend that this was the way girls invariably
sat for me, and when I saw that she was willing
to pose for the figure, I got to work, and made a
study of her which I think is the very best thing I
have done.”
“ May I see the sketch ? ” asked Carson.
“Well —I hardly like to show it to you after
telling you the circumstances. The usual fiction
that it is a composite creation is laid bare for you
—and, after all, it’s the girl’s secret. It seems
hardly fair.”
“ It’s a thousand to one that I don’t know her.”
“Ye-es, that’s true.”
“ And I hope I’m a decent man. Come now,
even if I did I’m not likely to bray it about.”
“All right,” said Mowle. He dragged out
several bulky canvases thickly coated with dust.
From behind these he took a smaller picture and
placed it, after brushing it, on an easel. “Excuse
me for a moment, while I wash this dust off my
hands,” he said, going to a corner of the studio.
Carson stood before the picture. It was a lovely
little thing, in sweet limpid color and masterly
drawing. Carson paid small attention to the
technical excellence of it, staring only at the face
—the meek, downcast eyes, the full lips, the little
ringlets which dropped their delicate curtains
before the pink ears. His nails dug into his
palms, there was blood upon his lip. . . .
Mowle stood behind him again. “ Well,” he
said.
Carson knew the lust of Cain. His fingers
itched with the mad desire for the artist s tbioat.
He restrained it. He felt a still more insane
impulse toward laughter. He restrained that too.
“ It is very beautiful,” he said, in a low voice.
“ You can see the type of girl,” said Mowle,
maddeningly unaware. “Not a bit different
from those we meet at our friends’ houses. Only,
if you met her there, you would never dare to
imagine this, eh ? ”
“Is it a good likeness?” asked Carson, un-
steadily.
“ So far as I can remember, excellent.”
“ No,” cried the lawyer. “ I’d swear it was a
lie if I were told it of her. But this is good
enough evidence to make her very unhappy if she
ever sees it again.”
Mowle took the picture off the easel and turned
its face to the wall again. “ Oh, she’s in no
danger. Of course were any questions asked, it
is merely a composite picture ; for the matter of
that, a remarkable coincidence.”
“Yes,” said Carson. “ A remarkable coinci-
dence!” He sat with his face carefully held
from the light. “ That being so, of course you
could sell it.”
“ I suppose I could.” Mowle was not in-
terested in this phase of the affair.
“Well,” answered the lawyer, “I’ve taken
rather a fancy to it, and ”
“You know the true story of it,” Mowle inter-
rupted. “I’m afraid you’re the one person I
couldn’t conscientiously allow to have it ! ” He
stroked his chin doubtfully.
Carson kept his temper, but his hands were
trembling. He was the one man entitled to the
picture, but how could he let the painter know
that? “ Don’t be unreasonable,” he said. “ Even
if I had it I shouldn’t be the more likely to roar
the tale from the housetops. I can give it forth as
a composite affair just as well any other man.
I’m not unnecessarily truthful.”
The artist hesitated. “It doesn t seem quite
the fair thing to sell it at all. But, after all—yes,
you may have it. On condition that you don t
sell it again without my approval.”
Thus the picture changed hands. Carson would
not leave it for Mowle to frame, but carried it
away under his arm. He came down the many
dark flights of stairs, and at the foot held out his
hand to the artist with something of an effort.
“ Good-bye,” said Mowle —then, as an after-
thought, “of course, you won’t mind my
mentioning that the copyright of the study still
belongs to me. I must hold that, as a safeguard
against reproduction.”
“ I shan’t reproduce it,” answered the lawyer,
grimly.
Nor did he. He took it across the water to his
home, and there, in his study, carefully cut it into
ribbons and threw the strips into the dying
embers of the grate. Then he went up to bed.
His wife turned a face, brilliant-eyed and flushed
with sleep, upon ■ him. “ How’ late you are,
dear!” she said. And he held his peace. What
was the use ? Beside—amazing—he found that
he still loved her.
HOWARD ASHTON.
Firing on the Hill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rnsE steamer stoker curses
Because an air shaft’s wrong.
They fit him into verses,
And turn him into song.
The greaser reads a sermon
In every swinging throw.
The trimmers growl, a-squirmin’
In bunkers hot and low.
They’re all for ever fretting,
Because they’re treated ill.
I’d like to see ’em sweating—
A-firing on the hill —
Stoking on the Paikok,
With thirty waggons on,
Choking in the Paikok,
When air and daylight's gone,
And hear the roaring funnel
A-thrashing in the tunnel,
A-firing on the Paikok,
With just your trousers on.
The Tank can close her winders
And keep some smoke outside,
But she’s as hot as cinders.
And so we are half-fried —
Five tunnels close together,
And with the wind behind,
Leave you in doubt’s to whether
You’re dead or only blind.
So all you steamer fellows
Who’d like to change your jobs,
Come where the Bull Yank bellows
And where the Big Tank sobs,
A-sweating up the Paikok
Or on the Crofton Hill,
A-fretting up the Paikok —
Come on and have your fill.
A-squinting at the gauges
And sanding when she rages,
With all her drivers humming
And us all standing still.
The driver’s eyes are searching
The track ahead for flies —
He likes to see them perching—
You’ll see it in his eyes.
A most unholy riot
Is coming from her stack —■
Big Thirteen’s off her diet,
And spitting cinders back.
She says she don’t like Brunner,
She wants some Coalbrookdale—
I only hope they run her
To-morrow, on the mail,
And chase her up the Paikok
On a thirty-waggon train,
And race her up the Paikok
And thrash her down again,
And school her in her steaming
Until she’s fairly screaming.
Then blow her up for tuppence
And chuck her in a drain.
If I was up in Heaven,
And feeling pretty well,
I’d say, “ Give me Eleven
To fire on for a spell.”
If I’d a touch of liver
And needed exercise
I’d cross the flowing river
That flows by Paradise,
And I’d raise sweat instanter—
She’s a narrow-gutted fire—
But I’d belt her to a canter -
Up the hill, and then retire.
Pd say, “ We re on the Paikok,
You’d better get along.
Hurray! We’re on the Paikok,
And Pm feeling fairly strong;
You’re a pretty brass-bound daisy,
But you’re too damn fat and lazy.
So I'd hunt her up the Paikok,
And then I’d say “ So-longJ”
And yet if I went oiling,
Or trimming coal at sea,
I’d wish myself back toiling
On Twelve or Number Three ;
I’d long to hear them blowing
Their mellow “double-chime ”
To see their funnels throwing
Volcanoes as they climb ;
The general engine verses
Are generally wrong—
An engine never curses,
She only sings a song.
A-stamping up the Paikok
With thirty waggons on ;
A-tramping up the Paikok
When air and daylight’s gone,
And just the roaring funnel
A-thrashing in the tunnel,
A-singing up the Paikok
With just your trousers on.
maoriland.
WILL LAWSON.


THE OLDBJT BEJT
m
SAMLnJJ'
For over
60 years Ayer's Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried.
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia, i
Africa, or wherever you will
there you will find thisfam-
ily medicine ready
to give relief.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla-as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
D
And Artistic
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing- the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent, ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm
We are the largest dealers in post cards in. Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. J
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
‘flwjd**
A SILVER-MOUNTED
PURSE FOR A LADY.
The pattern illustrated here is one of the
most popular, being of choice leather, fitted
with card case and having a strap fastening—
with solid silver mounts —price 12/G.
Whatever you want in the way of leather
goods you are safe in buying from “the store
where quality counts,” as we are sole agents
for one of the biggest manufacturers.
This fact not only enables us to guarantee
the quality of the goods, but, as the middle-
men’s profits are cut out, vve can actually give
you a better article at a lower price.
We pay the postage to any address, and if
the article is not entirely satisfactory you may
return it and we will cheerfully refund your
money.
For other leather goods see the big “A.&C.”
Catalogue, sent post free on request.
ANGUS AND COOTE,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
GEORGE STREET. Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY
Opposite the Barometer, Q. V. Markets.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Remedv
gent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG iiEN, giving instructions for the
gpeedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
0 lost all hope before reading this book.
I Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
, RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 y 2, 2/9, & 4/6.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name ;
MSDY
mHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS. 11,000.
No Money Wanted.
Florists’ Seed Supple Co.
en HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JUDGED BY RESULTS
I It is no wonder that BEECHAM'S PILLS enjoy the popularity
they do* In both hemispheres they are the favorite medicine
in countless thousands of households, and their value in
correcting trouble appertaining to the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys,
and Bowels is a matter of common knowledge*
BCCCHAM'S
PIUS
/, U ■
are specially useful in the early stages of disease. Directly
any symptoms of Indigestion, Flatulence, Biliousness, or
Constipation show themselves, the sufferer should at once
commence a course of these pills; and he will find that m
the immediate improvement, rapid cure, and consequent
saving of time and trouble, they
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
So/d Everywhere in boxes, price 10%d. (36 pills), 1/1% (56
pills), and 2/9 (168 pills).
GET BACK YOUR STRENGTH.
m
m
Weak Men, Rheumatics, Nervous People,
and Those who have Lame Backs, Sciatica,’
Indig-estion, Constipation, and Kidney and
Bladder Troubles '
May get Cured STAY Cured.
Any man or woman who will secure us can have
pur appliances and
PAY WHEN CURED
You run no risk. Failure to cure'costs you nothing,
as we take all the chances. Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
is the best Electric body appliance that has ever
been invented. It will last longer and care quicker,
than any other, and is guaranteed not to burn or
blister, as the old style belts do.
SPECIAL NOTICE,—We receive thousands of testimonials from people who have used
our appliances. Copies of these letters will be sent upon application, or can be seen at our office!
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE. A beautiful Illustrated Medical Book which
should be read by every adult. This will be sent free, sealed in plain wrapper all charts
prepaid. It is free and can be had for the asking. V tapper, an cnarges
Don't neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a written
diagnosis of your case FREE. WRITE TO-DAY. a written
THE DR. AUSTIN /M PROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.
3*7 COtO/VS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. ‘ro
On the
of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST
IH.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
M a y be bad from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd. and
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.’ Tbfs rnn<niificent ™ t ?oU fiq| , o 7 t 0
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations with Beantmd 'lw »!?**!!
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published It i* a m-hp *° re ff
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical *9 r .' ftU
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suft'erkm humanity ****
C&c° n Sr? S ’ i exhausting, or painful diseases. IXO smilJrZook has ever S '
FREE A - - Paffe specunen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored ~'late
Also “ MIND “"and'-• M HIND JSJSJR 'ffiSf jfe
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “Elm toy House," /5/ £//2r«jhef/l.«V ;
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK SYDNEY '*


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, moreveg-
etablw—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
wilMo that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Go* Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i£
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
mm
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
& J.
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64. PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-jjH
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
*' PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle - //*
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
V
V
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE &c.
_ The Latest IrCjM-oved.
WrtU for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Cdw. NORTON,. 64 Bms SmEß®. SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGOESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
tke
ATTACK
of
0
7
ie&Z v*
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M.BEETHAM &88«, GSieltenfiam, England.
writs—Elliott Bros, Sydney; Felton, Grlmwade & Co., Melbourne.
GRIMiLI'S INDIAN CIGAfIffTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NervoßßCopghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIStAULT & CoS INDIAN «IGAR-
ETTES. Sold by ell Chemists.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
sisra^iNrjsisisr.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
©OSOO
a&L.
The Beaver Mmnd has stood the test of time*
(DhlF
Mbb
WOLF
Ji
or
%t the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, §3 York Street,
A,so at SYDNEY
', " THK BLO CK," 7
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & T* Maxfidd, Ltd. Sheffield
/
--.uL
- « : '*r
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST,, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying 1 , Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
EEtc., Etc.
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL'S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK'S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STtAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ fools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
lath|s
Oriilii ; Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
&SPANNER
Self-Adjusting—Self-Releasing.
A ONE-HAND TOOL, AUTOMATIC.
STRONGEST, SIMPLEST, anti BESt.
The Greatest Labor-saving Wrench on the Market.
Patented
Unique
A Strictly High-Grade Tool.
One Set of Three forms a Complete Kit
of Wrenches and Spanners, to 2)4 in.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole
Agents,
263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
