

fdgfdgfdg
fdg
f , , „y. >; >
FOR
fd
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
i r tt> tctthw »vn QTrnnxTD TT A NT) PT.A’NTTfts ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES,
L '
MCLAREN COMPOUND
TEAM TRACTION ENGINE
es
HOB
, 7&f' : • ‘i ':«.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
nt St., Sydney,
:■ V ' '
McLaren Com
pound
*
;
Si*.-
-c -
Send for
ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTIVE
LISTS.
For Genera/ HAULAGE, CLEARING LAND, DRIVING PUMPS, SEPARATORS, CHAFF CUTTERS, SHEEP
SHEARING MACHINES, PLOUGHING BY DIRECT TRACTION, &C-, &c.
g
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON’S
fdg
fdgfdgfdg
chubb t s nnnuc
STRONG ROOM UUUIw
UationaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO, OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A GIBB, Manager.
Active Age to and Canvassers Wanted.
8p aß§:■ #§|p^
zL
’• V
u
'mk
■m
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT& CO.
SH3MOHD
@
ot/j.
■
'
IOOM
&8S
i :
LIMITED,
MACKENZIE, Manager.
BENSDORPS
fdg
mm
is the Queen of all Ohms
FQF^
l Aroma,Strengtlu-Purifo:
yOE/J
Trade Mark.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
PE £>
.
£
m o
Pn
t
m
t'?.
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
.Sole Makers— SEND EOR CATALOGUE. >
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making' Machinery.
fdg
AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW
LILY CUP.
GOLLIN & CO
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—-No. 1421.]
[Thursday, May 9, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Lappoili, Hypnotism and Spiritualism, 3s (id, post (id
Raymond, Book of Crafts and Character, 3s (id, post (id
©xenham, The Long- Road, paper covers 2s (id cloth
binding 3s (id, postage (id.
Baring Could, Book of the Pyrenees, ss, postage (id
Cha '”pneyB, Public Libraries, Design, Const., Ac'. 15 S ,
Cress well, Charts of Diseases of the Horse, Os, post'Sd.
Barton, The Horse : Ailments and Accidents, 3s, post 4d
rox Davies, Heraldry Explained, Is 3d, posted }s (id.
Walker, Electricity in Minin- jJius., u s „osf jw
Campbell, The,New Theology, 3s (id postwre fid
Oppenhoini, The Secret; a Novel, 2s (Id &3s (id nosl CH
au kesHorth, lte-inforeed Concrete Derfg n , 14s p Qd*'
Hiscoek Century Book of Recipes, 15s, post W ’
S’ T \ v ; j „ nlce 1,1 the East, illus., 15s, post Sd.
' al Could, Charger and Chaser, picture boards 2s cloth
binding 2s (id, postage sd. ’ cloth
Tiie “Studio” Year Book of Decorative Art, 1907 rnner
wrapper Os, cloth bound 9s, postage Is. ’ P P
HUDSON’S
SOLO BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHdL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION
mSIID
! Larynx, or organ of voice.
or B'inv4ptpSr‘ — —
vtWrcTiial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “ TPJUMENTHOL
JUJUB'EH” do not interfere wivb digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. •>. ; ; [2.
The RED PAGE
THE SHORT STORY
I~\7~OU want to write a short storv ?
f Well— ' '
First, catch your idea—the germ
of your plot. Ideas are rather rare.
±sut occasionally they come. Wait till they
come. Ihis does not mean that there aren’t
ways of snaring the elusive things. First
you must train' yourself to recognise them!
(If you are one of those people—the enor-
mous majority of the race—who never have
an idea that they can honestly call their own,
dont bother to write stories; there are
lundreds of other ways open to you to earn
just as honest and a much better living.)
But if ideas do come your way, you must be
ready for them. The journalist is born with
a prehensile news-sense ; his brain is
always reaching out and grabbing facts
that he can make use of. Constant
attention to news renders the habit
of news-getting almost instinctive : he
emerges, • /"Y a skilled journalist,
with a highly specialised “nose for news.”
He divides the cosmos into two parts—that
part of it which he can assimilate for his own
special purpose, that part which he can’t
i- bank-clerk, the black-and-white
artist, the boiler-mender gradually learn to
recognise and appropriate the ideas that may
eof use to them in their banking, their
black-and-whiting, or their boiler-mending.
Ihe writer develops his faculty of making
use of ideas till, as a skilled writer, he recog-
nises instinctively the particular idea that he
can transmute into a plot. He goes through
the world with one corner of his brain atten-
tive to the reception of literary ideas. Any
idea that isn’t of any plot-value he instinc-
rvely rejects, while those that have the germ
of a plot within them he retains for further
examination.
J*
writer notices a girl crying secretly in
the gallery of a laughing theatre. His com-
panion, a maker of tombstones, notices her
too. Ihe fact registers itself upon both
I brains, but m a different way. Both wonder :
the chief faculty of the literary artist is his
capacity for wondering. The maker of tomb-
stones wonders if the girl is weeping for a
relative : there might be a job for him in her
tears. Ihe writer wonders why she is cry-
ing . assuredly there is a job for him, too.
lie casts about for an explanation of her
tears. What sort of a woman is she ? What
must have been her history to make her cry
v ion .he others laugh ? Is she possessed of
a subtle sense of humor, and sees only pathos
in the comedian ? Has her blokb left her for
another? Has she “had words” with her
best girl-friend ? Has something awful hap-
pened to her back hair? Is that ludicrous
comedian the man who has deceived her and
cast her off? Or is her mother just dead «
Or is she maudlin drunk ?
His tiained miud switches off’ from the
comic song. He wonders. . . If she was
the comedian s cast-off girl, for instance, this
would make a fine end of a short story. Or
perhaps the beginning? For she might
wait outside till the comedian emerged, and
then throw herself into his arms... or
smack his face ... or the face of the soubrette
} vit “ him. Rapidly he considers the possi-
bilities, and the scenes of his story flash
before him. Then he has to choose, to collate,
to eliminate, to build up. The conscientious
writer would possibly find out the exact
tacts, and write them up, and send them in
Yn rn coverm g le tter stating that it was
All I rue except the names. And the
editor would wearily add it to the basket
Actual photographic truth has no place in a
literary creation. There must be, of course
in background and in character a fundamental
truth. The writer must not make the girl live
at Bondi and go home by the Lane Cove
I boat, nor must he make her act in a way
that, given the circumstances of her life she
couldn’t have acted. No matter how im-
probable a story may appear, there must
be an underlying probability that the gene-
rality of readers would accept as in con-
formity with the general experience of the
human race. But an actual transcript of
facts is never of any literary use. All art
is creative ; it sees life through a tempera-
ment ; it gives its own individual view of
the universe. The writer must suggest
rather than portray. An elaborate cata-
logue of the features of a heroine’s face or of
a landscape conveys only a confused impres-
sion to the reader. A single phrase will
make that face or that landscape unforget-
table. You meet a girl on the street; you
don’t notice the color of her eyes nor whether
her teeth are her own. All you o- e t
in that glimpse is an impression of,
let us say, a neat demure loveli-
ness ; your brain collates a hundred
simultaneous impressions, and deduces from
them just one fact. Carlyle’s “sea-green
incorruptible ” pictures for us Robespierre
with a vividness that no literary death-mask
ot his features could recreate. The writer
must not give us bare facts ; he must clothe
them with their meaning. We live our
facts ; we go to literature to find something
more beautiful than facts—-their explana-
tion, their suggestion, their essence.
Meantime, we have left our writer won-
enng, sorting out, trying this suggestion,
following up that clue, till—possibly a week
or a year later, when the plot had slipped
trom his consciousness—his subconscious
nimd, which has been cotiscientiofisly worry-
ing over the job all the time, flashes up to
mm the solution of the problem, and he sees
his story rounded out, complete. A sen-
tence in a newspaper, a remark during con-
versation, a personal experience, an idea
that apparently is suggested by no known
agency, yet, since the law of causation has
no gaps, proceeds from some cause—any of
these hints may afford the writer the nucleus
of his story.
It has yet to be written, however.
So now we come down to sordid details.
How long must it be ? The short story
occupies a place in the scale between the
episode, which is a single instantaneous
snap-shot at a situation or a phase of
character, and the novel. The episode may
be but a paragraph in length. Its search-
light is swiftly flashed upon an incident and
as swiftly switched off again. As an excellent
example of the episode, “Kodak’s” work
might be conned. The novel usually averages
I from 70,000 to 120,000 words in length. But
the short story is not a shortened novel; it
must not be a compressed life-history. A
novel is built up upon a series of incidents :
the short story must be content \Vith one.
Ihe incident may be divided into several
correlated scenes, but the story must have
unity and conciseness. A perfect parallel
to the short story and the novel is furnished
by the lyric and the epic. The lyric ex-
presses one mood ; if it exceeds a cer-
tain length the reader is unable to sus-
tain that mood, his. attention flags liis
emotion is spent. So the short story must
be short enough to read at one sitting, in-
teresting enough to compel the reader to
iwallow it at one gulp. So we come down
J 0 81z fS; A short story over 6000 words in
length is apt to fatigue the twentieth-century
■eader, while anything under 600 words dis-
ippomts the reader. He has taken the
-rouble to make the acquaintance of a set of
marketers ; he is just becoming interested
n them, and—they’re all gone, slamming
he door, The End,” in his face. It isn’t
lolite.
J*
Most magazines require stories that do not
:xceed 0000 words in length. Collier’s, who
>ay about £6O a story, suggest 6000 words
s their limit, while the stories may be ‘* as
short as the writer pleases.” The Bulletin
defines its most acceptable length as 2700
words, filling two columns of this paper. Here
too there is do limit of shortness; but beyond
2,00 words the writer proceeds at his own
onAi 1 , Lone H 9 nd likes its stories under
6000 words, and iii its first issue does not
appear to exceed that limit. Thus the writer
desirous of local publication must be more
concise than his brother who besieges the
magazines of the more long-winded countries
overseas.
Next, you must choose your method. You
can appear in the story yourself ; you can
be the weeping girl in the laughing theatre
or you can be the comedian, or the maker of
tomb-stones who saw it all. But if you put
yourself m the story you can only explain
things as they actually appear to the fictitiou
, , . yo, f re the girl, for instance, you
can t explain what is going on in the inne
consciousness of the comedian—if a comedian
has an inner consciousness; you can only
guess at his motives from his overt acts. The
other method is to eliminate yourself, arid act
as recording angel Then you can peer into
the hearts of all the characters in turn
In the personal narrative during a dialogue you
coiddexplain wfiatyou were thinking, but only
what the other was saying. In the impersonal
narrative you could inform the reader what
both speakers were thinking, as well as say-
-111 In the former case the reader takes the
role assumed by the writer ; in the latter case
he feels himself a fully informed spectator of
the scene-in short, a god. Either method is
lb H PP ears to the present
wntei that the personal narrative calls for
effect ai tlStlC eff ° rt ’ and gives a better artistic
Having got your plot constructed, your
climax ready, you must now begin. The
most > important rule is to begin at the
beginning. The story must interest the
reader, front the jump.” The novel may
dally over its introductions ; the short-
sfcoi'y hasn t room to be leisurely. The first
sentence must stimulate and lure.
Considei’ these opening sentences of some
of the stories in The Lane Sand :—
1 here is one Chinaman the less in Australia. . .
1 have never seen two lovers love one another
better. . . The Sydney Marriage Bureau of the
Uo-operative Commonwealth. . . Burren's veins
tingled. . . “There ’e goes, the low brute; ’e
beats is wife somethin’ ’orrible.” . . Ashley
awoke with the consciousness that something was
not right. . . Judith Mayne was doing three
things simultaneously, and doing them well. . .
In varying degrees all these sentences at-
tract, interest, set the brain anticipating,
lhere is the element of humor, strangeness,
suspense in them. The reader must go
on. That is the ajm of the short-story
writer. None of the above examples,
however, reach the ideal. Only once
has this been done, and by an unknown,
lieie is the classic example of the com-
mencement of the ideal short story ;
~“HeH ! ” observed the Duchess, who had
hitherto taken no part in the conversation.
Observe the remarkable strategy of such
an opening. No living reader could possibly
refrain from reading on. What sort of a
duchess is the duchess who made that
cryptic remark ? And what effect did it
have on the others ? And who were the
others ? And why did the duchess say
He>U !. ?. . . The possibilities are infinite,
the demand for the solution is absolutely
compelling. As legend states that the story
never appeared ,in print, the MS. being
rejected owing to the genius of the author
having exhausted itself in that superb effort,
it might be worth some writer’s while to
complete that yarn.
. Coming to the body of the short story, it
is obvious that the writer must have a simple
plot and few characters. And everywhere,
in description, dialogue,
incident, he must be concise. A charming
example of the consideration necessary in
short-story writing is found in one of W.
Dyson’s Faet’ry ’Ands yarns. When the
stout girl in the top flat gets hysterics the
packer merely remarks, “Fat's down!”
1 here you have the ideal compression of
phrase. *
J*
Your story begins with a jump. It must
end . with a bump. Once the climax is
reached, shut ofl. There, is no need for:
“And so they married and lived happily
ever afterwards.” The reader demands his
right to carry on the story in his own
imagination, to dream of the future. Yes,
they must have married. . . jf H \t, with cha-
racters such as theirs, would l/hqy have lived
happily ever afterwards ? Tet\ the reader
must be given some hint of the Solution ; it
titillates his intelligence to discern that
hint; but at a blank impasse he would
grow exasperated. You should aim to give
your reader the chance of ordering his
liqueur after his coffee. He .should put
down the story, not feeling that the characters
have ceased to exist, but that-—unless you’ve
killed them—they still go on existing.
... In the meantime the mastered woman
was preparing, with some love in the labor tea
lor the man who had beaten her. .He felt
the grip off those Australian hands, he heard the
roar of savage joy that greeted the sinking of the
battleship, and then the pall of unconsciousness
came down on him, and wrapped for many davs
the man who had tried to die for his vanity’s
sake. .. . Ala took.up his .money,'and locked
the door of the mosque. . . . “ Hush, sweet-
heart! said Jim, lowering the light softly. .
A.s skilled workers the new arrivals soon found
places on the island, and doubtless they were
happy; but how far their children, if they had
any, fulfilled the forecasts of experts, this record
cannot state.
None of these endings from stories in The
Lone Hand leave the sense of absolute
finality. The reader can sit and muse,
although the lights have been turned out.
The writer must leave the reader the privilege
of tagging on his own moral. °
Finally, a short story may depend chiefly
upon incident, or upon character analysis, or
character development; it may even be
static, aiming solely to create an atmosphere,
making its background the chief character on
the stage, and regarding its characters as
mere decorations to the scene. It may thus
be an impression of an incident, a character,
or a scene.
So you have written your short storv ?
Well—
Put it away in the bottom drawer for a
month. Forget all about it. Then, some
day when you feel critical, read it over
armed with a large blue pencil. Cut
out every superfluous word, and re-write.
You will find it becoming alive beneath the
pen. Ihe characters begin to assume an in-
dependent existence ; they manifest a desire
to take matters into their own hands. They
grow rebellious ; they wish to work out their
destiny in their own way. Let them—and,
if it spoils your original ending, make
another story of it. If not—a new phrase
here, a sharpening of the dialogue there,
a reticence in this paragraph, a recast-
ing of that sentence, and it has become
a living thing. Then send it— ? You
have made it your business to read the stories
in all the magazines that are available.
Choose the magazine that, it seems to you,
your story has the best chance of being
accepted by.
And when it comes back ?
Do not be discouraged. The present
writer wrote short stories for nine months
in England before he got one accepted; and he
treasures the MSS. of two completed books
that have been rejected by every publisher
of repute in England. It has been calculated
that the average number of times the average
short story is rejected in England is fmrtem.
the hero of the novel who writes a book is
usually cast down when the MS. of the master-
piece is returned from the undiscerning pub-
lshers. The confirmed writer of short stories
mere y sends the returned MS. off on its
travels again, and marks in the list which he
keeps the date of its return from one publisher
and the date of its postage to the next on its
allotted route. If he works through a
literary agent, that agent does the posting
tor him, and the writer hears from time to
time cheery progress reports such as this
I am sorry to say that I have as yet no favor-
able news to give you regarding . You '
will be interested to know, however, that since
you were good enough to place these stories in mv I
hands, they have beep submitted to and declined j
by [Here follows a fist of eleven publishers and
magazines.] They are now on offer to !
irom whom I hope I may shortly have a more -
favorable decision.
This high average of rejection, common to i
every beginner, should not discourage you. !
The beginner is apt to think that the editor j
has rejected his story solely on its literary
merits. But there aye a dozen different
reasons why a short story is rejected. The |
editor may have just received two others of
the same character us yours ; he may dislike
its sadness, its foreign locale, its style, its
m,ck of capacity to be illustrated, its length.
He is not looking for your story; he is
occupied solely in composing his own maga-
zine, and if your story doesn’t fit into h
scheme, out it goes for another that doe
He wants to vary his menu as much
possible ; yours may be an excellent entree
but .he may be overstocked with entrees , anc
anxiously looking for something appetisin
in the way of sweets. Then try th
restaurant next door. There’s an Englis 1
eating house, too, in the next street, and a
American quick-lunch counter just over th
way. Keep at them all,' write the little
things you know about, and wait. As fo
payment.. . there are other just as hones
ways of making a mere livelihood.
—
With a two-color cover design of artistic anc
arresting quality, from the pencil of Norma
Lindsay, The Lone Hand makes its ambitiou
appearance. And the 116 pages of origina
literary^and artistic matter comprise an exeellen;
shilling’s-worth. Faults there are in the seiectio
and presentation of contents, but magazines do
not spring full-armed into existence, least of alii
Australia, where, the art of high-class magazin
production has hitherto not been attempted. Bu;
this may with confidence be said, that The L<m
Hand marks a new era jn Australian literature
It stands alone in a class for whose likeness w
have hitherto had to seek, not always successfully
overseas. Above all, it is typically Aus
triilian y and as such, must needs be indispens
t l^le e . XGß d e ut portrait frontispiece of Mr
■ • Archibald, the founder and for so man”
t n° , ,7 OUS and s . uccess fil years the editor of Th
Bulletin, and his reminiscences of the genesis o
The Bulletin form the outstanding features o
this issue. It is not needful here to specify the
closely packed contents of the number.' The
various articles. are admirably condensed auc
widely informative, thopgh a tendency towards
curtness is somewhat apparent. The fiction, gooc
as it is, in our opinion should have been made a
more important feature; but the high quality of the
verse, especially a poem by Hugh McCrae (artis-
tically decorated by Norman Lindsay), could have
been found in no magazine elsewhere. The main
fault of the issue is the editor’s anxious desire to
give Tull value for the money by crowding in
smaller type articles and verses that demand a
more dignified and moye easily-read presenta-
tion. Ihe art quality of the illustrations is
not invariably as high as is possible—and to The
Lone Hand all things should be possible. The
bulky advertising section ps well illustrated and
interesting. Altogether a remarkable and praise-
worthy beginning.
. t Th , ere . ]S a living for the Australian" artist.
At Arthur Streeton’s recent exhibition in Mel-
bourne £1213. worth of pictures were sold
Rn foe. opening day, and the trustees of
the Melbourne Gallery have decided to
recommend to the Felton Trust the purchase of
his fine \Vindsor Castle,” which was exhibited
i f■ A. for £262, and an im'pression of
Chelsea Barges ” for £42. Victoria is lucky to
get the first pick at Streeton’s collection. Also,
Victoria is patriotic, as well as discerning.
Wtreeton hurries to Sydney after the closing ef
his phenomenally successful show.


OUR ADVICE IS
BUY EVERYTHING AT LASSETTER
m
* w
m
£p£
■ :• . ■;:.:
' ' :
\^rkk
?**s *' "<■ L
.
M
W.W?
/ ' 7T v< W' »■ >~***** . V~~? *V
*«■*»—• : J& "" *-
**&
„*•:
**«>#»
: ;r £vr:: ;
Raggy Horse : I bought a low-priced Rug,
I wish I had one like you.
The Cow in the back : Good to know.
Good Economy—there are two sides: —
The low-priced side, that’s the foolish side;
The good-value side, that’s the Cheap Side,
adopted by Lassetter’s, Cheapside.
A GOOD TIP.
A Rug does a Horse in Winter as
much Good as a Feed a Day, and
is Infinitely Cheaper.
The Cob : I always buy mine at Lassetter’s,
they are not at all expensive
and last three times longer.
Resolved by 100,000 Customers
Considering that low prices only bring low
quality, we decide to buy from Lassetter’s,
Cheapside, the Universal Providers of Noted-
Good Values.
QUALITY IS ECONOMY.
Price List of Horse Cow Rug's.
CANVAS—
Check Lined
(No. 5) 8s 6d
NAVY CANVAS—
Check Lined
(No. 7) 10s
5
9s 6d
5
10s 6d
6i
16s
7ft.
17s 6d
EXTRA QUALITY NAVY CANVAS—
-2 Breast Straps. /fl K KX
Heavy Check Lined ° u 2
(No. 8) 12s 13s 14s 6d 15s
PREPARED CANVAS, WATERPROOF—
-2 Breast Straps, Al K pi JL
Heavy Check Lined , 2 -
(N o. 10) 14s 6d 15s 6d 16s 6d 17s 6d 18s 6d 20s.
6* 7ft.
SPECIAL SIZES in any of the above qualities made to order at lowest prices.
HORSE RUGS include Crupper, Surcingle and One Breast Strap. Extra Breast Straps fitted, 6d. each.
Wo are now supplying a “SPECIAL ” MADE HORSE RUG, similar in quality to our Extra Quality, and Prepared Canvas (Waterproof),
but lined with Extra Quality Felt Sheeting (very warm and durable). These Rugs are sewn with best seaming twine, and include
two breast and two flank straps (New Zealand pattern), also surcingle and crupper. These Rugs are “ just the thing» as
regards Quality Finish and Durability, and are not to be equalled for price.
EXTRA QUALITY NAVY CANVAS—
-4* 5 H 6 6J 7ft.
(No. 9) 14s 6d 15s 6d 16s 6d 17s 6d 18s 6d 21s
PREPARED CANVAS, WATERPROOF—
-4<-- 5 6 ' 7ft
(No. 11) I7s6d 18s 6d 20s 21s 22s 6d 25s
WHEN ORDERING HORSE RUGS state measurement from centre of chest to back of thigh ; approximate height, whether for Buggy, Hack, or Draught Horse,
and if one or two breast straps required. Order quality by number.
WHEN ORDERING COW RUGS state length of back and neck measurement. Order quality by number.
HORSE BRUSHES. i
Dandy Brushes, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s each
Body Brushes, 2s 3d, 3s 6d, ss, 6s 6d each.
Curry Combs, 9d and Is each.
Mane Combs, Horn, Is each ; all Metal, 9d each.
Price List of Harso and Cow Rugs from our Genera! Catalogue—looo illustrated pages—the Buyers’ Encyclopaedia—sent free on request.
F. LAiSiSETTER & Co. Ltd., The Universal Providers
of noted Good Values, and Groceries
“True-to-Label,”
Cheapside,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANT
A/so KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, <fcc. ’
Consign to :
WINOHOOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xjtd. ,
S YDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
to w C eiSii!m Y classing to h-° ur staff ° f efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attentfcS
ExoenHnnil fi«M-u nd d,s P° sm g <£> ve Ly best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly,
their^ Sain'-S ™ this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
tneir grain, r ull particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Let Me Tell your Fortune
FREE!
Read the Answer in the Stars. Shake-
speare says : —“The stars above us govern
our conditions.” Let me tell you what the
future has in store for you. Do you wish to
know whether you will prosper or not in
your undertakings ? Win or lose in specula-
tion ? Why be sick when you may be well?
Tf b< if P -° or Wh ? n you ‘ lla >' be rich an d influential? Do you know where your star is srui'dine vou ?
to*all’questions 'of'! h h ou,d k,low f and you this knowledge Ka^wers
about vourluekv Ll - AboUt • vo " r .'. ove affairs, about family matters, about marriage,
perplexities.* “ ‘ ’ about changing your position, about what business will bring success, about
write* y ? U n future successful, and know what it contains, all you have to do is to
birth inclos'e vl’to? *** ““ ™ **• «• -
lutiStSitalSSiM 1 !?™u d ii n k“'«n"jl!,"Sok°° Pm " l, “ y “ I “ '°” r "' hole **“* “'’•J’ o ”
A WORD TO THE WISE.
Please do not confound me with any other
Astrologists and Clairvoyants in this or any
other city. When one attempts to imitate me,
put it down, “ There’s something 1 wrong.”
DON’T DELAY,
Consult me
TO-DAY.
You little know what to-morrow may have in
store for you. If you are sick or unhappy I can
help you. If you are happy I can ward off’danger
from you so you may remain happy. Delay
may mean misfortune, disgrace, even death.
Your Horoscope will be sent you sealed and confidential. Let the world’s greatest astrologer read
your life as the stars reveal it, and mystify you by its truths. Address- g
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 BOURIiE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
n the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
g
fdg
CREATE STRENGTH, ENERGY and VIGOR.
some time now these PILLS have been restoring- to HEALTH
HAVE a FA O ILED EEMEDIES a ” d METHOr>s OP TREATMENT
YOUNC, OLD and WEAK MEN and WOMEN
who are suffering from Weakness, Want of Strength and Vigor
58MTKam^uS1MSOT'fflb£ lasll ' ATl<^
THEY WILL POSITIVELY GIVE
STRENGTH, VITALITY, VIGOR.
Sole Agent—
fdgfdgfd
NO HUMBUG
or QUACKERY .
10/6 a Bottle.
COMPLETE
Two Bottles, £1
COURSE.
POSTED FREE IN
PLAIN WRAPPER.
S. H. HENSHALL, SSKI246 Clarendon St., South
Melbourne, Vic.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and cap be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch M-tal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give a wav
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our Isew Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box) Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promutlv
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
gfdg
£lOO
a Weeß
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To USFY COMIPETIXIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape »« BOOKS,
fd
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, is. The Wife, Tiie
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, ' and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of tiie
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of the Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art Studies. 5 parts, 10s. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored
plates & engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Mid wives’ Handbook, 92 illus., 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Lover’s Letter
Writer, is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning Calcula-
tor, is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid,
Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. W omen’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
F.asy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
H Visitors to The Old Country ghg
Gloucester ,Sou,rK Ker\sir\gtor\ , London, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAV.
pa!>
3W
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
gfd
f' *
MS
I.♦
r. «c
5?
-lyy: • ; ; '✓.'*■•*■ ■^•..
, -
~M/-
V- ■ >. ’-;>,' f jm .V, v
mom ■. •
.V:>
#rw V \;>; p
i=-;.V v' . »•..!, V.; *£f.VVii'&fcivW
■*> „y. •>&•&*•?•' " , .
M Repeater w
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
for Field or TraJj Shooting*
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT’
The effect of Eno’s 4 Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— SM Capsule marked END'S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without u you nara a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere .
AlcTElt*
©EITEB’S P°w!| s Emg.
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipa ,: on. Begin ai
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
g


Not ever
wom a i
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many'
would)
■>
want one
around, any-
way. But you’
certainly can
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much'
to have long, rich, heavy
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
fdg
flier’s
flair Vigor
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fd
rEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
a allowed on every cycle bought o£ us. Your
money in tali refunded without qm stion
i£ not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles?
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
DATEST
MODELS
£3alo to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes oi Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim brakes, variable gears
and all iates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world.
ACTIVE AGENTS
We guarantee safe delivery.
\ wanted in each dii-trict.
) Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our auecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
Little
3
BOYS
I
gfd
The
Evidence
from Bulli Point,
Bulli, N.S.W., Oct.
6th, 1905.
“My three little boys—Willie, aged (
eight, John and Walter, aged four j
—suffered from continual hacking j
cough. Nothing seemed to do |
them any lasting good, until I I
gave Scott’s Emulsion a trial "with j
the best results. My little boys i
have entirely lost the bad cough, j
and Scott’s Emulsion has built I
them up so thoroughly that they {
are not like the same children, I
being now restored to complete |
good health. I shall always keep C
a bottle of Scott’s in the house,”
Mrs. BROWN I
The Reason Why i
the Boys Throve i
Magnificent materials, perfect |
digestibility ! This is all the j
secret there is about Scott’s. |
Neither advantage could be much ]
good without the other. Scott’s ,
secures both. Thanks to the |
original Scott process of manu- |
facture, the whole of the fine I
Lofoten (Norwegian) cod liver oil
used in Scott’s passes
directly into the
tissues, first healing,
then invigorating them;
hence the extraordinary
record of lung, throat,
skin and blood cures.
‘ ‘The Ashman with the
fish” on the package
secures to you the
g
genuine SCOTT’S trade mark^P
'M
EMULSION
From all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines
IRISH MOSS
cno -The besF remedy-
f OR— INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
'Ask for Banning ton’s
and seetkatyou get it
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
STOP THAT PAIN
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians. _
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 Gr.P.O.
« A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d> from “The
Bulletin” Office.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
f*.
SEE THE l-ABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warkan
Purveyors to
fdg
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
t is Replacing- All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LiniTED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, ,
vlade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
PLASMON
COCOA
\
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
1
PLASMON OATS ?
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle t
of HusK and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment
with easy coo King.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE >
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
\
AsK for them.
1
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORE 3.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The One in Many.
For fictile gods in old Imperial Rome
The golden temples grew,
Like flaming sunflowers underneath the dome
Of cloudless blue.
Gods from all quarters of the gorgeous East
In naked majesty,
With swinging censer and intoning priest
They cross’d the sea.
To that great Pantheon of many shrines,
The world-embellish’d Rome;
Glad the libations of flower-flavored wines
In their new home.
Those gods of marble, ivory, bronze, or gold,
What think you that they were ?
The One God manifest in many a mould
Of beauty rare;
Housed in their temples as th’ eternal Mind,
That these creations wrought
Of its ideas, is in the body shrined,
From Godhead brought.
So reign’d in Rome these bright divinities
Of marble, bronze, or clay,
Of One in many the theophanies,
For many a day,
And many a month and year, until there came
With his ambitious priest
A Shadow, jealous of his antique name ;
From brooding East.
Then Aphrodite draped to Mary turned
And Eros Christ became,
While other gods as His new Saints discerned
Took other name,
And gave it to each shrine where, parcelled out,
God sitteth on His throne
In many shapes, and heedeth the devout
Who pray and moan
With majesty impassive as of old
In Athens or in Rome,
When He was Jupiter in ivory-gold
And marble dome.
vie.
HENRY C. J. LINGHAM.
Unrest.
She scorned me for a worldly gain;
Deep in my heart I hid the pain.
“So be it,” I said, “ I cast aside
Her memory —the world is wide !”
My pride was as a blood-red cloud,
And love was buried in its shroud.
Long years have passed—a thought, a breeze—
A sunset light ’tween tall black trees—
The same —’tis evermore the same—
The winds of memory fan the flame !
At night upon the stormy sea
My bitter loss comes home to me,
While winds of Heaven echo wide,
“Unsatisfied, unsatisfied!”
The great black waves roll thundering by,
Warring against an inui sky ;
Nature, impassioned, mighty, swirls
Through me, and all my reason whirls !
The yearning wild within my breast
Moans with the sea: “ Unrest, unrest!”
n.s.w.
THE BUD.
A Capstan Chanty.
What did the captain say to the cook
When the ship went down the river ?
“ I’ve left my girl in Melbourne town,
Her hair was black and her eyes were brown ;
And I’ll love my girl for ever.”
Wey-ho ! We’ll love the girls for ever !
What did the cook to the captain say
When the ship went down the river ?
“ I’ve left my gal in Melbourne too,
Her hair was gold and her eyes were blue ;
And I’ll love my gal for ever.”
Wey-ho ! We’ll love the gals for ever !
What did the crew at the capstan sing
As the old tank nossd the river ?
“ We’ve left our gals in Melbourne town,
With eves of blue and eyes of brown ;
And we’ll love our gals for ever.”
Hey ! We will forget them never !
What did the cook to the captain say
As the ship came down the river ?
“ I’ve left my gal in London town,
Her hair is black and her eyes are brown,
And I’ll love my gal for ever.”
What did the captain say to the cook
As the ship swung down the river ?
“I’ve left my girl in London, too,
Her hair is gold and her eyes are blue,
And I’ll love my girl for ever.”
What did the crew at the capstan sing ?
Nothing at all but the same old thing
As the ship came down the river :
“ We’ve left our loves in London town,
And some were black and some were brown,
But we’ll love our loves for ever.”
L’Envoi.
So blow your money, my bullies all
(The old tank’s down the river),
Blow your money and knock it down ;
For some are short and some, are tall,
And some are black and some are brown,
And the world goes round for ever.
VIC.
EDWIN J. BRADY.


*rfll sot/s and conditions ofPeople
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable
if is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
tor all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
ot the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
The
ti
BRUNSWICK” ice machine.
m
NOT ICE-CREAM Machine please
notice, but a genuine household
REFRIGERATOR, that will preserve
all your vegetables, meat, butter, milk,
etc., etc., and give you Ice as well, and
—CHEAPLY, much more cheaply
than getting Ice from the Ice Factory.
A half horse-power is all that is
required to drive this little machine, and
it will save its cost the first year.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue and full
particulars.
Sole Agents,
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In 50
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
Ail C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports^
*RE WO%
3^
❖
£
«
/
*46
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
c S nJ^n rior *° 3,1 other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., I
Flinders Lane, Melbourne. |
A. E. WITTEY,
York Street Sydney.
J, Bunting,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky
jfi
/V
/
SK
L THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal
Warrant to
fd
His Majesty
The King,
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
sma.ll quantity of BOVRIL. added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &6>t
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
Beautiful Home Decorations
rtf
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OCR FAVORITE” fiOCD K\AMI!I (Washable) -I!icli and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOMIN EIVAMEJLS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
■‘SAPOIAN” BATH TUB EWAMEI,. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
Americas Gift
_ to the World
-Lt
r
(%<
IV v
Tt“tea
fjt
03852
OV-- /
\ V
W
sr
***»
S:me Sydney firms selling
RUBEROID.
James Sandy & Co*
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co*
Goodlet & Smith Ltd*
Saxton & Binns Ltd*
F* Lassetter & Co* Ltd*
W. Cary & Sons*
John Macintosh & Sons*
Grace Bros*
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. No. 1421.
THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1907.
Peioe 6d.
THE PHILP VARIETY SHOW.
NOW PLAYING TO SMALL HOUSES IN QUEENSLAND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Jlhe Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney, N.S. Wales,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Onlv)
Per Annum ... ... . j°i g q
Half-yearly ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... . 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tin? Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Co) i esp on dents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
{ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Eotice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
'The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, tvhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
{those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
dent'cd lmUn ™ at ™ nS re 9 ar^ as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forivarded without stamps
tor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in llluc/e on A White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting ■photograph illustrative of a current event,
wilt be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
oi as a suggestion only. The conditions under xvhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
alter the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Cot,ch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
Ihe Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationei'y Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Uong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x l!dn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. MAY 9, 1907.
ROBERT PHILP AND THE DANCING
DERVISH PARTY IN QUEENSLAND.
A few days hence Queensland will have to decide
between Premier Kidston and its old failure
Philp. There are no alternative possibilities, for
the little party of irreconcilables represented by
the Worker doesn’t even profess to have a chance
of securing a majority of its own. All it can
hope for is to take enough votes from Kidston
(it won’t take any votes from Philp) to defeat
Kidston, whom it professes to regard as bad, and
thereby to secure the return of Philp,' whom it
can’t help acknowledging to be very much
worse. The democratic and progressive vote
will be split between Kidston, who should
have a splendid, chance, and the Xrreconcil-
ables, who have none; and by reason of that
split it is just possible that a Tory minority
in the country may come back with a Tory
majority in the House. Kidston fooled away
a great opportunity by neglecting to pass an Act
providing for a second ballot in cases where no
candidate secures an absolute majority of the
votes polled. Had he done so, it is practically
certain that Philp would not have a ghost of a
chance to again afflict Queensland. As it is, the
Worker party may bring him back by acting the
part of Dan, mentioned in the Scripture, who was
‘‘.a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse heels so that his rider shall fall
backward,’’ This doesn’t necessarily imply any
condemnation of the Worker party, which no
doubt, acts the part of Dan quite honestly‘"but
its ravening honesty threatens bitter disaster to
Queensland. The Bulletin doesn’t put Kidston
forward as the ideal Premier; the ideal Premier
isn t born yet. But he has been, so far, the best
most honest, most democratic and most successful
I reinier that the unfortunate State has had since
Billey dropped out in 1870, and Philp is the
most foolish and incapable disaster at present in
sight. He is something so vast and rare and
unprecedented in the shape of disasters that
people should hardly have time to inquire into
Kidston’s qualifications. The fact that Philp is
the alternative should settle everything.
* » * «
Four years ago Queensland fully realised its
Philp. He was Premier then; he had been
Premier for some years, and his monumental in-
capacity was as conspicuous as Cheops’ pyramid.
At that time he had scarcely a friend outside the
little knot of tenth-rate colleagues who were help-
ing him to muddle the State to destruction, .as
the Brisbane Courier said of him then in a series
of bitter attacks, spread over many months :
Mr. Philp has no ideas himself, nor can he put the
spmt of enthusiasm, which is so helpful in evolving ideas,
into those who are associated with him.
Queensland is waiting for the great gospel of efficiency
to be not only preached but practised. Her public ser-
vice is fast becoming disorganised, and political influence
is present m every department like so much dry rot.
To thmk tlia-t Mr. Philp has only to step forward with
a cabalistic sign, to allay the unrest which seethes
from Point Danger to Cape York, is to utterly mis-
read the signs. A tree is judged by its fruits, and in
these times of stress Mr. Philp has been found utterly
wanting in the qualities which are essential to leader-
ship.
It is surely a reproach to the Government that, with
“""vaUed resources, the development of the country
should be so slow, and that with magnificent prospects to
k r " ln t^le near u^ure the guidance of Ministers
should be so pusillanimous and uncertain. To judge
them by their actions, they appear to regard Queensland
as a State in its last decadence instead of a country
strong in its young manhood and certain of a vigorous
development when statesmanship and business energy
combine to make its boasted resources something more
than a name. For these qualities one looks in vain
generally to the front rank of the present Government,
ihe phrase-making Minister for Agriculture is graceful
in his ineptitude, but this is hardly a qualification for a
department which demands energy and practical sense,
lhe Home Secretary blusters and bungles in the multi-
farious work of his office; while it is the Premier’s mis-
°K- :il u ie^ ra^^er an his fault that in a threatening crisis
which demands courageous leadership he should find
refuge in querulous whinings.
At present they represent magnificent opportunities of
which such a Ministry as that of Mr. Philp has been in-
competent to avail itself. ... In illustration of the
incompetency of the Government when called upon to
deal with the boasted resources of the State, we may
again refer to the Bowen railway.
, -Nothing could more forcibly reveal the utter weakness
and barrenness of the policy of the present Government
than the fact that on an important public occasion, and at
an impending crisis in the history of the State, two
Ministers of the Crown should find nothing better to offer
their audience than scurrilous abuse and slanders which
will injure only their originators.
. n^“i* ooks ln vain through the Premier’s Speeches to find
f nj n “ ear grasp of the difficulties of the present situation
of nnlfrv B fn' d ’ f ny ?5 Ulahty of idea > an v progressiveness
of polio), any stimulating utterance, such as is expected
thron?,h?h a,l R er t hose task it is t 0 brin S- the ship of State
thiough the breakers out into the open sea.
oo 1 J 1 ?n f0Ur yeals 0f the administration of Mr. Hugh
Aelson the average revenue was about £3,500,000, w'ith a
total net surplus of £178,694 ; while during a similar
period of the administrations with which Mr. Philp has
£i e 3nn a nnn C ‘ a >f the average revenue has been about
£4,300,000, w-itli a net deficit of £762,433. The result has
been inevitable. The Government may be endeavoring
to follow on the lines of Mr. Hugh Nelson, but the widest
n eem tbeir efforts utterly incommensurate
with then chance of success. The respective policies
efectrffi arc^lainp! 161 " S " rushlight resembles an
These are samples, from many articles, of
the best that even the Tory press could find
to say for Philp in 1903, just before Queens-
land rose in revolt and cast its boss incapable into
outer darkness. And, except that he is a little
older and politically a little stupider he is the
same Philp to-day.
• • » «
The semi-resurrection of PHiLP-ism doesn’t
arise from anything that Philp has done since he
was ejected from office four years ago, for liis
speeches to-day are like the speeches of an unin-
spired political madman, and his policy apparently
consists in a frantic promising of almost every-
thing to almost anybody. Nor do Philp’s hopes
rest on anything that Kidston has left undone-
even his worst enemies find it very hard’
to pick holes in Kidston’s administration save
in the matter of liis failure to wholly stop the
sale of public lands and in liis complaisance in
not wholly foreclosing on the central sugar mills •
a “ d 1 wil ° was a ravin S political lunatic in
the wholesale jobbing away of public lands,
and who let the central sugar mills run wild
dare not throw bricks as regards these affairs.’
ibe hopes of the Philp party lie in the muddy
backwash of the anti-Soeialist movement, which
CxEORGE Reid invented at last Federal election in
the hope that it would wash him back to office.
It didii t wash him back worth a cent; it certainlv
gamed ms party some seats in Queensland, but
Reid s gams there were counterbalanced by
grievous losses elsewhere, and he remains the
same stranded wreck as before. But the fact that
Reid s myth took some hold in Queensland gives
the Philp party a new hope. Reid invented a
devounng monster with many heads and innumer-
able hoofs—a vague fire-breathing concern with an
eye like a saucer in the middle of its stomach and
long whirling tentacles, and with no address
that could be found in the directory •
and this exceedingly large and ghostly dragon,
or cockroach, it was alleged, proposed to
confiscate everything, and tear the infant from
its mother s breast, and make a fearful row in the
at night, and do other horrors. Reid
called his nightmare Socialism, and tried to get
back to office by being against it. Then Philp
in whose head there was no political idea of his
own, borrowed the large insect that Reid had
invented. He also asks to be returned, on the
ground that he is against the animal which can’t
be found. And his party claims wildly—in its
present situation it would claim anything—that
the solid, square-built Kidston, the man of
infinite detail, the economist, the leader who put
the tangled accounts straight, and pulled Queens-
land s business affairs out of the mud by sheer
honesty, patience and ability, is the roystering
animal that Reid calls Socialism. Kidston is as
much like that Beast of Revelation as a solid old
bank manager is like the Dragon of Wantlev
but, all the same, Philp hopes to get back to office
on this ticket. He poses as Philp the Deliverer
these times. Yet it is only four vears since
Queensland was the gladdest country on earth
because it had been delivered from Philp.
Robert Philp held office in Queensland for
10 years, and in all that time he didn’t develop
one bright idea, or do one act of statesmanship
that a Sunday-school kid couldn’t have done quite
as well. He was Premier for four years—about
the most l uckless years in Queensland’s history.
Yet he had chances enough. He started with the
two biggest wheat crops that Queensland had
ever seen up to then, and he finished with the
biggest wheat crop Queensland ever saw—more
than twice as big a one as that of 1905 in Kidston’s
time, lhe record maize crops came in Philp’s
time. There were almost as many sheep in
Queensland in the early days of Philp as there are
now, and there were far more cattle. The biggest
railway earnings that Queensland had ever known
until then came during Philp’s premiership. The
record gold output was in Philp’s time—the output
was then about 540,0000 z. a year more than it is
now, which meant that there was over £2,000,000 a
year more to divide among lialf-a-million people
than there is at present. The biggest coal pro-
duction Queensland had known up till that date
also came in Philp’s day. He had the beginnings
th® tin “ oom and the copper boom to help him.
lhe best sugar crop in Queensland’s history came
to u hjs assistance. So did the biggest revenue
which the Queensland Treasury ever collected.
Pre tty nearly every blessing that Providence
could be expected to shower on a country of un-
certain seasons came to Philp’s aid. And how
the Brisbane Courier, his own disgusted sup-
porter, wrote his political epitaph and the record
of his lost opportunities has already been quoted.
* * * *
Blessings were wasted on Robert Philp. His
political financing was calculated to wreck a
Rockefeller, and it wasn’t equal to the require-
ments of a street roast-potato-can enterprise.
He started with the record revenue of Queens-
land s history, and he had over £500,000 deficit in
1901; over £400,000 deficit in 1902 ; and about
£200,000 deficit in 1903. He added millions to the
public debt, with hardly anything to show
for them. He cut down the public service
salaries. He shut up railways in his frantic in-
ability to decide what to do next. He struck the
amazing idea of levying income-tax on every
adult, whether the person levied on bad any in-
come or not. He heaped on taxes in the promis-
cuous fashion of one who goes into a free fight,
and hits a head wherever he sees it. He cut
down the number of assisted immigrants from
2772 in 1900 to 378 in 1903. He so completely
lost the run of the central sugar mills, in which
an immense amount of Queensland Government
money was invested, that most of them
practically gave up any serious attempt
to meet their obligations, and no one said
anything serious to them about the matter. Pop-
ulation began to quit the State by thousands, and
all the time Philp had deficit after deficit. Money
poured like water through the palsied hands of
that last fag-end of the Continuous Government,
and the water didn’t even seem to reach the
ground and irrigate anything ; it apparently dried
up in the air. Queensland threw out the Philp
Ministry in 1903, and put its destiny in the hands
of untried men simply because it was driven to
that expedient by sheer panic. It was half-
convinced that the Continuous Government had
become loony in its old age, and was going to
gather shells in its helmet like Caligula’s
legions.
Then a new order of things came to pass. The
Dancing Dervish Cabinet was. succeeded by a
Dutch-built Ministry, square and solid, patient,
business-like, conscientious, almost pottering m
its capacity for gathering up small things and yet
with large ideas as well. It might have been
called the Elephant Ministry, for it launched a
ship occasionally and picked up pins—the pins that
Philp had let drop—m between times. Despite
the fact that it had far less revenue to play with
than Philp had in the year of his half-million
deficit, it made the accounts just about balance in
its first year (1904). It had a surplus in 1905, a
larger one in 1900; and it is assured of a still
larger one for 1907. It actually began to reduce
the public debt a little in 1905, and that was some-
thing unparalleled in the land which had so long
boasted the Biggest Debt per head on Earth. It
partially restored the deductions Philp had made
in the public service salaries. It abolished Philp’s
poll-tax and exempted small incomes from the
income-tax. It got the cent: ai sugar mills
into a solvent cond.tion again by putting their
management into the hands of a highly-
paid expert. It began to promote settlement
by opening up good lands on the Darling
Downs, and farmers are now pouring in from
lasmania, Victoria, and N.S.W. It resumed, in
a cautious way, the assisted immigration policy
which Philp had practically destroyed. It set
aside the revenue from land sales for public
works, instead of ** blowing ” it promiscuously.
And it started the Cloncurry railway to open up
the rich mining districts of the north—the railway
which Philp had vaguely “approved” for ten
years without a sleeper being laid or a single spike
driven. Yet, with all these things, it still
managed to avoid deficits, and to keep the public
finances square, though the dreadful slump in the
gold output seriously embarrassed its position.
What effect a similar slump would have had on a
Philp Government is too terrible to be thought of.
* • * *
These do not sound like the doings of a wild
and reckless Socialistic Ministry. In fact, the
Kibston Ministry, by reason of its refusal to levy
the much-needed graduated land-tax, and
because of other defects, has shown itself
much too Conservative. But all the time it has
been a Dutch-built Government, solid and square,
patient, laborious, honest according to its lights,
and intensely anxious to keep the finances straight.
Compared with Philp’s will-o’-the-wisp Cabinet,
it has been as a conscientious cart-horse is to a
drunken butterfly. Yet the Philp party has the
effrontery to represent this steady-going Hidston
combination as a wild. Socialistic spectre, and its
own whooping aggregation of political drunks and
failures as a gathering of “ business men.” The
idea of Philp and co. as business men reads like
the boss jest of the season. Still, so much are
people ruled by shibboleths and catch-words that
Philp, merely by reason of his cry of anti-
Sosh, seems to have really some vestige of a
chance. It is difficult to believe, on his record,
that such a thing is possible, but the evidences
show that Philp is taken seriously in some
quarters, and that people have gone to listen to
him when they would have been much better in
bed.
* * * *
Yet the Robert of to-day is just the same old
Philp —the same old dancing and irresponsible
dervish of politics, the same old impossible joke.
He has learned nothing, and it might be said that
he had forgotten nothing, but then there is no
reason to imagine that tliepoliticalPHiLPever knew
anything, and a man must know something before
he can forget anything. He is promising
things madly, crazily, in a way that ought
to make the most theoretical Socialist hide
his head in the sand from shame. Philp is
going to build railways in all directions,
to create a University, to pay rates to local
bodies on State lands, to subsidise local bodies for
road-making purposes, to pay for the eradication
of noxious weeds, to pay for the obliteration of
rabbits, to increase the allowances to the aged and
indigent, to subsidise a new mail boat service, and
to reduce the amount of the guarantee required
from landholders when the State builds a new and
doubtfully-payable railway. Also Philp, who
practically abolished assisted immigration, says
that Kidston's assisted immigration scheme
should be enlarged, and boomed, and whooped up.
And instead of showing how he is going to get the
money to pay for all these things, Philp says that
he is going to further reduce the income-tax or
abolish it altogether; that he is going to
extinguish the livestock tax, meat export
tax, and sheep-tax; and that he is going to
greatly reduce railway rates and harbor
dues. Also he seems 'almost willing to promise
to abolish all dues. By the time he has done
these things, the annual deficit will probably be
about a million. Therefore, it is evidently the
same old Philp. But the party .which follows
this capering politician calls the solid, steady-
going Ridston a dangerous and reckless Socialist,
and describes itself as a combination of.business
men. And, surprising as it may seem, there is
reason to believe that some people propose to vote
for the restoration of the Dancing Dervish Minis-
try in Queensland, quite oblivious of the painful
recollections of 1903.
THE MIRACLE OF SOUTH AFRICA
A few months ago this paper hazarded the
opinion tnat British rule in South Africa was so
nearly doomed that only a miracle could save the
Union Jack on that sub-continent. Miracles are
not among reasonable expectations; so the pro-
phecy was almost an absolute one. Yet the miracle'
seems to have happened, or if what has happened
is not the genuine article it looks a verv fab
imitation. To-day, with a Boer Parliament in
existence at Pretoria, with General Botha
sharing with Alfred Deakin the lions’ corner in
Bondon, and the German press spitting spite-
fully but ineffectually in the rear, the British
power in South Africa appears to have taken a
new lease of life. The miracle, so far as can be
seen, is all there. Britain has saved a practically
hopeless position by the grant of a free constitu-
tion to the lately warring Boer territory, and
apparently the Boers reckon they can be just as
happy and free under the British flag as under
a nag of their own. It is a conclusion vvljch
to some minds, will lack something in
sentiment ; but it is eminently practical
It was all very well for third century
asses to spend thousands of lives fighting over
a vowel in a profession of faith ; the people of the
20th century, barring a few sectarian cranks, wild
vegetarians, new religionists who go naked, and
the like, are wiser. General Botha, as Premier
of the Transvaal, could, if he chose, be just
as nasty nowin a small way to the British Govern-
ment as Joseph Carruthebs is to the Australian
Government. The fact that he wears a larger
size in mindsand doesn’tchoose, is jusj: theaccident
of superior wisdom. If he chose he might drive
Premier Bannerman grey-headed with complaints
about “grievances” and “wrongs” and “rightful
concessions to the infant State.” For the Trans-
vaal is as self-governing as New South Wales, and
has the added joy of its Premier getting an invita-
tion to go to London, which N.S.W.’s local Joseph
could not get. What more freedom does a people
want ?
* * » *
The Boer Government may now shape the
f uture of its country as it wills within very slight
limitations. It will have some protection from
Britain in case of an enemy wishing to attack its
frontiers; in the case of a war in which Britain is in-
volved butin which the Transvaal is not interested,
it will have none but a moral obligation to assist.
In matters of internal economy its independence
will be absolute. And even in the making of
foreign treaties it will have a claim to be con-
sulted —a claim which is now being vigorously
pushed by Australia and Canada. Under such
circumstances only the most sentimental of
patriots can condemn the policy of “ loyalty ”to
which General Botha has given his adherence.
Of course there are many sadly-bewildered
Englishmen who ask what it all means. They were
induced to spend many thousands of lives and very
many millions of money in subduing these Boers, on
the ground that their freedom was a grave peril to
the British race, and they now find themselves
officially assured, after the terrible war is over,
that Boer freedom is one of the strong bulwarks
of British power. But let that pass. The main
fact is that the miracle appears to have happened,
and Englishman and Boer dine fraternally
together, and if there is a skeleton at the feast the
rattle of his bones hasn’t been cabled to this part of
the world.
•** . *
The new development came to pass at a par-
ticularly appropriate time, just when the remnants
of the old Imperialism were crumbling away.
The old brand of Imperialism showed at
its best, or worst, in the convict times. Its
main idea was the founding in various parts
of the globe of manacled dependencies where
British criminals and derelicts might be
swept, and the planting of groups of British
overlords among hordes of servile niggers. That
idea founded, and lost, America. It founded
Australia, and would have lost it just as surely if
wisdom had not taught a modification of methods,
and a gradual liberalising of ideas. At one time
sturdy old Ur. Lang threatened a United Statesof
Australia. On the Chinese importation question,
on the question of the further importation of con-
victs, on the Ballarat gold-diggers’ grievances,
Australia at different times went right to the edge
of separation, and separation there would have
been had not the British power in each
case been prompt with concession. Now,
the old idea, so far at least as Australia
Maoriland, Canada and South Africa are con-
cerned, vanishes. The new Imperialism deliber-
ately encourages individual nationalism. It be-
lieves, so far as Australia is concerned, in an in-
dependent Australian army and navy. It believesin
many other things that were heresy yesterday and
madness the day before. The idea is that with
less “rule” there will be more affection ; that as
•the vestiges of a tutelage, offensive sometimes
and always derogatory, disappear there will be a
corresponding growth of mutual respect. It is a
vast, poetic idea and deserves to be true. So far
as it has been tested it has been proved true, and
in no instance more wonderfully than in South
Africa.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Amazing Discovery of Thomas Marks.
Some of the sudden discoveries which are made
by Sydney’s frantic little anti-Federal clan are
amusing, and are pathetically suggestive of the
harmless drunk in one of Edward Dyson’s stories
—the small “shickered” clerk who, while full of
threepenny beer, ascertained, by original research,
that the moon had got impaled on the spike at
the top of a church,' and wanted to ring up the
Premier about it. For instance, one Thomas
Marks lately conferred the boon of this informa-
tion on the N.S.W. public, per medium of the
correspondence column of a morning paper
If they study clause 111, which very few have done
they will see that New South Wales has not only the
right to choose the capital, but the exclusive right to
choose the whole of the territory in any part of the State.
Thereupon a few people mustered up the energy
to look up clause 111, and this was all they
found: —
The Parliament of a State may surrender any part of
the State .to the Commonwealth, and upon such sur-
render, and the acceptance thereof by the Common-
wealth, such part of the State shall become subject to
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commonwealth.
Apparently, therefore, a State may surrender any
bit of territory to the Commonwealth if the Com-
monwealth is willing to take it, and may also
refuse to surrender any bit of territory to the
Commonwealth. In other words, it may be held
under clause 111 that, when the Australian Par-
liament selects a Federal capital site and a
Federal territory in N.S.W,, as it has done, and
as the Constitution provides (“The seat of govern-
ment of the Commonwealth shall be determined
by The Parliament ” is how the Constitution puts
it), it may be argued that N.S.W. has power to


refuse to part with the land in question. In that
case N.S.W. will have the cold satisfaction o*
keeping the Federal capital out of N.S.W.. inde-
finitely, and that is the only satisfaction it will
get. But there isn’t a word in clause 111 about
the Parliament of a State having the right to sur-
render to the Commonwealth, and to make the
Commonwealth accept, a bit of territory that the
Commonwealth doesn’t want, and then to make the
Commonwealth use that bit of territory against
its will as a capital, or an ash-barrel, or a con-
sumptive sanatorium, or for any other specific
purpose whatsoever. The theories of the Ma
State Grievance party are always wild,, but
Thomas Marks seems the very wildest _ of the
Ma Woe contingent up to date. And he isn’t up
to date, but very much out of date. When the
Ma State Misery party was first invented by JOE
Carruthers two or three years ago, it seized
eagerly on Clause 111, and pawed it over, and
mauled it with anxious fingers, and studied it
with a magnifying glass, as a possible
means of setting up a claim that N.S.W.
should have the sole right to select the capital
of Australia. And the decision was to the
effect that the “case” was so utterly ridicu-
lous that it wasn’t worth taking before a police
court, yet alone a higher tribunal. Marks, with
the sudden find about which he is so proud and so
supercilious, is in the position of the man who
has just discovered America 400 years behind
Columbus.
Reform a la Barnum.
The religious sensation-monger grows tiresome;
and, if he only knew it, singularly unconvincing
as well. Mr. Ardill, of the Sydney Rescue Work
Society, lashed ex-Justice Matthew Henry
Stephen last week to all the mild frenzy of the
shocked elderly gentleman of blameless antece-
dents, by stating that
Many of the residents in the Wexford-streeb area of
Sydney, now owned by the City Council, are still to be
classed as lost women, and vice of every kind still has
full play in the district.
If this be so, it is very deplorable. But Ardill,
the reformer, lives and works and has his being
(which is to say, his mission) in the polluted street
in question ; and a few yards away from whe're he
dwells are the offices to which complaints regard-
ing disorderly houses must be brought. Does
Mr. Ardill drop in at those offices in passing,
indicate the infamous places he objects to, and
then unobtrusively drop out again, leaving the
police to take action, as any other citizen might ?
Not he. The modern reformer vies with the daily
newspaper in his jealous love of a “scoop,”
and when he has made some particularly
horrible discovery he no more dreams of
sharing the same with the authorities, until all
the available limelight has been poured down on
himself and his festering discovery, than a news-
paper which has just found the mangled remains
would dream of sharing the item with its reptile
contemporary. Hence Mr. Ardill’s startling
outburst of last week. The spectacle of the up-to-
date reformer waving his newly unearthed Horror
round his head is not beautiful.
The Iron Industry.
Sandford, Ltd., of Lithgow (N.S.W.), has pro-
duced bar-iron and sheet-iron, and the new works
are reported to be running very well. But it isn’t
good to get excited about that. Rather, the thing
that it seems necessary to hammer in is that the
actual manufacture of pig-iron or even steel is a
small matter so far as the employment of either
labor or capital is concerned. The iron is, certainly,
the raw material out of which great labor-and-
capital-employing industries may be built. But
the mere existence of the raw material here doesn’t
guarantee the industry. Look at the wool
business. For years Australia has produced
the finest fleeces in the world—wool which
the world positively couldn’t do without
unless it changed its fashions. Yet, with all
this in its favor, Australia doesn’t supply even
itself with woollens; and its mills are mostly
languishing for want of higher Protection and
more practical patriotism in the people who buy
clothes. Australia has long produced tin, copper
and lead ; but it still imports tin, copper and lead
goods. It still exports both hides and tanning
materials, and actually imports some leather,
not to mention leather goods. Germany is not
very particular about what it pays for
these raw materials. It heavily subsidises
ships to bring them to its ports. Then, with
high Protection, it knows it will be amply paid
through what may be called the secondary indus-
tries—the manufacturing industries. That shows
the relative importance of the two. So with
Canada; it actually imports a great quantity of
the ore which it turns into iron, and the cost
of pig-iron is above the price at which it
could be got in the United States. But, being
sure of its supplies of the raw pig-iron (which
it wouldn’t be if it relied upon outsiders),
Canada puts on a high duty on manufactured
iron goods, and employs a vastly greater
number of men in its machine and other fac-
tories and foundries than at the iron furnaces.
Apart from all that, though, the lesson of the
Australian wool-trade ought to be enough. The
iron furnaces at Lithgow are to the iron industry
what the scouring establishments were, and are,
to the wool business ; they merely get rid of some
dirt. That is something. But we must press for
high Protection to get the great deal more that it
is possible to get.
-
The Press Censor in Sydney.
“H.” writes :—■
The ancient dust of Sydney must have felt quite itself
again, and must have awaited the shuffle of the chain
gang and the clatter of the fetters when Premier Carru-
thers told a recent deputation that he was in the habit
of exercising a press censorship over the journals pur-
chased by the Government. “If I find that any particu-
lar issue contains statements blackguarding the Govern-
ment for doing this or doing that, when they have not
been doing it, I will not he a party to spending Govern-
ment money in circulating a lot of lies.” Which, freely
interpreted, means that the papers which hope to sell
copies to the Carruthers Ministry for distribution
among intending emigrants in England must strike
out all criticism of Joey Carruthers and the crowd
which is kept in office because New South Wales is at the
moment so weak in leaders that there is nobody else in
sight. If anybody but a Premier were to make such a
threat it would be called by a very nasty name, and it is
improbable that any Australian administrator has ever
been guilty of such a shameless attempt to browbeat the
press since the days when a man in a red coat could send
round a file of soldiers and a gang of convicts to seize the
type that didn’t say exactly what he wanted. Possibly
Joseph will carry his determination to a logical conclu-
sion by demanding to see proofs of all the reading matter
of newspapers in which he purposes inserting Govern-
ment advertisements ; and, if the proofs are not suffi-
ciently fulsome in their praise of the Government, the
said advts, will be handed over to some journal
which admires Joseph and co. up to the re-
quired standard. The rail freights of newspaper
packages may also be revised, with a sliding
scale varying from day to day, so that the journal which
contains a leader extolling Joseph’s masterly handling
of public matters will travel free in any quantity,
while the one which says that the Carruthers party
ought to be careful can he charged 3s. 6d. an ounce. With
his ideas J. Carruthers would be an invaluable man to
the reactionary party in Russia just now.
“ One Controlling Authority.”
The Sydney Telegraph has a wonderful faith in
the policy of keeping Australia defenceless. In a
recent article in denunciation of an Australian
navy it held forth thus
Lord Tweedmouth has now given his approval, subject
to the all-important condition that the supreme com-
mand must remain with the British Admiralty. The
reasonableness of that stipulation is clear. For if the
British fleet is ever smashed by an enemy, or a combina-
tion of enemies, the possibility of further resistance by
an Australian coastal defence flotilla becomes impossible.
Hence the absolute necessity that every fighting unit
which the Empire can muster shall be placed at the dis-
position Of the one controlling authority. An Australian
flotilla, manned by Australians, and acting as an auxiliary
to the British fleet, will be gladly accepted by the British
Admiralty. But an Australian navy under an inde-
pendent Australian command, though acting in alliance
with the British navy, is not—for the present, at any rate
—within practical politics.
And on the same basis, whenever war breaks out,
every armed man that Australia has, and all the
guns in the shore batteries at Sydney, Melbourne
and elsewhere, should be exported to England and
“ placed at the disposition of one controlling
authority.” For if the reason is quite clear that
Australia shouldn’t have for its own defence a
few armed ships that can tackle an enemy
say 6000yds. outside Sydney Heads, then it seems
equally clear that it shouldn’t have a shore bat-
tery that can tackle him at 5000yds. And if Aus-
tralia should never have any ships of its own
unless it can begin by having enough to fight
single-handed an enemy that has smashed Britain,
then it seems reasonable that it should never have
any land forces or shore batteries unless it can
have enough of them right from the beginning to
fight Germany all on its own after Britain has been
demolished. There is one thing, apparently, that
the obtuse Tory paper will never learn until a shell
bursts in its office, and then it will see the matter
quite clearly all at once. Nobody ever pro-
pounded the theory that any flotilla which Aus-
tralia could raise this year or next could defend
Australia after the British navy had been
wrecked. But that is no reason why, during the
few weeks or months that might elapse before
the British navy had a chance to wreck the other
fellow —away in the North Atlantic it may be—
a handful of unarmored foreign cruisers, too weak
to be worth putting in the enemy’s battle line,
should sink wholesale and with impunity the fine
vessels of the Union Steamship Co., the A.U.S.N.
Co., Howard Smith and Co., the N.Z. Shipping
Co.', the Adelaide Steamship Co., and other lines,
and should bombard into ruins some dozen or two
dozen little undefended seaports, and perhaps fire
the N.S.W. South Coast coal mines, and generally
do the Alabama business over again. That propo-
sition ought to be simple enough to appeal to a
very humble variety of mind. If Britain left a
few cruisers here to avert the catastrophe just
suggested, these cruisers would be just as much
detached from the “one controlling authority”
about which the Telegraph speaks as if they were
a separate Australian fleet; therefore they might
just as well be vessels of a separate Australian
fleet. It is unmanly to depend on Old Mother for
everything. And it is utter foolishness to risk
the chance that Old Mother may have no vessels
to spare just then, and to allow a twopenny cruiser
or two to do millions of pounds worth of damage
with impunity while we rave impotently and wave
a futile bayonet on /the shore.
Iron.
S.M. Herald (30/4/’O7) rounded off a series of
articles on Mr. Sandford’s Lithgow (N.S.W.)
ironworks with a leader, in which it served out
jam to itself with a large spoon :
It will be remembered that a year or two ago the.com-
Elaint was made that although our territory is so rich in
ematite ores and coal deposits, not a single pound of
pig-iron was made in the State. It was not a new dis-
covery, but it set people thinking, and the result was a
conviction that successive Governments had neglected
their duty in allowing these great natural resources to
remain undeveloped so long. Mr. Sandford could fairly
claim that this neglect was due to no default of his. In
season and out of season he urged the claims of this local
iron industry, and his advocacy was energetically
supported by the press. In these columns we in-
vited notice to the case Mr. Sandford made
out, and drew the attention of the Govern-
ment to the responsibility it was incurring in
closing its eyes to these possibilities. If this State
was to be the iron-producing centre of the Common-
wealth, we urged, as its iron and coaloresindicated.it
was time that the authorities turned aside from the game
of politics for a moment, and studied this great question
on its merits. It is with some satisfaction that we claim
credit for the success of these representations.
All this is amusing. For many years Protec-
tionists, like Mr. Sandford, have been urging
the claims of the N.S.W. iron industry, and for
almost as many years the Herald has been the
industry’s bitter enemy. The Herald, as the
mouthpiece of the Anti-Australian, importing
crowd, strenuously howled down every attempt to
set the iron industry on its feet by giving it rea-
sonable Protection, and it was largely owing to
the Herald’s hatred of local industries that
“not a single pound of pig-iron was made
in the State.” The ores and coal were here all
the time ; the requisite capital was here, or was
obtainable ; and the requisite brains and energy
were here, or were obtainable. What really
blocked the industry was the Herald and similar
wretched foreign-souled rags, and the clamorous
crowd of importers who sooled the Herald on.
With Federation came changed conditions. Not
Freetrade N.S.W., but Protectionist Australia con-
trolled the destinies of the local iron deposits,
and it was apparent to even the blindest Free-
trader that the day of imported iron was nearing
its evening. The fates were kind, and gave the
Herald time to change its coat. The country
hesitated between Lyne’s iron bonus and the
Labor party’s scheme to nationalise the industry, _
and the Herald adroitly slipped in between the
two proposals and ad vocated State assistance. So
Sandford got the N.S.W. Government contract
for steel rails, &c., for seven years. Then the
Herald rose triumphantly and pointed out that
the iron industry had been started without Pro-
tection —as if the absolute shutting out of foreign
competition in the matter of the steel rails con-
tract wasn’t equal, so far as that contract went,
to 100 per cent. Protection. It was more than
Protection —it was Prohibition. And the Herald,
waddling round the corner at the last moment,
says “ Alone I did it.”
• ♦
The Hungarian State Kid.
With the Foreign-trade press the worship of the
foreign importation as against the local product
has degenerated into a disease. Otherwise there
would be no excuse for such as the following (from
a D.T. Leader): —
One of the speakers at the Perth meeting drew atten-
tion to the system which has been adopted with signal
success by the Government of Hungary, and urged that
the Government of Westralia should imitate it. There
can be no question that in Hungary the system has
achieved remarkable results. According to Miss Edith
Sellers, who investigated the system thoroughly and
described it in detail in a recent issue of the Contem-
porary Review, the Hungarian Government has taken
over the guardianship of all neglected children in Hun-
gary. Children who are ill-treated, or whose parents can-
not afford to keep tliem, or whose parents cannot be
found, are sent at once to a “ children’s refuge.” Illegiti-
mate children and also their mothers are similarly cared
for. Wherever the parents have means, they are com-
pelled to contribute towards the cost of the children’s
maintenance, but the work is done by the State. The
director-in-chief of each district has a list Of foster-
mothers of the peasant or artisan class, and inspectors,
doctors, and local committees see that the children are
well treated. In 1905, no fewer than 25,900 children were
thus cared for by the Hungarian Government, at a cost
of £143,089. Miss Sellers urged that the system should
be tried in England. It is probable that its adoption in
Australia would be not less fruitful of good than in
Hungary.
The lauded Hungarian system is simply a repro-
duction in every detail of the boarding-out system
started in N.S.W. in 1881. Further, the Hun-
garian Government first adopted it in 1903, in
consequence of investigations made all over the
world into methods of dealing with neglected
infants. As a result, the Australian system was
chosen as the best possible. As a matter of fact,
the State of South Australia is held up everywhere
as a pattern, its methods of dealing with child
problems having a world-wide reputation. And
the Telegraph rushes to an out-of-the-way
European copy of us to show Australia how to do
it, while the living example of how it is done is
under its very nose. In all its Stinking Fish
campaign the Telegraph has never excelled this
illustration.
That lusty monopolist, the Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing Co., which has always allowed one or two
small refiniiig concerns to exist so that it could
deny that it was a monopolist, has lately swal-
lowed up two of them ; and now there is only one
poor little outsider left, and it hangs out away up
in Queensland. Just 20 years ago the O.S.R.
swallowed the Victoria Refining Co., and, with '
that big competitor out of the road, the rest have
dropped into its enlarged mouth one by one. The
one co., therefore, has the sugar supply of Aus-
tralia in the hollow of its hand. The co. sees the
weak point in the situation, and therefore through
its chairman announces as follows :
So far as the general public is concerned, this transac-
tion is without interest.... The fact that the refining
industry is not protected ensures that prices will not
exceed those at which supplies are procurable from other
sources.
In other words, Australia can rely upon competi-
tion with the outside nigger product to keep the
price low. But Australia can’t afford to rely
upon competition with the nigger to do that.
Australia wants to be white and live a white man’s
life, and it is prepared to put up high Customs
walls to shut the nigger product out. Then if it
puts up high Customs walls it must rely upon
internal competition to keep the price reasonable.
That is one weak point about this or any other
monopoly. It is a scumbling block to high
Protection, because, as the C.S.R; itself points
out, when there is a monopoly the country’s easiest
way, and often the only way, to get a fair price
is to allow competition with the outsider ; and to
compete with the outsider means living down to
the outsider’s level. And in this case of sugar the
outsider is nigger of the West Indies or the East.
♦ . -
There are 181 candidates for the 72 Bananaland
seats—6s PuiLF-ites, 56 Ministerialists, 40 Labor-
ites, four unendorsed KiDSTON-ites, four In-
dependents, and the balance unclassified. Four
candidates—J. Leahy (Bulloo), J. D. Campbell
(Moreton), J. Stodakt (Logan), and W. Hamilton
(Gregory)—have been returned unopposed. The
first three are PHiLP-ites, and the last a Laborite.
The names of eight members of the late Parlia-
ment—O’Brien (Aubigny), (Cook),
who was drowned by the of the ketch
Pilot in the Cooktown cyclone early in the year,
and whose seat was not filled on account of the
approaching dissolution of Parliament; Smart
(Drayton and Toowoomba), McDonnell (Forti-
tude Valley), Fudge (Mackay), Bridges (Nun-
dah), Turner (Rockhampton North), and Lindley
(Wide Bay)—do not appear among the candidates
this time. Brisbane North and Fortitude Valley,
both two-member electorates, have seven candi-
dates each. Of the other double electorates Bris-
bane South and Rockhampton have six applicants
apiece; Gympie, Maryborough, and Townsville
five each ; Charters Towers, Drayton and
Toowoomba, and Mackay four each ; and Ipswich
three. Of the one-member electorates, Cairns
and Cambooya head the list with six candidates
each ; Aubigny has five ; Bundaberg, Carnarvon,
and Cook four each ; and of the remaining forty
contests fifteen are three-men affairs, and twenty-
five are duels. Three ex-Members of the Aus-
tralian Parliament are contesting seats. J. G.
Drake, ex-Postmaster-General and champion
political turncoat, is a candidate for North
Brisbane; Tom Glassey is standing as an
Independent for Fortitude Valley, and D. A.
Thomson is one of the Labor candidates for
Rockhampton. Legion is the name of the have-
beens and never-weres who are going up, mostly
in the Philp interest. The candidate with the
funniest name is Eastaughefk, PHiLP-ite candi-
date for Burrum, who, some years ago, unsuccess-
fully opposed R. D. Meagher for the Tweed
(N.S.W.), what time Mr. Dismally led the
Opposition in N.S.W. Assembly. Eastaughffe
seems to be some relation to that drinkable called
“kauphy”—at least he spells himself on similar
principles.
♦
The decision of the Victorian court over the
wrecked collier Easby, at Gabo, was that the
disaster was caused by the default of the master
and of the second mate. The master’s explana-
tion was that, owing to excessively long hours, he
was utterly worn out, and, when called to go on
deck, he had to fight desperately against the
sleep that could not be banished from his
eyes. Before he could arouse himself, the vessel
was too close inshore to be extricated. The
second mate’s fault was his lack of knowledge
of the coast, and his explanation was that the
owners of the Easby didn’t supply the ship’s
officers with the necessary charts. In this case he
had not access to the chart in possession of the
master. The court handed out a severe repri-
mand to the second mate, and spoke things about
the owners of the collier because of the chart
business. The exhausted master had his certifi-
cate hung up for six months. The court said
nothing about the liability of the owners to see
that their steamships are sufficiently officered,
and Parliament, which ought to attend to the
business, says just about the same thing as the
court did.
♦
One of the curses that spring out of the present
shortage of decent farming land at fair prices is
the shares system. Upon that iniquity some
further light was thrown by a case that lately
happened into the Victorian Supreme Court,
when squatter Staughton, of Melton, sought a
declaration that one of his “share system”
tenants was not a tenant, but a plain servant, to
be sacked whenever Staughton felt inclined.
Under Staughton’s own agreement, made in
1904, farmer Watson undertook to find horses
and implements and the labor necessary to work
and keep in order a farm of 640 acres on the
Exford estate, while Staughton undertook to
find “sufficient stock for dairy purposes, seed for
the cultivation of 60 acres, material for necessary
repairs and for certain improvements, and the
land itself.” The agreement was for five years,
but the land-owner (not the tenant, mind !) might
terminate the contract at a month’s notice, if
he felt dissatisfied with the tenant’s work.
Two years later Staughton sold the Exford
estate to the Closer Settlement Board,
and told farmer Watson to quit. Wat-
son replied that he had still three years
of his lease to run, and asked for compensation.
Staughton thereupon removed his cattle from the
land —he couldn’t take the land away, it beirg
nailed down, as it were—and besought the
Supreme Court to tell farmer Watson that I e
must clear when his master told him. It is some
satisfaction to be able to say that Justice Cussi N
told the squatter that he was asking the Law to
help him break his own agreement, and that it
had nothing to say to him beyond ordering him to
pay the costs of his defeat. His Honor wasn’t
asked to say anything about this beautifully one-
sided agreement, which was a pity. The crowd
which says that there is no real shortage of land
in Victoria is invited to explain how it is, if there
isn’t a shortage, that farmers can be got to take
their working stock on to land from which they
are liable to be turned at a month’s notice —pre-
sumably a month after the man has ploughed and
sown the land—if the landlord feels that way.
+
The Maoriland Government is trying to recapture
an absent Exhibition official named Mclntyre,
whose recent departure for South America created
some excitement. Many humorous things are
alleged about Mclntyre. Among other matters
JUe- seems to have had the job of distributing
medals and awards, and it wasn’t till he had
handed out 900 gold medals and 600 silver ones
that the public began to think the business was
being overdone. There were 2000 competi tors, and
they had already got 1500 prizes among them, and
Mclntyre was still going strong, and an im-
pression began to arise that if everybody got a first
prize the great Christchurch Exhibition would
become a jest and a by-word. Now some-
body alleges that somebody else paid cash
for his medal, and this aspersion is said to be one
of the reasons why a disordered populace threw
hot pies about at the closing ceremony. It
isn’t over any matter connected with the
medals that Mclntyre is wanted, but that is
one of the items in the muddlement which
has made Maoriland a very angry place. Mean-
while, Mclntyre is charged with great incompre-
hensibility in his accounts, and with passing
valueless cheques, and other things. Possibly he
was just a chaotic person who didn’t know
accounts when he saw them, and who fled in
dismay when he tried to make up his balance-sheet,
finding that he had entered the petty cash in the
letter book, and had inadvertently used the
ledger for scribbling paper.
Here and Now.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Time has now arrived.”’ — Political Proverb.
For resolutions to be hived
In acts; faint faith to be revived
Yea, friends, the time has now arrived.
Too long this world crawls, crablike, back
(Bowed down with History’s heavy sack)
Along some spectre-haunted track,
By stagnant sea, by crumbled shore,
Like bat-blind bobby to explore
Only those beats it’s travelled o’er.
And, looking back —lame, halt, and blind—
(lts eyes are firmly fixed behind)
What never was it seeks to find.
So loiters on its weary way
Through Sidon, Tyre, and Nineveh,
Down lanes that lead to —Yesterday.
The Sun of Human Hope shines clear,
The Time *s now ; the Place is Here.
Unbroken soil awaits the plough —
The Place is Here ; the Time is Now.
“ The Time has now arrived.” Men smile
At Dawdlers’ doctrines vague and vile,
“ Not Yet ” . . . “ Some Day ”... and “ Wait a
While.”
Lo ! Ancient banners must be rent;
The incubus of Precedent
Dropped from this dawn-blest Continent.
For, Delos-like, ’neath Summer skies
The Promised Land shall surely rise,
Some Southern Earthly Paradise.
And gay with wattle, blossoming gum
We’ll crown—-it, too, shall surely come—
Australia’s own Millennium.
And not, O Bards, in Legend’s page,
But right here, now, upon this stage,
Let’s fix our modern Golden Age.
Have done with ghosts ; quit doubt and fear.
Vision your Wonderworld right Here !
And Labor’s hands on Progress' plough
Break virgin soil for seed-time, Now.
Let hopeful chants be ever sung
Long backward-marching crowds among;
The world is fresh, the world is young.
This Sunset moan must be withdrawn
(We’re tired of Death, and tombs that yawn)
Australia is the Land of Dawn.
Let the dead Past inter its dead ;
And no more graveyardwards be led ;
Our Country’s tracks run all ahead.
Sift Right and Wrong, sift False and True,
Strike for the Future ! . . . This means You.
My friends, we all have work to do.
And drop this dead and dreary Past,
Hold, hold the Present, hold her fast!
“ The Time has now arrived at last.
The road is Straight, the Sun Shines Clear,
The Time and Place are Now and Here.
Unbroken Soil awaits the plough,
Australia calls us, Here and Now.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


The Imperial Government’s reply to
Premier Deakin’s sparkling wisdom is a striking
instance of the opposition of dogmatism to
common sense. How different the reply had it
been inspired by reason and D.C.L. Whisky.
But as D.C.L. is ever canvassing for wisdom, its
ultimate triumph, even among the most unpro-
gressive politicians, is inevitable.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report re wool:
In the absence of auctions there is little to chronicle
under this heading. Sales will be resumed on the 21st
inst., when some good lines of the new clip from Queens-
land will be marketed. We are in receipt of the following
cablegram, dated London, 30th ult. “Sales opened this
day with good attendance, English and foreign buyers,
and prices shew merinos unchanged, whilst crossbreds
declined 5 per cent, as compared with last series.”*
For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison’s phonographs and products.*
A very few years of British Tory rule coupled
with Chinese labor have made a wonderful revolu-
tion in popular feeling in South Africa. As a
noteworthy piece of evidence, the unemployed
miners and others of Johannesburg (British almost
to a man, for the Boer is a farmer rather than a
miner) demonstrate now under a banner bearing
the portrait of General Botha, with such inscrip-
tions as:—
The Hope of the Unemployed !
Work for the Willing !
General, stick to your Guns !
And thus a local paper describes one of the
demonstrations :
It was a silent procession—save the tramp of feet not a
sound was heard—a mute appeal to human sympathy, an
appeal.which struclfll chord of giant despair and grave
doubt in the heart of the dourest. There was no booing,
no jeering, but merely a mute appeal for help. It was an
appeal which seemed to startle many a bystander, and
led him to cogitate on the tide affairs had taken in the
“Golden City.”
Louis Botha, the Dutch soldier who is opposed
to Chinese labor, is more to these starving
Englishmen now than Edward VII. or the
British Government, or even the Union Jack
itself. They hope that he will bring back the
good days when Paul Kruger was king—the
days when there were no Chinese, when white
British subjects could find work and abundant
wages, and when the Boer Government regarded
an English workman as of more account than a
German-Hebrew mine-owner or a Chinese coolie.
For a few weary years now the Transvaal has
been owned by a British Government which
treated the British workman as something worse
than a dog, and of less value than a Chow chattel,
and now that same workman calls on the old Boer
warrior for deliverance from the misrule of
imported English officials—the Boer at whom
his countrymen were firing cannon a little while
ago in the bogus name of Freedom.
4
A deputation that interviewed Vic. Railways
Minister Swinburne lately threw further light on
Tait’s methods of “ making the railways pay.”
As fast as men retire from the sawmill and wood-
workers’ branches of the Newport workshops,
their places are filled by boys at 25., 35., or 3s. 4d.
a day. Band and jig-saw men, who get 10s. a
day from private employers, get only Bs. a day
from the department. The Newport sawmills
employ 47 men and 31 boys, though the Factories
Act allows but one apprentice to four men. And
concerning the nature of this employment, it was
stated that out of these 47 men not half-a-dozen
have a complete set of fingers ! Swinburne him-
self admitted that out of 61 boys employed only
23 were apprenticed to the trade ; the rest were
learning how to get fingers whizzed off without
being apprenticed. Yet a Government railway
workshop should be an ideal training ground for
the State’s future mechanics, as well as the best
conducted factory in the State.
«
Australia spends nearly £700,000 a year on its
citizen army; yet, according to a just-issued re-
turn analysing the musketry course for 1905-’6,
only 2421 of its trained soldiers are marksmen !
Looked at in detail the figures are paralysing. In
the whole Commonwealth 9345 trained soldiers
were exercised last year; and of that handful
nearly three-fourths are not effective riflemen.
Out of a fighting population of a million a
wretched 2421 are hall-marked as trustworthy
shots ! Of course many others can shoot, and shoot
straight; but the Defence Department knows
them not, and cannot be sure of getting hold
of them when it wants them. Moreover many
of them are not keeping up their practice, and
they get no keener-sighted and no steadier in the
hand as they get older and the laid-by rifle or
breechloader hangs on the wall unused. Yet
Australia is living on a volcano all these days, and
if the time comes for it to rely on its land forces
for defence, its only hope lies in having, like the
Boers, a large reserve of men who can be trusted
to shoot straight and make the most of every
cartridge they fire.
4
That venerable buttress of Freetrade, Melbourne
Argus, which during the Federal elections almost
completely forsook its ramshackle and gone-in-the-
feet joss, has begun to pull itself together; and it
threatens, in a pompous and superior style, to
return once more to its worship of the importer.
“It is high time,” says Granny, “that the Pro-
tectionist Association ceased pretending that the
present fiscal policy is supported by the electors
on economic grounds.” Also :
How little high tariffs have to do with economic well-
being, and how all-important are climatic conditions and
the success of our natural industries are apparent to
everyone who gives even the most superficial consideration
to the question.
This, of course, settles the whole business. Ac-
cording to the Argus, the “ natural industries ”
of Australia consist of rooting out metals for
(mostly) other nations thousands of miles away
to smelt, and sending our wool, grown on
that exotic and non-Australian animal, the
sheep, away to be made into cloth for our-
selves. Why, for example, the smelting of
iron should be a “natural industry” in
England—which is now importing a lot of the
raw ore—and should be an unnatural industry in
Australia —where both ore and coal abound—is
one of those profound Foreign-trade mysteries
that only the Argus, apparently, understands.
Why is the woollen-manufacturing industry a
“natural” one to England, which has to drag
most of its wool from the four corners of the
earth; and why is it not a natural industry in
Australia, where the wool is grown ?
4
Alex Marks, the gentleman who represents the
“Jewish Territorial Organisation,” and is hustling
round Australia with the object of getting a slice
of this country upon which to plant a Jewish
settlement, recently got a letter from England.
Seemingly the first idea was to found some sort of
Jewish colony or republic in Australia. Mr.
Marks, after inspection, informed his London
headquarters that any form of independence for a
Jewish settlement was impossible, but under
Australian local conditions a large amount of
antonomy was possible. In reply Israel Zang-
will wrote the following and much more :
We are quite satisfied with local autonomy. What we
really want is elbow room. We don’t desire to solve the
problem for a few thousands, but to build up a possible
future for a whole people. I am quite aware that Aus-
tralia will fight hard against giving away any territory,
or fostering our aims in any way, but Australia has to
choose between a black population and a Jewish white
one. Australia is waking up to her folly and her possible
future collapse. The Jews can, possibly, safeguard her
future as a white territory. Thus we are in a position to
dictate our terms.
This is a remarkable, not to say cheeky, letter, and
shows how woefully a man living at the other
side of the earth can mistake Australia’s position.
True, this country wants a large white popula-
tion. But it isn’t absolutely driven to choose
between the nigger and the Jew. Given
a sensible land policy and an effective Protec-
tionist tariff to provide land and employment,
the Gentile will be forthcoming. Moreover,
if Australia were depending upon a Jewish settle-
ment for protection, Australia’s case might be
viewed with grave suspicion. The majority of the
proposed Jewish settlers are Russian Hebrews—a
people with no fighting record, and there is no
evidence that they are of the stuff that will stand
between a white and a Colored Australia.
♦
A letter, and a true bill, from Melbourne :
A significant exposition of Fat’s views of the relative
responsibilities of employer and employee was given in
Melbourne Argos of May 3, in a sub-leader on the Marine
Court’s finding re the loss of the Easby. That none too
youthful tramp was travelling from Devonport (Tas.) to
Sydney (N.S.W.) at its usual gradual speed of eight
knots. Early on the morning of April 7 the captain
sighted Cape F.verard light, and, having been 22 hours on
duty, he gave a course to the second mate and went
below, leaving orders to be called when the light was
abeam. He was duly called, but, being worn out with
want of sleep, he seems to have dozed off again. The
vessel was then entering the red sector of the light, and
had there been charts available for his use, the
second officer must have been warned of danger,
and altered the course. There were no charts,
the dead-tired skipper slept on, and an hour
later the vessel struck. Finding it was making
more water than the pumps could cope with, the captain
ran it to Gabo Island and beached it without loss of life.
After considering these facts, the Marine Court said the
captain should have remained on deck—after his 22 hours’
duty—and, as a punishment, suspended his certificate for
six months. The second mate it reprimanded—appa-
rently for not yelling more strenuously in the captain’s
ear. Further, the Court said that it was amazed to learn
that some apparently sane shipowners sent their vessels
to sea without charts, the only ones on board being the
captain’s private property. “Had the second officer
had access to proper charts, this disaster might
have been avoided.” Also, “the Court would like
to see the law altered to make owners bear part
of the expense of investigations where charts were not
supplied.” The Tory Argus noted these remarks, and
uprose with a grieved expression to animadvert on the
“ sheer neglect of captains and officers . . . such indif-
ference to duty that the captain may congratulate himself
on getting off as lightly as he did.” Also it discovered
that “ it is difficult to understand on what principles the
Easby was navigated, except that her navigators evidently
relied with great faith on the law of chances.” Not a
word about the Court’s strictures on the owners’ neglect
to provide charts, and about the shameful policy which
kept an officer on duty for 22 hours at a stretch. In effect,
there was even greater condemnation of those owners and
even better excuse for the navigators than appeared
on the surface. The owners, by failing to provide
charts, risked their vessel; but that risk was merely
nominal—by insuring her they could presently pro-
vide another; but the overworked captain and the
chartless officer were risking their lives—and no in-
surance company has ever offered to replace a life when
lost, no matter how high the premium. Notwithstand-
ing the Argus’ hypocritical apologies the shipowner
stands out as the dangerous factor in the navigating of
this and many other vessels. He not only forces his
slaves to toil 22 out of the 24 hours, but apparently he
also expects even second mates to provide their own
charts. He may presently want them to find their own
life-belts, boats, and provisions. Yet he doesn’t work 22
hours on end, neither does he risk his own life by travel-
ling on his own vessel. As the Court said, the Law needs
altering—not so much to make the owners of chartless
ships pay what may be called “ costs,” as to make them
chargeable with criminal neglect or wilful risk of life
when they send to sea a vessel without charts, articles as
necessary for the ship’s safety as her rudder or her
engines.
“ GRANNY ” SYMPATHISES WITH THE
MUDSLINGERS.
A colored person named Goliath Joseph, when refused
admission to the Commonwealth, stigmatised Australia
as a wicked place and various other insulting allusions,
fully reported in S.M. HEEALD.
Some of the Bent Government’s later purchases
of land for Victorian Closer Settlement are said to
be more scandalous than the Overnewton job
which was exposed two or three years ago. In
that case a large portion of the land, being stony,
was hopelessly incapable of maintaining the
agriculturists who tried to settle on it and are
now giving up the attempt. But the price paid for
the whole was not greatly in excess of its market
value—as the present inflated values go—for poor
grazing purposes. The recent purchases appear
to have been made without proper regard for the
value of public money. In one case the price paid
was nearly twice as much as the land could be
expected to fetch at auction.
It seems that the Von Pinschof, in his char-
acter of Chief Patron of the Opera, got an awful
rebuff when he dropped into the Princess’s Theatre
one morning to see how the company was shaping
at rehearsal. With an air of great affability he
seated himself in a front stall, as though his in-
coming were the signal for business to begin.
But when Greder, the tall German stage manager,
caught sight of the interloper, he said : “ Before
ve begin, I must ask any von present who is not a
member of the koampanee to please retire,” where-
upon the only any-Von present kept his seat.
“Are you a member of the koampanee ? If not
you will please retire,” said Greder, fixing a cold,
unsympathetic gaze on the stalled stranger. The
Consul for Austria hastened to explain—“ I don’t
think you know Who I am. I’m Herr Pinschof.”
The reply was crushing : “ I did not ask you your
name, I asked if you vas a member of the koam-
panee ; if not you vill please go avay.” Mr.
Pinschof vent avay, not quite broken up in his
dignity, but severely shaken.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Criterion “ Honor Thy Father.”
i “ The Walls of Jericho” and
ALACB •”••••/ “Quality Street.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Cos.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “Leah Kleshna.”
Theatre Royal “The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Cos.
Athen/eum Hall Biograph—“ Living Scotland.”
Town Hall Cook’s Pictures and the All
Blacks.
4.
The public demands certain specialities of
its entertainers, and will not be denied. Thus
B. Smith holds a steady job in the eye of the
multitude as supplier of the genteel, pomatumed
platitude, in its weightiest and most oleaginous
form ; Lauri and G. Reid must always be funny,
if they would avoid being tiresome; and so on.
The Anderson speciality is Horror. “Horror Thy
Father,” which was produced by the co. on
Saturday night last at Sydney Criterion, fills all
specifications in this essential regard. The farmer’s
daughter, Lilian Garth, having been duly “be-
trayed” by the scoundrelly Bart., Duncan Bly—the
absent hero, honest Jack Halyard (a son of the sea
as his name indicates) being suspected everywhere
of the dastardly deed —and the parents of the
lost one being “brought low,” owing to the
further machinations of Bly (so low, indeed, that
by Act 111. t he mother is found selling newspapers,
in Charing Cross Gardens, while the uncom-
promisingly upright old father languishes in an
asylum), the decks are cleared for the presentment
of the feature of the evening—to wit, the Horror.
The Horror turns out to be a mechanical chair of
forbidding aspect, so contrived that anyone who
sits in it immediately finds himself grasped, vice-
like, round the region of the vermiform appendix
by one pair of steel or wooden hooks, while
two more of the same instruments surround
his skull and burn or fry his eyes out by the
ignition, at their ends, of what one of the charac-
ters describes as “certain hitherto unknown
gases.” This useful piece of furniture (“ A Mad-
man’s Invention,” as the programme neatly terms
it) is the main attraction of the Visitors’ Room at
Broadmead Asylum, which institution harbors,
amongst others, grand old Gabriel Garth—father
of Lilian—and George Bloggs, homicidal maniac,
and inventor of the Chair. As the loons in this
asylum are suffered to wander freely about the
Visitors’ Room, gibbering and otherwise miscon-
ducting themselves (and right here The Bulletin
would urge that wherever homicidal chairs of
this description are used in Australian asylums,
the loons of dangerous tendencies should be
very carefully watched), the inevitable occurs.
Bly, who has arrived on a visit to his victim,
Gabriel, is violently accommodated with a seat by
Bloggs, and rendered stone-blind. Bloggs just
hates to see a visitor standing. .
m * « *
Act IV. reveals Bly in his study watched
over by Miss Duggan (Mercy Merry) who—
ignorant of the man’s appalling character—intends
to marry him the following morning. Jack, her
old lover, has retired to an outside place in the
matrimonial betting, as a result of the aspersions
east upon him by Bly. In a corner stands the
Chair. By way of overweight, so to speak, the
Baronet has added to the blinding apparatus a
Mask of Bronze —an heirloom of the Bly family—
designed to still further incommode the unwary
sitter by descending sharply on his head. Mercy
having departed, Jack arrives, bearing a perfect
armory of documentary evidence in proof of Bly’s
iniquities, and is directed courteously by that in-
famous aristocrat to the Chair. He seats himself
like a lamb. The hooks close upon him, the Mask
of Bronze begins to waggle ominously overhead—
but, ere the worst can happen, the comic rustic,
an unusually plain youth with a flaming wig and
an intermittent Loamshire or Mangelwurzelshire
accent, but with a Good Heart, dashes from behind
a screen, reverses the works; and so saves the situa-
tion. From this point the maniacal drama moves
to a fairly cheerful conclusion. One marvels
rather at an actress of Miss Duggan’s experience
being deceived for an instant as to the moral
character of a man who appears upon a peaceful
English countryside—as does this baronet—smok-
ing a cigarette, and wearing roomy corduroy
trousers stuffed into patent-leather Skuthorp
riding boots, together with fancy vest, reefer
jacket, and an immense curly-brimmed bowler
hat. Thatcostumeshould spell “knave” to theleast
discerning. Otherwise, the details of the play
are very convincing—barring Bloggs and the
Chair, and a few dozen other items. The mem-
bers of the co. do well, and the scenery is quite
excellent.
** * *
Though there is no sign that Sydney is
tired of “ Mother Goose,” the tail-end of that
festive fowl at Her Majesty’s is coming close;
and the Williamsonian forces are getting ready
for a re-shuffle. The new co. which is being
organised for musical comedy will take away the
energetic Florence Young, and give Mabel
Morgan the front place that she has worked
steadily forward to ; also, it is understood that,
when the panto goes on tour, Miss Morrell will
sail back across the ocean to parts which, possibly,
will appreciate her better. “ Dick ” Shortland,
during part of last week, gave Harry Shine a rest
in his heavy part, and did it so well that the
audience mostly didn’t notice the difference ; and
that’s a pretty large thing to say of a man who
follows so experienced a frivoller as H. Shine.
** * *
The swashbuckling Brigadier Gerard leaves
the stage of Sydney Rojal after Friday, and
“Monsieur Beaucaire” trips into his place on
Saturday. “ Beaucaire ”is one of Julius Knight’s
best impersonations, and since his last playing of
it Sydney has been able to see how horribly
it can be done in other hands —those of Mr.
Thompson or Smith or Osborne or somebody like
that. Julius should therefore have an extra-warm
welcome.
“ What Would a Gentleman Do ? ” leaves
Sydney Palace on Friday night, and it also leaves
an unsatisfied feeling behind it. For there are so
many things that a peer might perpetrate on
which the play casts no light at all. And, after
all, it is very rarely that a gentleman knows what
he would do himself if anew emergency struck
him. Suppose, for instance, he were falling down
a stair, and saying “ Damn ” loudly as he flew,
and while he was in the air he saw a lady that he
knew coming up, and he had the choice of clutching
at the bannister with both hands to save himself,
or taking off his hat to her and letting himself fly,
what would a gentleman do ? Anyhow, this is a
digression? “The Walls of Jericho” will be
raised and razed at the Palace on Saturday, and
on Monday and Tuesday the architectural opera-
tion will be repeated. On Wednesday, Thurs-
day and Friday “ Quality-street ” will be staged.
On Saturday (May 18) “Olivia,”a dramatisation of
1 he vicar of Wakefield,” done by the late Henry
Irving, will be presented. Olivia was a fine,
bouncing girl, and The Bulletin will be glad to
meet her again, and hopes she will bounce hand-
somely.
** * *
Yesterday (Thursday, May 8) Mr. H. N.
.'Southwell was booked to leave for M.L. to
arrange the Black-Premyslav tour. The Polish
ifiddler, who is undoubtedly a genius, and equal to
;any other player on the oblong box who has
'Visited Australia, will follow in a fortnight’s time.
** * *
West’s Pictures and the Brescians are so
persistently lucky that this writer would like to
be a shareholder in the combination. They please
the eye and please the ear, and so long as a
manager gets ears and eyes in great numbers he
.needn’t ask, “ Where’ll we go next ?”
* * *
The late-lamented ’cellist, Gerard Vollmar,
was buried from Paling’s, Sydney. Sykes played
Chopin’s “ Funeral March, ” and a huge gathering
of musicians and amateurs attended the obsequies.
Vollmar had been teaching at Paling’s for twelve
years, and it was a gentle and a kindly act to let
the silenced ’cellist start his last journey from
there rather than from a mortuary place.
** * *
Bijou Russell, the new “lady coon” of
the Tivoli, whom The Bulletin postponed for a
week, on the general principle that all coons
ought to be kept on the ice for at least seven days,
turns out to be about the same coon as usual; but
her dancing is a whirlwind. King and Benson,
who provide the best musical sketches the
Rickards management has had for many a day,
are in their very last nights; and when they go
there will be plenty of room in the bill for a strong
item or two.
#* * #
As regards “The Valkyrie,” produced at
Melbourne Princess’s, last Saturday, one may
unexcitedly remark that it compensated a hopeful
audience for the trouble of getting there before
7 o’clock. Everybody will not accept this weird
work of advanced Wagnerism as a charming
entertainment, but no one will deny that in its
restricted form of presentation it is an impressive
musical show. “ The Valkyrie ” beats the better
known operas of Divine Richard on their own
ground. Here the effect of harmony in music,
story, and staging, is more fully attained than in
“Lohengrin,” which is generally preferred to
“ Tannhauser ” (by people who have learned to
like them both), though it is even more lacking
than the older opera in detachable airs. “ Lohen-
grin” has more harmony than melody—as the
term is understood in irreligious circles. “The
Valkyrie,” on the other hand, abounds in
melodious orchestration of an indefinitely
appropriate character, and in its mystical
dramatic aspect it represents a fine attempt
to sink the ridiculous in the sublime, and
lull common sense to gentle slumber. The result
is partly Successful. When the absurdities are
glaringly obtrusive, common sense shuts its eyes
and admits that the music is very soothing, even
though the brasses may be doing their worst. It
is said that a “proper” production of “The
Valkyrie,” as designed by the autocrat, would
require months of scenic preparation, and an
orchestra about three times as strong as Mus-
grove’s. But then Wagner estimated his art at
more than its proper value. The production at
the Princess’s gives all the essence of the opera,
and is quite enough for any able-bodied student
of German mythology to enjoy at one sitting.
Also it is certain that not many people are pre-
pared to pay for a more expensive dose, in the
ordinary way.
• • *
The story of “ The Valkyrie ” is intensely
Wagnerian in its disrespect for the human mum-
mers who are expected to suit their action to the
music. There are many times, long and short,
when the music keeps them fixed silent and
immovable, in very uncomfortable positions. For
instance, Sieglinde, Brunnhilda, Siegmund and
an unfortunate horse are required to pose for
about 10 minutes (it seemed 20 minutes on
Saturday), whilst the orchestra drowsily expresses
their conflicting emotions. It was just like
Wagner to insist upon having a horse in this pro-
longed situation, leaving the stage manager to
save it from ridicule. On Saturday the dumb
quadruped behaved with pathetic propriety for a
time. The poor thing had, perhaps, been drugged,
or was dying of sheer old age. But at the
eleventh minute it made a beast of itself,
notwithstanding the soulful music. Under
such circumstances no performance of “The
Valkyrie” could seem quite perfect, even though
the whole audience was ignorant of the unnatural
immorality of the plot. In beautiful contrast to
the misconduct of the aged steed was the serenity
of two property rams, that affected to pull the
goddess Fricka in her go-cart when she came to
reprove her husband for encouraging the unlawful
union of his illegitimate twin son and daughter.
Other spectacular effects (scenery by W. R. Cole-
man and George Upward) did honor to the good
work of Slapoffski’s augmented orchestra, and
the brave endeavors of six principals. Miss Sara
Anderson, as the married lady who goes astray
with her twin brother, scored the singing and
acting success of the season, Miss Heinze, and
the capacious tenor, and Riinger coming next in
importance. Eight Australian Valkyries sang
their little bits of music rather feebly. To-night
and to-morrow (Friday) will be the last nights of
the aforesaid opera and of the season, which has
beaten all records.
** m #
“0.K.” writes
The remarkable success of Musgrove’s Opera Cos. in
Melbourne goes to show that the local musical world is
under German government. When he undertook to
organise a company on a “ subscription " guarantee,
Musgrove looked in the first place to the German crowd
for patronage and to its Australian followers for warm
encouragement, but he could hardly have expected to
make a complete capture of the outside public. Mel-
bourne’s liking for grand opera was mostly created in the
’7o’s, and nurtured for many years afterwards by singers of
the Italian school, nor was it until long after the advent
of Marshall Hall, a masterful preacher of the German
musical gospel, that any Wagnerian operas were staged in
Bent’s city. The result of manager Musgrove’s first bid
for the vote and influence of the Wagnerites was
encouraging enough, yet not so financially satisfactory
to him as disastrous to the Italian opera venture which
followed it. The importers of the Italian company drew
a wrong conclusion from the moderate success of George
Musgrove’s speculation. They reckoned that, with a
stronger force of voices than Musgrove had put
into action, they could carry public favor by storm.
But they were ignoring the importance of the new'
German Government. Whereas the musical critics


Insure
with the
#■
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable, G. HOWARD POPE, Manager,
THE LONE HAND.
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
WILL any Agents who have supplies which
they think will remain unsold kindly send
them back at once to this office, or to the
wholesale house from which they were secured ?
There is an unsatisfied demand for several
thousands in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. We wish to meet the demand as well
as we can, but CANNOT REPRINT.
Agents are invited to send to the office
CONSERVATIVE estimates of their requirements
for the second number, which will be published
on SATURDAY, JUNE 1.
THE LONE HAND,
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
of the daily press had given all possible assistance to
Musgrove’s programme for the sake of the Wagner items
in it, the same writers were disposed to be severely criti-
cal as regards the purely Italian performances at Her
Majesty’s, which amounted, perhaps, to the strongest
displays of dramatic vocalism that Melbourne had known.
The cognoscenti who “ barracked ” with academic fervor
for the previous company had no enthusiasm to spare for
the melodious Italian singers. A lot of money was
lost over this speculation, and when, after a lapse
of five years, another revival of grand opera was mooted
in Melbourne, the German Government of music com-
missioned Musgrove to bring out a German company, and
the result, as far as Melbourne is concerned, isan amazing
success. Each night’s performance has been treated by
the newspapers as an important event, the public, mean-
while, rushing to the Princess’s six times a week with
the intention of taking its complete satisfaction for
granted. The German Government’s policy of Warm
Approval was dictated by personal considerations
quite apart from inborn musical prejudice. Its
subscription-guarantee was at stake. And this policy of
the Government was adopted by musical people, many of
whom attached anew and strange importance to the
presentation of familiar operas, such as “ Carmen ”
add “Eaust,” from the fact that visitors were now, for
the first time, prohibited from entering or leaving the
auditorium when the curtain was up. Nothing seems
more desirable in life than an entertainment to which
ticket-holders are refused admission if they arrive three
minutes late. They start the evening in a submissive
German spirit, by thanking the Lord that they were not
shut out.
** * *
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) overflowed on
Saturday with a crowd that had come to see one
more revival of “Sunday” for six nights only.
In “Sunday” a loyal public gets itsTittell Brune
at her best when she is reading the letter from
Towser, and falling in love with the London
Journal colonel. Subsequently it gets her at her
worst when she wishes a doleful good-bye to
everybody in the kitchen in the last act. A ten-
dency to prolong the droning agony is Miss
Tittell’s pet sin. After this week the “Good-
byes” will be sprints of three furlongs— i.e.,
nights—for each revival. “Leah Kleshna” next
Saturday is to be followed by “Merely Mary
Ann” on Wednesday.
** * *
“The White Heather,” at Melbourne
Royal, is still harping on the significant fact that
a bad-hearted British aristocrat who happens to
have been born with an intellect is quite capable
of becoming a stockbroker. The business suits
him. On the London Stock Exchange of Bland
Holt’s drama there is only one conspicuously like-
able broker, and he dies of misfortune in the second
act. This sad event plunges Miss Harrie Ireland
into mourning, which suits her so nicely that Mrs.
Bland Holt takes pity on her the next time they
meet, and is more or less instrumental in recover-
ing the proof of her marriage from the bottom of
the sea. At a first hasty glance the decease of the
ill-hited speculator appears to have no subsequent
developments, but when it comes to be remem-
bered as the cause of Miss Ireland’s blade walk-
ing costume, one is glad to think that the late
James Hume did not perish in vain.
*****
Another serious outbreak of biograph is
reported in Melbourne. At the Town Hall the
combination of Cook’s Living Pictures and the
musical All Blacks was announced for Monday of
the present week, and this statement in The
Bulletin, not having been countermanded by
telegramfrom the seatof war, bears indirect witness
to the fact that the Cooks and the Blacks did
actually come to pass at the Town Hall, with the
intention of repeating the performance for five
nights—-Friday being the fifthly and lastly.
** * *
The Taits have taken the Athenaeum Hall
for the purpose of “Living Scotland,” together
with a fine assortment of “fake” pictures, which
gave vast satisfaction and very little flicker to a
mass meeting on Saturday night. The “Living
Scotland ” season is made musical by the Mel-
bourne Quartet, four pleasing voices with a fair
idea of how to work them in unison.
** * *
At tffe Opera House (where everything
that happened last week is still happening) the
voice of rumor has a lot to say about the Sven-
galis, who will eventuate shortly. It seems that
Europe *>- s greatly astonished awhile at the
perform an e of the Zancigs, but whereas the
Zancigs were simply wonderful, theSvengalis are
positively marvellous—and they are about to
arrive in Melbourne under engagement to
Rickards. Which explains why rumor is so elol-
- the subject. The Svengalis’ turn is a
Telepathic Mystery, or something in that way.
Anything you may say to one Svengali elicits an
immediate response from another without a word
having been breathed along. If you whisper to
No. 1 in the audience the name of Great Caesar’s
Ghost, the No. 2 telepathist transforms himself
into a striking presentation of that famous spectre.
The first miracle will probably be performed
■on the 18th, or earlier.
** * *
Adelaide theatre audiences are about as
unreliable as most others. They rushed the
Comic Opera Co.’s revivals, and only a technical
objection saved manager Bracy from being fined
m the police-court for overcrowding. The new
“ Spring Chicken ” and the venerable “Belle of
New York ” went equally well. Then with “ The
Little Miehus” business slumped unaccountably
for the finish, though the gay Parisian trifle scores
off most of its kind, by being funniest during its
final half-hour. The co. having drifted away via
Ballarat to Brisbane, the Royal has been empty for
a few days (manager Pollock says that nothing of
the kind will happen again this winter). The
Tivoli’s pleasant variety show had for a time the
ad vantageof a complete lack of opposition, but now
things are going strong again. At the Town Hall
are the Pierrots, who are very refined and English
m tone (not that the two things necessarily go to-
gether). Adelaide is not yet quite sure what to make
of them. And at the Royal the Ward-Willough-
by-Palotta partnership is presenting the adven-
tures of “Mr. Hopkinson,” a curiously British
little bounder ; not that the story can be reason-
ably conceived. as actually taking place even in
England, but it might be rather less impossible
there than in Timbuctoo. The other amusement
m sight is the ice-rink.
Blister : Mr. Blanche Arral, the prima donna who
seems to have been practically unknown until she
arrived from nowhere, like a comet, and hit Australia,
reminds me in her suddenness of Tetoazzini, the singer
who charmed California some years ago. She came from
the unknown and suddenly disappeared no one exactly
knows where, and her presumable address is now Post
Juice, Chaos. “Tetoazzini” was the rage some years
ago xn San Francisco, and her love affairs, which were
picturesque, aroused much attention.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ J.A.C.” : I see that good old Captain William Jackson
Barry died recently in Christchurch (M.L.). I knew' him
well, and he was a kind, genial old man, who never
harmed anyone. True, he had an idiosyncrasy—as an
ornamental prevaricator Ananias was a mere amateur to
him. But his rambles from the paths of truth were never
hurtful. He once wanted me to travel as his agent,
on a “lecterin”’ tour, as he termed it. I heard his
“lecter,” and didn’t. These elevating discourses were
invariably given on one consecutive evening—l do not
remember him to have ever actually finished one. He
always insisted on trying to get a chairman, for whose
bsence he usually apologised. When he had one his for-
mula was simple—he introduced him to the audience,
and then, one good turn deserving another, his
chairman introduced him. He published a book,
“Ups and Downs,” (“Hups an’ Downs,” he called
it) monumentally unveracious. He once confided
to me that the whale story was not as consistent
with the sacred truth as he could have wished, but he
said he did cling to a dead whale for some hours, until a
boat picked him up. When I last met him he was trying
to establish a claim to something in the Maoriland King
Country—l forget what ;it might have been the throne.
I believ i he inherited his title of captain from an ancestor.
“ Melb.” : Again “Faust.” The Teutons
heartily accept Gounod, and pilot him
with their own local color. The opera
leads thousands to study the poem, and
find what a mere fragment is taken out.
There are “Faust” operas also by Spohr,
Donizetti, Boito, Berlioz, and Schumann
(bits). I have been revelling again in
Goethe’s lovely invocation, the prologue in
the theatre, and the prologue in heaven,
where the stanzas of the archangels scale
the topmost heights of poetry. Then
Gounod chips in and takes you to the end
of the first part, in a superficial way.
But there is the enormous second part.
When, at the end of the first, Mephisto
says, “Hither with me!” that does not
mean for the stage to yawn and belch out
red fire. They are only off to fresh ad-
ventures for five long acts, ending with
Faust’s apotheosis. Boito’s opera includes
some of the second part, with Faust’s
vision of Helena.
“Blister”: What strikes me most about
Ada Ward is her hand. It is a skinny paw
with five claws that clutch the air as if
seeking a perch. That’s it—bird-like.
Long ago, when Ada was in the world and
had no prickings of conscience, that hand
was doubtless pink and plump and prodi-
gal. Encased in a No. 2 kid, it must have
looked adorable on the table at Monte
Carlo, where the lady said she was a fierce
gambler. Also it may have glittered with
the diamonds that designing villains were
permitted to place upon it. But now it is
not even effective in gesture, and it suggests
nothing but physical bankruptcy.
Ada Ward gives the lie direct to the alle-
gation that she gave the Salv’arnjy the go-
by because there was more liinelight in
Methodist churches. ' She states that
when she landed in Australia she went
direct to Commissioner McKie, of the
Salv’army there, and offered her services.
But McKie did not seem to catch on, so
Ada went elsewhere, and started her whirl-
ing denunciations under other auspices.
By the way, how exceptionally lucky
Ada Ward has been. When she was young
and fascinating she held a good place in
the theatrical world ; and now that she’s, well, not so
young, she captures great audiences who would flee
swiftly from her were she still in the “ legitimate ” line.
“S.' Snell”: I sat next an interesting couple at
“Lohengrin,” the other night, in the two bob depart-
ment of Melbourne Princess gallery. They were a
cut or two above push society, but had some charac-
teristics in common with the talent. He might have
been gripman on a delivery cart; she a star cigarette
hand in a tobacco factory. After the first act she was
very curious. “ Wha’s it all erbout,” she said, “ tha’s
what I wanter know. Why’d that bloke with ther sword
make a row fer? The lydy in the night dress done
nothin’t’him what I could see.” “Ah-h, he’s er nark,
the gazob with ther sword. He orter be pinched,”
answered the youth. “But what’s up with ’em all,
Dolf? Blime, they’re up the stick.” Dolf, feeling that
he had a duty to perform, settled down to explain. Not
being quite certain of his ground his voice was low and
•confidential. “I dunno for a cert,” he said, “but I
reckon this is how. See, they’re havin’ a sort iv picnic
’n’ darnee, these torfs, et er place something like Dream-
land ’r Prince’s Court. Tumble ? Well, the guy with ther
sword—Fred his name is—he does a mag that ther lydy
Elsie’s done him fer his ticker ’r p’r’aps bilked him fer
er quid ’r two. Well, he makes er riot erbout it, pitchin’
er tale t’ ther boss iv th’ show, Harry the Fowl they calls
him, ’n’ Harry sez they better not call in ther Johns, ez
it ud on’y give ther place er bad name. He sergists that
Elsie’s bloke should put up er couple iv rounds with this
’ere Fred fer ther ticker, winner t’ take ther lot. Ther
cobber with ther long stick, he’s ther referee, ’n’ he calls
out ther names ’n’ weights iv ther two lads, ’n’ th’ condi-
tions iv th’ contract. Elsie’s bloke, he’s willin’, ’n’ he
gets et Fred, ’n’ passes ’im out in one round.” The young
lady looked relieved, but was not yet quite satisfied.
“ But what iv ther goose ?” She said. “ Why does Elsie’s
bloke have’er goose t’drag him round?” “Yar, yer
mug,” retorted Dolf ; “ that’s on’y one er them penny
rides, same ez ther dragon et Prince’s Court.”
Karl Studemund, who appears as Lohengrin in Mus-
grove’s Royal Grand Opera Co. in Melbourne, is not a
tall man, but weighs close upon 17st. Lohengrin, it may
he remembered, appears in the first scene drawn across
the water by a swan.
Came Lohengrin in armor white,
A saintly, sentimental knight,
Drawn by a swan across the main—
It really should have been a crane !
Snell.
“ R.” : A par. in “ Poverty Point ” (11/4/’O7) gives the
credit to Berlin professors (which rightly belongs to an
Australian) in connection with the discovery of the
talented child-actress, Wanda Radford. This youthful
prodigy was found by a Sydney teacher of elocution,
Mr. A. Bertram Flohm, when she was but six years old
was taught by him for some time gratis, brought forward
at his recitals, and given a farewell benefit performance
by him when she left for Berlin. Wanda’s letters to her
first and only teacher are full of warmest gratitude.
“F ”; The first actress who played Hamlet was Mrs
Patience Blaxland Rignold, mother of Mr. George Rignold
of Australian fame.
Alleged that Charles Kean never drew a bigger salarv
than £7 6s. Bd. a week.
“Star” : It is amusing to read that the Lord Chamber-
lain, censor of plays in Great Britain by virtue of his
office, and quite apart from any consideration of ability,
has forbidden the performance of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
opera, “ The Mikado,” and withdrawn its license. Prince
Fushimi, of the Imperial House of Japan, is coming to
England, and apparently it is assumed that the royal
chimpanzee might find something insulting to his Celes-
tial Magnificence, the reigning Emperor, in Gilbert’s
delightful jest. The action of Smith, Baron Carrington,
is a concession to the stony humorlessness of the Jap, and
a recognition of the blank humorlessness of Smit h Car-
rington. Man has been described as the animal that
laughs, but the Jap has not reached that stage in the
process of evolution. He never laughs; he only grins.
He has no discoverable comic sense, and “The Mikado”
would strike him as only an absurd libel on his King and
country. Beally, “ The Mikado ” touches Japan only for
the sake of costume and color. The opera itself is a
travesty of British manners and customs. The prohi-
bition of the opera in England shows to what absurd
lengths the lion is prepared to go to propitiate the ape.
“Snell ”: Melbourne Princess’s gallery w'as magnificently
patronised during the progress of Musgrove’s range of
grand opera, being packed tightly every night with
appreciative crowds at 3s. and 2s. per head. Only odd
corners and out-of-the-w'ay places were left for the
shilling people. Ido not wonder at the popularity of the
gallery—which is the most commodious in Melbourne —as
the seats at the disposal of early arrivals are carpeted
and backed, and comfortable enough to the hardened
sinner, and it is far and away the best part of the house
from which to hear grand opera. There are many seven-
and-sixpenny seats in the stalls that are not worth
twopence, and a good few in the circle are almost
as bad, the sitters being packed on top of the brasses,
where they get little but the blare of butries for
their money. Up in the gallery the hoarse shout of the
trombone and the shrill yelp of the cornet are tempered
to the attentive ear; the choruses too are softened and
chastened, nothing of the voices is lost, and distance
lends enchantment to the roar. A roly-poly tenor of 18
stone burthen does not look nearly such a caricature
of his part from the gallery [as from the front stalls,
and a soprano to match, w'ho has not been 18 for many
summers past, is subdued to the galleryite, and takes on
a picturesqueness the circle can never know 1 . I tried
Musgrove’s grand opera from every point of view, front
stalls, back stalls, circle and gallery, and I liked it best,
hearkening from the gallery, and looking through the
wrong end of the lorgnette.
MADAME TERESA CARRENO, a famous
pianist, now touring Australasia.
With Julius Knight again in Australia, not too well
supported by his principal ladies, it is noted as a rather
remarkable fact that the two who were associated
with him of yore—Miss Maud Jeffries and the blonde
Miss Bussell—were both in the country and off the stage
when he returned. Miss Jeffries is, presumably', only
resting for a while, but Miss Bussell has no idea of going
back to the profesh. She is studying singing and music
at the Melb. Oonservatorium, and talks of luring the
family into a trip to Europe. As an only daughter she
is entitled to chief control of the family’s movements.
Melbourne friends of Maggie McCann are verra glad to
hear that whilst Jessie McFarland is on the “ March 1
March ! March ! ” in Australia, their enterprising Maggie
is successfully touring as an “ Australian Queen of
Scottish Song ” through the United States. She arrived
in New York at the beginning of the year with few intro-
ductions and no plan of campaign to work upon, but
presently she captured local society on its Scawtish side,
and was full of engagements. Maggie McCann is all
right. The very latest news to that effect comes from
Charlie Nuttall, the black-and-white artist, who writes of
her : “ The way she tucked up her sleeves and went after
the good things made me feel proud of the country that
is home to her and to me.” Touching his personal
prospects, Mr. Nuttall talks cheerfully : “ The land flows
with milk and honey and all that. Of course, the poli-
ticians get the milk and the bloated things get the honey
but there’s a sort of curds and whey residue that even
artists may snatch for. Your ’umble is snatching hard.”
No. 5 of the Paraffine Paint Company’s
“ Our Interchange” is now walking through the
land showing samples of the buildings on which
Malthoid Hoofing, Damp-Course, and P. and B.
Paper and Paint have been used. The samples
range from vast palatial hotels, and millionaires’
palaces, and villas like that of Sardanapalus,
down to commercial warehouses and the cottages
of the humble. They all use it, and apparently,
like drink and opium, once taken to it is never
given up. Anyhow, that’s what the proprietors
say, and as they ought to know, and as the pic-
tures bear them out, it must be true.
In the Corrimal (N.S.W.) shooting case
the victim alleges that her assailant appeared in
the small hours of the morning, bearing a hoisted
umbrella in one hand and a six-chambered
revolver in the other. The revolver was for use,
by all accounts. But wtiy the umbrella?
At the Jewish Charity Ball, held in
Sydney Town Hall on May 2, the electric lights
suddenly failed, and the few hundred guests,
mostly Cohen, were left in pitch darkness for over
ten minutes. Again the question as to where
Moses was when the light went out.
From an Age report of a meeting of heroic
parsons :
The Rev. Canon Godby, in moving a farewell resolu-
tion to Dr. Pritchard, who goes to Papua as a missionary,
said the clergy of the province must feel proud to think
that one of their leaders had volunteered for the fore-
front of the battle. (Applause.)
Is there anything more ridiculously pretentious
than the average parson ? In Papua there is no
forefront and no battle. The Doctor of Divinity
will find a house of cedar awaiting him, and there
will be breadfruit trees and cocoa nut palms lean-
ing over to blue seas and white beaches, and no
one will attempt to do him any injury. These
people talk of laboring in the vineyard. The
work is more like skittles outside a brewery.
The Victorian J.P. is often a good deal of
a fool, and is sometimes suspected of being a good
deal of a knave, but he has his bright spots. At
South Melbourne a few days ago a poorly-paid
young man, employed as a carter and collector,
was charged with being dwarfed in his cash. He
had a young wife and child to support, and appar-
ently he wanted money to make provision for
another child that was expected, but by the time
it was born the brevity in the cash had landed the
futile young father in gaol. The shortage was
about £l2, and the Bench wiped the fly off,its bald
head, and said, in its deepest voice, that this sort
of thing was a disgraceful proceeding, and that
the fine would be £2, with 14 days to pay it in.
And an illogical public, when it considered the
infant that was born while its father was in the
lock-up, decided that the. J.P. had been more of a
human ass, and less of a plain meat ass, than usual.
The lady who is alleged to have been shot and
otherwise damaged by the other lady at Corrimal
(N.S.W.) was well enough last week to give
evidence in the Police Court. Part of her testi-
mony was as follows :
She v\'as a spiritualistic medium, and accused’s husband
was one of her sitters. Barclay had attended three of
the sittings, and so had his wife. Witness had in these
sittings a developing class for beginners, and, as far as
witness knew, accused was a beginner. The Friday night
before the shooting affray was the first time accused was
in the class. This class consisted of a number of persons
sitting in a room in the dark. After witness had described
things she saw, she would have no knowledge of what she
had seen or said. Witness did not remember what she
may have said to accused that night. She remembered
on the night before the shooting affray one of the sitters,
a man, said he had seen a city in ruins, and a beautiful
blue light. Witness did not think he started to cry, but
henrnde a sort of murmuring noise. It was an inspira-
tional prayer that witness recited previous to opening
the sitting. Witness could see in the dark. On the
morning of the shooting witness noticed accused’s face
w'hen struggling. It was repulsive. Accused was
grinning at witness in a most peculiar manner. The
address witness would give would be spiritual—from
above. She had heard knocks, but did not know how
they came. It was a common thing to hear knocks at a
development class.
Then, the morning after her attempt at
spiritual development, the new woman “sitter” is
said to have shot the medium considerably, and
also beat her and attacked her with a table knife.
Apparently the blue light, and the ruined city,
and the knocks, and the ghostly developments
had gone to her head.
“Adelaide”: The Bulletin was rather
unfortunate in saying (25/4/’O7) that “Edwin
Smith ” has left for England. Edwin Smith de-
parted for a much brighter clime a week or two
before that. Pretty nearly ever since there has
been any Adelaide at all, the city has had an
Edwin Smith who grew flowers, and an E. T.
Smith who grew beer. It was not till a K.C.M.G.
bauble came along for the latter that people knew
his name was Edwin too. To The Bulletin,
which has no use for titles, he should be “E.T.”
still. However, it will matter less for the future,
for the real Edwin Smith—as delicately implied
above—is dead.
Dear Sir,—Father has been giving demonstra-
tions this week to the fruit-growers at their orchards. He
has been showing them how to make money. Some of
these fruit-growing blokes seem to be just making a
living, as most of their time is wasted trying to kill all
sorts of pests, with a hand pump. Father told ’em they
might just as well try to bale out the sea with a mustard
spoon. The old man takes three Tyree Sprays with him ;
a four-gallon machine to carry by hand ; an eighteen
gallon to wheel on a barrow ; and a one-hundred-gallon
on a cart. The growers reckon he ought to be employed
by the Government, as they learnt more in 10 minutes
listening to father about the business than they knew
before. Father showed them how to clean a thousand
trees a day, and save all the gas used for lighting their
houses, so that the spray cost next to nothing. He
also told them that if the 8000 orchardists in Cumberland
used Tyree Sprays, in two years’ time they would be able
to beat Tasmania in exporting fruit to London. He ex-
plained that the secret of success was to spray at the
right time and do the job quickly. It was no use fooling
about wasting time—time was money—the insects
wasted no time. If you don’t get at them at the helpless
stage of their life, twelve months was lost. At one place
we stopped at, the old couple, who owned the place,
told dad that they had been growing fruit and poultry
for forty years and had not got any money saved up ; it
took all their earnings to live. I’m blest if father didn’t
set to work and spray all their trees, white-wash their
fowl-houses, paint the house and stables, and kill the
white ants that had started to eat up the drawing-room.
My word, they were pleased ; the old man with tears in
his eyes, gave father his blessing and an old pipe as a
keepsake, and the old lady would insist on our taking a
basketful of home-made tarts with us. Father says they
will make good fern pots for mother, as the pastry seems
to have been made with cement. No more to-day, yours,
Bill Williams.*
ADA THE CRUSADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once in the cause of cheerfulness,
Against grim gloom and tearfulness,
She fought and scored,
With marvellous temerity,
And wonderful sincerity
(In a rich satin opera cloak and lots of jewels),
Miss Ada Warred.
But shocked by the obliquity,
In “ sinks of dark iniquity,”
Which she explored,
Against their flower-decked guilefulness,
And care-dispelling smiiefulness
(In a plain black gown, without the least bit of trimming),
Miss Ada Warred.
VIC.
ENEAS.
A SONG OF CRIMSON ACCENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here it was impossible to dissociate singing from
acting. The voice assumed a dark, almost repulsive
color.— Criticism on “ Carmen,” in Melbourne Argus.
The splendor of my true love’s voice I have no words to
sing ;
The seraph’s choir such deep-dyed music know's,
And when she warbles —she, my choice —the stainfed
echoes bring
Voice-petals down the wind, red as a rose.
The purple tone, the dull, brown sound that burrs upon
the ear,
Like trombone blaring when the street band blows,
I hate ; but aye my pulses bound when she I love is here—
Her voice wild crimson like a red, red rose.
I stand and wait; the crowd goes by; its grey-green
noises float
Upon the air ; my voice-box burns and glows,
And ah ! A pale, blue, smoky cry dies in my raptured
throat!
She comes—whose voice is like a burning rose !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
-no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities, Read the following statement: —
The Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner),
writes : —“ lam pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises,
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years.
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you,
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EAROSOOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “EAROSOOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
SOCIETY
One of Melbourne’s representative Kerris-
tians, who was incidentally a Sunday-school
teacher with a strong- brotherly liking for little
girl scholars, has retired into the background as
the result of a complaint from his typewriter.
The insinuating Christian, having been repulsed
by the lady, threatened her with awful conse-
quences in the event of her bringing a charge
against him in Court ; but she laid the case before
her friends, who carried it to the spiritual
authorities. Seemingly the character of the
amorous saint was already under suspicion, for
when the tale of the agitated typewriter came
to hand, the authorities gave their erring friend
to understand that his sin had bowled him out,
and his name had been struck off the roll of
righteousness.
A EARLY BIRD.
WIFE: “Now, do try and come home earlier ,
Im sick of wailing breakfast for you.”
In the Criek-Willis case, the roll-call of
participants who publicly notified the fact that
they were “tired ” was as follows :
(1) The Judge: He “ found himself very tired at
night.”
(2) Witness Webster: “So tired he could hardly
stand.”
(3) Defendant Willis : “ Very tired.”
(4) Defendant Crick : “Tired, would much prefer not
to go on.”
(5) The Foreman of the Jury : “ Tired out.”
(6) The rest of the Jury : “Quite tired and fagged.”
Remained only the public, which was simply
d d tired.
The Meanest Man struck trouble on
Sydney’s Hospital Saturday. A party of six
was waiting on the wharf when a smiling
demoiselle transpired. Five men put in about
10s. among them, but the Meanest Man was
troubled. “I haven’t got anything smaller than
a florin,” he intimated, “and you couldn’t expect
me to part with that.' 5 “Put it in and break
your heart,” suggested the Large Stout Man.
The Small Man suggested that he should put it
in and then commit suicide. The Meanest Man
was torn by conflicting emotions, and looked amid
a handful of gold and large silver for some coin
sufficiently obscure. The girl suggested that she
might go and get change, and the Meanest Man
brightened visibly. Then a cloud came over his
brow, and he asked with sudden alarm what he
would do if the girl, when she was trusted with
the coin, put the whole florin in the box at one
swell foop. The girl admitted that this was a
serious danger, and offered to let the Meanest
Man hold her box as security while she went
and got the change. He took the box joyfully,
and parted from the florin reluctantly. The Large
Stout Man disgustedly ‘urged the girl not to get
run over and killed while getting the change ; he
said that if she did so, the Meanest Man might be
legal heir to the box, according to that theatrical
law under which, when there is no will, the pro-
perty goes to the nearest villain. The Small Man
again urged the Meanest Man to commit suicide,
and the other three applauded and offered to go
to the funeral. The Large Stout Man scornfully
drew the attention of bystanders to the new col-
lector, and this publicity made the Meanest Man
perspire a good deal. The girl hove in sight with
the change, and the Large Stout Man snatched
the box and ran to meet her. “ Put them in—the
whole eight threepences,” he said ; but the girl
was honest and stuck to her bargain. The
Meanest M;in, who had been in the depths of
depression since the box—his sole security—-was
snatched, brightened up when lie got his change.
Then his jaw fell like the jaw of a dead man.
“You haven’t brought any small change,” he
wailed, and, amid the scoffs of the Large
Stout Man, he fixed his hat firmly over his
brow like one nerved to a great deed, and ran for
change himself. When he came back with it his
jaw dropped again worse than before. The Small
Man had captured a second collecting girl, and
there were two boxes waiting instead of one. “ I
only promised to give to one of you, ye know,”
feebly remonstrated the Meanest Man. The
Oldest Man said it was a shameful waste of good
girl; half a girl, he said, was enough to collect all
that the Meanest Man was likely to part with.
The .Thinnest Man assured the girls that he would
subsidise the Meanest Man’s contribution on the
£ for £ principle. Then, amid great excitement,
the Meanest Man, who was now very hot, put
in each box. Just at that critical moment some-
body jostled him violently, and Is. lid. which he
still had in his hand flew into the water. When
last seen his friends were urginghim to dive for it.
* * * «
“Hondite” : Here’s my theory to account
for the rarity with which sharks attack human
beings, considering the number of both wallowing
in the waters around Sydney every summer. The
man-eating shark is apparently a very unusual
shark, just as the man-eating wild land animal
numbers only a little more
than one per cent, of the whole
of his kind. People who have
lived in lion and tiger infested
districts in India and Africa
have no fear whatever of the
average wild beast. It seems
to be a point of honor among
all animals that human beings
are not to be attacked, but in
all probability, this arises
from hereditary fear, count-
less generations of man having
effectively dealt it out to the
fo.ir-legged defendant. What-
ever the cause, it is recognised
that a young, healthy lion or
tiger practically never attacks
a man. When the ruling
animal heaves in sight, the
beast rises slowly, so as not
to look too much afraid, and
trots off into the nearest
scrub. It is the old, crippled,
or diseased animal that is the
m in-eater every time. When
senile decay or rheumatism
have made him too slow to
overtake antelopes and the
other food which he chevved
in his athletic youth, starva-
tion drives the lion or tiger
to a human diet. Even then
he seldom dares to tackle a
vigorous man. The so-cal'ed
man-eating tiger of Indian
villages is a brute, with
mange and other troubles,
which hangs round the out-
skirts, letting countless men
pass until a woman or child—
preferably . a child comes
along. Then he makes liis
spring, and there is a dead
infant. If it were possible to
investigate the ages and physi-
cal conditions of sharks, it
would probably be found that the sea man-
eaters are also aged creatures, incapable of
catching a whitebait of average speed, and with
only a few rows of teeth left wherewith to devour
the bather and the batheress.
* * * •
A genius of a householder—a genius in
his minute attention to details—has transpired in
a Melbourne police report. A late roysterer,
finding his household all in bed and the front
gate locked, conceived the idea of climbing the
back fence and slipping indoors without making
a sound. Unfortunately his eyesight was too
numerous, and he climbed the wrong fence; and
when the police answered an urgent telephone
call for assistance they found a suddenly-sobered
roysterer leading a troubled life in a corner of his
neighbor’s back yard. His hands were tied
behind his back by a stout rope, which also
tethered him to a post; the house father stood
adjacent with a loaded revolver; a son occupied
a strategical position on the left, with a pea-rifle ;
another son stood in the offing waving a club; and
a large, fierce dog was ready to be loosed at any
moment. The roysterer was a very sober man
when the police took his name and escorted him
home. His last quarter-hour had been simply
teeming with serious thoughts. He said he was
glad his neighbor had no cannon.
« » * •
Man wants but little here below
When wintry winds commence to blow,
With sleet and rain and hail and snow,
Man wants but little here, you know.
But that same little that he wants
Must make him always feel secure,
The wise man knows, so off he goes
To purchase Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
INCOMPETENT .
REVEREND RELATIVE (with expectations): “ Wealth is a sacred trust. 1 hope you have made
ample provision for those who come after you ! ”
CONVALESCENT CAPITALIST : “ I’m hanged if I have. There was ten of them after me as soon
as they heard I was had, and the dog only hit one of them.'”
In Maoriland the life of the Chow lottery-
promoter is one of fearful vigilance. The yellow
men hold their end up fairly well, but a few
weeks back the Wellington police swept down on
the purveyors of lettered tickets with much
violence. Ah Everyone was arrested, and con-
viction seemed assured. But the heathen put all
the Chinese interpreters out on strike by means
of threats and palm oil. The police dragged in
everything resembling a Chinaman, but in vain ;
the whole race seemed to have forgotten its native
lingo. At last one Young Ket, gesticulating
wildly, was pushed into the courthouse, and
things seemed to be looking up. Then counsel
for the defence pointed put that Young Ket was
Mung Horn, alias “John Bright” (whaffor?), and
a convicted person. Young Ket reckoned the
aliases “ allee same,” and, after cheerfully admit-
ting liis iniquity, raised a despairing wail about
some Chinaman who had said he would “ die oh a
dark night” if he interpreted, and some other
Chinamen who had threatened to “ find ” opium
and throw it into his place, and then,“put the
policeemen on him.” But the police clung franti-
cally to their captive, and in the end he interpreted
—very badly. The interpreter, the informer and
the dog run a great race for last place in popularity
in Maoriland Chow circles.
* * * *
A couple of ancient N.S.W. land grants
were before the Courts last week. It was sought
to bring under the R.P. Act two acres of land at
Artarmon, a place prolific of litigation in the past,
being part of two grants, dated in 1794, to James
Brumby and Thomas Bruin. The Examiners for
reasons declined to give a certificate under
Torrens’ Act, and the Full Court was asked to
decide. The trouble is that, in the published list
of grants in 1794, this alleged grant doesn’t appear,
but on May 1, 1797, Lieutenant-Governor Grose
granted 100 acres to four privates in the N.S.
Wales Corps—William Smith, James Brumby,
Thomas Brian (not Bruin) and Frances Wilkinson.
This land was in the Mulgrave district. The
post office at Artarmon is said to be on
the two alleged grants of 1794, but even
the boundaries of these dubious estates have
always been more or less doubtful. Some
years ago an old couple who, by hard work and
hard economy, had saved money, purchased some
acres in the locality for £l5OO. They paid their
coin, a Judge of the Supreme Court, now dead,
being the vendor. Some friend, or busybody,
told them that the title was defective, and, on
examination, it proved to be so. The two old
people toddled into the Supreme Court, and saw
his Honor, who laughed a frozen laugh, and told
them they should have made closer inquiry. He
refused to have anything to do with them, and
ordered the tipstaff to rush them out at the door.
This writer met the old couple many times wait-
ing about the Court, and trying to see his Honor
about the dubious bit of paper he had sold them,
but his Honor never took any further interest in
the matter.
* * * ■*
It appears that, although the evil spirits
of Melbourne University intended to burn an
effigy of David Syme during their late outbreak
at Prince’s Court, this design was averted, chiefly
owing to the efforts of the person who worked the
cardboard locomotive in the students’ procession.
This young man, on hearing from the civic
authorities that they emphatically objected, put
on an extra burst of speed, and informed the
toughlets that they must tough in other direc-
tions. So they vindicated their outraged honor
with strange farmyard bellowings, and shouted
that last resource of the unfurnished mind,
“Yah ! ”
*** * •
There is more than one way to cure a
cough, but the best way is by means of Angier’s
Emulsion, because it not only soothes the lungs
and cures the cough, but also improves digestion
and acts as a soothing tonic to the entire system.
In three sizes of all chemists.*
The Broken Hill person, male or female,
when he or she hears that something has been
said about him or her —and apparently something
is always being said at the Hill—invariably rushes
to the local newspaper with an advt. stating that if
Mrs. Smith says it again she’ll have to prove it or
take the consequences. The latest advt., how-
ever, is something unusual. Apparently a person
of 16 had his origin reflected upon, and he fled
to the newspaper with his mother’s marriage
“stiff” in his hand, and published this :
from local paper :
“ O’NEILL—BROOKM AN.—On the 6th January, 1891,
at the residence of Mrs. R. D. S. Fraser, cousin of the
bride, by the Rev. M. Hoskings, John O’Neill, son of
Usher O’Neill, Galway, Ireland, to Hannah, daughter of
Thos. Brookinan, engineer.”
“ BIRTH. —On the 17th of October, 1891, at Lake
Windemere, the wife of John O’Neill, of a son.”
Any person scandalising my birthrights after this date
will be prosecuted. The certificates have been produced
at the Miner office.
THOMAS JOSEPH O’NEILL,
Argent-street North.
After that it is quite plain that if there are any
more aspersions there will be Beelzebub to
remunerate.
* * * *
A recent verdict against the Melbourne
Tramway Go., in which a lady who had been upset
from a “dummy” car claimed £3OOO and got £l6OO,
was probably due, in a great measure, to fil e remark-
able methods practised by a concern which ought
to be above such meanness. To w «m admissions
from plaintiff and her husband, -..iter they had
lodged a claim, a tramway employee represented
himself as an old age pensions official, and by pre-
tended sympathy sought to gain evidence that
might be useful to the co. Another mean trick
was the sending of a letter offering the husband
work and making an appointment at a Collins-
street corner. Certain tramway officials wanted
to see if they could identify the old man, and, as
it was too much trouble for them to watch his
house, he was thus brought into town and allowed
to hang about half the day on a fool’s errand.
Judge Eagleson asked the jury if it thought this
was a fair way of doing business, and the verdict
emphatically said it wasn’t.
CULTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Forrest, on his Federal Convention proposal to
abolish imported State Governors, said : “As for the sug-
gestion that there would be a difficulty in getting men
suitable to act as Lieutenant-Governors', I dealt with that
in mj f speech in IS9S, when I said that it was the only
reason that could be advanced against my proposal. I
pointed out that thfe difficulty, if it existed, would not
last for ever. I remarked that the best means of over-
coming it was to offer every inducement to persons of
culture to remain in Australia.”
Culture ! Methinks I see my great Lord Loftus
Down in the fowlhouse at the close of day
(The while his Executive hath waited),
Teaching the chookies how to brood and lay.
Culchaw ! Till now I did esteem it minor ;
Or is it “ Cult ” that’s meant—of Cochin China?
Culture ! Who was that other Governor
Who signed six hanging orders for Mt. Rennie?
Bob Smith or Carrington—a banker he—
And knew the exact value of a penn3%
But, when it came to hanging children, with
A flourish he signed his death warrants—“ Smith.”
Culture ! Methinks I see old Fall-off-Brassey,
Once more part company from bike and horse !
Culture ! Like that bestowed by Thomas Glassey
Upon the Dook o’ York—the which was coarse !
Culture ! The word all meaningless and harsh is,
Used to describe a tonic for moustaches.
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sound of strange feet tramping on the stones,
Confused unfriendly voices in the air,
Raucous with ribald mirth, in joyless tones
Assault the ear. The flaming arc lamps glare
With bold suggestion like a harlot’s eye.
The balcony above the drinking hell
Pours mocking music on the passer-by.
I hate the City—sight and sound and smell!
S.A.
NIL.
THE MARRIAGE MACHINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. P. V. Pratt told the Congregational Union in
Sydney that the worst point about "the matrimonial
agency was that couples did not seem to care, and would
just as soon be married by a machine like the Chinese
praying wheels.
We strongly agree with the rating
The Reverend Pratt
Has given those couples for waiting
Their turn on the mat;
And, in view of reforms he’s advising,
They yet may be seen
Their nuptials gay solemnising
By marriage machine.
A truce to the pomp and the preaching;
Much more up to date
Is this method suggested of reaching
A unified state ;
When joys matrimonial and many
Can cheaply be got
Just simply by dropping a penny
Down into a slot.
The law we will then be obeying
Sans stiffness and starch,
While we hark to the gramophone playing
Us Mendelssohn’s march.
A honeymoon legal each pretty,
Trim maid may enjoy,
Who’s missed her last boat to the city
At night with her boy.
And provision we’ll make Parliament’ry, ,
As a matter of course,
To have a machine complement’ry
To deal with divorce ;
So the maid will have nothing to stop her—
If hubby should be
Not what she expected ; a copper
Will get a decree.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOK.


NITtUTIMf A LITTLE WOfiK
'UTILE NONEr
Q
WILL SECURE
YOU
A GOOD
POSITION
TaKe a Postal Course of Tu*
\lion in Shorthand, Typewrit-
%•. BooKKeeping,
Arithmetic, Mechanical oc
Electrical Engineering*. Archie
tecture and Building Construc-
tion. or Mechanical Drawing.
Stott and Hoare’s
BUSINESS c COLLEGE.
Street, Sydney & " VU'"
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
GOOD PYJAMAS.
1
AND not only GOOD but uncommonly Low-Priced
when you consider that they are really first-class
garments.
These Pyjamas are warm but not heavy, and are
therefore very suitable for the season.
The designs are warin-looking and varied (|iough
to suit almost any man’s taste.
The illustration represents the Pyjamas folded up,
and shows the new turned collar with rounded points.
We imported the materials from the Mill direct, and
made the Pyjamas in our own workroom.
Price 8/6 E,acH.
POST FREE.
PEAPES & CO, Ltd.
MEN’S and BOYS’ OUTFITTERS?,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
The loss of the collier Easby, on the
JJJ3.W. coast, under the very eye of Gabo light-
house, recalls the satirical theory that light-
houses serve as magnets for ships. The lost
Easby deposited its bones a few miles from
where the Ly-ee-moon struck on a fine calm
night, and drowned £0 people within coo-ee of
Green Cape lighthouse. The ill-fated Catterthun
was lost in sight of Seal Rock light. The
Suevic, the other day, piled up under the pro-
tecting beams of the Lizard light; and there is
also the case of the Australia, off Port Phillip
Heads, wrecked within the danger zone of the
entrance lights. The president of one of the
Australian Marine Boards had a startling ex-
perience of the off-hand ways of shipmasters.
He was visited a year or two ago by the
captain of a famous mail steamer, who
haughtily complained of the behavior of
one of the best-known lighthouses on the
Australian coast. The light used to be a clear
white radiance which he knew well, but it was on
this occasion an unmistakable red, and the master
demanded to know why such an important altera-
tion had not been published in Europe. The
president, too amazed to speak, grabbed a handy
Admiralty List, and there the captain read that
the white light changed to red whenever a vessel
got too close in shore. The mail steamer had
gone full speed through the danger zone, and
only good luck saved a well-known vessel from
the fate of the Australia.
r * m *
“0.” writes :
- As a botanist, I have often been annoyed with the
present position of tbo Sydney Botanical Gardens. The
dust and smoke of a large city like Sydney are very dele-
terious to plant life. Then it is well known that sodium
chloride (which is in solution in sea-water, and is con-
stantly being scattered in minute quantities over the
Gardens) retards the growth of vegetation, and some-
times destroys it. Westringia and a few other plants are
exceptions to this rule.
I therefore beg to suggest to Mr. Carruthers to have
the Botanical Gardens shifted to a more suitable place—
sayßourke, or Wilcannia, or Wanaaring. There is a very
large common at Wanaaring, and I have no doubt a por-
tion of it could be utilised for the purpose.
Many advantages would follow from the change. The
gardeners would have an excellent opportunity of prac-
tising the dry culture process, that we hear so much
about. The study of the flora of the interior —gidyea,
lignum vitae, mulga, &c. —would attract thousands of
botanists. Thus the railways would be much benefited,
and the tourists would have their minds expanded like
“Jimmie Pannikin’s.” A 500-gallon tank of sea-water
might be placed in the gardens, and plants like westringia
could be grown in its vicinity. This arrangement would
also lead to the production and dissemination of ozone
throughout the basin of the Darling.
The site of the present Gardens could be cut into
blocks and sold, and turned to some useful account.
Personally I’d like to see it converted into tanneries. I
would, however, reserve a portion for boiling down pur-
poses. I don’t care what is boiled so long as it smells.
A few years ago a project like mine would have been
considered absurd ; but, thank heavens, we now live in
the enlightened age of the Reform Government, which is
busy selling—or has sold—lands at Centennial Park,
Castlereagh-Market-Elizabeth streets, the Observatory,
etc., etc. I also notice with pleasure that a building
is being erected on park land at the Macquarie-street
entrance to the Domain, and another in Hyde Park. It
is likewise gratifying to know that a large proportion of
the little park on Church Hill has been built on lately.
* * * *
A Sydney woman overdid the alibi busi-
ness the other day. She swore that it couldn’t be
her boy who threw the road metal, because at the
time when the illegal substance was “chucked”
he was in the house “ reading the Bible and play-
ing draughts.” The Bench couldn’t see how the
two things could be done at once, and said the
line would be the same as usual.
TOUJOURS LA POLITESSE,
“ But you don't mean to tell me that I bore you ? ”
" Oh, I wouldn't be so rude. I was hoping you would find it out,"
At the citizens’ banquet to the Governor-
General at Wollongong (N.S.W.), a long-winded
member was responding at such length that the
feeders commenced to ring him down. He sat
down. The chairman then rose and said his Ex.
had had a heavy day and wanted rest. The
speakers must cut their remarks short. If future
speakers were like the last they’d be there all
1 do hope the next speaker will cut it
snort.” He then paused, looked at the toast list,
mn onlled on the Governor-General to propose
U prosperity to the district.” And his Ex. did
cut it short!
Robert Cox, of Melbourne, was found in
the Yarra the other day under unusual circum-
stances. He was a very stout suicide, and had
iloated for nearly an hour, during which time he
travelled over half-a-mile, without once managing
to get under water. He explained, when he was
dragged out, that he was too old to get a job, and
he wanted to end it all. And the callous world
laughed, as it always laughs at the fat man and
the bald man and the bow-legged man. These
people are not allowed to have sorrows.
BOTANICAL PROBLEM.
LADY : “Why don't you go to work. Don't you
know that a rolling stone gathers no moss 1 ”
HOPELESS DAVE : “ Madame, not to evade your
question at all, but merely to obtain infor-
mation, may I ask what practical utility
moss is to a. man in my condition!”
‘ ‘ What is the use of talking about our
beautiful harbor ? It is becoming nothing more
than a pond in a privately-owned paddock.”—
Truth from a speaker at the Sydney Tovm Hall
meeting of protest against Premier Carruthers ’
policy of filching park lands.
* ■» * *
The unfortunate girl-wife, Ethel Riley, who
shot her husband and then herself, last week, in
a store at Circular Quay, Sydney, was actuated
by the usual cause, or supposed cause (another
woman), and her adventure panned out with the
usual result—she is dead and Air. Riley isn’t.
As far as the evidence goes, she was married
at the age of 15, became a mother at the age
of 17, lived in consistent unhappiness till she was
23, and then demonstrated once more the im-
pulsiveness and bad shooting of her sex. The
Salvation Army, which opens bureaus at which
intending suicides may call and be argued with,
might try its futile front tooth on cases like
that of Mrs. Riley. What’s the matter with
having two entrances to the bureau, so that in-
tending suicides could be directed by the front
door, while a side-door, or jug-and-bottle entrance,
was set aside for intending suicides complicated
with proposed murder? And behind each door
there could be the usual official, armed with a
War Cry and a stock of platitudes—a pious
shopwalker person, who would rub his hands as
the customer entered and remark that it was
seasonable weather for the time of year. If he
wanted to seem extra cheerful and frisky he could
remark that it was d—-d seasonable weather.
“E.A.”: I am annoyed—hurt in my
pride for the sake of an adorably pretty, and
really sweet girl friend, who writes that a squib
of» a man, without position, has assured her
solemnly that he would marry her if he had
enough money. Now the girl is engaged to a
quite desirable man—six feet of him, and his phiz
is brown and good to look at, his eyes are clear,
and his waiting nest is a picture of comfort. Yet
the other man, with the male’s sublime assurance,
tells her he would marry her under certain cir-
cumstances. She, of course, would jump at him
—a refusal never occurs to him. Once 1 had the
misfortune to occupy a position which obliged
me to meet all sorts and conditions of men.
One of my admirers was a big, hulking
wharf-laborer with a strain of black
blood in him and a Chinaman for
a brother-in-law. Every Satur-
day night when he had reached
a certain stage of intoxica-
tion he would assure me that
if he only had £100 he
would marry me. An-
other was a cabman —at
least, he was a cabman
when he wasn’t in gaol
—and he, even in his
sober moments, felt
that he could bring
himself to do the
deed on the con-
temptiblesum of
£50. Then there
was Percy the
Poet—mad as a
hatter, and al-
ways loaded
with MSS.
which he oc-
casionally pre-
sented to me;
but he, poor
man, was so sin-
cere that he was
willing to marry
me on his pro-
spects. His as-
tonishment at
my refusal to
share his pro-
spects caused
him to make in
my presence a
regrettably in-
effectual attempt
on his life. How-
ever, the assurances
that killed me stone
dead, so to speak, and
made me bite my busi-
ness-trained tongue
through, were those of a
great, coarse, card-tricks-
ter of a commercial travel-
ler, and the dissipated
bank-clerk son of one of
Sydney’s naicest families. A
thousand pounds was all they
wanted ; if I had that amount
either of them would take me and the money, and
chance everything. In fact, they would toss up
for me. I had my own man, dash them, and
though there wasn’t and isn’t six feet of him,
he was and is just It. There are times when a
self-respecting girl absolutely loathes the sex with
the trousers and the inevitable delusion.
It is a sound principle in this world to avoid
whatever anybody seems particularlyanxioustosell
you. This applies to spavined horses, second-hand
motor cars, gold bricks, patent medicines, J.P.-
ships, and a hundred other useless or embarrassing
assets; but more especially to “spiffs.” A
“spiff” (vide N.S.W. Arbitration Court pro-
ceedings, 2/5/’O7) is calico Jimmyese for any out-
of-date and decayed line in soft goods, on which
the salesman, provided he succeeds in getting rid
of the fearsome relic, pockets a special commission.
To be a really successful disposer of “spiffs” is
the aim of every bright, young calico Jim, and
accounts for the rigid honesty which characterises
his methods when he develops into an importer
himself.
COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ On the 137th anniversary of Captain Cook’s landing,
Mr. J. H. Booker spoke at the Cook statue, pointing- out
that, as Australians, it was their duty to show their ap-
preciation of the great navigator, Captain Cook, and to
perpetuate his memory, for it was due to his great work
that this, the grandest country in the southern hemi-
sphere, owed its birth, and the people to-day were reap-
ing the reward of the pioneering labors of a noble Briton.
(Cheers).” —S.M. Herald. ;;
“ The grandest land in this hemisphere ”
(I.ist to the wisdom of shent per shent!);
The country that can know no peer
(List to the wisdom of shent per shent!).
Great gums grew where is now green sward —•
Conquest by science and not by sword ;
And some to-day reap his reward !
(List to the wisdom of shent per shent!)
James Cook, of Marton ! Big and brave !
Never knew aught about shent per shent;
(Any can speak of him now in his grave,
And borrow from death an advertisement).
This Wonder of lands to him owes birth—
Possession Island and round to Perth !
But, the fugleman ! ! ! Do not restrain your mirth !
(List to the wisdom of shent per shent!)
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Ivor Graeme (or something foreign like that):
Your title* “ Blue were her eyes,” really needs no eluci-
dation in metre. Her eyes are generally blue. .. J.S.B. :
Stories taken “ direct from life ’’—that is, stories without
any art in them—invariably go direct into the basket...
Ennes: Dull verse.... Roy Stuart: You make us tired.
....L.R. : School-girly Judex: That answer was
directed at a virulently illegible correspondent—not at
all correspondents .. L.L.S. : Should say that Mr. Augus-
tus Fitznoodle is a good democrat, and that his letter is
a joyous and humorous parody upon the Batman’s lan-
guage when Fat talks politics Polyxena : Pretty little
verses, but only the expression of a nice little baby
melancholy which has no visible purpose Cohen: A
fair horse-fraud yarn, but horse-fraud yarns are so very
much alike.... 5.0.: “Love and Life,” “ Autumn Roses,”
and “ Fortune’s Wheel ” all near the mark, and don't
quite arrive F.B. : “Woman’s Way ” too hackneyed
M. Grubb : The letters represent “ The Little Boy from
Manly ” which Hop uses to figure Australia. ...Lucknow :
The Lone Hand has just been published. You will have
your copy by this.... Ernest E.G. : We leave that sort
of irreverence to the sectarian press S.E.P.: It chal-
lenges comparison (unfavorably) with Kipling T.
Sauny : We don’t care for parodies—unless really bril-
liant.. ..S.C.: Very flat and colorless....J.V.G.: Em-
bodies a good idea, but is wrecked by bad metre
Shamus: The pith and interest of it could have been
packed into a quarter the space.. ..Wat L.: Can’t find
out.. ..Sambo : Regret that you haven’t struck it this
time The Bandicoot: Good idea, but you haven’t
made enough of it D.M.R.: Your question, “Can a
blank be a blank?” must remain unanswered.... Violet
B. : The list of the boys who proposed to you is too be-
wildering J.D.G. : Two fish jests and one dog
jest. All miss the mark.... .Hydraulic: Just a plain
robbery with insufficient postage. Cost us 4d
Anxious: Don’t know ; the notion is still a good deal in
the clouds Thos. G. F.: Telephone joke not new.
T’other doubtful and not up to much.... Turtle : There
may be points about your yarns, but your insufficiently
stamped letters are a dashed weariness—very dashed
W.P.B. : Your moke has gone into stock, to be brought
out and consumed during the next drought. Can’t tell
when the next drought in yarns will happen.. ..Marta :
(1) Thanks, but hardly new enough ; the character of that
country is well known. (2) We never disclose names of
contributors N.E.D. : Doesn’t it dawn on you that
probably the chemist was lying, and that the dubious
article wasn’t Australian ? Can show you a big place in
Sydney where first-class Australian bedsteads are sold at
a high price as English, and poor quality imported bed-
steads are often called Australian. Why this latter
swindle, only heaven knows, save that it is a habit among
Sydney’s commercial classes to run down Australian
goods Harry Mac.: “P.L.C.” rather doggrelish
Caesar : It tottered on the verge of acceptance. Perhaps
if the girl had suddenly revolted and smitten the man
with her brolly it might have got through Goril:
Once you make “Jap” rhyme with “Jap,” and again
you use “Japs” as a rhyme for “Japs.” These may be
good enough rhymes, but they’re monotonous... .Ed. V.:
Try the Gippsland mountains, or a spell round Kosciusko,,
or a bit of the country at the hindquarters of Cairns,,
and you’ll get over your anguish about Australian,
scenery .T.D.M.D. : The last of the three showedi
a semblance of humor —only a semblance E.J.C. ::
You have some verse-faculty, but your subjects
are far-fetched and ill-chosen....E.H.G. : Ornamental,
but wandering and inconsecutive ...P.P.Q. : Humorous
in the main, but has too many blemishes Argon :
Inane and purposeless Tim H.: Has none of the
necessary swing and movement.,. .Myra: Doesn’t give
any illusion of reality W.8.W.: You have no mastery
of the subject C.A. (W.A.): Requires sounder and
more careful treatment... .Hobo : A weary dribble of
commonplaces Josephine ; Pretty fair, but it needs
more dramatic treatment... .John H.: Full of bathos
and anti-climax L.E.J. : If the story isn’t a lot better
than the verses, keepitback with great energy.. ..Jimmie :
The terms you complain of were mostly invented in this
office, so you aim your brick at the wrong quarter.. ..
Cross Nibs: Please send your name and address to the
editor, The Lone Hand W.N. : You are wrong. The
report sheds no light on comparative morality. In con-
tinental European armies safeguards are taken against
thes re d of such dis ases : in the British army none.
Hence the figures Turli: You speak of your surmise as
to the result of snake veutbn as ,x it were a proved fact..,.
Yaller-box : Pay for even thing accepted.. ..John Moran :
Doubtless the patriotic am mg Australians would volun-
tarily contribute enough to buy a battleship. But what’s,
the real use? What is wanted is to levy on all for a fair
share towards national defence. Keep your tenner,
patr ot, or spend it in agitating to wake up the mass of
the people..... Unsuitable : T.E.D.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ed Maurice : Picture submitted to the religious editor,
and rejected without a moment’s hesitation.. , .W.K. :
There are some points about the sketch as representing a
new departure in art, but the dialogue of Sandy Beech
and Shearer Jimmy isn’t funny... .R.W.C. : Milk-can
joke too far-fetched... .F.R.C. : Fact that Wagner is dead
hardly lends itself to illustration R.O. : Picture of no
value, and the wild jest about a “ma” and an “M.A.”
died long, long ag0.... W.H. : About the worst drawing
and the dreariest joke written in the poorest attempt at
broad Scotch that has been seen since the days of Mac-
beth. .. .Raymond It. : No hope about either of them,
though we recognise the fence in No. 2 as a fence.
Jenico : You can’t get a whole procession of
events into one picture, and hilarious jests about
“ bowels ” are too dreadful... .Will O’B.: Fear you will
never be an artist. You might develop into a police-
man Hastings: Very small idea; hardly big enough
to be a microbe H.G-W. : Unfit... .S.F. : Plain awful..
W.H.0.: You want an honest opinion. Well, they repre-
sent a dizzy style of art in which the size of one object
doesn’t necessarily bear any relation to the dimensions
of another... .Lemon : Declined.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEYS
English Machinery, viz. s Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward's English Sheep Dip. Pearn’B English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
UlAknloAn St, Gnnc’ Cntrlioh Millo tn (rrinrl nuori/thimr St6ol RflllS. LOOOIYIOtfV68» TrARIWA/
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind everything.
Material and Mining Requisites q|, every description.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Australian State Treasurers still wear the glad
smile. Except in Westralia, the revenues rise higher
and higher. For five States (S. Australia only makes up
quarterly returns) the total for April, 1906, was £234,044
more than for April, 1905, and the net total for April, 1907,
is £492,484 more than for April, 1906—an improvement for
a single month of £726,528 in two years. The State
revenues for the first 10 months of 1905-6 were £1,383,082
more than they were for the first 10 months of 1904-5, and
for the past 10 months they are £1,916,663 more than
they were in 1905-6 —an improvement of £3,299,745. On
an average, Australian State Treasurers have 15 per
cent, more revenue than they had two years ago. And
yet most of them still borrow. The size of their sin isn’t
always obvious ; most of them hide it till the end of the
financial year, and for as long afterwards as they can.
N.S. Wales, however, owns up to spending so far this
year £1,082,608 of borrowed money.
Coming down to details, we get first these re-
sults :
State Revenues for April.
April, 1906. April, 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,072,517 £1,318,780 Inc. £246,263
Victoria .. .. 599,867 781,182 Inc. 181,315
Queensland .. 418,787 480,285 Inc. 61,498
Westralia .. 296,277 279,968 Dec. 16,309
Tasmania .. 83,885 103,602 Inc. 19,717
But the figures for the 10 months that have expired since
the last balance give the truer idea of how things have
gone:—
State Revenues for Year so Far.
1906. 1907.
N.S. Wales (10 mos.) £10,079,879 £11,034,160 Inc. £954,281
Victoria (10 mos.) 6,338,660 6,771,921 Inc. 433,261
Queensland (10 mos.) 3,108,274 3,469,292 Inc. 361,018
S. Australia (9 mos.) 1,990,028 2,225,201 Inc. 235,173
Westralia (10 mos.) 2,884,505 2,771,181 Dec. 113,324
Tasmania (10 mos.) 745,740 ■ 791,994 Inc. 46,254
Yet there is a cockroach in even this good-looking soup.
Of the increased revenue a large part is due to the spring
of £603,163 in the Customs takings—collections mostly
on things which Australia ought to be making ; and that
is the cockroach. The increase means probably six-times
the amount of good Australian money paid for foreign
labor and material. N.S. Wales alone from “Common-
wealth refunds ” (Customs collections) has received so far
this year £255,886 more' than it did up to this time
last year. A still larger increase (£369,689) is
from the State railways; but as against that there is
£112,504 more expenditure. Land revenue, so called, has
this year brought Carruthers in £1,597,214, or £152,863
more than last year ; and how much of that is land-sales
nioney, and therefore not true revenue at all, there is as
yet no way of finding out. It can safely be said, however,
to amount to about half of the total. In spite of the
settlement that has been going on in Queensland, that
State’s territorial revenue only exceeds last year’s by
£20,978; but that is because Treasurer Kidston in the
first place doesn’t sell land wholesale, and in the second
place doesn’t call the proceeds of what he does sell
revenue. That is a piece of honesty which ought to count
much in Kidston’s favor when Queensland goes to the poll
later on this month.
As usual, only three States supply expenditure
returns :
State Expenditure for Year so far.
1906. 1907.
N.S. Wales £9,888,833 £10,435,935 Inc., £547,102
Queensland 2,563,180 2,719,060 Inc., 155,880
Westralia 2,856,651 . 2,780,012 Dec., 76,639
N.S. Wales is thus already £598,225 to the good, provided
you forget about the land sales and the £1,082,608 of
borrowed money ; and there are two fine revenue-getting
months to come—months rich in income-tax receipts—
before the financial year ends. Of the surplus received
and expected, £918,051 has been already transferred to
the public works and closer settlement funds. The only
provision made for reducing debt amounts to £350,000 a
year—£2so,ooo to pay off deficiency bills, and a poor little
£lOO,OOO to provide for redemptions. - Yet at June 30 last
there was £4,214,981 of borrowed money sunk in abso-
lutely unproductive works (public offices, etc.), and
another £7,138,553 in works not directly productive
(roads and bridges and the like), and there still remained
also £1,814,516 of Treasury bills issued to make good past
revenue deficiencies incurred at a time when, as now,
vast areas of the public estates were being sold and the
proceeds grabbed.
At this time last year Queensland had £545,094
towards its second half-year’s interest bill, and it had a
final surplus of £127,811. This year it has £750,232 in
hand, so that its surplus ought to exceed £300,000, not-
withstanding that it has restored the percentage reduc-
tions which the Philp Government found it necessary to
make in the underpaid public servants’ salaries, and has
spent large sums in repairing public buildings. Under
the Queensland law, surplus revenue must go to the
reduction of the appalling public debt. In Victoria,
where a surplus of at least £700,000 is expected, the
money is being put to the same good use. Victoria has
in one respect struck a fine vein of good luck. Within
the next two years it has £7,098,869 falling due ; and,
through the large repayments made this year and last, it
has been able for the balance to command terms, either
in Australia or abroad, which the London market
wopldn’t otherwise have looked at in its present state.
After getting rid of this trouble, there is £2*107,000
falling due in 1911; but that can be deferred till 1926.
After that, £4,746,795 will have to be argued with in
1913. Before the latter year, however, N.S. Wales will
have over 24,000,000 curses coming home to roost, as
follows:
Funded. Unfunded. Total.
1907 .. £550,000 .. £5,140,000 .. £5,690,000
1908 .. 2,865,500 .. 350,000 .. 8,215,500
1909.. 1,200,854 .. .. .200,854
1910.. 2,863,700 .. 1,902,900 . >6,600
1911 ..
1912 .. 9,884,508 .. .. 9, ".8
£17,364,562 £7,392,900 £24,757,462
This year’s trouble has been provided for; but if Aus-
tralia’s run of good seasons doesn’t last till 1912—which
would be a pretty large thing to expect—Cohen is liable
to ask what N.S. Wales did towards getting itself out of
pawn while times were extra-good. And all that N.S.
Wales will be able to answer is that it didn’t get out of
pawn at all, but that J. Carruthers shoved it deeper in to
the extent of about £1,500,000 a year.
S. Australia has hopes of a surplus of about
£200,000; and this also is to go towards reducing the
debt on account of old deficits. S. Australia also has a
good deal of trouble maturing during the next few years
—over £8,000,000 between this and the end of 1909. The
front part of it is being provided for out of heavy local
borrowings ; and when Treasurer Peake told a meeting,
the other day, that “we have a million and a half of
4 per cent, bonds due in London on December 30, and
it is pleasing to know that we have the money to pay
it off,” the papers reported “ loud applause.” Certainly
it is something that the interest is to be paid in future in
Adelaide instead of in London, but the loud applause won’t
be really earned till interest is not payable to any-
body anywhere. There is something ludicrous about a
system under which S. Australia goes to great expense
to raise money to pay interest on a debt that it owes
itself. It might just as well raise the money to pay itself
and be done with the expense of collecting the annual
interest from itself.
* * * *
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., which already makes
huge profits, simply because it happens to be a connect-
ing link between the northern and southern networks of
tramway, makes these modest demands from the N.S. W.
Govt.“ (1) The early construction of a tram to Blue’s
Point (the company being prepared to run a suitable
ferry service); (2) further accommodation at Circular
Quay to deal with the growing traffic to and from the
northern suburbs ; (3) the construction of a tramway, to
Bradley’s Head, in connection with which the company
would be prepared to improve the existing ferry service
to Athol, and provide additional facilities for the resi-
dents of Mosman.” When, in brief, the State provides
the six or seven figures necessary to further cement the
connection between the tramways, the Sydney Ferries
will be willing to annex the traffic between them and
pile up still more profits. It is undisputed that the pro-
jects (or others in their places) will soon be necessary ;
it is also safe to wager that Carruthers or his successor
will build the works out of loans. In that event, assum-
ing that the co. isn’t going to be disturbed in its monopoly,
the Govt, should insist on the right to a percentage
of the Ferries’ augmented takings, equal at the very
least to the amount of a sinking fund, sufficient to wipe
out the debt in, say, 20 years.
* * * *
The Bank of Adelaide
To Re. Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1897 .. £31,047 7 p.c. = £28,000 £3,047 £170,561
1898 .. 33,401 7 „ „ 28,000 5,401 175,962
1899 .. 33,026 7 „ „ 28,000 5,026 180,988
1900 .. 38,413 8 „ „ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901 .. 48,097 8 „ „ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902, 45,925 8 „ „ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903 .. 52,317 8 „ „ 32,000 20,317 237,740
1904 .. 47,337 8 „ „ 32,000 15,337 253,077
1905 .. 47,876 8 „ „ 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906 .. 46,286 8 „ „ 32,000 14,286 283,239
1907 .. 56,265 8£„ „ 34,000 22,265 305,504
The bank had paid an interim dividend of 8 percent. ;
but, with its old caution, even when it decided to in-
crease to 9 per cent, ic didn’t make the final dividend at
the rate of 10 per cent, so as to give 9 per cent, for the
whole year. The 12 months have been, as with most
banks, highly profitable. Part of the improvement is
explained by this comparison :
Mar., 1906. Mar., 1907.
Notes in circulation .. £157,846 £179,622 Inc. £21,776
Bills in circulation, &c. 486,536 503,991 Inc. 17,456
Deposits.. .. ..3,145,970 3,269,238 Inc. 123,268
Liquid assets .. ..2,506,275 2,343,016 Dec. 163,259
Advances .. .. 1,913,016 2,256,414 Inc. 343,398
Premises 70,300 76,925 Inc. 6,625
There has thus been a large increase of advances, with-
out any corresponding increase of deposits. And on top
of that source of extra profit there have been unusually
remunerative exchange rates, governed by the high
price of money in London. Yet, though the advances
have increased so much, liquid assets still represent no
less than 59 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. The
Bank of Adelaide is, however, the State Government’s
banker ; and it is probable that that fact affects these
figures pretty considerably. Still the position is very
strong. The bank owes the public £3,952,851, and has
liquid assets amounting to £2,343,016. Against the
balance of £1,609,835 there are non-liquid assets amount-
ing to £2,333,339 ; so the latter represent £1 9s. in the
£1 of liabilities not covered by liquid assets. And these
non-liquid assets are presumably sound ; at any rate, they
give a very profitable return ; for, in spite of the large
proportion of liquid assets, and though the bank has the
use of less than £5 of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own, the profit last year was at the
rate of £8 4s. Bd. per cent, on capital and reserves
combined. Altogether, considering the strong position it
maintains, so far as every test shows, the business is con-
spicuously profitable, largely no doubt because it sticks
to country it knows well ; and, being now S. Australia’s
one local bank, with its shares very widely distributed, a
largo amount of business appears to flow to it auto-
matically.
* * * *
From an Adelaide man : “ Bulletin in a recent
issue mentioned that the Bank of Adelaide is not 1 limi-
ted.’ This has caused concern to, some shareholders.
Though the bank is not limited, as is the case with banks
registered under the Victorian Companies Act, yet it is
really ‘ limited,’ the shareholders’ liability being £l per
share uncalled and a further £5 per share Reserve
Liability—the latter available only in event of liquidation.”
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1901 .. 93,608 10 p.c. = 93,537 71 420,751
Sept., 1901 .. 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
Mar., 1902 .'. 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
Sept., 1902 .. 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903 .. 100,298 10 ~ „ 100,000 298 422,185
Sept., 1903 ..100,316 10 „ ~ 100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904 .. 100,412 10 „ „ 100,000 412 422,913
Sept., 1904 ..105,111 10 „ ~104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905 .. 155,322 15 „ „ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905 .. 112,343 10 „ „ 109,965 2378 416,411
Mar., 1906 ..112,042 10 „ ~ 110,000 2042 418,453
Sept., 1906 .. 111,679 10 „ ~110,000 1679 420,132
Mar., 1907 ... 110,827 10 „ ~ 110,000 827 420,959
This co. used to have a Replacement and Depreciation
reserve, which it built up out of disclosed profits. For
several years past, however, it has added nothing to this
reserve, but has presumably written property down to an
unknown extent out of undisclosed profit. The pub-
lished figures have therefore to be taken on trust; for
the extent of this internal reserve against depreciation,
and the amount of profit before the addition is made to
this reserve, are unknown. The fact that in 1905—the
co.’s jubilee year—an extra £60,000 or so was divided
among shareholders, the profits springing up to corres-
pond, suggests that, on revaluation, it was found that an
unnecessarily large secret provision had been made.
Rather to show the growth of the business than for
their value in enabling one to ascertain the real pro-
gress and profits of the business, the following figures
are added:—
1890. 1900. 1907.
Capital .. .. £750,000 £1,871,760 £2,200,000
Debenture stock .. 400,000
Debentures .. .. 436,000 322,950 64,050
Reserves .. .. 514,556 904,950 920,959
Sundry creditors .. 544,485 267,616 687,928
Refineries .. .. 394,199 775,571 896,166
Mills, plant, &e. .. 1,475,778 1,931,140 2,055,281
Stocks 372,201 216,687 595,462
Book debts, &c. .. 416,912 471,656 475,717
Premises ... *' .. 51,077
S.S. Fiona .. .. 20,000 6,000 ’ 6,000
Net profits .. .. 59,516 89,408 110,827
The rapid growth of the reserves between 1890 and 1900
compared with their recent growth will be noted. But
the reserves here include the Replacement reserve, to
which no additions have been made lately. The net
profits in the 1890 half-year represented £6 7s. 3d. per cent,
per annum on the capital in refineries, mills, &c. ; in 1900,
£6 12s. 2d. per cent. ; in 1907, £7 10$. 3d. per cent. In
the years when the properties were not being written
down the increase in profit was naturally small; the
rapid increase since then suggests that the writing down
of assets has been pretty severe. But these things are
only suggestions ; no certainty is possible.
* * * *
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., shipowners, mer-
chants, Island traders, and anything else with money in
it:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
1897 .. 36,187 8 p.c. = 21,400 10,000 4,787 110,849
1898 .. 48,289 8 „ „ 21,400 5,000 21,889 132,738
1899 .. 42,212 8 „ „ 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900 .. 53,072 8 „ „ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New share premiums 598 176,670
1901 .. 46,410 8 „ „ 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902 .. 55,219 8 „ „ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903 .. 52,629 8 „ „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
1904 .. 44,917 8 „ „ 24,000 12,372 8,545 273,473
1905 .. 42,740 8 „ ~24,000 18,740 292,213
1906 .. 43,452 8 „ ~ 24,000 19,452 311,665
1907 .. 53,411 10 „ „ 30,000 20,000 3,411 315,076
In addition to the profit shown above, £6OOO was made
and set apart as a bonus to employees, marking, first, the
25th anniversary of the co., and, second, the largest profit
earned up to date. Further, the formal reserve
fund now having passed the amount of the paid
capital (£-300,000), the dividend has been put up
to 10 per cent. The co. has had 25 years of almost
uninterrupted prosperity, with dividends running up to
12 per cent, in the late ’Bo’s, and down to 7£ per cent, for
a couple of years, 1894-5. Besides the reserves shown
above, there is an item, “Sundry reserves at branches,
£29,838,” an increase of £2226 ; and possibly this ought
to be added to profit, though there can be no certainty
about that, since the real nature of these reserves is
unknown. From the year’s profits £20,000 is written off
the value of shipping. This is in addition to the regular
charge for wear and tear, amounting for the year to
£19,357, or about 6 per cent, on the book value of ware-
houses and other properties, shipping and plant. The
important point in connection with a concern of this
sort is whether sufficient provision is made out of profits
for depreciation. In the past five years the co. has set
aside the following amounts: —
To provide To provide Special
Deprecia- for for appro-
tion. losses. bad debts, priations.
1903 .. £19,589 £7,893 £14,767
1904 .. 14,634 16,241 11,954 £12,372
1905 .. 12,298 29,484 11,824
1906 .. 15,596 22,722 14,758
1907 .. 19,357 16,250 15,917 20,000
£81,474 £92,590 £69,220 £32,372
They appear to be large provisions, and, under ordinary
circumstances, would suggest that internal reserves are
being made by writing down assets below their
values ; but it has to be remembered that the co. works
chiefly in places where depreciation is very sudden. Still
these allowances, like the large accumulation of visible
reserves during the past 10 years—an accumulation
amounting to £204,227 —point to conservative manage-
ment.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. of
Maoriland (Dunedin)
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1901 .. £4,710
1902 ..£lB7O 9 per cent. =£9oo £470 5,180
1903 .. 1365 10 „ ~ 1000 365 5,545
1904 .. 2234 10 „ ~1200 1034 6,579
1905 .. 4138 10 „ „ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 .. 2880 10 „ ~1500 1380 10,597
1907 .. 1697 10 „ „ 1500 197 10,794
These erratic profits are puzzling. Trust balances in
hand (“ exclusive of value of share scrip ”) are £1,842,310
as against £1,290,047 twelve months ago ; yet agency and
commission have brought in only £3611, as against £5033
in 1906 and £6435 in 1905. There is always the suspicion
when a trustee co.’s revenue behaves like this that the co.
drops the whole of the commission on the capital value
of an estate into profits when the estate falls into the
company’s hands ; and that is a bad plan, because this
corpus commission ought to be spread out over the
period during which the work of administering the estate
extends. If it doesn’t, as the annual commission doesn’t
always pay expenses, the estate is liable to suffer through
a co. cutting down expenses to atone for its previous
grab. There is no proof that this co. does this unwise
thing, but the figures have the jumps, and that is a
symptom. The co.’s capital (£10,000) is now exceeded by
its reserves ; practically the lot is in deposits, deben-
tures, mortg ges and land, and on the mean of these
investments, assuming that they alone have been earning
interest, the return was £4 13s. 6d. per cent. There is
therefore a solid backing to this co.’s trust undertakings ;
while the people interested in the trusts have the satis-
faction of being able to read the report of two auditors
that the mortgages, cash, &c., belonging to the co.’s
clients are where they are supposed to be. For some
years this co. stood easily at the head of Australasian
trustee cos. in the matter of earnings per cent, of share-
holders’funds ; but its present return of £8 4s. 9d. per
cent, is a good way from the summit. Yet the profit is
excellent —few businesses can show better. And still
trustee cos. as a rule earn their money well. It is simply
another instance of the advantage of experience and
special training and organisation.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee, and
Finance Co. (Hobart)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900 .. £344 4 per cent. =£3ls £29 £2698
Mar., 1901 .. 376 5 „ „ 394 2680
Sept., 1901 .. 400 5 „ „ 394 6 2686
Mar., 1902 .. 419 5 „ „ 394 25 2711
Sept., 1902 .. 398 5 „ „ 394 4 2715
~ inriQ (424 5 „ ~ 394/
Mar., 1903 .. Written Off, £872 f 1873
Sept., 1903,.. 490 5 per cent. = 394 96 1969
Mar., 1904 .. 530 5 „ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904 .. 541 5 „ „ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905 .. 529 5 „ „ 399 130 2374
Sept., 1905 .. 557 5 „ „ 399 158 2532
Mar., 1906 .. 564 5 „ „ 399 165 2697
Sept., 1906 .. 625 5 „ „ 399 226 2923
Mar., 1907 .. 597 5 „ „ 399 198 3121
This co. has a paid capital of £15,200, and its debts to the
public, nearly all deposits, are £14,962. The growth in
the latter item has been rapid : —March, 1902, £3472 ;
March, 1906, £11,758 ; September, 1906, £12,897 ; March,
1907, £14,962. In the same fWe years advances, &c., have
increased from £21,049 to £33,469. Certainly this has
meant larger profits ; but it also means that the capital
now has to guarantee nearly 60 per cent, more securities
against depreciation than in 1902. The liquid assets
total £lB7. As before mentioned, deposits and other
debts to the public total £14,962. No doubt all the de-
posits are fixed ; but even so the co., whose liquid assets
amount to only 1£ per cent, of the deposits and other
debts to the public, seems to be taking pretty consider-
able risks. It is all right while things go well ;if
they didn’t, and any considerable number of depositors
wanted their money, and the co. had to realise hurriedly,
the result would probably make the shareholders’ capital
look small. From the depositors’ point of view no doubt
the position is ail right so far ; for if securities were
only worth Bs. 6d. in the £, depositors’ money would still
be safe. But times come when depositors are not calm
enough to go into decimals like that.
* * * »
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors’ and
Trustees’ Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Dividend and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902 .. £465' 6 percent. = £315 £l5O £1970
Sept., 1902.. 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903 .. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904 .. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 3)31
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ „ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905 .. 1148 6 „ „ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1042 8 „ „ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 „ „ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 „ „ 420 294 6009-
Profits are very irregular, which suggests that the corpus-
commissions are taken into profit and loss in lumps ; and
in that case the figures for one half-year are no guide
when taken by themselves. The published report and
accounts are a mere skeleton, and both investor and in-
tending client will want to know more than they tell.
The profits show a return at the rate of £9 Is. Bd. per
cent, per annum on capital and reserves.
* *r » *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S. W.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o4 10 p.c. = £5703 £3OOO £12,952
Mar., ’05£8053 10 „ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept.,’os 8427 5 „ „ 3185 2000 £3242 14,997
Mar., ’O6 3528 5 „ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Sept.,’o6 2368 5 „ „ 3750 12,589
Mar., ’O7 6666 5 „ „ 3750 2000 916 13,505
The ordinary business profit was £7150 ; but £484 spent
during the half-year in re-opening Stanford-Merthyr
mine, where the explosion and fire occurred last year,
has been deducted by the directors from the previous
half-year’s balance. It isn’t clear in which half-year the
money was spent; it may be that the £484 ought to
come off the previous and not the last half-year’s profit.
Compared with the position 12 months ago, the co.
has now £1444 of debts in excess of liquid assets
as against a former surplus of £13,686 of liquid assets,
excluding' stores, &c., and taking the figures in both cases
before payment of the dividend. The 115,130 thusrepre-
sented has nearly all gone in additions to plant, which is
now valued at £86,123, against £75,802 twelve months
ago, and in railway sidings, &c. The Stanford-Merthyr
colliery is leasehold ; and it is to that item that most of
the writing down shown above is directed. This lease-
hold now stands in the books (after the present writing-
down) at only £9OOO. Depreciation of plant, &c., is
charged direct to profit and loss—£2o3s last half-year ■
£1735 the term before that; total £3770 for the year, or
about 4 per cent, on plant. But the railway (£58,399)
is a separate item, and if the depreciation has
to cover that, the provision is reduced below 3 per
cent. An increased output of coal is looked for,
and the railway prospects are also good. The share-
market has, however, discounted much of that and the
possible future increase of dividend; and, in spite of coal-
mining risks (notably fire, explosions, and labor troubles),
the £1 shares are quoted at buyers 245., which, on a
5 per cent, dividend, gives a return of only £4 3s. 4d. per
cent. An advance of the dividend to 7£ per cent, would
give a 6J per cent, return.
• * * •
While this is going through the press the share-
holders in the Balmain New Ferry Co. are meeting to
consider whether the recent private issue of 10,000 shares
at 305., when the market was at 385., justifies them in
calling upon the Board to resign. The directors have
issued a circular making some sort of a defence—briefly,
that while it was one thing to find buyers for a few odd
parcels at 385., it would have been quite another thing to
place 10,000 shares. But all that is irrelevant. The one
thing that matters is that the shareholders had a right to
any further issue, and the directors had no right to sell
to outsiders a large interest in the shareholders’ business
without their authority. The directors quote an opinion
by Mr. Rich, barrister: “On the facts submitted to me, I
am of opinion the directors exercised their powers bom
fide for the benefit of the company.” What “facts"
were submitted to counsel are not, however, mentioned;
and that is the foundation of the whole matter.
* • • *
Manager Delprat, of the Broken Hill Prop.,
publishes in America a concise description of Port Pirie
lead smelter and refinery. The recovery of lead is 95
percent, and of silver 98 per cent., with practically all
the gold. B.H. Prop, lead is 99-995 pure, and the purity,
together with the small loss of only 1£ P er cent, in the
slag, shows that Port Pirie is one of the most up-to-date
works in the world. Some of the concentrates are
roasted with a mixture of fine lime or shell in Hunting*
don-Heberlein pots. In a total of 64401 b. concentrates
and sintered slimes represent 32001 b.; old slag, iron-
stone, and lime, 24001 b.; coke, 8401 b. The proportion
of lead in the furnace charge is only 17 per cent. It has
often been suggested that it would pay the B.H. Prop, to
establish its works at Newcastle ; but it is much easier
and cheaper to carry 8401 b. of coke from the coalfields to
the S. Australian seaboard than to carry 32001 b. of ore,
not to mention fluxes, to the coalfields. The eo.’s original
plan was to smelt at the mine ; but gradually that was
abolished in favor of smelting at the seaboard, about 285
miles away, where flux supplies were handy and cheap.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, has entered the lode at
1315 ft., the deepest point at which it has been touched.
Where cut it is, however, only' 4ft. wide ; but it is rich—a
sample from the hanging wall side assayed 23'2 percent,
lead, 16'30z. silver, and 22'4 per cent, zinc.' The trouble,
however, with most of Block 10 ore is that the losses in
concentration have been very heavy'. The size of the
lode at any one point isn’t a matter of much consequence ;
for the body is as irregular as a string of sausages. A
better test is going on in the Broken Hill Prop’s,
next-door block, where a drive started near the Block 10
boundary at 1200 ft. has been pushed north 400 ft., and
near the present end a crosscut proves it 30ft. wide—which
isn’t enormous, hut nothing to be despised. If even 30ft.
of ore could be found at 1200 ft. in the north end of the
mine, the future would look a lot better both for the B.H.
Prop, and Block 14. The latter mine is by far the worst
off, for it hasn’t got any south end to even things up.
* * • *
No doubt B.H. Block 10 directors heaved a
mighty sigh of relief when the lode was cut at the 1315 ft.;
for, owing to the crosscut not striking the lode at the
expected point, some people were beginning to get a bit
nervous. Three days later came the disappointing news
that the crosscut had passed through the lode. Still, the
body on the level immediately above was only 7ft. wide;
yet to the northward it opened out to 50ft. When a
point under this bulging northern end is reached by the
1315 ft. drive, a corresponding width will probably be
found. In shape the ore shoot at 1215 ft. resembles
nothing so much as a long-handled spoon. The ore at
the bottom level is very fine-grained, and that means
much slimes. But as vanners are going into the mill,
that difficulty will be to some extent provided for, though
the metal losses must still be heavy.
• * * *
The Junction, Broken Hill, is shaping better at
its bottom level than most people expected. The ore
shoot that is being worked on the Junction North
boundary, at the No. 9 level, is going up well, and is
showing a good width on the west. But it is much too
soon to make a fuss about it yet. The body has not been
proved for any' length, and the question whether it con-
tinues southward towards Brown’s shaft is an important
one which cannot be answered for some time. Carbonates
won from King’s shaft have hitherto been of very poor
quality, but a little stone has lately been broken at the
100 ft. level which goes 670 z. silver. It is only a small
vein, though.
• * * , *
The Sulphide Corporation’s new mill at the
Central Broken Hill mine is a huge affair, and, up to the
present, is inclined to be unmanageable. With its daily
increasing appetite, it is beginning to devour large
quantities of crudes; but the recoveries are never men-
tioned —they are said to be shocking at times. As soon
as the paint is worn off, these little drawbacks will pro-
bably disappear.
* » * *
The latest creep at Block 10, which should have
surprised nobody who reads the “ Wild Cat,” is located
between Kelly’s old shaft and Harvey’s new shaft, but
nearer the former. Surface effects were confined to the
wider gaping of an old crack near Kelly’s shaft and the
precipitation of another overhanging piece of ground
into the Block 11 (B.H. Prop.) open cut. The subsidence
was evidently caused by some ground coming off the
hanging-wall.
It $ * ♦
Zinc Corporation’s experimental plant on the
British Broken Hill is obtaining improved results from
■the granulation process, and if the production of a
higher-grade concentrate can be maintained, the mag-
netic machines for touching up the value of the zinc
■concentrates won’t be required at all. About the only
thing the Zinc Alteration hasn’t tried is to produce
a zinc concentrate by magnetic separation, and treat the
residues by wet process.
* * * *
Sydney so far has been able to keep up the
B.H. Junction North market very well. While the South
Blocks fell from 40s. to 335. 6d. during April, Junction
Norths close the month just about where they began,
though they saw a bit better prices in between. The
trouble with the South Blocks and several other Barrier
■cos. is that they can’t see the sure sale for their tailings
that was confidently talked about a year or so back.
'The Zinc Corporation bought a good man.v thousand
tons ; but the public got into the bad habit of reckoning
the balance, over which the Corporation only had options,
as being sold and as good as paid for. There are doubts
about that now. Junction North’s biggest doubts are,
however, with regard to costs and recoveries. The dud-
fished figures as to costs are, so far, depressing ; but last
week’s recoveries don’t work out so badly. The mm
handled 751 tons ore assaying 17‘8 per cent, lead ana
12‘8oz. silver, and got 143 tons concentrates assaying oil
per cent, lead and 32-soz. silver. That means a recovery
of 65-05 per cent, of the lead and 48-2 per cent, of tne
silver. This is not the worst on the field by a good bit-
For the same week, however, the neighboring North
recoveries work out at 76T6 per cent, of the lead and 8a
per cent, of the silver.
It seems to be a popular idea that the more
refractory a Broken Hill sulphide is the higher its metai
value. Nature doesn’t always send such compensations
'The Junction North ore, for instance, though wellaoo
the average, is not the high-grade stuff that tom
seem to vaguely think. Where Broken Hill ore is fini *
grained, and therefore inclined to slime, i fc generally isnc
in silver, as at Block 10; but the Junction North s ore isnt
refractory on account of being fine-grained. For practical


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Has
Uncalled Capital - £975*000
Perpetual Deposit
with Govt. • 20,000
Reserves • • • 26,500
£1,021,500
■As SECURITY for its
Management of Trust Estates
under Wills* Intestacies*
Marriage Settlements* and
Trust Deeds of Every
Description.
2, 4» <©» 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
purposes, on last week’s figures the Junction North ore
was worth 11'57 per cent, lead and 6-17 oz. silver ; the
neighboring North’s ore was worth 12‘79 per cent, lead
and 3'540z. silver. That is to say, than was the metal
extracted and saved in the concentrates. At £2O a ton a
unit of lead is worth 4s. ; an ounce of silver is worth
about 2s. Bd. The extra lead in the North ore is on those
prices worth 4s. lOd. ; the extra silver in the Junction
North is worth 7s. The difference between those two is
the practical difference between the ore in the two mines.
But then there is the matter of costs; and the Junction
North hasn’t gone far enough to speak confidently of
that yet.
* * * *
Horton and Freeman, who unearthed the
Harden (N.S.W.) and made a payable mine out of it (and it
isn’t the fault of their reports that shares were recently
put up to a price which the published figures never justi-
fied) have taken over the Lobb’s Hole copper mine, in the
liiandra district (N.S.W.). Reekmann and Forsstrom,
who have worked it for years, have found it one of the
most consistent mines in N.S. Wales ; they have ham-
mered out from 20 to 30 per cent, ore to the
value of over £50,000. Last year’s output was 292 tons
for £7576, according to Mines Department’s returns. Rut
.it is in an inaccessible region, and that and water troubles
frequently shut up the mine for a couple of months at a
time. Horton, who isn’t an enthusiastic man, regards it
as a true fissure ; and, with rich sulphides now available,
reckons upon making’ a heavy reduction in returning and
■other charges. The chief drawback is that the owners,
knowing that they have a proved mine, weren’t prepared
.to give it away. Of the 60,000 £1 shares in the new co.
30,000 go to the public, and of the £7500 raised on and
prior to allotment £6OOO goes to the vendors; and that
will mean, in order to provide machinery, that another ss.
•will have to be got in this year. *
Lloyds’ copper mine at Burraga (N.S.W.)
smelted 5351 tons for 126 tons copper. The average is
2.35 per cent., and the profit something under £1 per
ton, for expenses were £7400. *
G. P. Doolette’s offer for Glassford Creek and
Mt. Hector (Q.) is for a six months’ option. He pays
nothing for the option, but holds out a possible £25,000
cash and 75,000 fully paid £1 shares to each co. He stipu-
lates that he must secure both concerns, or will take
neither. Both are in the Willcocks-Gibb “ stable.”
Glassford Creek Co., the board of which is, for
tall practical purposes, identical with that ofMt. Hector,
favors granting the option. Glassford wants money
badly, and wants development worse. Furthermore, its
swag of 200,000 shares could not be sold at 3s. apiece, so
that the market value of the property does not exceed
£30,000. On paper, therefore, the option looks like a
profit of £70,000. Mt. Hector holders, on the other hand—
or at least some of them—do not favor the proposed
option. Hector’s 25,000 shares on the market are nominally
worth £50,000, so that On paper Hector’s profit out of the
option, supposing- it is exercised, looks to be £50,000.
Wherefore some large Brisbane holders in Hector are
going to fight the proposal. On paper they reckon they
are simply pulling Glassford out of the mud. That may
be so, too.
Yet there are many people who, not being bad
judges, opine that unless Hector has some wonderful
luck, it will presently require someone to puli it
out of the mud as well ; and if that suspicion
is realised, then the present objecting share-
holders will have something to think hard about.
Hector to-dav values its mine upon the market that exists
for the shares. But that is only a temporary valuation ;
presently the smelting returns will take a hand in fixing
the price. Even with copper at its present figure,
Hector returns are not very brilliant, and it will be in-
teresting to see if Dr. Jack will commit himself to any
tonnages and metal values in his report upon the pro-
perty. Hector has yet to prove itself a mine. Because
it.s shares are £2 or over, it does not follow that ores
in sight are worth even half that sum. The Bdlletin
forecasted some time ago that Hector might find itself
in the same position as Glassford, viz. , with no ore ready
for smelter, and the position has not changed since then.
* * * *
Approximate value of Mt. Morgan (Q.) output
is moving up like this —February, £80,000; March,
£82,500; April, £86,700. Last half-year, on an average
monthly output of £74,500, there was a profit of £173,456
gross, or £148,778 net, after providing for depreciation,
and the ordinary dividends absorbed £75,000. There is a
wide margin there, and there must be a wider margin
now between profits and disbursements ; but the manage-
ment is conservative, and isn’t at all disposed to assist in
any share-booming operations.
• * * *
“M.C.”: A geological map of Australia shows
copper-bearing rocks in all the States, and this wide
distribution of the metal at Mt. Lyell, Oobar, Burraga,
Moonta and Wallaroo, all through the north of S. Aus.,
Mt. Morgan, Chillagoe, Cloncurry, Mt. Perry, Gladstone,
and other places, makes a large and increasing production
a certainty if high prices hold. It doesn’t follow
because a mine is at the end of 500 miles of railway that
costs must be high if the ore is rich and easily smelted.
The quantity of coke used is often small in proportion
to ore and “fluxes. Mt. Morgan for six months’ run
smelted 62,539 tons of ore and fluxes, with 6668 tons of
coke. A smelting base depends upon the supply of wood
and water, fluxes, and ore more than on the supply of
coke. Wood and water are the most important i terns in
relation to Cloncurry. Writer has had to boil his billy in
that part, and didn’t always find even that easy.
* * * * .
Shipments of ore from Mt. Fiora, at the back
of Mackay (Q.), begin to amount to something sizeable.
During April, returns were received from the E. and A.
Copper Co.’s Waratah works for about 55J tons of ore,
which ran from 18| to 30f per cent, copper (there were
four lots), and the net proceeds, after paying all charges
from Mackay, were £1137. Seventy odd tons are now ac
Waratah, 50 tons are on the way, and 100 tons are at
grass or on the track. This stuff has all come from the
Mt. Flora Freehold (M’Fadzean and Co.’s), and its rich-
ness is turning a lot of prospecting attention away from
Cloncurry and the northern fields and towards this
handier district.
* * * *
At the very time when the antimony market
has fallen heavily enough to crack its skull —though this
week it has shown signs of a partial recovery—there is a
rush in North Queensland for antimony shows. A group
of claims has been taken up three miles away from the
Mitchell River Co.’s claims (the ones on which the
M’Arthur people, of Glasgow, are to try their new process
for separating gold and antimony), and the Irvinebank
Mining Co. has had men out to join in the scramble.
The Mt. Misery shows are being developed from Irvine-
bank. A syndicate has just paid the owners of the Luck
claim 140 shares (out of 240) and £5OO cash for their 20-
acre block. The lode, sampled by James Brodie, chair-
man of the Vulcan, gave 16dwt. of gold. Practically all
these claims rest on the success of the M‘Arthur experi-
ment at Mitchell River. A good track has now been opened
up to that mine, where a shaft has been started, and pre-
parations made to receive the new plant. If the latter
succeeds it will change the face of gold-antimony mining.
■ * *
The New Einasleigh (Q.), in 200,000 shares,
formed early this year to take over the Einasleigh (180,000
shares), is shaking itself up ; and holders of old scrip,
who may have thrown it aside as dead and done with,
may yet find it worth while to get themselves on the
register of the new co. Engineer Frew has about 50 men
already at work on the Etheridge line, and hopes to have
200 more by the end of this month ; and early in June he
expects 40,000 sleepers (15 miles) to be available. The
New Einasleigh Co. wants to be in a position to avail
itself of the line the moment it is open, and work (which
was knocked off for want of funds in 1902) is therefore
being started again at once. W. E. Simpson, formerly on
11., M. and Co.’s staff, will be in charge.
* * * •
Dr. Jack has reported on Mt. Cannindah (Q.),
and speaks very well of it. He estimates that there is
over £500,000 worth of stuff available.
The Westralian gold output continues to sag:—
1905. 1906. 1907.
January .. 165,452 154,365 162,238
February .. 154,038 142,426 134,193
March .. .. 160,913 155,574 128,725
April .. .. 172,136 152,216 130,086
Four months .. 652,539 604,581 555,242
Figures are in ounces fine. And there is no sign of things
improving. Profits are, certainly, fairly well maintained
so far, costs having been reduced ; but that is poor con-
solation to a State whose share in the business is the said
costs.
* * * *
The chief W.A. mines during March showed
returns and profits as follows : —Oroya, 11,4390 z., £35,170 ;
Great Boulder, 12,7630 z., £23,870; Golden Horseshoe,
12,1090 z., £21,100; Ivanhoe, 10,2800 z., £21,050; Kal-
gurli, 70160 z., £18,350 ; Great Fingall, 52560 z., £14,450 ;
Perseverance, 65080 z., £12,700; Associated Northern,
34400 z., £9980; Associated, 46400 z., £6400; Sons of
Gwalia, 43680 z., £5600 ; South Kalgurli, 29570 z., £3190 ;
Lake View Consols, 32i10z., £1500; Hainault, 15970 z.,
£1010; Vivien, 9800 z., £970 ; Gwalia Consols, 8250 z.,
£860; Cumberland, £626, £640; North White Feather,
7610 z., £440 ; Golden Ridge, 3950 z., £4OO ; Boulder Main
Reef, 8390 z., £5O. The Northern, late East Murchison
United, produced 1401 oz. at a loss of £1137. For the
third month in succession the Kalgurli’s profits showed
a big decline, and, as the mill engine lately broke down,
and the engine driving the air compressor has to be
utilised for driving the mill, the shortage in output is
likely to be intensified, as there is a difficulty in main-
taining the output of ore.
Whitford’s Reward (W.A.) has exercised its
option over the Callion, near Davj’hurst, and in future
the co., to be reconstructed, will be known as the Callion.
There will be 120,000 shares of ss. each, 54,000 paid, and
66,000 contributing, with a 3s. liability, giving a calling
power of £9900. This money will be wanted very soon,
so frequent calls will have to be made. To thoroughly
test the property, 300 tons from the 120 ft. level from the
new shaft have been treated for an average of 10dwt.,
with another 3dwt. recoverable from the residues, which
are worth sdwt. The drive at 120 ft. is 200 ft. long, and
yielded two tons of ore for each foot driven, or 400 tons
in all. Of this 307 tons were treated, and the balance
is still on the dump. The “backs” to the surface above
this should yield nearly 5000 tons, and, in addition to
this, there is the stone left by the old co., but this is not
sufficiently opened up to gauge quantity or value. The
winze below the 120 ft. level is down 50ft., and the stone
at the bottom is very highly mineralised and carries high
values. The sulphide zone is entered at a vertical depth
of 130 ft. ; and, unlike most quartz reefs in W.A., the sul-
phides appear to be better than the oxides. There are
only half-a-dozen company-owned mines in W.A. with
richer ore now showing than the Callion has, and there
is not the least doubt that, if it is properly equipped and
carefully handled, shareholders will get a good run for
their money. The new main shaft is down 155 ft., and is
a splendid piece of work. The sulphide ore is so hard
that a rock-drilling plant is essential for economical
working. The mine has been looked on with suspicion,
because J. Bull threw it up ; but that goes for nothing in
W.A. mining.
* * • *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, which was under
two months’ option to 8., M. and Co., has been thrown
back on the hands of the prospectors. The mine is good,
and has one very rich pipe of ore, which has averaged
about £6O a ton for a gross yield of about £45,000,
and there is a large tonnage untouched of low-grade ore.
The difficulty is that the vendors wanted £55,000 cash,
and holders of adjoining leases another £13,000
cash, which meant raising at least £120,000 cash
before any return could be looked for. This de-
mand for heavy cash payments instead of substan-
tial share interests is the direct result of the treatment
some vendors have received after taking payment in
shares. According to the rules of the London Stock Ex-
change, no shares are listed or are negotiable until and un-
less an application is formally made by the secretary and
chairman. In the case of the Oroya-Black Range, floated
in May, 1906, the vendors’ shares are not yet listed,
although other shares have been 425., and are now 225.
The vendors are thus tied up in a knot. The same thing
happened in the case of the Ida H. ; when £1 shares rose
to 458. the original prospectors had to look on and miss
the market. Prof. Badge had a similar experience when
he sold the Windsor Consols. Scarcely a prospector will
therefore now accept scrip.
• * • *
Great Ophir, Davyhurst (W.A.), is still un-
settled for want of capital, and only about a dozen men
are employed driving at 120 ft., and sinking the main
underlay shaft, which is dowji about 175 ft. (vertical
depth), and is to be carried to 200 ft., where a fresh level
will be started. The main workings consist of 400 ft. of
drives, which have proved an east-and-west lode worth
Bdwt. to 9dwt. for a width of 6ft. About 1000 ft. east the
same lode has been opened up for a distance of 280 ft.,
and carries very much the same values. The underlie of
the lode is pretty flat, and the first level at 120 ft. gives
about 200 ft. of backs. The ore already opened up amounts
to, say, 50,000 tons, but more money is required to pro-
perly equip the mine and get everything in working order.
***■*
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), after a silence
of four months, has resumed crushing. During the
stoppage the surface plant has been thoroughly over-
hauled, and is now in good working order, and a good
deal of pay ore has been developed. The dip of the south
crosscourse has straightened up somewhat, and this
should prolong the life of the mine to some extent.
According to its previous dip, the two crosscourses, which
completely cut off the reef, would meet at 700 ft. ; but
now the position is a trifle more hopeful. At the same
time, the life of the mine is very precarious.
•» * * *
Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), has resumed crush-
ing, putting through 100 tons from the mine. But this
goes for nothing. The o.e bodies are short and erratic,
and the best of managers can do nothing with short,
jumbled-up shoots which appear to have no connection
with any other ore bodies.
* # * •
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), shows no
improvement. All the boreholes have drawn blanks,
and this work has practically ceased. The developments
at and below the bottom level continue disappointing ;
practically no fresh pay ore is being opened up, and con-
sequently the grade treated has to be lowered in order to
maintain monthly tonnage. It is a marvel that, outside
of one 24-acre block, one quarter of a mile long, no pay
shoot can be found, so that every other co. in the district
has been a wild cat.
* * * •
The Westralian miner isn’t too tired to think
up original names for his shows. At Lawlers, one mine
is the New Woman, and the adjoining lease has just been
registered as the New Woman Extended. Near Day
Dawn one was registered as the Sudden Jerk, and the
same locality knew the Black Bitch. Now the Lily of
Australia, at Pingin, has crushed about 100 tons for an
average of a little over £oz., so the Lily is likely to remain
in the shade. After every Melbourne Cup scores of leases
are named after the winner, but not always with satisfac-
tory results. At Lake Darldt State battery Blue Spec’s
crushing of 83 tons has given the unprofitable total of
200 z., and half-a-dozen Carbines are only recognisable by
long-deserted dumps. Bid for Fortune was hopelessly
outbidden at Boogardie (Mount Magnet) State battery ;
200 tons panning out less than sdwt. On the other hand,
the Tempus Fugit, at Burtville, gave 3730 z. from 130 tons,
and Carroll’s show at Black Range yielded 861 oz. from
670 tons. The uncertainty of the latter patchy place is
shown by a crushing from Atkinson’s lease at the same
battery giving only 220 z. from 48 tons.
* * * m ■
Barrambie Ranges (W. A.) has had three stages
so far —the prospecting, the promoting, and the puzzling
present. The prospecting stage did not last long. The
promoting began well, but dragged until Con. Lynch and
R. D. Thompson saw the mine, and were satisfied.
The third stage has lasted longer. It started from the
time shares hung in the balance at about 505., and
continues till to-day, when they are well under the pound,
with no end of doubt whether the mine will come up to
its old official 3oz. estimate. A little of that doubt got
into the head of “Jimmy” Hamilton, a Melbourne broker
and ex-director of theco., in the flotation of which he
took a hand ; so he spread his doubt by circular among the
shareholders. Result, feathers flew every way at the half-
yearly meeting. Con Lynch and Thompson took Hamil-
ton’s circular to mean that they were not honest in their
actions and opinions. Hamilton denied this. Still,
he did not disclaim liis recently-born doubt about the rich-
ness of the mine. Among the public that doubt spread
first when some restriction was imposed on share-
holders and others visiting the mine, and it de-
veloped almost into a belief —still in the minds of
outsiders—when No. 2 crushing panned out poorly.
More libels were uttered to the square inch by cross-
firing at the meeting than even hardy David Syme could
stomach, so only Bowdlerised reports of the nice things
said went out to a cynical world. What Hamilton ought
to have tackled was the gold-stealing excuse for low
yields. There are plenty of ways of checking that evil.
The directors knew from the time that Lynch Came back
that specimen stone was plentiful. If they didn’t see
that it was adequately protected, or that a proper chang-
ing-house was put up, can they claim to be altogether
exempt from blame? Still, as no one has ever estab-
lished the assertion that peculation accounts for yields
not coming up to expectations, perhaps they showed the
wisdom of the serpent in not bothering about a search-
house.
< r « •
The deep-lead mainstay of Rutherglen (Vic.) is
the Great Southern. Between this show and John Cocks’
Chiltern Valley there is the rivalry that tends to good
results and cheap work. Chiltern Valley is the older
mine ; but it is working two shafts, and one of them —the
Wallace Consols—is a steady drain on it. The relative
work done by the two cos. during the past six months
can be tabulated :
Wash Average
worked. Gold per
Fathoms, won. Fathom.
oz. dwt.
Chiltern Valley .. .. 7582 5538 14
Do. Consols Shaft .. 380 168 8f
Great Southern .. .. 9008 6017* 12J
No comparison need be drawn between results at the
two mines, because conditions are not equal; but if the
deficit on the Wallace Consols work is deducted from the
Chiltern Valley costs proper, it will be found that each
works and pays divs. at about 13dwt. per fathom. In
the case of the Great Southern this statement is absolute,
as last term saw divs. absorbing £5400 kept up, and the
reserve of £4500 maintained. Thus a little nut is provided
to be cracked by those who said divs. could hot be paid
in big alluvial mines under from 14 to 15dwt. The ex-
periences of these mines drive home also another peg. If
they were opened up twice as much, and the wash
thoroughly drained, larger outputs should be possible at
less cost. There might have to be initial expense to get
a mine like the Great Southern to that stage, but the
question is purely a matter of figures, and investigation
should determine it pretty safely. The co.’s return last
half-year gave it £25,600, and out of this it added £BOO to
the cash on hand, paid £5400 in div., and handled the
mine for the balance. This is getting every farthing
out of the ground ; so the Board and the manager can be
cheered for their success.
* • * *
Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), is the deep-lead show
that Cosmopolitan (W.A.) money went into on very
cheap lines. Also it is the show which a boosting
London paper dumped down on the Berry lead, from
which it is miles distant. The co. is in Peacock’s
office, and is run more cheaply than most of the
shows which Bull controls ; but like all the rest
of them, it hasn’t panned out well. There was some
growling the other day among local holders that the Bull
money hadn’t been spent to advantage. That may be or
may not be ; but when men part with the gifts the gods
send them, they deserve whatever they may get in re-
turn. When Victorians gave up, the mine was, at any
rate, in a rare tangle, and no one knew where the lead was.
Now it is let out that the tangle has been unravelled,
that the lead has been picked up, and that ounce dirt has
been got by panelling parties. Also, it is announced that
the gutter spreads 300 or 400 feet. If this is really the
case, the co. will have a chance; but it is so heavily capital-
ised (as are all the Bull deep-lead shows), that it will be
hard to pay divs. unless the supply of ounce dirt keeps up.
* * » *
There are still about 300 men left on the
Poseidon (Vic.) rush ; but the defined part of the lead,
where the good finds w'ere made, is just about worked out
already, and the rest is very patchy. A few minor
rushes have occurred lately ; things are so poor on the
original rush that it takes little to send the diggers off in
a troop on a new scent. Not one of these minor rushes
has given even decent results. Most of those who are
now making tucker, or that and a bit over, are puddling
the shallow ground.
* ■* * *
:i Caledonia” is not the name of a new
whisky : it is simply a new brew in the Melbourne mining
ir.uih-t...':, with certain features that deserve some
notice. That the co. should end the half-year with a
debt due to the bank, and calls in arrears, does not take
it out of the ruck. Nor does the hope of the directors that
“ the coming half-year will be a prosperous one.” Neither
does the erection of a 10-head battery before the mine is
opened up enough to permit continuous crushing. Nor
is there anything unusual about a preliminary five-ton
crushing giving a high average. All these things have
been seen before, not only at Warrandyte, but in more
remote parts of the State. What is rather unusual is
that no tricks have been played with the market. Still,
while that is unusual, it doesn’t improve the mine. If the
public is let into the know that a shoot of stone only 85ft.
long has been developed, that the backs are 100 ft., that
the reef averages (say) 9in., that a trial crushing of five
tons went over ooz. per ton, it can tot up the position of
the mine to a nicety. And when it has totted up the
position, it will be glad that it has been left outside.
The co. now wants to prove the so-called “Barker’s”
parallel lode, and that’s the only hook on which to hang
a gamble.
* * * •
After the customary puffs, and on the crest of
the Ajax boom, the Jubilee Lake Co., Daylesford (Vic.),
Was got off in shilling shares ; but it now' transpires that
the promoters had not even a lease of the ground at the
time of flotation, and the chances are that the co. will
never get a lease, because the greater portion of the
ground pegged out is part, of a water reserve, and
only IS chains are available for mining operations.
An angry shareholder threatens to demand why that
curiously supine body, the Ballarat Stock Exchange,
permitted the Jubilee Lake to be registered.
* * it *
The Mt. Todd tinfield (N. Territory), which it
was expected would get a lift from the new ore-dressing
mill, is in a bad way. The first crushing was a failure.
The appliances, it is alleged, won’t save the tin.
a *' a a I '
Since the rush to take up old copper shows in
S. Australia began, 2000 claims have been applied for.
* * • a
Dodder: You’ll probably be able to form an
opinion for yourself now that Dr. Jack’s report is avail-
able Tertium: Profit out of tailings treated for zinc is,
it is understood, about 15s. at present—that is, reckoning
the tailings to cost nothing.
* l\f * •
It is one of the triumphs of Australian metal-
lurgy that Mt. Lyell, with its low-grade ore, should
produce copper at such a low price. The average last
half-year (March 30) was under 1 per cent. (-975) for the
big mine and 5£ per cent, f.r the North Lyell. In all
205,000 tons produced 3800 tons copper—rather more ore
and less copper than during the previous term ; but the
average price was about £lB per ton better. A profit of
a quarter of a million is expected ; and a Melbourne paper
says it’s k magnificent result from 2£ per cent. ore. So it
would be ; but it is better on the actual return of under
1.9 per cent, copper per ton of ore. A low-grade show
like that requires big ore reserves ; for instance, the man
who buys at 60s. or over requires to see three or four
million tons giving an average profit of £1 per ton ; and
to cover a risk of a slump in copper double that quantity
of 2 per cent, stuff is required.
A syndicate has been formed at Ipswich
(Queensland) to test the oil and gas lands in the Mt.
Walker district, where oil-bearing sandstone and lignites
seem to point to something good. The syndicate has
secured 209 acres of freehold, in which boring will be done
straight away. When the field was last inspected, a
short time ago, the gas, which is said to be increasing,
showed a pressure of 1051 b. to the square inch, and a
volume of 30,000 ft. per day.
* •* * t
A man writes from Chillagoe to tell us of that
co.’s blunders and slipshod ways. (By the way, the man
who writes us short-stamped his letter; so the co.’s
disease is probably, infectious.) The arrangement of
things, he says, is bad. A great deal of time is wasted by
men trying to get supplied with mine stores —largely on
account of the situation of the store. Tools are poor and
badly supplied; time is wasted hunting for them.
“ They started the second lead furnace, which was the
talk of the place for about a month. Suddenly it was
discovered they didn’t have the needful hammers for
tappers, and there were not enough slag-pot bars. New
works—Heaven knows when they will be finished. The
men are always crying out about something—no bricks to
go on with, no cement, no timber, or something. Don’t
know whose fault it is ; may be that the co. isn’t too
flush of money, though that doesn’t seem likely now.
Anyhow, the thing wants shaking up.”
* * * *
“ Sessil ” : Though shale-mining doesn’t present
all the dangers of colliery-work, and one doesn’t hear
of a number of men being knocked off in one act by
death, it still has its risks. During the last decade, at
Airlie (N.S.W.), 11 men have each lost the sight of an
eye, whilst several others have been more-or-less in-
jured in the seeing apparatus. The average number of
miners employed during that time would not exceed
80. Gauze veils are used as protection against the fly-
ing shale, but many men find themselves greatly ham-
pered by them. Further, the veil is sometimes driven
into the flesh, and it is quite possible for the shale-
travelling almost at bullet speed—to drive threads of
the gauze into the eye. All things considered, the
shale-miner earns his wages.
• • * »
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding- the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining coys, because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. The makers are Messrs.
Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have supplied their
machines to all leading mines throughout North and South
America, and in other countries. W. &J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne and Sydney, have been appointed the sole Aus-
tralian agents. The machine has the distinction of being
a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* » * •
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has onlv one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [o]
The Irish Investor (London), writes, regarding
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, in
its September, 1906, issue as follows :—'“ An intending
assurant who realises that the stability of a company
depends to an exceedingly great extent on its care in
only accepting risks that come under the heading of good
lives should feel every confidence in the Colonial Mutual
on this score.”*
* * • »
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * • *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * • *
Bcdgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*;
» • * ♦
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* ♦ * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * « •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrherg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, Hunting, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * • *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * » *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
# * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * * .
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
**. * r *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
s * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*


HALF -A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLINGjsPost Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nbthing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABRIGN
ALITIES
Itan : It is published officially in
N.S.W. that Govett’s Leap waterfall—GOOft.
without abreak—is the longest fall in the world,
ihe total distance of the fall is, of course,
2000 ft. But this claim to establish a record in
perpendicular moisture is not justified. Btony
Creek fall, at Kangaroo Hills station, near
Ingham (North Queensland), has a sheer drop of
900 ft. The belt of high country which extends
from Ingham to Port Douglas, a distance ,of
about 150 miles, possesses many gems in the shape
of cataracts, and is intersected by high moun-
tain ranges which are ripped by deep pre-
cipitous gorges, and coated with' the densest
scrub. When once this district is opened
by railways, its rich volcanic soil will supply
wealth to tens of thousands of settlers, and pro-
vide a resort for tourists equal to anything south
of the line. On the great stretches of North
Queensland tableland the climate is delightful,
and the elevation is anything between 3000 ft. and
4000 ft. The Tory barracker has kept this region
a wilderness by his moan and lamentation that
yvhite men can’t work in North Queensland. The
water in those northern streams is remarkably
clear. At Tully River falls a crayfish crawling
on the bottom may be distinctly seen at depths
ranging from 25ft. to 35ft.
IN TOPHET.
A little punishment for the deadly cigarette
manufacturer.
“Judex,” from Westralia :
“ Paul Cupid ” (B. 4/4/’O7) makes a very awkward and
feeble punch at “Duroc,” and niisses him by yards
Some horses (and mighty few, too) will take a man home
along a known track, and an infinitesimal percentage of
horse will do the same from a strange place through the
bush —for a short distance. But let “Paul” put a
stranger on his wonderful prad after dark, a few miles
from home, in the bush, and away from a track, givino-
the usual instructions : “ Sling the reins on his neck, old
man, and let him go ; he’ll take you to my place straight
as a dart." It’s about a million to one that the rider will
soon be certain that the moke is taking him, not home
but to another place, the name of which also begins with
an H. “Paul Cupid” also uses dogs and cats as red
herrings to drag across the horse’s tracks. How is it
possible to compare the almost human knowledge of the
dog with the sagacity of any other of the lower animals
except the elephant? And the cat! Who knows him?’
Your own mouse-destructor is the model of a domestic
animal at noon, and looks as if he possessed all the
known virtues. And a dozen hours later he is a mile
away from home in the worst feline society he can dig
out, and is as ripping, tearing, fighting, spitting
drunken, swearing, venomous, violently amorous, and
abusive a blackguard as ever slipped out of a back gate
Why drag him into a discussion about decent animats ?
• * * *
Nothing succeeds like success, and Angier’s
Emulsion is eminently successful in curing coughs
and lung affections. One day’s trial will convince
you of its soothing, cough allaying, lung-healing
powers. Send 4d. postage for a free sample
bottle. The Angier Chemical Cos., Ltd., 7
Barrack-street, Sydney.*
In the razor duel between a pair of black-
fellows atItunnymede(N.S.W.) Aboriginal Horne
last week, one nigger received a cut a foot long, and
the other had a bit of jaw sliced off, both fighting
till exhausted. It was a purely personal quarrel,
and the rest of the tribe left the place when the
duel began. The code of every aboriginal tribe
makes provision for the trial by battle when the
honor of Binghi is involved and nothing but
bloodshed can enable him to feel a real aboriginal
gentleman again; and the combatants, in most
cases, are allowed to kill each other if they like.
Sometimes the heads of the tribe meet and pre-
scribe the weapons, but as a rule the outside
mgger takes no notice, or, as' in the Runnymede
contest, goes off unanimously into the scrub till
the disturbance is over.
* * * *
“ Nirel ” : Some people seem to have their
doubts about the velocity of snakes. Once saw a
snake do 50yds. into a stook in record time with-
out touching the ground. A dog suddenly roused
him, and he whipped along the top of the stubble,
which was about a foot high, till he reached his
destination.
* * * *
“ N.L.” I have always had a regard for the
Australian aborigines, and this extract, from one
of Professor Baldwin Spencer’s works, is certainly
calculated to increase it:—
As might have been expected, the musical instruments
oi Australian natives are of the most primitive descrip-
tion. . . They have not even arrived at the idea of
stretching 1 a skin over a hollow object so as to form a
drum.
But, alas ! these sagacious blacks, who have deli-
berately refrained from inventing the pestiferous
drum, have it forced upon their hearing by the
Salv’army and other allegedly civilised white
tribes. Some people will never let hell alone.
* * * *
“Central-West ” (Longreach) writes :—
I have taken a good deal of interest in the discussion
which has been going on in your “ Abo.” columns in re-
gard to the possibilities, or otherwise, of fodder conser-
vation. I have had a fairly lengthy experience of Central
Queensland, and at one time I thought that the thing
was quite possible ; I am not quite so sanguine now. In the
first place, the cost is prohibitive. That correspondent
who quoted the price of cutting and stacking hay at 5s.
per ton, ought to have his head inspected. True, he said
Payne, the member for the Mitchell, told him so. Well,
I did not think Payne was such an ass, for he could easily
h ive ascertained from station manag'ei*s in this district
what it costs them to cut and stack hay. A number
stack up to 150 tons solely for the use of the working’
horses and cows. Bv itself, more especially when it gets
a bit old, the hay is not much good, and to get the best
results, chaff or corn has to be mixed with it. And the
cost of cutting and stacking* is from 18s. to 21s. per ton.
Then there is the possibility, provided that a station ehts
a big lot of hay, that the water gives out. What
use is the hay then? Quite a number of hold-
ings are, in this district, shifting sheep solely because
the water supply is on the point of giving out. If
another big drought conies along, there will he no g*reat
effort made to save all the sheep. They will be sacrificed
at Is. per head, as Maneroo did its ewes only two years
ago ; and, if they cannot be sold, they will be allowed to
perish. That is what the owners and managers invari-
ably tell you in these parts. The only remedy against
the drought is to keep the country very much under-
stocked, but unfortunately the position is such that
selectors and others, in order to make a recovery, breed
up as quickly as possible, going in for double lambings.
The result is that, when a dry time comes along, they are
once more in the mud.
■ * » *
“ Nestor ” : Met a quondam Australian
now on a sugar estate in Fiji. Had a brief and
cheerful chat with him. Said he : “Yes, things
area, bit different here. Eighty-five ’ Indian
coolies working on this estate—Is. Id. to Is. 5d.
a day they make if they work hard in the cutting
season, and, if they don’t work hard, they get less
'hid a belting. The women you see work-
ing over there average about 7d. a
day. Oh, yes ! You’ve got to
indenture women with the
men one woman to three
men is the regulation ratio.
Belt them too ! Rather !
You’ve (jot to do it. No
coolie will work unless he’s
afraid of you, and, if you
don’t belt them, they think
you’re afraid of them, and
they simply take charge.
The chap who was over-
seering here before me got
chopped up a bit two or
three times. Got fright-
ened, and left. His pre-
decessor was also at-
tacked by 40 or 50 of
them, but luckily he had
his six-shooter with him,
and the coolies turned
tail. But, all the same,
you’ve got to be careful.
An overseer on an ad-
joining estate is now
under arrest for man-
slaughter. Merely touched
a coolie in the ribs with
his boot, and the brute
died. Had to give himself
up. But, of course, he’ll
get off. It wouldn’t do to
convict him. Oh, yes ! I’ll
get back to Australia about
the end of this year, I hope.
Been here nearly three years.
It gets'on your nerves this black
labor business, and there’s alvvays the fear of
being butchered on one’s mind'; in fact, but for
the whisky one drinks here—you’ve got to drink
it—I don’t think it would be endurable at all.”
* * •
“ J.M.” repudiates the insinuation ;—
“ Brad” (B. ll/4/’07), who received on his panama a 6ft.
snake, dropped by a smiling donkey perched on a high
bough, is another. In fact, he is both of them. He are
these hecause, before he romanced, he should have com-
pared the weight of a jackass with that of a 6ft. snake—
any old fathom of snake would do—and estimated the
lifting capabilities of the tittering mule in the tree.
“ Brad ” writes slightingly of “ bush liars” ; that, againj
is why he is another. Killing a snake by jumping- on it
is as old as fools, but, as a fact, it has the advantage of
“ Brad’s ” weight-lifting kookaburra. Why doesn’t he
tell us that a sparrow dropped a boa-constrictor into his
ear?
+ * * m
As Gympie (Q.) reefs get poorer, the local
cow gets richer, and the cream separator takes
the place of the battery. Charters Towers, faced
with a similar mining prospect, is surrounded by
much poorer country. But, though it won’t grow
cereals, experiments in cotton are hopeful. This
year several farmers have got encouraging yields,
and the raw article is good class. Three distinct
varieties of soil were tried, and one was no worse
than the others.
* • * *
He was the cotter’s only child,
They called him Little Jim,
And Death with scythe and hour-glass had
Called round to wait on him ;
The mother wept, the father sobbed,
For death looked very sure,
But Little Jim’s still in the swim
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
North Queensland seems a risky place for
a man with a chronic thirst. Recently a witness
in a case at Charters Towers stated that he had
one drink, and remembered nothing afterwards.
Some of the rum sold at Longreach was analysed
the other day, and found to contain o'l4 grains of
pure nicotine to the pint (one-tentli of a grain,
taken at once, is a fatal dose for an adult). One-
third of the nicotine extracted from the alleged
rum killed a lively and hard-swimming fish in
three minutes.
THE LARGE ITEM AND THE SMALL ONE.
S WAGGIE (to drover) : “ Thais a rum brand of yourn. What's it stand yer ? ”
DROVER : “ Well, yer see, the dot stands fer the squatter, and the circle for the bloomin’ bank.”
“ Polsfcan ” : The motor-car finds its
whiffy way into most places where it isn’t wanted.
After the opening of the duck season, a crowd of
murderers visited Lake Boga (Vic.) per car in pur-
suit of the so-called sport. The ducks, however,
were very shy—possibly the color of the smell of
the expensive cart scared them—and were un-
approachable on foot. The lake had subsided a
good deal, and the banks showed a smooth, hard
surface of baked mud, making an ideal banked
track. The assassins, not to be baulked, set the
car running on this, and, tearing around the sheet
of water at the rate of a thousand miles an hour,
kept amongst the poultry all the time, and slew
millions of them, leaving nearly the whole of the
bag to rot. Plain death is too mild for ruffians of
that sort. They ought to be sold as slaves, and
spend the rest of their lives as housemaids to a
boiling-down establishment.
* * * *
“ David H. Richards ” : Of all the deadest
dead towns I’ve struck in the defunct Beyond of
2\'.S.W., the absolutely most buried is Wee Waa,
which lies just to the nor’-west of Castor and
Po'lux, and nearly under Orion, on the Narrabri-
Walgett line. Everyone in the town conveys the
impiession of belonging to dim antiquity, and
conjures up visions of the apathetic first man,
sitting contentedly in the warmth of the sun, and
not moving till the chilliness of the shadow drove
him away. All the shops have a grey, dilapi-
dated appearance, as though preserved from the
ruins of Sid on, or Tyre, or Carthage, with the
accumulated dust of the ages upon them, and
they are browned by the smoke from the camp-
fires of many races of besiegers. Nothing seems
to bother anyone. I tried for three consecutive
days to get into the School of Arts to look at the
papers that no shop had for sale or hire, and at last
elicited the information from a worn-out shred of
policeman, whose face seemed to bear the imprint
of vain wonder at the problem of existence, that I
would have to go after eight at night. That night
I went, and found that the “literary institootion ”
was only opened three nights in the week. I
asked a Wee Waa business man what he thought
of Socialism. He said : “ Dunno, but.thet’Talian
bloke said it ’ud ’it us in March.” Another store-
keeper whom I questioned on his opinion anent
the prospective Waddelluthers coalition, replied
wearily, “ No idea, but there’s Mr. Jumbuck out
there’ll give yer fifteen bob a week and tucker,
burr-cuttin’.” I don’t know what either of them
meant. I jumped on the next train, and breathed
freely as Wee, or Whoa, or whatever it is, was
obscured in distance and its own vast sleep.
Nulla : He “ Lot’s ” query as to why
poets always allude to the wattle as a spring
bloomer (B. 18/4/’O7). There are about 10 common
varieties of wattle (family, acacia), ranging from
the 4ft. myrtle-leaved to the 50ft. giant wattle
(data), all flonferous. But while, as “Lot” says
one or the other is blooming nearly all the year
round, the autumn blooming is confined to the
dwarf varieties, commonly called “dog’’wattle.
The golden wattle, the wattle as far as poets are
concerned, is a spring bloomer.
“Silas Snell”: There are no dangerous
animals in the Australian bush, and yet from
what I have been told by a reliable Gippslaiuler
(one of the three) who keeps me up to date and in
touch with the bush, one cannot be too careful
even in going to hunt the ponderous native hear.
Two young gentlemen from Melbourne went bear
shooting at Beenak a few weeks back. They went
forth by night, and by 12 o’clock had shot quite a
number without recovering any, the Australian
bear being so slow to think that he doesn’t dis-
cover he’s dead till the day after the event, when
he lets go all holds. Then the hunters struck a
boshter bear in a white gum. One mooned him
and let drive. This time the prey released his
grip with such promptness that he fell plunk on
the head of the second sportsman, and clung there
for a moment with 20 talons. He clung just long
enough to realise the outrage that had been done
him, and then he began to fizz. He went all
over that misfortunate gunner, humming like a
dynamo, and kicking clothes and other things
off him. In fact, he not only kicked the clothes
off the man, but he nearly kicked the man
off himself. The second sport rushed to the
rescue, and immediately contracted the same
trouble. The infuriated animal left his first foe
and attached himself to the second, buzzing with
increased energy. The patient’s cries brought the
full-grown native guide from an adjoining pad-
dock, and the bushman promptly blew the crea-
ture’s brains out. It was a grey mountain cat,
about the size of a half-grown tiger and much
uglier. This tale shows that the Australian bear
can’t be always attacked with impunity. Per-
sonally, he is comparatively peaceful, but when
he has appointed a wild cat as his agent, he is
dangerous, especially when that cat is a boshter.
* * * *
“Oxo” : During the scarcity of feed in
1902 many northern Vic. landholders seized the
opportunity to poison the rabbits. During the
period of poisoning operations we lads used to go
round the timbered paddocks every morning,
skinning the opossums which fell a prey to the
pollard as readily as the rabbits. Consequently,
the ’possum is now a rarity in the district.
Mudlarks and magpies also succumbed, and could
be seen dead in all directions. Crows, which ate
the dead rabbits, showed no ill effects. Sheep
and cattle, however, died, merely through chew-
ing the bones of the poisoned animals. I think
that the extensive poisoning operations carried
on of late years in Rivenna are responsible for the
total disappearance of the flocks of wild turkey
that were conspicuous in the stubble paddocks ot
northern Vic. until late years.
“WAITIN’.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brumby Jack’s been always waitin’since as far back as we
know,
And that was at old Burren close on forty year ago.
Jack was then a lanky youngster, with a wearied sort of
look ;
He was leaning ’gainst the kitchen and explaining to the
cook
“ As ’ow he was a-waitin’ for the shearin’,” so he said,
When he 'oped to get a billet, doin’ “somethink ” in the
■ shed.
Another time we met him on the old Boolcarrol plain,
When he said that he was waitin’ for the sanguinary rain,
Till the roads were fit to travel, when he ’oped to get a
job—
A three-months’ bit of drovin’ at a wage of thirty bob.
He still looked worn and weary—a used-up sort of bloke,
Though all the years we knew him he had never worked a
stroke.
Something always kept him waitin’. Jack said it was his
fate
To arrive a month too early, or to be too blasted late ;
The drought would block the shearin’, or he would miss
the boss,
The roads were wet and heavy, or too dry for man or
’oss.
But he always had a story in which he would explain.
How he lost his gory billet and was on the wait again.
The last we saw of Brumby was outside the Court-house
door,
He was propping up the portal and explaining as of
yore—
“ ’Ow he’d travelled in from Burren for his pension, but
his fate
Had brought him in too early and he had to do a wait.”
We wondered as we left him and heard his same old song,
Would Brumby be a-waitin’ when the Reaper came along ?
N.S.W.
G. S. E. DALK.


gf
The Hand
SOLD OUT!
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., when deciding
on the publication of The Lone Hand, fixed the
circulation standard at 50,000. Many said that
this was far too high a figure for a sh illing publica-
tion. But to give the public of the best a big
circulation was necessary. It is now possible to
say that the decision was a wise one.
The sale of the first number of The Lone
Hand, to quote a well-known man in
the trade, “ was the biggest sensation the
trade has known.” One agent, who ordered 60
copies, by 10 o’clock on the day of publication
wanted 250 more. On the afternopn of publica-
tion our wholesale agents at Melbourne and Bris-
bane, Gordon and Gotch, wired excitedly for
“more.” Adelaide also sent along its wire for
a further supply. One seller, Mr. Rowlandson of
the N.S.W. Bookstalls, more than doubled his
first order by Saturday, and has alone sold what
would be a very respectable issue of an ordinary
magazine.
Here’s a time-table of sales made up to date
Copies.
Forwarded to newsagents by April 30 ... 30,000
Sold by 10 a.m. May 1 ■ ... 41,000
Sold by 6 p.m. May 2 47,500
Sold by noon May 4 40,100
Sold by May 6 50,000
Some thousands more ordered could not be
supplied. I
And Westralia, Maoriland, Tasmania, and
foreign centres are yet to be heard from ! j
The total printing was 50,000. The sale, judg-
ing by the first three days, would eapijy reach
80,000. But, owing to the presses being now
engaged with the second number, it is impos-
sible to re-print. We have done all we can to
consider the Australian public by cancelling all
parcels for agents abroad, except where copies
have been actually prepaid. Still, many friends
will have to do without the first number. Nor
can we promise, at this late date, to largely in-
crease the issue of the second number. A high-
class magazine has to be printing weeks ahead of
issue. Already 90 pages of the second issue are
printed arid folded ready for the binder.
The moral is, make sure of your Lone Hand
and subscribe. The printing cost of The Lone
Hand is so enormous (we give the public abso-
ufcely the best shilling's worth it is possible to
give) that it will destroy all our chances of a profit
to have many unsold remainders. So we won’t
“overprint.” Better to have a demand we can’t
meet than a supply we can’t sell.
But no subscriber will ever be disappointed.
Send 12s. either to this office or to your nearest
news agent, and make sure of The Lone Hand
every month.
The (one H*** 1 *
SSI4- George Street.
T\)€ Fx&R
Are LEVERS.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have Compensated and Ad-
justed Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are dustproof and watertight,
as their cases screw together.
They are especially made to stand
rough riding and knocking about
and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years,
and kept in order (breakages
excepted) for two years.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
N
They are the most
Extraordinary. . .
Watch of the Age.
Gent.’s Pull Size
|-plate Lever.
In Oxidised Open Face Case, 307-
In Solid Silver Open Face Case, 4-2 /-
In Solid Silver Hunting Case, 50/-
A belated item re the native disturbances
in Natal. The faithful “boy” had warned his
mistress of the intended rising. “ But you
wouldn’t kill me,” she said. “Oh, no, Missie,”
he protested. “Me kill Missie next door. Boy
next door he kill you.”
SCENE IN SURAT (QUEENSLAND).
The maid of all work, when annoyed, shows
her displeasure by disrobing and climbing the
nearest tree where she sulks aloft, and is with
much difficulty persuaded to descend.
“ Chipper ” : Be fruit fly. You are wrong
in calling it the Queensland fruit-fly. Don’t be
so unpatriotic. The fly we have here is another
example of the importing craze. There is a
Queensland fly, and it is bad, but the imported
article is a darn sight worse. The flv that does
the bulk of the damage in N.S.W. (and the fly
they have in Victoria) is the Mediterranean fruit-
fly. The Queensland fly is very rare in N.S.W.,
and doesn’t exist through our winter.
FASTIDIOUS.
MALL MICK: “ I see by this yere paper that these yere blessed Melbourne people objects ter
bathin’ in trunks. If they was out on this yere blessed selection, they'd be dashed well
glad to bathe in a kerosene-tin.”
“ Central West ” (Longreach) writes :
We still hear about the Big Drought out here every
time a Land Court sits. The rent of a number of hold-
ings has to be determined by a court now sitting at Long-
reach. In the drought mentioned, Portland Downs lost
30,000 sheep, and was considered to be very lucky. On
Wellshot, the loss of sheep ran into the startling
total of 193,000. In addition, a lot of horses
perished, and the value of the stock which died was
put down at £lOO,OOO. Nearly £lO,OOO was spent in trying
to save them. Mt. Cornish, which now belongs to the
same company as Wellshot, was reduced to 500 head of
cattle at the beginning-of 1903. It was stocked up from
Wellshot, and in 1905 25,000 sheep and 535 cattle left
their bones on the dusty plains or on the banks of the
Landsborough. On Maneroo they lost 27,000 sheep, but
they spent over £30,000 in trying to keep their stock
alive. In 1900 the3’sold the best of their breeding ewes
for 10s. per head, and three years later had the pleasure
of purchasing them back at 16s. each. Strathdaar lost
36,000, Greenhills 60,000, and Darr River Downs over
100,000. The losses on Evesham also ran into six figures.
Mr. G. E. Bunning, the manager of Darr River Downs,
gave his experience of 26 years out here —19 droughts,
seven good seasons. His firm has spent £50,000 on water
conservation alone. It must be borne in mind that these
are only a few of the stations in this district, and as all
lost heavib', it can easily be seen that the total must
have been appalling. While on water conservation, it
might be mentioned that, on Wellshot all the bores are
giving out. One has gone down from a measured flow of
over 1,100,000 gallons to 384,000 gallons.
it * * *
Wyatt and Johnson, in from the mulga,
were painting a bit of a township outside Olon-
curry (Queensland) a bright red. When they had
put the last stroke of vermilion on, said one, in
disgust with himself, “I think we ought to shoot
ourselves!” “D’ye think so?” said his mate,
and made for his camp, where, not having any-
thing to shoot himself with, he did the best he
could, and cut his throat. What a stickler that
man would have been for the literal interpreta-
tion of the Scriptures if Circumstance had made
him a parson !
“ Judex ” : What about the cow’s son as a
“come-back”? The horse and the dog and the
cat and the prodigal son generally have the very
strong incentive of hunger, together with the
knowledge of the spot where they have, for some
considerable time past, absorbed comforting
nourishment;. But it is seldom that the poor old
bullpck has succulent and enticing victuals placed
before him on a silver salver. Just here I would
like to ask “ Paul Cupid ” and “ Batlow ” if they
ever saw working bullocks in the scrub country
(where there is no grass or saltbush) getting their
tucker, and if they know how “ Poley ” or
“ Snaily ” provide for themselves in such
localities. Let the men who wish to give all the
applause to the boss for his (perhaps) wonderful
ability to find his stable or good grass paddock
from a more or less far countree, get a good old
worker and feed him on corn for a week at, say,
Maitland, and then ship him off to, f’rinstance,
Port Darwin. Suppose he arrives at the latter
place on a Monday, and is turned adrift on the
same day; then on Wednesday (not necessarily
the Wednesday immediately following) that
bullock will, barring trouble with a cattle-thief or
a poundkeeper on the road, be back to where
he had been dining on maize for seven days.
He’ll most likely have pieces of gates, rails, fenc-
ing-wire, and rabbit-proof netting on his horns,
and will be a trifle footsore and scant of breath.
But he’ll have enough of the latter left to remark
loudly that he is a returned empty, and to ask, in
most bullockese tones, for more corn.
“ G. W.M.” : Let me give my compressed
idea of the recent horse controversy. Some men
are unerring bushmen, and some other men get up
in the middle of the night to drink the water out
of the big jug, and can’t find the bedstead again
without a light. Same with some horses and
s’mother horses.
* « * *
“ Mallarapoonie ” : Two prospectors, in
North Queensland, discovered a promising reef on
the crest of a high and precipitous hill. Jim and
Bill calculated with great certainty that their
luck was “dead in.” They gouged out and bagged
a 2-ton parcel of high-grade ore to ship for treat-
ment as a trial lot. Then arose the question of
how to get the ore down. Many devious and
original devices were suggested. At last the
gigantic intellect of Bill got to work, and that
night round the camp fire he expounded the law
of gravitation till after the moon had set. Finally
it was decided to purchase about a mile of steel-
fencing wire, and construct an aerial tramway.
When the “ aerial ” was completed, I was invited
to attend the opening ceremony, and when I
saw the long spider’s web of wire stretching
up into infinity toward the crest of the hill,
high above the tree tops in the bed of the gorge, I
thought deeply, and marvelled much at the mental
powers of Bill. Jim was up on the range with
distinct instructions to “hook ’em on an’ let her
rip.” Bill stood by at the lower end to take
delivery of the bags as they arrived. We could
see Jim like a small black ant against the skyline.
Presently, by the tingling of the wire we knew
that the first 801 b. bag of ore had started on its
downward flight. At first it looked like a black
dot in the blue of heaven. Three seconds later it
resembled a weird bird floating down through
space. Five seconds after that the whole land-
scape seemed to be Orebag travelling at a terrific
pace. I GOT. But Bill was a man of might, and
stood to his bags. I saw him measure his distance
and make a movement to grab the flying orebag
by the lug as it passed. Then things happened.
Bill was whisked off his feet like a feather, and,
for tne fraction of a second, he trailed wildly in
the wake of the bag. Then he flew off at a tan-
gent on to a heap of stones. The bag of ore went
straight on, tore up the anchor-post, and burst all
over the surrounding aspect. Thirty paces fur-
ther on, a young mountain gum was struck by the
hurtling ore, which ripped off most of the leaves,
and bruised all the bark off the south side. After
the blast of ore had passed on, that sapling looked
as if someone had been shooting parrots in it
with coarse shot. Bill’s right arm was nearly
pulled out by the roots, some back teeth were
loosened, and otherwise he was grievously jinked.
Bill signalled feebly to Jim to deliver no more ore
via that route. Then Bill sat on a boulder, and
tried to decide whether he really grabbed the bag
of ore, or was merely sucked into the vortex.
Now a bitter controversy rages as to whether it
would be cheaper to hire Santos Dumont and a
few of his airships or abandon the claim. About
the only point Bill and Jim are unanimous on is
that those fragments of ore are still travelling.
Nambucca (N.S.W.) is again desolate, the
bar having silted up, and communication with the
outside world has been mainly by telegraph for
over a fortnight. The inhabitants have apparently
been driven to gambling and drink, for the post-
master has wired to Sydney that the local bank has
no more cash in its coffers, while the pubs have run
dry of beer. And you can’t send half-crowns and
long beers by telegram just yet. When the North
Coast railway is under consideration, its ad vo-
cates always' quote Nambucca as the dreadful
example.
* * * *
Adelaide Register tells a weird story of
one Mick Crowder and his bull camel, which, on
atrip between Murat Bay and Tarcoola (S. A.),
got trapped in a rockhole. The beast’s head was
just above water when found, and an overhang-
ing, jagged edge of ironstone held him prisoner
on every side. The first idea was to end his
troubles by shooting him; but that would be to
spoil a good camel and a good spring. Some steel
bars were to hand. Says Crowder, “We belted
away for a day and a night ” —and, when some
sort of a sloping path was made, the camel was
too weak to walk up it. The unbeatable Crowder
got buckets, and at the end of another day two
men had baled the water-hole fairly dry, and were
able to get down behind and shove a much-dis-
couraged camel on to Australia again.
* * * »
“ Brice Burn ” : The Narracoorte caves, in
the south-east of S. Australia, own a petrified
blackfellow, who looks like the crumpled hide of
a bullock. The body is still perched on the ledge
of rock where the man crawled to die. There is
a local yarn about it. In the lfite ’forties this
aboriginal belonged to a tribe that was concerned
in the murder of William Brown, part owner of
Broadmeadows Station. Brown thought he was
O.K. with the natives, and went up to one of
their fires to get a light for his pipe ; but as he
stooped a gin felled him with a yam stick. After
breaking his bones the natives cleared out. But
they made one error—they took the dead man’s
gun with them ; and, not knowing how to use it,
managed to blow a lubra’s arm off. The sound of
the shooting, moreover, guided the pursuers, who
shot every black object they could see. This
one crawled into the cave to die of his wound.
OUR MUSICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Simpson, our musician, who imagined he was very
Paralysing at the art (he was, without a doubt),
Played the concertina in the camp to make us merry.
When I say he played it—well, I mean he wore it out.
When a bad musician plays a German concertina,
There is that in its reverberation I abhor ;
Something- like the chuckle of an African hyena
Smiling at spectators; but it makes me shudder more.
What he played we had to guess, though sometimes he
would tell us,
Till we learnt to know the tunes by watching how his
feet
“Jiggered” to the music, or the way he jammed the
“ bellus ”
In and out and up and down, and snorted to the beat.
“ Home, Sweet Home,” we sorted out from “Jack’s the
Lad ” and “ Parted ” ;
Learnt to hum in particles “The Bloom is on the
Rye ” ;
Simpson’s “ Death of Nelson ” got contagious when he
started,
Likewise that effusion called “Together We Will Die.”
When he played “Oh, Leave Me to My Sorrow!” too
appealing,
Tanner used to seize the opportunity and run ;
When lie sang “I Would I Were a Bird,” with stirring
feeling,
Carter used to join in with “ I Would I Were a Gun !”
If a note or two were broken Simpson didn’t mind them,
Semi-breves and quavers were the same to him indeed ;
When he played for singers he would wind up bars behind
them,
Or a bar or two ahead, as Providence decreed.
Melody will charm a snake, but Simpson’s music mustered
Herds of cattle round the tent that wouldn’t go away,
Looking just as if they thought, as side by side they
clustered,
Something- supernatural had marked them for its prey.
Once he used to be an acquisition in the winter,
Through the dancing season, but they found it never
paid ;
Nobody could waltz to Simpson’s music but a sprinter,
Only acrobats could cope with polkas that he played.
Oft among the figures the exasperated dancers
Spirited discussions held, to try and ascertain
Whether Simpson wanted them to execute the Lancers,
Polka or mazurka, but they gave it up in vain.
Everywhere that Simpson played, affairs got quite
exciting,
Dancing clubs began to find it urgent to expel
Persons who persisted in profanity and fighting ;
Hence, they kept an Umpire and a Cnucker-out as well.
Consequently dancing very rapidly abated,
Till McCoy, who organised a “ swarry ” for a “ spec,”
Advertised “ no music," and a murmur circulated,
“Simpson when performing last had cracked his
blessed neck.”
vie.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.


ONE OOOD TURN.
If (with the did of black labor) such
industries' were established, there would
soon necessarily be a large demand for
highly-paid white labor as overseers,
mechanics, seamen, and so on.— Abgcs
on. Northern Territory.
Orannle: “ You see, all you have to do
Is to give up yoya Territory for
this poor colored boy to grow
things on for Fat and his friends,
and then we’ll see what we can do
about getting you a Job l ”
• help.
continued imposition of the in-
lte A hi * h rate is unfair aQd
im^outio.... As soon as a surplus is
m“th.lv 6 d the . demands on the Treasury
“ U S ljr ' d , ep “‘ atloM haunt the depart
inents, and the spirit of self-help in
citizens is weakened.— Argus. P
Pat orgattB * ,w * yß <Hd believe
•n the principle of Self Help.
The Rev. Digby Berry, M.A., -
who is about to leave for South
Africa, was bidden farewell last
night at a largely attended meet-
ing in tint Masonic HalL—Aon.
It Is up 1d South Africa to learn
that we can turn out really good ;
and pious Australians if we like. -
the Bent Government reaffirms its
intention of opening up land for selec-
tion among young Victorian farmers.
Indeed, it is doing so quite as rapidly
as it can. —Daily Paper
Bung (Sunday morning):
“ Drink up and have
one with me.”
Warrior: <• When we
come back, boss—there
goes the ‘fall In’ for
Drink Evil duty.”
Mister Judfjfns, in regard to Sunday
trading, say si—
That since the police have failed to
enforce the law" the militia should be
called out.
At last we have an opening for the
exercise of our young military spirit!
IN DESPAIR.
Yarfa" KL“floated *? tl ? ln “ was P^ d »P floating in the
Tarra. He had floated half ..mile u a despairing effort to sink himself.
Could It have been!—but no—impossible I
MOSTLY IN BENT’S COUNTRY.


'/j
dg
W.-f*
f \ +
>Tr *>&^
/ Kim Y
'(Tuss
1 *^ _
> °N ,' : /> w
n/ tA' cMft ~
pa^rri-u 0^
u £Tn °F r
0
*X i
ft
If /v \ r U/AJ) r
/\'nT
—/-/a /?cr of c rp/ti>£~s
- / ye^7
<? //A ~
Trv” 1
,>x i
04 5
A/Ai; /
.X /
3e. /
fd
A PACK OF CARDS.
According to “The Lone Hand ” It used to be the fashion to illustrate current politics on playing cards. “ Hop” thinks the idea worth resurrecting.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Im.pr'oVfements" how being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Everybody who has used it says Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is the best.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Of the first 1000 insurance policies issued
by the A.M.P., which is now 58 years old, the
holders of 32 are still alive.
Fred M'Cubbin, Australian artist by birth
and training, leaves Australia for the first time, at
the age of 52, to see art as it is in other lands.
Mr. Fred Brawn, a breeder of beeves,
nas been elected to Victoria’s House of Rich
.Landlords m the room of Henry Cuthbert de-
ceased. He beat Ham badly.
Meddlesome Judkins’ suggestion that the
militia should be called out to cope with Sunday
trading in Melbourne suggests another addition
to his list of names. He is now Bloodkins.
Mrs. Willis was the only lady in court
during the Crick-Willis trial. She came nearly
every day, accompanied by Willie Willis, junior,
a pocket-book edition of the pre-eminent land
agent.
The Varischetti family is having mixed-
luck lately. An alleged brother of the one who
was corked up in the Bonnie Vale mine has
stepped on some explosives at Leonora, in the
same State, and had a leg blown away.
“Argo”: Apropos Secldon and the Big
Dead. Shortly after Bismarck’s death I met a
Crerman, and, in the course of conversation, I re-
ferred to Bismarck’s death. “Is dot so?” said
my friend. “He must have died sudden. Last
veek I see him at Shepparton. ”
Any time last Friday afternoon in Mel-
bourne anyone with a camera might have secured
an interesting snap-shot photo of Jack Wren in
earnest confab with Detective-Sergeant McMan-
a “V?y- m At 1-40 p.m. they were standing together
at the Town Hall corner of Collins and Swanston
streets. Previously and subsequently they were
seen elsewhere, and on one occasion it was Detec-
tive Mac. who appeared to be laying down the law
to Wren.
. ‘‘Stony” : A daily event in one of my
oity s most heavily-gilt suburbs is the going-
for-beer of a pursy but bibulous and wildly dis-
graceful female ratepayer. This dame, usually
clad in a cruel riding habit of many colors and a
nat of much-feathered excellence, arrives at the
side entrance upon a dashing grey, and hands
over her cash. On her homeward way the beerful
dame carries three roped bottles and the bridle
in one hand, while with the other she causes her
steed to. dash by laying on the whip in the inter-
vals of jamming her hat over her ears to keep it
m position.
. Capt. John Strachan, the tough and amaz-
ing old mariner who bought for a song the wreck
of the E. and A. liner Australian, up past Port
Darwin, struck Sydney the other day with a
scheme. In order to tackle his wreck he is fitting
out an 8-ton steam launch, named the Maggie
well known on Sydney harbor, and he intends to
take it up under its own steam to the scene of
operations. If he is allowed to start, and
manages to get there, the trip will be one of the
most adventurous ever undertaken on the Aus-
tralian coast.
EXTINCT.
The dancing man has joined the Dodo and the
Megatherium —Daily Paper.
ixr * ~^ e Maorilatid’a curiosity,
Meikle (B. 25/4/’O7). I heard him speaking in
the streets of Wellington three years ago, and
there seemed just one thing worrying him then.
Ills conviction had been quashed, the man on
whose evidence he had been convicted had been sent
up tor perjury, he had received some monetary
compensation, and he waved some letters to the
crowd in which, he said, Seddon expressed his
willingness to draw attention to his case with a
view to granting more compensation. But what
Aleikle wanted was to have his name removed
from the criminal records ; and Seddon made the
amazing mistake of saying that this would be
impossible, because “other men who had been
wiongfully convicted would demand the same
c mcession. And in that respect the Commis-
sion doesn t appear to have put the poor old man
any forrarder.
Jack ” Hamilton, the Queens-
lander, who ought to be a pretty
good judge, introduces Mrs.
Vallis, of Glassford Creek
(Q.), as the finest all-round
bushwoman in Australia.
It isn’t easy to say what
constitutes the all-round
bushwornan, but “Jack”
Hamilton’s candidate
“knows the bush better
than an aborigine, has spent
most of her adult life in the
saddle, has yarded brum-
bies that beat men riders, is
deadly with her rifle, and
hasn’t yet met the horse
that she allowed to beat
her.” No information avail-
able as to whether she can
cook a pancake or make a
bed assuming so strenuous
a lady knows what a bed is.
Harry Peckham rides
the mail from the Katherine
to Anthony’s Lagoon, Nor-
thern Territory, a distance
of 500 miles. The down
journey takes 16 days, and
the return 15 days, that is
1000 miles a month, and he
does it in the majority of
instances on his “Pat
Malone.” It is a dreary,
monotonous track, and not
more than twenty white
people are met with on the
way. An 80-mile dry stage
is common. Peckham’s two
predecessors perished on the
track. Peckham himself was
picked up a couple of years ago in
the middle of a plain, prostrated with
sunstroke.
An announcement appears in the adver-
tising columns of the Sydney dailies to the effect
that one Hugh Dixson will in future be known as
Hugh Denison. Some years ago, a youth named
Denison attended the Sydney Grammar School:
but Denison was too cumbrous a designation for
his schoolmates, so he was known as “Pinchgut.”
If the female moneylender has just arrived
jn Sydney the female estate agent has been an
established fact in Melbourne for some years.
Miss Janet Micliie, daughter of the late Archibald
Michie, the well-known barrister, recently came
into prominence through suing the National
Mutual -Life Association for commission in con-
nection with the sale of certain property. She
rushed her case through in a prompt business-like
fashion, and won it.
“I have never given Crick a brass farth-
ing in my life.” Thus Willis, in the N.S.W.
Lands case. No one said he had ; and, even if he
had, there wouldn’t necessarily have been any sin
JSeither is Crick exactly the right sort of man to
whom an uninsured person would care to offer a
tin sovereign.
G. B. Edwards, ex-M.H.R., has annoyed
Brigadier Jawbone Neild, of N.S.W., by pub-
licly asserting that St. George, the patron saint
ot England, on whose name Jawbone used to
call when he rushed into the sham-fight at
Laster-tide, was nothing better than a bacon-
contractor who turned bishop, and who was
hacked to bits by his infuriated customers.
When last heard of, Neild was energetically
bounding over the landscape offering to bet hi's
bandolier and the rest of his tricks that the
original George was a Christian party who never
sold a lb. of bacon in his life. Why this ex-
citement of two middle-aged legislators ?
As an Australian, Walter Parbury, who
died at Perth lately, dated back to 1830. He
struck Westralia at a time when gold was scarce,
and his first wages were paid in wheat. Nearly
50 years ago he had ideas about the nor’-west, and
m the early ’sixties got beyond Carnarvon. Fora
Groper he was amazingly enterprising—launched
out into flour milling as well as wheat and cattle
growing, and helped to found the Perth firm of
Parbury, Loton and Co. And all the time he
was a good Australian and a warm supporter of
Protection. He was close up to being Westralia’s
oldest immigrant; as far as is known, his only
senior is Captain Thomas, who arrived in 1829
and still lives at Fremantle, aged 92.
Rev. Dr. Gosman, of Melbourne, Presi-
dent of the recent Sydney Conference of Congre-
gational Churches, some 15 years ago joined a
few other earnest souls in hunting the Sweating
Devil, and was elected first President of Vic
Anti-Sweating League. He held the office for
several years, and when Wages Boards were
established under the Vic. Factories Act, became
Chairman of the Shirt Board. Which is a better
record than that of the holy brother who cries out
for nigger labor, and hunts rival sects with the
clod of vituperation in one hand and the cloak of
hypocrisy in the other.
S. Australia had the jubilee of the first
meeting of its first Parliament—not counting the
old Council—on April 22 ; but the Houses were in
recess, and the State has a Premier who isn’t dis-
posed to spill champagne, and a Government that
lives more in the future than the past, so there
was no celebration. Of the 54 members of the
first Parliament, only one, Luther Scammell, the
chemist (Faulding & Co.), is left. John Baker,
father of the first President of the Australian
Senate, was in the Council; George Strickland
Kingston, father of C.C., was Speaker of the
Assembly—sitting, by the way, for the con-
stituency that Speaker Holder now represents.
“ Melb.,” about an old “ cop ” :
Ex-Superintendent Pewtress is giving recollections in
a Fitzroy newspaper. He must have a bookful. When the
Vic. goldfields broke out the Vic. police broke down A
large batch of men, including Pewtress, was obtained from
the London police. He was made sergeant in charge of the
Melbourne City Court, where he remained for a verv lon<>-
time, under Sturt, Call and Panton as P.Ms. Somewhere
about 80 years ago, Graham Berry being in power, the
question became urgent of officers’for the police. Chief
Commissioner Standish and Superintendent Winch formu-
lated a cadet scheme. Berry quashed it by appointing
sergeants as inspectors. Pewtress came in this category.
He and a number of others ought to have been inspectors
long before. Now it was somewhat too late, in the case
of some. Pewtress had the misfortune to be placed
in charge of trie' Benalla district, that is to say
the Kelly country, and there he was when
Kennedy, Scanlan and Lonergan were murdered.
A man pretty well advanced in life, with only a London
and Melbourne training, could not be expected to develop
at once into a bushman. Inspector Toohey, from Geelong
the veritable centaur, ought to have been there, instead
of bungling about with prosecutions in the Melbourne
City Court. Standish cannot be acquitted of a desire to
hold Berry and his democratic ideas up to ridicule, by
making good officers like Pewtress, Toohey, Larner from
Ballarat, and Drought from Bendigo, appear as
square pegs in round holes. The best city police-
man can be made to look an incompetent when
he is sent into dense bush bo chase virulent cattle-thieves
up perpendicular mountains. Pewtress, with a fair start
half a century ago, would probably be enjoying a Chief
Commissioner’s pension nowadays.
THE TEMPTER.
Miss Ada Ward claims that the actress cannot be a
Christian because of the terrible temptations that con-
stantly assail her.— AGE.
True, every man of the world will admit that
the pretty actress has to encounter fascinations
and allurements of which her humdrum stay-at-
home sisters can know nothing.
If it is true that Wilfrid Laurier, Prime
Minister of Canada, will go as High Commissioner
to London with the rank of a peer, John Forrest
will be more eager than ever for the job of repre-
senting the Commonwealth in a similar capacity.
He is the only Australian politician of any size
who is credited with the means to carry a title.
Mick Rush, the oar-puller of antiquity,
takes a seat beside the Joe Carrutherses on Job’s
rubbish heap, and recounts the grievances of the
Ma State in a daily paper. “ Sydney hasn’t the
Melbourne Cup,” he scrapes with his potsherd,
“bydney hasn’t the rowers Melbourne has”—
again the potsherd. “Sydney is euchred on all
sides by Melbourne ’’—here Mike nearly drags all
the skin off himself with much scraping.
From an old Australian journalist at Pre-
toria (S’Africa), concerning ex-Westralian Jame-
son, killed in a railway accident: —
Dr. Jameson was a many-sided man with numerous
hobbies, the most pronounced of which were microscopic
research, bacteriology, and criminology. To the latter
subject his attention was first directed by Lombroso
wiiose acquaintance he made during- a long stay in Italy!
l:i Westralia he was chairman of the Penal Commission
whose reports attracted a great deal more attention
amongst the leading criminological scientists of
Europe than ever they did in Perth, where, never-
theless, they led to many much-needed reforms.
Amongst many proposals was thrown out the idea, which
has since found unexpected'favor amongst jurists, that
m criminal cases, after the jury has given its verdict
upon the facts, and the Judge has laid down the law, the
sentence should be determined by an independent board
of experts. It was contended that in this way the pre-
sent scandalous disparity in sentences for offences of
apparently equal gravity would be avoided. It is re-
markable that there have heen in S’Africa at the same time
three prominent politicians named Jameson—Dr. Lean-
der Starr Jameson, Premier of the Cape; Dr. Adam
Jameson, of the Transvaal; and Robert Jameson, of
Natal. The raider, Leander Starr, and the late Dr.
Adam Jameson were both offshoots of a well-known
Scotch family, identified for generations with the Hi«h-
Lnd, and more recently with the Dublin, whisky trade.
The Hon. Robert, of Natal, hails from a different clan.
Crossed the bar on April 27, at Emu Bay
(Tas.), Captain William Jones, the King of
Burnie. He was a typical Welshman, full of gal-
vanic energy, and doorsflew open before he reached
them through the breeziness of his approach.
In the early days he built, owned, and sailed
small craft round about the Flyspeck. Later, he
settled down at the picturesque port near which
are the Blyth River iron deposits. As J.P., mem-
ber of the Town Board, member of the Marine
Board, and in a host of other capacities he inces-
santly battled for the N.W. coast, the while
carrying on numerous concerns of his own. The
strenuous life beat him at the age of 65, and he
hurried into the next world.
“ G.” tells a cheery tale :
Several references have been made in The Bulletin
to the late Dr. Barker, of Latrobe-street, Melbourne.
When a small boy I knew the old man well—or as well as
a small boy can know a middle-aged man—and one of the
red-letter days of my childhood was that on which Ned
Kelly was executed, when I had lunch at Barker’s house.
Barker was gaol-surgeon at the time, and was present at
the execution. He brought home Monsignor (then
Dean) O’Hea, who had officiated in giving- the outlaw a
spiritual send-off. The execution was naturally the chief
topic of conversation during that meal, and my ears
drank in all the details of the gruesome spectacle,
despite the fact that I was, like every small boy in Vic-
toria at that period, a red-hot Kelly partisan, and would
have run any risk to assist the gang ag-ainst our mutual
enemies, the coppers. The Dean, I remember, was quite
an expert in executions, having seen many offenders
guillotined in his native land of France—for it was his
habit to boast, in a brogue that you could hang- your hat on,
that he was a “Frinchman.” He described, illustrating his
words with a table-knife and a serviette, how he had once
seen half-a-dozen men lose their heads in the Place de la
Roquette. They were brought up one by one and passed
through the machine. The heads were hung up in view
of the multitude as they were lopped off, and the muscles
of their faces continued to work in horrible post
mortem grimaces. The last man went mad as he caught
sight of his predecessors, and was hustled into the
trap a raving maniac. Imaginative persons who knew
Dr. Barker always used to make excuses about accepting
invitations to meals at his house. He was probably the
champion carver of the world. A few touches of his'knife
would make .the most stubborn turkey fall into suitable
joints and slices ; and his artistry was so reminiscent of
the dissecting room that those possessed of weak
stomachs used to stare at the tablecloth till he was
finished.
A stands for Asthma, the patient may fret;
B for the Breath he hardly can get;
O for the Cold and the terrible Cro.up ;
D for the Dollars the doctor will scoop ;
E for the Ease that one longs for in vain ;
F for the “ Floo,” it is at one again ;
G for the Giant—Great Peppermint Cure—
H for the Health that follows it sure.*
At the Melbourne Co-operative Associa-
tion meeting :
Senator Henderson said that a broad, comprehensive
standpoint had ever been connected with co-operation.
He was the son of a co-operative father and mother
(Loud laughter,)
Same here !
The Hon. J. D. Ormond, of Napier, is now
the sole survivor of the old Provincial Superinten-
dents of Maoriland. His great hobby was Napier
breakwater, and he managed to make it Hawkes
Bay’s hobby also, and the district went gaily into
debt to construct the thing. It was built several
times, or, rather, partially built; and then a rol-
licking storm would come up out of the Southern
Ocean and pile the ruins along the black shingle
beach for the breakers to play with. The Hon.
»T. D. was desperately anxious to be knighted, and
when birthday honors were flying about John
Davies Ormond was an anxious and flurried man.
At last, after years of waiting, the Napier Even-
ing News announced that he had received his
reward, not a beastly common knighthood, but a
peerage—he had, said the News, been created
Baron Breakwater. But it was only the wit of
editor J. T. M. Hornsby. John Davies Ormond,
when he saw the par., did not wait to read the
finish, but rushed out to break the glad tidings to
the household. It was a sour—bitterly sour—-
Legislative Councillor that lived in the Ormond
mansion for the next few days. J. D. Ormond
became sole survivor of the Provincial Superin-
tendents by the death of W. H. Eyes, who died
alone while eatinghisbreakfast in anin valid’s chair.
He was living in an obscure Wellington boarding-
house at the time, and was 88 years of age. He
was ruler of Marlborough Province when the
Confederation was abolished, and had a stormy
career. Maoriland seems to have absolutely for-
gotten its old Superintendents, except Macan-
drew, who was threatened with hanging as a rebel
when he made his famous threat to take up arms
in defence of Otago’s glorious freedom. Hori
Grey was the last Superintendent of Auckland ;
Rolleston saw the system out in Canterbury;
William Eitzherbert, knight, closed it in Welling-
ton ; the Hon. Bonar, in Westland; and Oswald
Curtis, in Nelson—he stepped from his throne to
the secretaryship of the local Education Board.
Taranaki’s independent career ended under the
reign of Fred Carrington.
“ Hermes ” supplies still more Smith :
The late Hee Hem Smith, of Taranaki (Maoriland).
although totally uneducated, save for what he had picked
up in a military school for the benefit of private soldiers,
frequently took a savage part in big financial debates.
There were few men in his party whose remarks were
more dreaded. When the financial statement was
published, Hee Hem would get a smart accountant
to reduce the thing to the plainest figures, and then
he got a grasp of it that nothing' could shake.
His shrewd common-sensible way of looking at
things was reasonably paralysing. And the little man
usually barracked for humanity and honesty, too ! There
was only one question upon which he could be relied
upon to “run crook,” and that was any proposal to
experiment on Taranaki ironsand with borrowed
money. Ironsand was his hobby, and he dragged
it into every question, by the ears, tail, hind legs,
or whatever part of the animal he chanced to
lay hold of in his enthusiasm. Edward Metcalf Smith
was one of the new men thrown on top of the polls by
the political eruption of December 18, 1890. He was
lamplighter and turncock for the Borough Council of
New Plymouth at the time. When he departed to
Wellington, he notified the council that he would retain
his old position, and he proposed that, during his
absence, his duties should be carried on by his son. He put
no faith in the favor of democracies, and hung on to the
stiddy job against the evil day when the people might re-
quire him no more in the halls of government. He held his
place till 1896, when he went down before Henry Brown.
But he was back again in 1899, and remained there till
his death, which was due to the pernicious habit of
riding on railway carriage platforn s.
THE “SHICK” PICKET.
His scouts had been that very day on duty in the
metropolis.— Judkins on Sunday trading.
After a hard day's work among the city pubs,
the scouts report to the boss in a body “that the
number of cashes they have sheen with their own
eyesh is puf-f-f-fectly schandaloush ! ”
“Dux” writes:—
From lamplighter to member of Parliament is the
record of E. M. Smith —“ Ironsand Smith,” M.P. of
Taranaki (M.L.) —who recently succumbed to injuries
received in a railway accident. He came out as armorer
to the forces in the Maori War ; and when the brown man
ceased from troubling he settled down and devoted spare
time (after the lamps were trimmed and lighted) to ex-
periments with ironsand, petroleum, limestone, etc. He
was instrumental in opening up vast mineral deposits in
the Mokau district. Mostly because he was handicapped
by lack of education he failed to attract capital, but his
name will go down to posterity as a great worker and an
ardent “trier.” His greatest speech was “Hi ham Hee
Hem Smith.” (Then aside), “If those teat-pullers don’t
make less noise down there I’ll come down and give them
a thumping.” By sheer force of character he placed
himself at the head of the poll on five occasions. He was
an ardent supporter of Seddon, and was very proud of
goods, made “by my own hands, gentlemen, from
Taranaki’s fortune —ironsand ! ”
‘ ‘ Have followed the shearing season
through New Zealand and all over Australia,”
says Mr. R. L. M’Bean, Duntroon, New Zealand,
“and the changes of water and tucker always
bring on an attack of diarrhoea, and the only relief
I can obtain is Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy. Every shed now has some
shearers who use this wonderful medicine, and
always carry a bottle with them.”
Mr. T. R. Davis, Truro, S.A., writes: —“Some
months ago I had a very severe attack of diarr-
hoea. Knowing that Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy had effected a
cure in many similar cases, I decided to see what
it would do for me, and am pleased to say it
checked the attack. I can confidently recom-
mend Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy to anyone suffering from the same com-
plaint.” '


Millinery of tHe Hour
AntHony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 110—Fancy Straw Hat, Shirred Ribbon Crown,
Rosette and Wings, Ribbon on Bandeau, 18/6.
■ .
No. 92 —Cloth and Velvet Hat, trimmed Ribbon and
Wings, 15/6
No. 608 —Grebe Toque, Mushroom Shape, 24/9
White Fur, 10/-
No. 613—Marmot Fur Mushroom Hat, 16/6
Squirrel Lock Fur, 18/6
Brown Nutria, 23/-
Chinchilla Fur, 31/6
Sable Fur, 36/-
No. 114—Marmot Fur Toque, under-brim of Folded Silk,
Cluster of Roses at side, 30/-
No. 85 —Straw Toque, trimmed Fancy Ribbon, Ornament
and full Paradise Osprey Mount, 42/-
No. 1876—Sable Fur Toque, 27/-
Squirrel Lock Fur, 18/6
U i
7
A.
m %
m
No. 128—Girl’s Straw Hat, trimmed Velvet ’
and Flowers, 18/6
No. 78—Felt Hat, trimmed Tulle, Roses and
Ostrich Feather, 32/6
No. 06—Velvet Hat, Full Crown, Rosette and Ostrich Tip, 30/»
wm
No. 606—Grebe Toque, 18/6
Grey Chinchilla Fur, 27/-
No. 612—Marmot Fur Toque, 16/6
Grebe, 24/9
Real Sable, 36/-
Anthony Hordern 0H Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD j HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AiNK tv
BEST
[Charles Heidsieck
Champagne
N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson, at Darling-
hurst one day last week, mentioned that he had,
when Attorney-General, “ suffered a good deal of
obloquy ” concerning a certain prosecution. “ I
placed a prisoner on trial a second and then a
third time. The jury convicted the prisoner and
‘ he ’ was hanged.” Apparently Mr. Simpson errs
as to the sex of the hangee. It was Mrs. Louisa
Collins, of Botany, hanged January 8, 1889, for
husband poisoning. Mr. Simpson held office as
Attorney-General on four occasions, totalling
about four years, during which time seven men
and one woman indicted by him were executed.
Complexion Charm. —Every child is by
Nature endowed with a skin as soft in texture and
fine in grain as the petals of a peach blossom, but
to retain it beyond the years of childhood, or tore-
gain it when lost, Nature must be assisted.
Valaze affords this aid. Yalaze builds up the
tissues, refines the skin and gives the complexion
that fine grained softness and transparent charm
that makes a face beautiful to look upon. It
clears away every trace of Wrinkles, Crowsfeet,
Sallowness, Freckles and Tan, and gives again to
its user the smooth rose-petal skin that was hers
in childhood. Valaze is guaranteed not to en-
courage the growth of downy hair. It is simply
a Beauty Builder—building on Nature’s lines.
3s. fid. and 6s. jar (containing three times as
much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap, as used by the famous
Court beauties of Russia and Vienna. Com-
pounded wholly from almonds and rare herbs.
Delightfully refreshing and makes the skin like
velvet. It should be used in place of other soaps
with Valaze. It is far choicer and lasts thrice as
long. 2s. cake, postage 3d.
Rusmo Haik Killer, a new preparation for
instantly removing superfluous hairs. Cannot
harm the most tender skin. Can be used at home,
leaving no after trace or blemish. 5s., or posted
under cover 5s. 3d.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure.
No matter how obstinate these distressing
blemishes have proved, this Russian cure will
dispel them. It makes the coarsest skin soft and
clear. 2s. fid. box, posted 3s.
Valaze Massage Rollers, for plumping out
and reducing the flesh, so that Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Flabby Necks, Crowsfeet, and all like un-
lovely detractions are rolled away. Price, 8s. fid.
each; small set, in case, 10s. 6d. ; set of two, in
case, 18s. 6d.; complete set of three, 25s. Sold
by all chemists, or direct from Mlle. H.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All Serious throat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies—Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into silence as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removing the
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured in
that way. It is pleasant to take; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is.
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
THE PRIDE OF COGNA C.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
| VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
gfd
Dress FABRies
Are Stocked dv the
Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, May 7, 1907.
My Dear Arini,-
-.Concerning the Ex. of Women’s Work: Miss
W hiteside, whose mother made the carpet on which
i-■ Q ueen Victoria stood to open the historic
Exhibition of 1851, is living in Sydney. She
will instruct a local contingent how to make a
copy °f that piece of carpet, and on it Lady
.Northcote will stand to open the great Ex. of
1907. A district committee has been formed at
Mosman, with Mrs. Mayoress Leahy, Mrs. (Dr.)
Arthur, and Mrs. J. F. Paul in the shafts of the
Part, to pursue the interests of the Big Show. At
both Government Houses it rains—in fact it
deluges Ex. business, and the private secretaries
are thinmng visibly. By opening day they’ll be
all brains and bones.
marriage of Mr. Henry Vale, of Auburn,
to Miss Maud Watkins, daughter of Alderman
Watkins, Mayor of Waverley, made a loud
splash in that borough last Wednesday. In fact,
the ripples are circling yet. Several of the
speakers at the wedding breakfast referred to
this vast assembly,” and the adjective was not
too big for the occasion. Some 300 and odd
guests saw the light-hearted bride change her
name and, later, cut her cake. Her robe of ivory
silk and Limerick lace gave way to a travelling
frock of grey chiffon voile and Oriental em-
broidery, anda white felt winged hat. The presents
received by the fortunate young party (several
speakers who’d known the bridegroom since he
wore crochet round his pinnies assured the “ vast
assemblage ’ that he was real white and a brick —
which is generally red—so it’s a fair thing to call
her fortunate ”) really deserved the description
numerous and costly.” The young husband
gave his bride a motor car, sundry jewels, and a
set of white fox furs. Amongst the guests were
Mrs. Grahame, widow of the founder of the
Grahame Memorial Church, Mrs. Mayoress-of-
Sydney Hughes, the Watkin Wynnes, the P. J.
Collinses, Mr. Willie Kelly, and the E. W.
O Sullivans. Rev. J. Macaulay made a cleverly-
turned speech, free of corners and angles, and
sown with several brilliancies. He should be in
demand in future—if not for the knot-tying, most
certainly for the wedding-breakfast speech.
Back to Australia from London comes another
young Australian, choked out by the cold and fog.
it is Harold Parks, an Adelaide native, who
went to London a couple of years ago, and was
immediately engaged by George Edwardes for his
Lady Madcap ” Co. Parks is an original come-
dian, and one of the best impersonators Australia
has produced. After understudying G. P.
Huntley for some months, he fell into the part
himself, and toured the provinces—which is a
large term for such a small quantity of ground—
for about eighteen months. At the conclusion of
the “ Lady Madcap” run, he was engaged for the
Palace Theatre, to impersonate English actors,
but during the engagement his voice gave out, so
he left a foaming wake behind him as he scuttled
for the sunny south. Williamson has engaged
him for his new musical comedy co. that forms
in June.
The Motor-car Prestons gave a ball at their
house at Kirnbilli, the other week, to cele-
brate the coming of age of their son and the
coming-out of a daughter. Lightning struck some
of the preparations and bit a piece out of the
marquee, but that was before the guests arrived.
Mrs. Leslie Preston’s dream of a gown—silvered
lace over silver tissue—is still a subject that is
ringed with admiring adjectives at afternoon tea
time.
Talking of afternoon tea—or rather not talking
of it: In Robert Chambers’ last book, “The
righting Chance, ’ the beautiful heroine lingers
over her “Vichy and milk,’’ instead of over her
tea - At her luncheon she tastes the strawberries
and bites a big black grape, but (as she is in love,
and thinking only of him) she pushes the fairy-
like repast aside, drinks her Vichy and milk, then
falls upon the telephone like a tornado in silk
muslin, and talks to Him over the wires. Sylvia
is the girl (she is American; so is the story and
the author), and though she is from the first
the love-maker, and at the last the winner
and shows her triumph at the winning of the man
m a lot of frankly joyous self-congratulation, yet
she is all through a nice woman. Which proves
the artfulness of the writer. Sylvia is a perfectly
natural woman ; often the natural woman is not
the highly-civilised one, but Sylvia is both
There’s another girl in the story, a reticent young
sportswoman, who, when the hero is ill and
dropped by the Four Hundred and his clubs, asks
him to marry her. Still, the reader doesn’t feel
like calling her a bold thing. And when he de-
clines she takes the refusal in a quiet, regretful
gentlemanly fashion, and goes off fishing 1
shouldn’t wonder if “The Fighting Chance” was
the first of a series of stories in which the woman
woos. Most of Shakspeare’s beautiful heroines
made the running. They left the hero in no doubt
as to how his “ Will you ?” would be received.
From a Melbourne lady I have a letter, in which
she says : “ The lady to whom Mr. Bent (Premier
of Victoria) is engaged is my most particular
friend. Mr. Bent has visited her at my house for
the past three years in the character of her fiance,
and on the eve of his departure for England
announced his intention of marrying her imme-
diately upon his return. The announcement was
made m the presence of my husband and myself.
Owing to persistent rumors, and the fact that
Mr. Bent is absent, I feel it my duty to speak the
truth, as I know it personally, and so set the
matter at rest.” Well, Mr. Bent is hereby con-
gratulated.
A place with automatic amusements will be
opened presently in Pitt-street. Mr. Fred Ship-
man, who came amongst us some time ago as the
pilot fish for certain singers, has taken a ten
years lease of certain premises for side-show
purposes.
A privately expressed opinion concerning the
writer of a silly little book: “When she was
a girl she used to be a prize idiot, just saved from
being a drivelling one by her beauty. She has
lost her beauty.”
A Sydney man writing from Chicago early in
March: “ Strolled into the Majestic theatre last
night, where continuous vaudeville is running. A
smart Jewish actress of repute was doing a comedy
sketch called ‘ A Dakota Widow,’ and the man
supporting her was Cuyler Hastings. Didn’t
believe my eyes until his name on the playbill
verified them. Hastings in vaudeville ! And in
my opinion he is good enough for the best thing
that ever came from any playwright’s pen. ” My
friend’s opinion was shared by some of the women
of the Commonwealth, anyhow. Three-fourths of
the girls I know still have Hastings portraits
amongst the horde of other photographs, velvet
dogs, dance programmes, and freak pin-cushions
that gather dust on their bedroom walls or
dressing tables. Hastings’ passionless face, and
the air with which he wore his evening clothes,
troubled the hearts of the weaker half of the
Commonwealth. That he is playing in vaude-
ville must mean that he left his burning cigar too
long on the mantelpiece in the cellar, and
the Moriarty villains overpowered him.
New Railway Commissioner Johnson is rather
like our recent visitor, Admiral Kamimura. He
is a total abstainer, and lately ordered the cham-
pagne to be taken off the train on which he and
his colleagues were travelling. “ This is a business
trip,” quoth he; “ take away that bubble.”
“Mistletoe” is a new waltz by Miss Nellie
Phillips, a Melbourne girl. Its swaying rhythm
takes hold of you—head and feet—and you go on
dancing like the daffodils.
Mrs. Hugh Ward is in Sydney, getting ready
for a concert appearance. Her voice is too good
a one to be long hidden under a billycan. Seems
to me a billycan is a better extinguisher of a light
or a voice than a bushel.
It was at a fashionable mountain resort, and
the Maligned Girl was dressing for dinner, when
her Warm Friend burst into the room with,
“ Corisande, what do you think ? That awful Mrs.
Yap-Yapper has arrived, and she is already
scandalising you. She says that Mr. Snap-
Snapper is your lover.” Corisande, turning coolly
from her mirror: “Go back and take her this
message from me, ‘No such luck !’”
In “A Handbook of Domestic Science,” the
work chiefly of Miss H. Rankin, of the Fort-
street School, there is a capitally written quantity
of advice on the early rearing and handling of
children. This by Miss Hannah McLeod, matron
of the Women’s Hospital, Sydney. The book
ought to be put by the Government into the
hands of those ladies who have had a family of
ten and have buried seven. At least it should be
put into the hands of their three remaining
daughters, so that they may not grow up like the
well-meaning but devastating Ma. The buried
seven of course can’t be resurrected, and Ma her-
self may be fairly set down as incurable.
The engagement of Miss McQuade, of Sydney,
and Jean Gerardy, the ’cellist, has been renewed
under romantic circumstances. It was broken off
years ago by mutual consent. But Miss
McQuade took a front seat at the young Belgian’s
last performance in the Queen’s Hall, her presence
inspired the musician to his best efforts, and the
’cello spoke so well that the “-friendship” tack
was abandoned on the spot, for the marriage is to
take place very soon.
Mrs. P. H. Osborne, of the Currandooley clan,
is to make her curtsey to royalty at the May
Court. Lady Mary Trefusis is to present her.
Mrs. Willie Mort, of Sydney, and her two pretty
daughters are domiciled in a smart suite of apart-
ments in Radnor-place, Gloucester-square.
Rumor hath it that the Misses Mort are also to
be presented during the season.
Mr. “Bertie” Kelly’s old yacht, the Electra,
has been sold to an island trader. The Electra
was one of the very few private craft in this State
suited for ocean voyaging, and before its late
owner went in for marriage, aldermaning,
adjutanting, and kindred distractions, was a
familiar and attractive sight about the harbor.
Nobody in Maoriland has a word to say
against Mother Mary Joseph Aubert, a plain,
septuagenarian body who dropped a title of
some European distinction fifty years ago, and
whose whole personal daily expenses could be
covered by a few pence nowadays. Mother
Mary is the friend in Wellington of the incurable
adult and the homeless kiddy. The dear old soul
a year or so ago went into a Wellington suburb,
and bought a large, expensive piece of land. She
hadn’t got any money worth talking about, but
there were so many poor cripples who were
crowded out of her old Home for Incurables that
she simply had to build £30,000 worth of new
Home somewhere. The old lady has battled
night and day tramping the wet streets of the
M.L. capital in search of money to make progress
payments to the contractors. As a result, a great
Home was opened by a large crowd of bigwigs on
a recent Sunday, and is to be used for kiddies
who haven’t any home and no health to talk of.
The brave old soul is already scheming to increase
the already large building to twice the size, and
Wellington is handing over money in a reckless
fashion, because no one ever refused Mother Mary
anything she had set her heart on getting.
Mrs. Izett and Mrs. Carmichael, of the Child
Study Association, acknowledge subscriptions:
Messrs. Griffiths Bros., Mrs. Henry Willis, of
“ Innisfalien,” “A.W.W.”, Mrs. Nettheim, of
Chalhs Avenue, Mr. H. Shraff, one guinea each.
Mrs. Gordon Legge, of “Cranleigh,” Turramurra,
£2 2s. Mrs. Diedrichsen, Wynyard Square, Mrs.
Samuels, Mrs. Sloane, Mrs. Nolan, Miss Loe-
wenthal, of Bondi, Mr. Myers, and Mrs. Hayes
have also contributed sums of half-a-guinea or
thereabouts.
Miss Nea Mort, a Sydney belle, and Miss Rose
Cummings, another good-looker from this city,
are in Dunedin (M.L.) having a brilliant time.
At least that is the story that goes round, but it
must be the joy and vivacity of these two
Daughters of the Sun that makes the time so
brilliant. No time is naturally brilliant in
Dunedin—a place where people go to the cemetery
on wet Sunday afternoons to pass away the leaden
hours and listen to the tree-drip.
When Miss Maud Fitzstubbs wrote from Lon-
don on April 3rd, the amazing Twins were having
a bad time with their throats. Vocal chords were
overstrained, and there was trouble with post-
nasal growths. Dr. Muecke was looking after
them. All their engagements—43 appearances—
had to be cancelled. In May they start again
with “The Smart Set ” entertainers, and in
October they go to S’Africa.
“Beau Yeux,” a charming waltz, composed by
May Summerbelle, and by her dedicated to Lady
Northcote, will be played by the composer, for
the first time, at the ball in aid of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital.
Mews a Kitten: “ It’s the wearisomest thing to
be grown up while your hair’s down. Here am I
seventeen years olcl, and it isn’t a bit ‘sweet.*
I’ve got more sense than Marie, who’s six-and-
twenty. Even now I’m a better figure; and—and
I’m not ugly, am I ? Yet my life is less interesting
than a school-girl’s. It’s spoiled by my skirts and
a plait. When I go out with mother I’m put
aside in an inconspicuous place, or paired off
either with a silly boy of twenty or his asthmatical
grandfather. When Igo shopping the good people
are almost protective in their manner to me. The
shopwalker stands by while I spend my cash,
and the lovely ladylike man behind the counter
fives me advice —which I have no use for.
m not allowed any relaxation with red pepper
in it. Marie goes to tea with real live men; I’m
permitted to go picnicking with a crowd of
giggling girls whom I detest. Marie, because
she’s a trifle pass 6, is allowed to make one of a
riotous partie carrie chaperoned by a matron
younger than herself. I’m sent with a school-
room party to enjoy an improving day in the
Botanical Gardens. But worst of all is the way
men treat me. Grey-beards are very kind and all
that sort of thing; so are my grandfathers.
Boys—oh ! I wouldn’t be bothered with them.
And the young men of 25 are mostly devoted
to fat women of 30. The men I just adore—
those wise, interesting sinners of 35 —simply ignore
me. When I say anything smart (I often manage
that) they only smile absent-mindedly, as if not
quite certain that I spoke. They chaff me cheer-
fully enough; and ask me silly questions about
tennis, or sweethearts, or any old thing that I’ve
been tired of for two years past. I’d like to talk
about Life —or Love even—and the deep subjects
I read and think about. No one gives me a hear-
ing—except Con, and she can’t understand. I’m
sick of being seventeen. People may rave about
beautiful youth, and all its delights. But beinga
woman with her hair down is a beastly tame busi-
ness—and I hate it.”
Two English comedians now in Aus-
tralia make themselves amusing behind the
scenes these nights. Each is frantically in love
with an Australian show-girl in the company—
not the same girl, fortunately. One stands in the
wings when his girl is on the stage, and watches
her cat-fashion. If she smiles at anyone in the
stalls he is heard to mutter, “ You little wretch,
I’ll smack your face when you come off,” or “ Drop
that, you CAT. ” The other is more gentle, and
when it is his fate to be off the stage while his girl
is on, he gets behind a back-cloth, in which he has
made a hole, and watches the object of his affec-
tions, while his sighs disturb her back hair. And
perhaps they have a wife apiece in Fogtown or
thereabouts.
Mr. J. Charles Norman, the Sydney journalist
and musician, is advance agent for Mr. Benno
Scherek in the Carreno enterprise. A quote from
Leschetitzky is given in one of the “forewords”
sent along by Mr. Norman: “There are five
best pianists, d’Albert, Carreno, Busoni,
Paderewski, and Sauer.” The sixth place is
still open. Curiously enough (the foreword
doesn't say this), both d’Albert and Sauer were in
turn wedded to the great pianiste. The several-
times-widowed star is a grand-niece of Simon
Bolivar, the liberator of South America, who was
an ancestor of size and one that any woman might
be proud of.
A Townsville resident, American Consular
Agent 1). J. Brownhill, is in Sydney for the
good of both parties—the city and the agent.
Which is the kind of thing one says when one has
a rush of weather to the head. Weather is the
best thing in Sydney these days. Among those
giving Mr. Brownhill the glad hand is Mr. Owen
Cox, who also gave him a choice browse at Paris
House, where a bunch of the Bar and a bouquet
of litterateurs and dramatic stars said (and, of
course, ate) the right things.
Miss Josie Mills’ concert occurs at the Centenary
Hall on Thursday, 9th inst. This gifted youngster
is a pupil of Mrs. Christian, and her voice is said
by those whose words are listened to with respect
to be worth European cultivation. Another
candidate for flight is Miss Eva O’Connor, whose
fine notes have been heard so often in charitable
concerts in this State.
At the annual whoop, a few weeks ago,
to celebrate one of the numerous discoveries
of Australia, Captain Charles mentioned
that 57 years ago, when he was at the Sand-
wich Islands, he had met a Kanaka who, in
his boyhood, had whooped on the outskirts of the
fray in which the great navigator was killed.
He was a very old and toothless and garrulous
Kanaka when Captain Charles made his ac-
quaintance, and he seemed proud of his story.
With a little encouragement, he was quite capable
of saying he had killed Cook himself.
Mr. Willie Dailey would seem to have made a
good start at the bar in England. He holds a
brief in the Kingsholm Ward election case, an
alleged political Corruption Inquiry, in which
a strong Bar is engaged in giving a"bad time to
those who are said to have bought the
vote of Mr. William Turnip, agricultural
laborer, and a worse name to William him-
self, when it can find him (which is occasionally),
and make him understand (which is never). The
case had run into weeks when the mail left.
Don’t forget the ball in aid of Mater Miseri-
cordise Hospital, Willoughby-road, to occur on
May 16, at Walker-street, North Sydney. Hon.
secs.: Mrs. C. Tayler, Miller-street, North Sydney,
and Mrs. P. Leahy, Mosman.
The popular Stokes-Rees, of Garden Island,
leave for England via the Cape on the 25th inst.
The result of the Hospital Saturday collections
is enough to make the collectors need
cracked-ice packs on their heads. They got
£5546, or three-and-a-half tons of money, and so
broke all records in street-ranging. One donor
whose coins had given out gave the silver
binding off her purse. The most humorous
incidents were furnished by a mastiff and a
Eotato. The dog got sick of holding a collection-
ox, and bolted—his missussprinting after him, and
exclaiming: “He’s got thirty shillings.” The
potato, stuck full of coins to the value of fifteen
shillings, was thrown from a railway carriage on
to the Killara platform, where a collection booth
was planted.
The first of a series of meetings to raise a fund
for the support of the Royal Alexandra Hospital
was held in the Presbyterian Church, Wahroonga,
on Thursday. The meeting was convened by
Mrs. J. T. Toohey, and presided over by Mrs. C.
G. Wade. A sum of £3O was subscribed by the
ladies present, which will suffice to maintain a
cot in the hospital for 12 months. Mrs. Wade
was appointed president of the movement, Mrs.
S. W. Moore, hon. treasurer, and Mrs. William
Brooks, hon. secretary.
My Brisbane correspondent writes: —
The departure for the North Coast of the vice-regal
party has been finally arranged for Monday, and the
Lucinda has had its boiler repaired, and been otherwise
fixed up for the emergency.
On Saturday the Government House party, along with
Miss Scott, Miss Du Cane, lanky Frank Newton, and all the
little she Thesigers, were the guests of John and Mrs.
Forrest at the Yeerongpilly links. It was a dull afternoon,
the party suited the weather, and even the frail Ex., in
coirect rig, failed to elicit much enthusiasm. Mrs. For-
rest shook the food-lift r of each guest in a gown of blue
and white muslin and a cornflower hat with navy blue
wings. The vice-regal dame wore a pale gray check
coatee and skirt over a befrilled lace vest, and a dark
green hat of modest dimensions. The Du Cane was in
the same old Assam and a weird erection of many
colors which did duty as a hat. Miss Scott wore
the usual white frock of a blameless life, and a hat wreathed
in roses. The smartest frocker among the Outer Herd
was your own Miss Doyle—she with the piles of brown-
gold hair. The Australian Chief Justice and Mr. Justice
Higgins, as well as our local Pope Cooper, were among
the males. In the evening everyone went to the Exhibi-
tion to hear the Premier’s big speech, and great was the
rejoicing of the multitude.
Consternation is expressed in the inner circle at the
breakage of a lately-made love match. The wife has
gone back to her people, with her shoulders, it is said,
bearing the marks of many stripes, as mentioned in the
Scripture.
The Governesses’ Home Ball froze gently in theStanley-
street Hall on Thursday evening. Four debutantes
fluffed : Elsie, eldest hope of the politically-unsettled
Digby Denham ; Miss Sward, eldest of seven ; bonny
Dorothy Webb; and the moon-faced warbler of the Clifton
clan. As the supper, music and general arrangements
were excellent, it is hard to say where the frost got in ;
but it did, only about 150 people being present.
Dark rumor still haunts the meetings of the Exhibition
of Women’s Work, but so fearful is the catmittee of
things leaking out that the only hope a presswoman has
is to get on the roof and listen with her ear at the
chimney pot. And they’ve greased the outer walls to
prevent her reaching the roof.
The daily press to the contrary notwithstanding, Pre-
mier Kidston had one of the most enthusiastic meet-
ings ever held in Brisbane on Saturday evening. The
extremists were to the front, of course, and tried to
create a row, but that didn’t affect William’s rousing
welcome. The apostle of the “gang forward” creed
absolutely refused to answer the host of idiotic queries
handed up. “ I’ll answer these after the elections,” was
his closing remark, “ not here. I’m not making promises
to catch votes.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


g
The. DUNLOP CO-
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD-
JEeTbouuu., Sydney. ifc&E-mic.. Brisbane* Ffrtfc.
CitrfstcbnimdaL NT..21.
fdg
Wringer Rollers
Re-rubbered by
Ihe DUNLOP
.TYRE
CO.
9*
/
\
feta
NN
We will Re-rubber your old
worn out Wringer Rollers so
that they will give' you
better wear than the orig-
inal ones. Prices: 10 x if,
4/- each; 11 x if, 4/6 each;
13 x if, 5/- each.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER GO.,
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence
St,, Sydney; 268 Adelaide St., Brisbane;-
117 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 81 King St.,
Perth; Worcester Street, Christchurch.
rs>
BJL
df
CORtfETS
m
>SOMZTrtIN<3 • &VITE -NEW-
“JTILLOTEL
WORLD
>- .• v ; \:‘t if*.v
•v.we»i
Nil
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 6, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Our Temporary Excellency has made a refresh-
ing change in the stage-management of vice-regal
matters. No longer is the imposing rustlesome
march preceded by the blaring “ Gor’ Save,”
when his Chance Ex. and his well-groomed team
arrive to smile their patronage on a concert, or
turn the key of a function. The amiable Chief
Justice, by the way, is looking very tired and
grey, and pulled down in health, and his hand-
some dame has a pale, subdued air. The change
is put down to the rather exciting earthquake
experiences they endured in their last lengthy
gad. To run up against an earthquake is to be
reminded that—in the language of a very bygone
poet—“ Glories of human greatness are but
pleasing dreams and shadows soon decaying.”
Preparations for the huge Exhibition of
Women’s Industries are going on their con-
fused and strenuous way, though the event itself
will not be before November or thereabouts. The
mountain of detail is appalling, and every care-
fully-constructed detail is invariably torn to shreds
and fought over spasmodically at committee meet-
ings. Then the poor, hurt thing is repaired with
sticking plaster and smoothed out generally. A
committee meeting is an exciting experience.
One beautifully-engineered part will be the
women-caterers’ competition. Pour of the toniest
she-tea-rooms in Melbourne are to take charge of
the affair, and show folk what’s what in the way
of cooking and serving. They are to take it in
turn to supply the common good, but behind the
scenes each section will be frantically exclu-
sive in the way of kitchens and pantries.
They would no more use a common kitchen
than go shares in a collar or a hair pad. The
event is likely to be a big boost for the woman
caterer. The right kind of house-Martha is a
wighty clever manager, and rarely loses the
pervading atmosphere of daintiness of serve-
withals. In which respect she is capable of out-
shining the man caterer.
Re “Faust.” A lot of people have remarked
that there is more novelty than enchantment
about the “Walpurgis” scene. When Mephis-
topheles (he’s a gentleman in black, with red
linings) lures Faust to the heights of the Brocken,
one looks for dainty, flitting sprites and beauteous
maidens ; but Faust is confronted with four frigid
rows of solid, stolid girls wearing little more than
a jewelled girdle apiece, with the accompanying
veil of a scared expression. They mass upon a
red-carpeted dais, and wave their golden wine-
goblets at the poor young man as if they were
trying to catch mosquitoes, or to shoo Faust
away. Faust takes that view of it, anyway,
especially when he finds the sad fair form of his
Marguerite pacing the clouds above the sirens.
First night of Gounod’s opera saw the usual
dress-circle crowd, with the weird addition of a
hatted Chinaman, who sab stolidly through the
opera in the conspicuous first row. He must
have strayed in by mistake, thinking it was a
Wagner night, and would remind him of the cat-
choruses of Canton.
From Miss Imes, secretary of the Victorian
Women Pharmacists’ Association :
Allow me to correct: On April Ist you write that our
president “ rejoices in the possession of a husband,”
when in reality the lady in question has been widowed
for a number of years. Again, on April 15th, your state-
ment as to Launceston hospital being the first institution
of its kind to employ a woman dispenser is incorrect.
Miss Jane Wollen was for some time at the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, Melbourne, before accepting a post in
.Launceston. The above statement is not only mislead-
ing, but unjust to our association, members of which
have filled positions at the Women’s Hospital (Melbourne),
Ballarat, Geelong, Maryborough, Sale, and other places,
before the Launceston post fell vacant.
Mrs. Doubleday, who took her Leila to Europe
to give her that finish that will keep her out of
Australia for ever after, throws a supply of lime-
light on the situation of one who mothers a
budding genius. Vienna is frightfully dear and
awfully wicked, and if you’re just a middle-aged,
comfortable sort of person, used to the butcher
calling daily in English, and the milkman
leaving milk in the British language, you have
terrible struggles with life. You nearly die of
loneliness when your daughter is grafting, and
duty requires you to take her to and from her
lessons as if she were seven. Good old Melbourne
is respectable to the point of smugness after
Vienna, for broad daylight even isn’t any sort of
protection to the foreign young female in the
Austrian city. Leila, meanwhile, looks hearty,
and is giving much satisfaction.
The Very Best People wear threadbare by
repetition that “rather good thing about Ernie
Hughes, doncherknow ? ” Before Ada Ward left
Melbourne she rang up her late opponent, the
Rev. Hughes, who married money and rises in
defence of the stage. His reverence never thought
of Ada even when the unfamiliar voice gave its
owner’s name as “Miss Ward,” so he was sur-
prised when he heard: “Mr. Hughes, after all
that has passed between us I feel that I
cannot leave Melbourne without wishing you
good bye and saying ‘ God bless you.’” Here the
listener interposed flippantly, “Ta-ta, old girl,”
and rang off. All the members of the Hughes
clique agree that this snub “served that woman
right,” especially as Rev. Hillhouse Taylor,
author of “Parsifal,” was guesting it at (St.
Peter’s parsonage at the time. But who shall
fully imagine the shock to poor Miss Ward’s
forgiving spirit when she heard herself summarily
dismissed as “old girl.” How these Christians
love one another !
Why do weddings attract harpies? T’other
day, when a nice young couple got married at
Kew, the happy pair and guests adjourned after
the ceremony to a hired hall, where the nuptial
feast was spread. Later, the bride, attended by
her maids, slipped into a. cloak-room to get into
travelling attire. Then it was discovered that
the party included three unknown females, who
ignored hints to leave, and could only have been
got rid of by the efforts of male chuckers-out.
The unwelcome three made themselves quite at
home, fingered appraisingly the material of the
sacrificial toilette, and sniffed the oblatory
bouquet. Worse still, they gloated ghoulishly
over every detail of the victim’s disrobing and re-
dressing, and hungrily eyed her every movement
as she substituted utilitarian garments for her
chiffon petticoats and silk stockings. Finally
when the honeymooners started on their trial trip,
the Gorgons surrounded the State hansom so
closely that most of the hurtling confetti lodged
in their back hair.
Yet another Australian actor turns his eyes
towards Uncle Sam and the gifts he has to offer.
Young Harry Sweeney, a promising member of
the Tittell Brune Cos., goes off to the States with
his pretty young wife, who is also credited with
dramatic gifts. The constant cry of the Australian
mummer is repeated : “ We can go a certain dis-
tance ; no further. The parts that make reputa-
tions are given to imported people.”
Senator Keating and his wifelet have in-
stalled their household gods and the baby
in a Toorak guest-house. The legislative family
takes marriage seriously in the main. The curly
one divides his time between official duty and
home comforts; while his missus devotes herself
to him and the infant.
“ Tryphena ” writes energetically from Suez :
There’s one favorable point about the Cold Country
miss who jaunts between the Coral Strand and the Bull
capital. She has a voice. It’s her one charm. She may
be worn, tired, weary, lengthy, emaciated, a mere streak
of femininity, stretching her weary bones in a deck
lounge all day long and whiffing tiredly at a cigarette.
(She never ceases whiffing.) But when her voice breaks
through the clouds much is forgiven her. It’s a carefully-
trained murmur, It comes to one’s ears like the faint song
of the South breeze through the clumpy ti-tree. It’s a
musical tremor. Seven of the British misses aboard this
liner possess the Voice. Three of the number are Honor-
ables, or friends with Royalty. Their clothes are deplo-
rable. They go to the bath in an indecently brief kimona
of the cheapest variety. They wear their hair in curling-
pins, and have the stale aspect of a smoking-room in the
early morn, and you can’t hear them speak. They’re too
tired even to ask the steward for a hot or cold plunge.
They let him guess.
"Aboard are a host of spick-and-span, virile, contrasting
’Roolanders, who joy in bright rosy health and weary not
of wind or wave or warmth.
The Ducal Connaughts are no bother on this liner.
They only cause wonder and embarrassment to the other
souls aboard by turning up to the tick of time for meals
and displaying' hungry energy when they begin. The
eager consumption of scrambled egg by a Royal nibbler
is a cheering sight to the she-wanderer, who has been
somewhat ashamed to demonstrate her common gusto at
the sight of the breakfast chop. The Duchess is vastly
Teutonic. Her large, somewhat-flat face has the saving
grace of good blonde coloring plus an amiable expression.
She looks and sounds a good-humored mortal, and under
her large, grey, man’s hat seems a jolly good fellow.
Probably she is.
Princess Patricia is a lengthy charmer —nearly a six-
footer. She’s a nice and fresh young- edition of her
mommer, with more smilefulness and better eyes.
They’re very frank, widely-opened violet eyes, with a
lurking smile in them. Otherwise the princess is merely a
plain nice girl. She sets an example to the deck-lounger
in industry. If she isn’t trying conclusions at deck-quoits
with her Royal dad (in his shirt-sleeves), she’s stitching
with the ceaselessness of a Penelope, and chatters simul-
taneously to the ducal suite—her eyes smiling all the
time. The good-humor of the Connaughts wins the aloof
traveller.
The Affable Alfred has been playing Prime Minister
with any amount of enthusiasm. Day after day he has
been chin-chinning with the Connaught Highness) talk-
ing to him on Commonwealth matters. The ducal head
by this time carries a whole bulk of sound Australian
views, opinions, beliefs, claims, ideas, and aspirations.
Alfred the Affable hasn’t lost a minute of his opportunity.
The Deakin pair starred at the ducal board one night,
when Mrs. Alfred sailed in on the arm of his Royal Nibs
with the grace and serenity of a Minerva en route to an
Olympian feast. In fact, the ’Roolanders aboard are
proud. No matter what faults the leader commits in
politics, his manners are perfection.
Since the Narelle’s huge, verdant Melbourne
concert, the company has been wading through a
sodden land and drawing large houses at the
small towns. If it hasn’t been drowned in a
flooded creek it makes a break for Sydney on
May 10.
The long-in-making statue of the late Victoria,
alongside Alexandra Avenue, is at last in evi-
dence, raising its swathed and bagged head above
a girdle of corrugated iron. The figure is still
veiled, but it will smile on Melbourne after the
old-time Queen’s birthday (May 24), when sculp-
tor Jim White (of Sydney) is to be the proudest
man in Victoria. The marble figure, standing
out boldly against a distant background of trees,
will, as Horace or some .other old chappie said,
make a white mark for the day.
Ere the Glaciarium got going again it was
announced that folk would not be allowed to
come beforehand to “practice.” The same rule
was in force before, but it was brushed aside, cob-
web-wise, by dimpled, coaxing, pleading Gwen-
dolines —by almost everybody, in fact, save
plain, matter-of-fact Sarah Clodd. So the
management, realising that the flesh is weak
and apt to totter on its basis, saves itself
from falling away by not having the floor
iced until the night before the eventful Saturday.
The rink in its skeleton state is a bewildering
array of pipes—rows and lines and curves and swirls
of pipes; 8J miles of hollow iron boa-constrictor.
Many seductive little improvements are being
made in the eminently respectable-looking build-
ing—such as radiators to add their comfort and
warmth to the feet of on-lookers. Skaters them-
selves grow warm with exercise, and occasionally
with concussion.
A Mephistophelean laugh ringing down Collins-
street tells that Marshall Hall is again in
Melbourne. All that is neither useful nor orna-
mental gathered at the Spencer-street station,
last Saturday morning, to welcome the musical
autocrat. They were prepared to pelt him with
flowers and crown him with wreaths; but Marshall
Hall left the train at North Melbourne and fled
across country, and the laurel that should have
struck him in the eye was left desolate, and was
run over by a truck of luggage.
Carreno, of the sundry divorces (always the
husband was the delinquent), is said to have the
feeling of an angel and the touch of a man in her
playing. Someone asserts that she is the only
woman pianist who can play as firmly as a man.
She is presumably “over 50,” but her portraits
show the sweetest of faces.
Mrs. Thistle Anderson Fisher, whose stage
career and ultimate performances as a burlesque
litterateur lent some notoriety to her even after
she had subsided into mere matrimony, is
living in Surrey (Eng.). There she has ap-
pointed herself the monitress of those compatriots
who appeal to her, and relish her patronage.
A bird of passage tells of seeing her with an
admiring male escort of wild poets, horsey men,
two inspired-looking musicians, and her husband.
Her now generous figure bloomed in a gorgeous
gown, and she carried an ivory staff. The lady,
professing an appetite for the perverse, conducts
herself—part of her time—like Speranza (the late
Lady Wilde), whose memoirs she studies for the.
purpose. And the ivory staff never leaves her.
In the “front of the house” at the Prin-
cess’s, there is one habitue who probably is
unrivalled in her powers of indifference to stage
happenings. The custodian of the d.c. ladies’
cloak-room (Miss Yardley) has held the billet for
many years, attending to the pomps and vanities
of stage-struck gadders every night of the week,
and listening to ecstatic praises of plays and
mummers—without being once beguiled from the
foyer into the theatre. The performance interests
her not. The sound of a top-note doesn’t appeal
to her. She is the cloak-room attendant who
minds her own business and heaves a sigh of
relief when an inrush of powdered women tells
her that the curtain has fallen at last.
There is a man about Melbourne concerning
whom his friends remark that he’s the heir to some
most dignified and depressing English title —earl
or something. This information doesn’t come
direct from the party himself. One always hears
the tidings mysteriously, from someone who has
forgotten who told him about the matter —but
“ It’s true, all right, about the marquisate.” A
downright damsel was one day introduced to the
proximate duchess, and asked her point-blank if
there was anything in the rumor. Madame
turned slightly pinlc, hesitated, and then said,
modestly, “ Well, there’s a connection, you know,
and .... Did you ever see such a hat ? I’m afraid
it will rain to-morrow. Well, I must be going.
Good-bye ! ” and vanished. Little Miss went and
looked into things inquisitively, and found that,
if nine young and healthy people of one family
died, the Melbourne man would be the next in
succession, barring about six other people. A
Borgia or a Gian Visconti might clear the way by
the simple and pleasing slaughter of these 15
obstructionists, but that sort of thing requires
energy.
“ Stony” sends me this :
In Melbourne there is a bunch of motor-carred people
who allow the Old Man to control the financial output of
the entire establishment—because they have to. The
holder of the purse is regarded as a rather important per-
son in most families, but in this particular instance the
happy father buys everything, in person, from needles to
anchor-brand sewing-cotton, and from hair-pins to hair-
oil—anything that may be required by either sex, in
any line. He even buys—and this is a fact, because his
daughter told my wife—he personally buys whatever is
wanted in the way of clothing for the whole family.
Consider the deep-chested feminine remarks that must
arise when things are too wide in the waist or too narrow
in the toe.
Those youths who have been ornamented with a
little gold leaf, and can enjoy a considerable sense
of importance in this town, are showing a feverish
anxiety to convince themselves that Britain’s a
fine place. Batches of them are sailing away in
each foreign-going steamer; and they all whisper
their intention to see what’s what outside
this “dull hole.” But for folk without influence
and introductions “Abrawd” is a mighty dull
place. An Australienne tells of many familiar
faces she has met floating lonesomely at an
average elevation of sft. Bin. above the cal-
lous pavement of the Great Mart. Seldom
has she seen those Block blades look so
wretched. Locally, they’re regarded as delightful
young men. In Bond-street no one distin-
guishes them from the crowds that jostle
them. Apart from some fellow-’Roolanders and
a scattering of new acquaintances, they’re as
useless and interestless to their British brethren
as the cobbles in the roadways. Theatres, ait
galleries, suppers at a notorious restaurant, mal e
up their social menu. It’s a good thing our
youths are taking gladly to Globe-trot. They
can’t be too soon cured of their illusions. They’il
become better Australians than if they spent their
whole lives here.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Lady Le Hunte has finished shaking hands with Edward
Bex and Alexandra Regina, and is on the ocean which
rolls by Byron’s special permission, bound for this Com-
monwealth. She expects to reach Adelaide about the
middle of June, and the vice-regal Jeames de la Pluche
is already beginning to dust the bric-a-brac and bang the
carpets of the residence in preparation.
The ice-rink had its first fancy dress and poster carnival
on May 1, and some 60 gaily and irresponsibly garbed
persons disported themselves on the glassy surface, and
didn’t fall more than might have been expected. Society
looked on, for the ice-rink nowanights is not so exclusive
as “ the exclusive ” would desire. Therefore, the Adelaide
Peerage has formed itself into a Skating Club, and the
club rents the rink on Monday nights, when it can slither
and slide without being elbowed by the hydra-headed
multitude. And it doesn’t participate in a common or
ordinary carnival.
Grace Palotta’s frocks are filling in the Week at the
Theatre Royal with “Mr. Hopkinson ” and “The New
Clown,” just by way of giving Adelaide a little frivolous
entertainment what time it awaits the more instructive
grand opera. That weighty and select performance opens
here on Monday (13th). Adelaide has been saving up its
pennies for the grand opera, and had got as much as 4d.
in the jam-tin on the mantelpiece, but when it read of
Grace Palotta's definition of “ the stage kiss” in The Lone
Hand, it took the little brown money out recklessly, and
ran to see how the charming Grace did up her lips. And
it has arrived at the conclusion that the glowing gate-
way in Grace’s countenance is very-beautiful indeed. '
The complimentary concert to Miss Eva Champion (the
Sydney contralto and pupil of Mrs. Quesnel) drew a good
house to the Town Hall last week. Musical Adelaide got
up, and waved itself about with a good deal of indigna-
tion at the idea of a Sydney girl encroaching upon its
preserves, but Mrs. Quesnel’s sister is Mayoress of this
city, and she roused the populace, and the result in
shekels should be satisfactory. A number of our young
Conservatoriuin stars were unearthed from their lairs to
assist the visitor, among them being Muriel Cheek, a
youthful soprano maiden, still in her teens, who pro-
mises to be our latest wonder. Miss Champion has a
pure, swe t contralto voice, and the crop of encores was
good, and a small garden was handed up to the song-
stress. The profits of her Adelaide concert go
towards the singer’s expenses to England, where she is to
be sent in the near future, for further instruction. The
land of our father Bull is musical with the warble of Aus-
tralian songbirds these days.
An Adelaide warbler, Miss Lucy Stevenson, and an in-
structor in the fiddle, Mr. H. H. Davies, joined forces and
pupils last week and drew a great throng to the Town
Hall. An orchestra of 60 performers, said to be the most
complete of the kind ever drawn from local talent,
played Haydn’s “ Symphony,” and other popular ditties,
and various youthful Melbas and Kubeliks added to the
melodious confusion. All the populace left over from
the ice-rink hustled for seats.
The Lyric Club got out in festal array last week, and
set its season in motion. The club quarters occupy
a flat in a central part of this little city, and
.contain a jolly little drawing-room, where jaded mem-
bers seek repose and tea and things $ a concert
room, wherein to practise the high C and the
deep, deep Z; and various smoking rooms and other
attractions. It has an energetic secretary with a genius
for grabbing new members, and a tactful lady super-
intendent, who doesn’t tell one cat-member what the
other cat-member said about her, but just buries the
confidences of the cats in her bosom, and says nothing.
For the opening concert of the season the place was
gorgeously bestrewn with autumn leaves and blooms, and
the members turned out in force to cast a presentation
at the President. Captain Basse, barrister, jeweller, and
amateur musician. (The only person who ever beat this
combination was the one who was Alpine guide, sea-
captain, and house-agent.) He was made a life member,
and presented with a golden lyre and a few certificates
of merit.
Come to look back on it, this letter is mostly about
music, but then we are a warbling people, and we have a
Soul. And you can have no idea how pleasant it is to
have a Soul till you try-
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artiitic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
pi's
GrO TO TTET.T..
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
Lr
V
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, 4c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS (ovp. Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne. SYPjjjS^
POLITICAL
POINTS
Local Government is a curious animal in
N.S.W. For instance, in one of the Northern
River shires, the Central Government is to pay a
subsidy of £6 13s. for every £ collected locally in
rates. Then it further subsidises the shires by
handing them over the proceeds of the land-tax.
And on top of everything else, any bridge or
other public work may be declared a “ national ”
work, and made a charge on the Treasury. And
that sort of thing is called Local Government!
AUSTRALIA V. THE CONFERENCE.
HIS NIBS: “ Step over the line and be tied up.”
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers at last pro-
mises to be a reformer. He told a Rockdale
audience, last week, that he intended to abolish
the Arncliffe sewage farm, and to abolish himself
out of politics shortly.
Brisbane Tory papers are loudly declaring,
in an unseemly din of misrepresentation, that
Premier Kidston is a dangerous extremist; while
Boote’s Workkr shrieks as it waves its objective
like a tattered gamp, that he is an incurable
Tory. Between these two shores of invective public
sentiment rolls on in great volume.
The holding up by the Customs of the 12
executioner’s ropes imported from England by
the N.S.W. prison authorities should rejoice the
ghost of Governor Phillip, which is said to still
walk about the old house at Bath. That Governor,
a century and a quarter ago, advised the British
authorities that N.S.W. had splendid soil for
growing hemp, and that he hoped soon to be able
to do all the necessary hanging without imported
rope.
Burstow, the Philpite candidate for Dray-
ton and Toowoomba (Q.), said, the other niglit,
“I believe in Mr. Piiilp’s policy, and I hold that,
settlers should be able to get land at 2s. 6d. per
acre, as they used to.” But he is against a land-
tax, and opposes any legislation which would
interfere with the grabbers who “used to get
land at 2s. 6d. per acre.” Are these Philpites.
impudent leg-pullers, or merely plain fools?
Philp, of Queensland, has some peculiar
followers this election. Thus a huge joke named
McCook, Philpite candidate for Enoggera :—
The working man had nothing to expect from hia
fellows ; it was the employers who had brought about,
the better condition of the workers.
Ye-e-es! Everybody knows that Factories Acts,
and the like were established by the employers in
the teeth of the bitter opposition of the working
man. McCook’s real name is Mac Joke.
Poor Digby Denham, who renegaded from
Kidston and went back to the wholly prospective,
fleshpots of Philp, is having a bad time. He is ap-
pealing for the Tory support in Oxley (Queens-
land), and the Tory support is requiring him to.
curse the Betterment Bill, Hospitals Bill, and the.
Railway Guarantee and other measures which, as.
a member of the Kidston Government, he blessed.
And the energy with which Digby tries to change,
the subject by talking about the weather—the-,
weather which he says produced the Kidston
surpluses—is painful.
A candidate for a Bananaland State con-
stituency has withdrawn from the contest, and at.
the time the reason of his sudden collapse was a
mystery. It has since been ascertained that his
most influential supporter transferred his alle-
giance to the other candidate because Mr. Gasbag
neglected to take out 121b. of corn beef, and 61b.
of sugar to the influential supporter’s house one.
Friday night during one of his stumping trips.
The offended elector said their representative was;
getting too large for his boots.
The Tory and religious journals lately
drew attention, in horrified tones, to the deporta-
tion of Kanaka children who had been born in
Queensland. They pictured these as victims of
barbarous tribes, who would regard them as out-
casts, and most likely boil them. As a matter of
fact, the children need not remain on the Islands
they may return to Australia within 12 months of
their deportation, with their parents. Advices,
show, however, that Kanakas with Australian
born families have mostly gone to the mission-
stations, and there isn’t the faintest sign so far of
anybody wanting to boil any of them, and there,
is just as little sign of any of the deported
Kanakas wanting to return to the “blessings” of
the canefields.
Queensland has built its south coast rail-
way down to the N.S. W. border, and badly wants.
N.S.W. to connect the line with its railway at-
Murwillumbah. E. J. Stevens, of the Brisbane.
Courier and the Queensland House of Fossils,
has lately been down that way, and returns to-
announce that it is generally believed there will
be more chance of N.S.W. building the desired
line if Philp gets back to power than if Premier
Kidston remains in office. Toryism is never very
scrupulous in its methods, but this attempt to use
the N.S.W. Railway and Works Departments as.
election agents for Philp is something extra
in the way of bad taste. N.S.W. Premier
Carruthers might take the chance to get the
remark publicly off his chest that N.S.W . doesn’t,
build railways to help any derelict politician back
to office in an adjoining State, and that even if'
Queensland elects the devil it won’t thereby
accelerate things by one minute.
The more the awful figures relating to
land settlement in Victoria are looked at the
more shameful they appear. Of the 56,000,000
acres only a wretched 4,269,000 are under cultiva-
tion ; and yet farmers go to Queensland because
they cannot get land. One man is em-
ployed on every 35 of Victoria’s few cul-
ti vated acres, but it takes
1327 acres of the pastor-
ally-occupied 28,000,000
acres to keep one man.
Apparently, if the Vie.
‘ great estates were
broken up and settled
there would beroom for
780,000 more agricultural
workers, and their families,
and all the shopkeepers,
artisans, and sundries
that they would support
—probably the lot would
run to 10,000,000. And
Bent is buying back from
the churlish soil-grabbers
a few paltry paddocks
here and there and calling
the process “land settle-
ment ” ! Also the Age an-
liouneed—“The Government
has no effective means of compelling freeholders
to make their lands productive.” But there’s
such a thing as a land tax, which would pinch
them pretty hard if they didn’t either make the
lands productive themselves or give somebody
else the chance to do it.
The violent assault made last week by
many of the Sydney coal lumpers, now on strike,
upon non-union laborers who had taken their
places, has caused Toryism to feel glad, and made
Fat rejoice in its citadel. It was not only a
brutal and cowardly proceeding, but it was also
the worst advertisement that unionism could have
got, especially as the unionists are out on strike
over a matter which enlists very little public sym-
pathy. The only thing Fat is sorry about is that
the row didn’t happen just before the State general
election, but he probably has hopes that there may
be another and more opportune disturbance later
on to help his crowd back to office.
Speaking at a smoke night, Bent's new
honorary Minister, Mackinnon, that somewhat
democratic landowner, said : —
A change of policy was needed. He did not think
there was much decent land worth bothering about in
the hands of the Crown. Victoria, however, should con-
tain 4,000,000 or 5,000,000 people, and, to do it, they
should resume those large sheep-walks which should
carry men. The small farmer was more valuable to the
country than the man with 2000 or 20,000 acres.
But really that sort of vague talk gets us no for-
rarder. The real test is coming to be, not whether
a man believes that it is better to have 500,000
people than 5000 in a district, but how he pro-
poses to get the 500,000 there.
PRODDING
HIM INTO
LIFE.
The supremany of British
naval power ennot remain
unehalleuged.-ALFRED DEAKIN in
DRARIN (to John Bull): “ here, John, uake up!”
Ex-Premier Bob Philp, of Queensland, who
is promising almost everything in the hope of get-
ting back into office, puts a Civil Service Super-
annuation scheme on his programme. There used
to be such a system in Queensland, and what was
the name of the man who abolished it ? Was it
R. Philp ?
A N.S.W. Labor member has gone out to
Broken Hill to advocate free railways—fares and
freights to be made up out of the land-tax. Well,
if he can get the State Legislature to take on that
small contract, the Broken Hill mining cos. will
give him a life pension of £1500 a year. The cos.,
not having any freehold themselves, wouldn’t have
to pay any land-tax ; and if they could get their
ore carted round to Newcastle for nothing they
would save some £500,000 a year in freights. It
is a very beautiful scheme ; the only thing that’s
wrong with it is that it’s madly impracticable.
The cables announce “ Unrest in India.”
The following (from the Sandhya, Calcutta) is
but a mild sample of the stuff the nati ve press is
serving up wholesale :—
We shall now have to say constantly that we are great,
the feringhees are low. We are sons of men—we have
practised hand-to-hand fighting. It is by the power of
their guns that they have captured our arts and indus-
tries. Let them give us five years’ time. We shall prepare
guns and show them our fitness. We know we shall not
get time—we do not want it. But wait, God will be
pleased with you. Your greatness and their lowness will
soon be displayed.
The remarks are certainly unrestful enough.
Apparently the lesson of the Japanese alliance
is being learned.
Twaddell, who has been touring his elec-
torate, has maintained a profound and masterly
silence over the N.S.W. Anti-Sosh coalition busi-
ness. But he says the Carruthers Government
did a noble deed in supplying his farmer consti-
tuents with anti-rabbit netting; and that it should
at once build special cars, with refrigerating
chambers attached, so that the farmers may be
able to send down their rabbits in good condition
to market, at specially reduced rates. What his
constituents will do then—whether they will get
enough netting to abolish the rabbits, and so
render the refrigerating cars useless, or whether
the cars will be such a success that the farmers
will use the netting to pack babbits in for
market—Twaddell does not clearly explain. But
he is clearly Anti-Sosh, and in favor of all the
Sosh he can get for his constituents.
The huge statue of the late Victoria, which
has just arrived at Yarra bank from Italy, is
another instance of the blastiferous folly of the
tariff that Greid, Spruce Myth and the Foreign-
trade Laborites helped to bowdlerise. Sculptor
White wanted to carve the statue from Australian
marble ; but the fool committee said “ No.” Then
he wanted to have a block of Italian marble
shipped out and cut here ; but while the tariff
imposed a 10 per cent, duty on the raw material
(with a tremendously heavy freight to pay as
well), and demanded 35 per cent, duty on the
roughed out article, it let the finished statue in
free ! So, of course, the sculptor was sent to
Italy to live and sculp there. No more effective
plan could be devised for keeping work out of
Australia ; yet the men who built that tariff call
themselves patriots. Some of them, in fact, call
themselves Australians.
The difference between a real live Minister
and a dead or moribund departmental chief is being
discovered at Melbourne G.P.O. For years and
years the State bosses pottered along in a casual,
procrastinating fashion, and they wbre allowed
to continue doing so for a while after the Aus-
tralian Government took over the concern. But
latterly various responsible persons have been
pushing things along. T’other day Sam Mauger,
who, though merely an honorary, is a hustling
Minister, had a look round the building, and
inquired why, among other irregularities, men
were doing such obviously boyish work as
“facing” letters—turning them ready for sorting
—and how it was that sorters who knocked off at
6 a.m. had to return at 1 p.m., and keep on work-
ing till night. The general answer was “ Dunno,”
or “ It’s been the custom for years.” Whereupon
Brother Mauger intimated that there would be
some sudden alterations in these old habits, or
he’d know the reason why.
The S.A. Senate election is mixed up
worse than ever. First, Labor candidate Crosby
was declared elected by a majority of 14. Anti-Sosh
Vardon, who came second, demanded a recount
and was awarded the seat by a plurality of 44
votes in a poll, of over 20,000. During the excite-
ment Crosby died. Now Blundell, whom Vardon
defeated by a small majority, has also applied to
the court of disputed returns for a recount as
against Vardon. On Justice Barton calling upon
the Electoral Registrars for their ballot papers, it
was found that the whole lot of papers belonging
to the divison of Angas, amounting to one-eighth
of the whole State, had been accidentally burned.
On ■ hearing this all concerned collapsed, and
Justice Barton went into recess. When he
emerged after intense study of the law he said
the only thing he could do was to order a recount,
though how the burned papers will be counted he
doesn’t profess to know.
The Kidston Government is offering free
passages to Queensland, and a guarantee of 12
months’ employment, to able-bodied British agri-
cultural laborers of good character; and to
other intending settlers, if they have £SO cash,
and are willing to hustle for themselves on arrival,
it offers passages at £5 per adult. Yet ex-
Premier Bob Philp, the man who practically
abolished assisted immigration, demands anew
lease of office, on the ground that he (Bob) is
more in favor of assisted immigration than Kid-
ston. Queensland, by the way, did an immense
amount of assisted immigration in the old days of
the squatter Governments; between 1881 and
1890 it brought people in at the rate of over
10,000 a year. There were only two serious draw-
backs about the policy of these squatter Govern-
ments ; they paid for their immigrants out of
loans, and they quite forgot to provide work or
land for them when they arrived.
The greatest silence in Australia just now
is the silence of W. E. Johnson, M.H.R. Johnson
was a most conspicuous and windbaggy character
a few weeks ago in the correspondence columns
of the Sydney morning papers, and when he set
out to demonstrate that the Australian capital
must, according to the constitution, be some-
where about the 100-miles limit from Sydney, his
shout was like the shout of ten. Then another
correspondent offered to bet £2O to £lO that
Johnson couldn’t show any clause in the consti-
tution which bore the slightest resemblance to his
confident assertion, and proposed that the matter
should be referred to arbitration after the money
was put up. And now Johnson might be dead
for all the sound he makes.
Ex-Premier Philp, Queensland’s boss
prodigal, promises to do quite a stack of
things if he gets back to office. To pre-
vent Kidston’s surplus of £190,000 being re-
peated, Robert the Awful proposes to reduce
and perhaps repeal the income tax, repeal
the live stock and meat export tax, repeal the
diseases in sheep tax, greatly reduce the railway
rates, build new lines all over the State, reduce the
guarantee on new lines, reduce the harbor dues,
subsidise the making of roads, subsidise the
eradication of all noxious weeds, subsidise the
destruction of rabbits, subsidise the civil service
superannuation fund, subsidise a Torres Straits
steamer service, pay rates on Government pro-
perties to the local authorities, build and subsidise
a University, increase the indigent allowance, etc.
Before a quarter of these things are done, Kidston’s
surplus will have vanished like a snowball boiling
in Tophet—yet Philp is still promising. Nobody
ever struggled harder to buy office with promises
than Bob Philp. The ancient person who is said
to have guaranteed that threepenn’orth of beer
would be sixpenn’orth and would be sold for 2d.
wasn’t in the same street with Philp.
Aaron Marks, representing the Jewish
Territorial Organisation, was last heard of in
Melbourne, having applied for 1500 square miles
of land in the south-west of Westralia, and
another 1000 in the. Northern Territory. It only
took him 24 hours in Adelaide to make the latter
application, and he is still looking for land. The
Territorial Organisation, he says, is an offshoot from
the Zionist movement, and Rothschild and Zang-
will are behind it. They recognise that it is im*
possible to get Palestine from the Turk at present
(has anyone tried seriously ?), and they will make
a “ provisional Palestine ” wherever there is room.
An offered grant in British East Africa was refused
on two grounds: (1) It wasn’t large enough ; (2) it
was “ chiefly suitable for pastoral purposes.” It is
a pity the Temporary Palestinites don’t have
another try at East Africa. Australia doesn’t
want to dot itself with “colonies” of Jews
or Salvationists, or any other separatists—people
who will get together in a circle with their
coat-tails outward towards Australia and their
heads inward, bobbing strange foreign signs at each
other, and ehummering at each other in strange
languages. Colonies of that kind are bad when
they fail, and worse when they succeed.
A POINT IN ETIQUETTE.
Henry Knight, ex-Lord Mayor of London, will be en-
tertained by Ministers on a harbor excursion to-day.
Diver Hughes will also be an honored guest.
WAITER: "Ho, Mr. Carruthers, which of them
gents will I help fust ! The Lordy Mayor
or the bloke wot saved th' Dago ? ”
The case of Slatyer v. the Sydney Tele-
graph, in which the paper lost the verdict and
some money, was a curious instance of the
person who dug a pit and then fell into it.
For weeks and months the ’Graph had de-
nounced Socialists as a really dreadful crowd,
and then it made the mistake of calling Slatyer,
a peaceful and rather Conservative gentleman,
whose only fault was that he ran against one
of the paper’s pet Foreign-traders at the Federal
election, a Socialist. If the Brisbane Worker
had called Slatyer a Socialist he wouldn’t have
had a ghost of a chance to recover 2d., “Social-
ist ” being a term of high commendation m the
Worker’s vocabulary. But in the Telegraph s
vocabulary it is just mud and garbage, so, when
that paper called Slatyer a Socialist, he recovered
damages on the strength of the paper’s own
definition of its own epithet.
“ 1915. ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Japan, having' made large increases in its army, is now
making provision for immensely strengthening its fleet.
By the steps taken, its navy by 1915 will have treble the
efficiency that it had when the war with Russia broke
out.— News item.
There’s a swarming brown man in the North—
A “ pagan ” they scornfully dub him !
When his destiny called he came forth.
He had pluck,
He had luck,
And shrewd were the blows that he struck
At a white chap who went out to drub him.
There’s an indolent man in the South—
A “ Christian ” they boastfully name him !
He yawns with a wide open mouth ;
He is tired,
So he’s hired
A few ships to do what’s required.
And the fact that they can’t doesn’t shame him !
There’s a year that will shortly roll round,
And Nineteen-Fifteen is its number,
It is rolling with never a sound,
But it’s great
With the fate
Of the man in the somnolent state—
Will he never arouse from his slumber?
There’s a fact that is quite plain to me—
Men may worship Jehovah or Dagon,
And “ Christian ” or “ Heathen ” may be ;
But it’s brains
Which now gains
The prize that endures and remains—
What a pity Australia’s not “ pagan ! ”
If “ pagan ” implies to prepare,
To foresee, to provide, and to arm us,
Then let us rise up and declare
We will be
Strong and free,
With “ religion ” shoved into the sea,
And—the Brown Man unable to harm us !
For—and this is remarkably clear—
If things do not change their direction
Those folk who at “ pagans ” now sneer
As just “ dirt,”
Will be hurt
When the Pagan starts out to convert
A Tired Christian man in subjection.
VIC.
O. C. CAHOT.


m
-
>' )X*
i
%
■ 1
■
I
THE
CALLAGHAN
ORDER
TO-DAY I
BOOTS
SENT
RETURN
MAIL
22/6
BLACK,
IN TAM, 23/6
23/6
Post and Duty Paid,
Post and Duty Paid,
24/6
All over the
Commonwealth
UPPERS made from plump Calf Skins.
SOLES Oak-tanned.
Sewn with BEST IRISH FLAX THREAD.
Long Wear follows AS A CERTAINTY.
Send for our Post Free Style-Book.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George-st., Sydney,
BaKer ®. Rouse
- =Propy. Ltd.—
Manufacturers and Importers of all
Photographic Requisites and Appliances.
Among the less Costly but equally effective KODAKS just received are
g
fdg
fdg
The No. 1 Folding
Pocket Kodak
for Roll Film Pictures
of 2\ x 3J inches. 12
Exposures. Handy for
the pocket. All opera-
tions performed in
daylight. Can be
used for all sorts of
pictures, and gives
Splendid Results.
Price 4L2 11s. Gd.
fd
THE No. 2 F.P.K.
takes pictures 3& x 3| inches, and
is a new model with rigid base
for tripod work, R. R- Lens and
automatic focussing. Covered
with leather, and folds into 1%
inches thick. Like all KODAKS
its use requires no dark room.
Price £3 17s. 6d.
Baker & Spouse Propy. Ltd.
(Sole Australian Agents for Kodak Limited),
375 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The BlocKi" 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
•MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not." —Marcus Aurelius.
THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN who formulated the idea of a roofing
that could be manufactured in rolls was ingenious, but lie WENT ONE
BETTER when he created a material infinitely superior to slates, tiles,
or shingles.
MALTHOID MEANS ROOF PERFECTION.
BOOKLET, GIVING FULL INFORMATION, POST FREE.
zUnt
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
HOLDSWORTH, MACPIIERSON & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
THIS RAZOR isa
g
Price 10/6 Post
Free Anywhere.
It Shaves hotter, cleaner,
more comfortable and
quicker than any other
Razor.
The Secret is in the
Steel.
The secret of the superiority of the Plum
Razor is in the steel, which is of a quality
seldom seen in Razors.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15s.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30s.
CRAIG & AITKENt 654 George St., Sydney. Established 25 Years.
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
AT LAST !!
PE“A Standard Typewriter at a
Reasonable Price.
s
SR
SR
S£S»
se*
X:|
vv
ws
e
K
V : W
.
■■ ■
■ - ■- .:
. m
S. if.-/ - Jfc v ...
V *3*
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE,
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE,
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
fdg
Our Dlreot Drive" Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
Is an exclusive patent and saves 12C0 parts
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any thfe postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week vrithout an instructor.
W’wMa TO - dfl i/
g * * Jr
for P artfcu,ars ° r our Free Trial
offer. AH our literature is Free.
Southern Sales Coy.,
6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GUY ST. WELLINGTON, N.Z.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents : Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Government jafyfpK- Notices.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR PROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should bs give" as to whether experienced hands or beginners are required, and also
as to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching New South Wales weekly from the
agricultural districts of Great Britain.
H. 0. L. ANDERSON, Director Intelligence Department,
Pmijjp anj) Bridge Streets, Sydney.
2i102
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
In the best regulated families the little ills of
life will creep in. Some member of the family
circle may occasionally suffer from biliousness or
indigestion, and one or the other will from time
to time exhibit the well-known symptoms of con-
B?
*oßses
DIRECTIONS
AOUlTSTtacwWKut
CHILDREN 4Hal* to*
Wnou Pill Oisaoorto .
hi Sweetened Water
Take beftsrr retiring
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
stipation. From these
little troubles more serious
complaints arise, and should
therefore not be neglected.
The slight headache, bad
breath and a discolored
tongue are the index to a
disordered stomach ; arid
the necessity of keeping a
safe, sure, and reliable re-
medy in the house is appar-
ent. By following such a
course the more expensive
method of calling in a doctor
will be quite unnecessary.
That Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are the very best
family medicine is vouched
for by thousands of grateful
mater-familias, who speak
from personal knowledge
and experience of the
wonderful efficacy of these
pills to overcome all family complaints. Girls,
don’t forget a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills when shopping, and always see that there is
a supply in the home. Keep a bottle in your own
room, and use occasionally. A dose now and
again will remove the cause of many of the
troubles to which you are subject, and assure a
pure and healthy complexion, and a well-regulated
system. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a sure remedy for
biliousness, constipation, indigestion, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. MO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FCTHERGILI. & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
AlVhougb Davies Bros. y Fairbanks is the cham-
pion of the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W., and holder of
the Albert Cup, the Invincible is still the holder of the
Australasian Speed Record, ol 21'6 miles per hour. In the
race for the Cup the Fairbanks did 21T1 miles per hour,
and no matter what, potentialities there may be about the
cedar boat, so far it has not eclipsed the record of the
Australian flyer. If the* Davies Bros, believe in their
boat,, and Tii-E Bulletin is convinced that Arthur Davies
does, as soon as the Invincible’s engines have been re-
paired they will meet the Australasian record-holder for a
series of matches to decide which of them is the real
champion. Without detracting from the merit of the
fine run of that beautiful cedar hull, it must be said that
the race was. under the circumstances, absolutely worth-
less. The Australian boat was hocussed, and it would be
unsportsmanlike of the Davies Bros, to pretend that
there-was-any satisfaction or glory in beating a boat that
had been tampered with.
A Bulletin man paid a surprise visit to
Woolwich Dock to examine the Invincible shaft. Relph
was away, but Mr.. Bert Franki took him straight into
the shed where the Invincible was on the blocks and the
engines lying dismembered beside it. No microscope was
needed to see the deadly effects of the sa .d and emery
that had been put into the beautiful engine. The ruffian
who hocussed the Invincible knew his businessthoroughly.
It must be remembered that the In vincible had to run
down from Woolwich to* the back of Garden Island, and
for the success of the outrage it was necessary that the
presence of the “dope” should not be discovered till after
the race started. Most people who, read that the engine
had been tampered with imagined that the stuff had been
poured in with a trowel, or something', judging by the way
they talked. But the gentleman who did it had evidently
had experience in the business. It is only the crude, in-
experienced poisoner who gives his victim enough arsenic
to burst an elephant. The accomplished Borgia knows the
value of small quantities. So it was with the engine
wrecker. He had got a small quantity of grit into each
oil-cup, so that before it reached the bearings the Invin-
cible, which ran down to Garden Island at easy speed,
had arrived at the starting-point. In fact, it was not till
the record-holder was half-way to Bradley’s that the
effects of the foreign matter began to show. This was
what the analyst discovered. There were two samples,
one in a tin and the other on a sheet of paper, and the
following is a copy of the report of Messrs. Dixon and
Byrn
Sample in Sample on
Tin. Paper.
Grains.
Oil, waste, &c. .. 824'675 ..
Metallic particles .. 70'270 .. 0'764
Sand 00-972 .. o'oo6
Emery .. .. 0'548 .. o'ol4
The shaft; when writer saw it, looked as though it had
been scored with a drill point. The result was that,
running across the Heads, battling with the neavy seas,
the bearings of the Invincible were at white heat. The
wonder is that the engine was not wholly ruined. As it
is it will take a lot of time and skill to repair it, and, like
a horse that has once been poisoned, there is always a
chance of; it never being the same again. There is-a
general hope among people whom writer has spoken to
on the matter, that Mort’s Dock Company will let Relph
loose on k racing boat pure and simple, to hold the
championship of Australasian waters against the world.
* - ■* *
In Saturday’s display of Rugby at Sydney the
improvement was beyond all expectations. The play of
Sydney University team, which downed Western Suburbs
by 16 to six, was remarkable, the combination being per-
fect. The only spot on the polish was the over-anxiety
of the forwards, which led to the men getting off-side:
and destroying the symmetrical finish of the best game
of the day. Against the victorious Collegians, Wickham,
the W.S. three-quarter, played a magnificent game,,
making amazing shots at goal. Three of them were from
more than half-way, and although the ball twice dropped
under the bar, it soared over once. Captain Judd, of
St. George, has got a fine working mob together this,
season. His forwards dribbled down to within striking
distance of the Glebe line and then let go passing
charges in splendid style. Although last year’s premiers
managed to down the St. George men, it was only by
the narrow margin of two points, the scores being five
to three. The weakness of St. George was in the three-
quarter line, which was heavy about the fingers, and
slow at kicking. Glebe, though virulent enough for any-
thing, was patchy, sometimes playing a very solid game,
and at others floundering like a fish in a stubble paddock.
The Eastern Suburbs, smarting from the defeat by the
lumbering Sydney team the previous week, had evidently
put in some solid practice in the meantime, and against
Balmain showed a neat turn for combination. The bril-
liant Messenger raged through the Balmainers, and the
solid D’Alpuget blocked their rushes. These two splendid
players are in reality the Eastern Suburbs team, and the
waterside men were beaten by 16 to six. The other
matches, South Sydney v. Sydney, and North Sydney v.
Manly, were won by the first named by six to four, and
14 to six resoectively, but were quite uninteresting!
• * -*■ •*
So far the First Grade competition has not be-
come interesting in any way—it has not had time. Like
the grub in evolution, a Rugby competition, if given
time, may become anything. University, Glebe, and
Newtown (which last had the bye on Saturday) are dead
level, with four points each. All the rest, with the excep-
tion of Balmain and Manly, are two each. The last-
named pair are nothing each, having lost both the first
and second days of the competition.
*‘* * *
The “ Soccer ” competition opened on Saturday
with seven first-grade clubs in pursuit of the Rawson
Cup. The clubs are Balmain, Glebe, Rozelle, Petersham,
Ultimo, Pyrmont, and the Navy. Saturday’s winners
were the first three on the list, who are level, with two
points each, the first two having defeated Navy and
Pyrmont respectively, while Rozelle had the bye. Peter-
sham and Ultimo made a drawn game, and they figure in,
second place with one point each, while Pyrmont and.
Navy, of course, fly the sign of the waterfowl. Balmain
won by two to nil, and Glebe heat Pyrmont by four to.
three.
* * * *
The Australian game also made its first official
appearance in Sydney on Saturday, with eight clubs,
competing. Newtown beat East Sydney by 4U points to.
; Y.M.C.A. started the season well by inflicting an,
awrul licking on Paddington, the figures being 77 to 31,.
although a few dozen points are neither here nor there in,
the Australian game. Balmain, which essayed to play
Sydney four men short, paid the penalty of its temerity,,
being beaten by 107 points to 26. The tussle between
Redfern and North Shore was close, the Syrian suburb-
downing the northern men by 38 to 37. The net result,
was that Newtown, Redfern, Sydney and Y.M.C.A. have
each accumulated a couple of competition points, while
the other four are in the position of most of Carruthers”
assisted immigrants—stony-broke !
* * * *
Saturday’s football in Melbourne served to give,
added lustre to the crown that adorns the brow of reju-
venated St. Kilda. That club’s previous defeat of the,
mighty Carlton was demonstrated to he no chance vic-
tory by its play against Collingwood. The game was
fast, hut rough, and the umpiring vile—for both sides.
Saints went away from the start, and by the middle of
the third quarter had piled up seven goals 12 behinds to-
’Wood’s two goals four behinds. Then the umpire became
as strict with the seasiders as he had before been lax —
penalising them for trifling breaches of the rules —and by
steady, uphill work 'Wood reduced the deficit,
till, at bell-ring, the board showed —Saints, 8 and 14 ;
’Wood, 8 and 6. Altogether it was an unpleasant,
unexciting game to watch ; nevertheless, Saints shone
pre-eminently in passing the ball on to the man waiting
for it—not passing it anywhere ; in getting the ball
with certainty when it was so passed, and in belting it on
with the fist when cornered. That the said fist happened
to strike an opponent too frequently was unfortunate,
but a good umpire would speedily have stopped that
caper. Saints have been practising to some purpose, and
until they get stale will make examples of the other
League teams. Melbourne v. Essendon was a far prettier
game to watch. The “ same old ” had a hard struggle all
through to hold its own, finally coming out best by 48
points to Melbourne’s 41. ’Roy v. South furnished
another close fight, “ Skinner’s hirelings ” leading-
through the first three quarters. Then ’Roy sailed
in to do or die, and notched 17 points while South
scored one, which gave ’Roy a lead of 10 at the close—s 7
to 47. The Carlton men went down to Geelong swearing
to sink the boat if they returned beaten ; but there was
little risk of that disaster—the seasiders scored but 27
points to Carlton’s 62. None of the Association games
promised, or gave, excitement save that of Essendon (A.)
v. North. Last season this would have been a gift ro
North, but the Essendon Tramway Co. has “assisted”
the elub so generously that it has seduced five star
players from the League and one from Port Adelaide, and
these played the deuce with North, scoring 60 points to
36. Essendon (A.) has a “shine” team now ; but one
such, playing against four mediums and five “ rotters,”
won’t draw the public to any extent. That sober animal
wants a well-contested, clean, scientific game—and the
Essendon club’s methods are not calculated to produce
that circumstance.
* * * *
The jubilee of football is to be celebrated in
Victoria in August, 1908, and already Maoriland, Westra-
lian, and Queensland teams have intimated their inten-
tion of taking part in championship games.
* * * *
N.S.W. lightning bowler Cotter has decided
not to risk his precious limbs on the football field. Some
muddied oaf might lay him out and inflict damages from
which he would not recover in time to take part against
the Marylebone team next season.
* * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union broke its shell on
.Saturday, and crawled into public notice with a proces-
sion round the Domain, then through “Suicide Alley”
(Oxford-street) away to the Centennial Park and on to
Coogee. How many started in the procession heaven
only Knows, but it was a fine long procession, arrayed in
weird garments and decorated with many streamers :
and when the component parts were counted before
breasting the bar at Coogee it was found that there were
262 present. So far there is no official information as to
whether they received a discount on drinking a quan-
tity —if they didn’t they ought to. The Press went
out in a motor ear loaned by Alick McNeil, but as press-
men never drink they were not tallied. After breasting
the bar, a sports programme was entered upon, and in
the evening the crowd shook a brawny leg and lifted up
its voice in song. Altogether, it was a cheerful opening
of the season, and when it was over each gallant wheeler
slung his best girl across the handles and streaked for
home on Lochinvar lines.
» * • *
While the Union was giving itself up to
frivolity, the Britannia and Hornsby Clubs were hard at
work running a five and 10-mile road-race respectively.
Both clubs made the interesting discovery that although
the winter is here the last fly is not dead, and, as every-
body knows, the persistency of Bruce’s spider is not in it
with the fly that buzzes along the country road waiting
the chance to get into the cyclist’s eye. Both these
clubs have joined the Disqualified and Other Cyclists’
Association. Although W. O. Benson won the Britannia
race, George Horder got over the distance in the fastest
time, covering it in 13niin. 14sec. Beaumont, scratch
man, won the 10 miles, and also scored the best speed,
his time being 31min. 2sec.
*«• • •
The experience of overland cyclists Lennie and
Warren, who rode path-racing machines fitted with light
road-racing Dunlop tyres, would imply that there are lots
of cyclists pushing superfluous weight along our dusty
highways. The road from Perth to Adelaide, especially
in wet weather such as the overlanders struck, is the sort
to test any machines ; and if the path-racing machine is
good enough for that track it ought to he good enough
for anywhere. Therefore, why push more weight than
necessary ? The heavier make may give a greater sense of
security, but that will come in time on any machine, and
ismerely a matterof getting accustomed to the implement.
Writer has known some men feel perfectly secure on real
death traps. Of course that sense of safety comes only to
the rider. The spectator never gets it, and the sight of 15
stone of meat and confidence whizzing along on a machine
weighing about 281bs. is always disquieting. As a record-
breaking attempt, however, the ride of Lennie and
Warren was a ghastly failure. They took 45 days to
traverse the space between Perth and Adelaide, as against
O. R. Denning’s 28 days 8 hours and 50 minutes in 1898.
Against this it must be placed to their credit that they
lost the way and got no less than 120 miles out of their
course. In any case, they seem to have travelled over
superfluous ground. Other riders managed to do the
journey, covering only 1930 miles, but Lennie and
Warren covered 2500 miles between the two points.
They report that they had not the slightest trouble with
their machines, the total list of injuries being three small
punctures apiece. They are now on their way to Sydney,
with a view to establishing fresh figures between Adelaide
and the N.S.W. State capital.
* » * *
The eight-oar championship of the continent
was decided at Adelaide on Saturday, and went back to
Victoria. That State is the home of the championship.
Although last y'ear the honor visited Tasmania, with the
exception of that little trip it has lived continuously in
Victoria for 13 years. Since 1878 it has visited N.S.W. only
four times, and Queensland and Tasmania once each. On
this occasion, N.S.W. was fourth, behind Victoria, Tas-
mania and Queensland. Westralia and South Australia
were the tail. The issue was never in doubt, the Vic-
torians going to the front with a jump, and staying there
till the finish.
* * * *
Four started in the Amateur Sculling Cham-
pionship, representing Victoria, N.S.W., Tasmania and
Westralia. And their reps, finished in that order. The
holder was P. O. Iveris, of Victoria, and he went away at
the start, closely pursued by Jack, of Tasmania, for a
mile or so. Then Green, of N.S.W., came with something
of a rush which was fatal to Jack but made no impression
-on Ivens, and the Victorian won easily.
♦ * * *
Professional sculling runs in the blood in
N.S.W., and on Saturday next the mud-looked waters
-off Raymond Terrace will see a contest for £2OO between
.Sydney Kemp and Fred Ford. Sydney is the son of old
Peter, one time champion, and Fred is a chip off a well-
reasoned rowing family in whose veins flows salt water
instead of ruddy gore. Each man is declared by his fol-
lowers to be the makings of a world-chainpion ; but then
they all are that.
• * * *
At the Rowing Conference, held in Adelaide,
prior to the inter-State Eight Oar race, the N.S.W. repre-
sentatives had the nerve to propose that all future eight-
oar contests should be held on the Yarra and Parramatta
alternately. Their reason was that Ma State found it
very difficult to raise the funds for the annual contests,
and could only get together enough coin to pay for a trip
as far as Melbourne every second year. It never hoped
to raise the coin for any bigger trips. If there was a
question of going further than Melbourne, the N.S.W.
delegates w*re to announce the withdrawal of Ma from
the next series of races. The smaller States snorted at
the announcement, and insisted on the usual round of
fixtures, and said that if Ma liked to drop out, then Ma
-could.
The idea of having a new yacht built by some
wealthy and enthusiastic Melbournian as defender of the
Sayonara Cup has evaporated. There was plenty of
wealthy Melbournian, but mighty little enthusiastic one.
So the old Sayonara will represent the southern State in
the series of races to be held on Port Phillip next January.
N.S.W. will have as challenger Mr. Saxton’s newly-built
Awanui. The new challenger will have, in accordance
with the conditions of the cup, to sail round to Melbourne.
Now that the weather is reasonably bracing,
the whirroo of the hurler is loud in the land. About
the Redfern portion of Sydney, where a thick brogue
hang's like a dusteloud over the suburb, they actually
.run two teams, in spite of the counter attractions of two
kinds of football, quoits, hocke.y, two-up, and other manly
games. The second team downed Glebe by 20 to 15 on
Saturday, and while it was doing this City Club was knock-
ing samples off the first team at Moore Park, finally slaying'
it dead by 41 to six. In extenuation, Redfern played
several men short. On the same ground Marrickville
started out to administer a well-deserved castigation to
another City team, and at half-time seemed in a way to
do the job, with three to one. Then things, including
the wind, went wrong, City’s tail began to rise, and play
became fast and desperate. City’s score also rose, and
the game ended in a draw—the first since the Association
started competition matches.
* « * »
So many things opened in Sydney on Saturday
that the combined gap would be a very large g'ap indeed.
Lacrosse was one of them, and six clubs started out after
the championship. The weather was the correct thing
for the game, and play was fast and furious. The star
match of the afternoon was that between Petersham and
Balmain, on the former’s oval. Petersham made a vigor-
ous attack, and Balmain got badly bustled, and the
result was that the.first half closed with Petersham lead-
ing—five to one. In the second half, the Balmainers
had recovered their nerve, and began to do a little
bustling on their own account. Also, the vigor of the
attack had taken away some of Petersham’s wind, and
Peter’s legs began to look saggy. A series of well-sus-
tained attacks left Balmain winner by seven goals to six.
The proceeds of the match were handed over to the Hos-
pital Saturday Fund.
Among other games was Burwood against Mos-
man, which is said to have degenerated into a hockey
match, and was eventually won by Burwood with nine to
three. North Sydney bumped Waverle.v at Moore Park,
and inflicted a defeat, hut owing to bad arrangements no
one seemed to know what the scores were. How the
winners were picked out is a dark mystery, like the fate of
Bill the Bo’sun in the Romance of the Bloodstained
Puttyknife.
* * * *
Billington left Australia by the French boat
last week, telling an Adelaide reporter to particularly
deny the suggestion that he is a “disappointed man.”
His weight is up again now to what it was when he left
England; he intends to put in a strenuous summer’s
programme there, and, with luck, he may be back here
again by Christmas. Crowther, Billington’s manager,
left word that Sydney officials “ think far more about
the status of the amateur than they do about swimming,”
and that N.S.W. “will be a big professional centre in a
few years if the amateur authorities get hold of the
reins ; as they will simply drive the swimmers to profes-
sionalism.”
• * * *
The big Dunlop Rubber Co. has abandoned the
idea of holding the Brisbane to Adelaide motor reliability
test, owing to lack of support. A sum of £7OO was re-
quired for the proper carrying out of the test, and, in-
cluding the £l2O put up by the Dunlop Co., only £4OO
was promised. The Dunlop Co., which has spent £lOOO
in fostering motoring in the Eastern States, is getting
tired of bearing all the expense while people who do not
contribute a cent share in the profits. In all probability,
the annual run between Sydney and Melbourne will also
be dropped.
* * * *
The latest news is that all arrangements have
been made for holding the motor race from Pekin to
Paris. The Chinese and Russian Imperial authorities
have authorised the race and promised protec-
tion along the route that has been chosen. Where the
track runs through desert conntry camels loaded
with provisions and petrol will be stationed at short
intervals. A number of cars have already been shipped
for Pekin, and more are to follow immediately.
This will be a race worth taking part in, and sliouid
supply tons of interesting copy ; so it is to be hoped some
decent writers will accompany the expedition. The pro-
moters might be interested to learn that the services of
this scribe are available—if the screw is decent.
* * * *
English motorist Jarrot has just put up a new
record, by travelling from London to Monte Carlo in
35hr. 20min., on a 40-h.p. Crossley car. Of course he did
not mote across the Channel. The previous record was
that of H. R. Pope, who took 36hr. smin. over the
journey.
• * * •
The Jamestown Exposition in Virginia is to be
the scene of an absolutely unique race on September 14.
Five men have entered heavier-than-air aeroplanes for a
race through 1000yds. of space. The Wright Bros.,
whose patents were bought by the U.S. Govern-
ment, will use their “ latest model,” as the cata-
logues say, and the four others will bring along
engines of flight unknown before. So far, Professor
Langley, who has been paid by the U.S. Government for
years to experiment on aeroplanes, and who has made
hundreds of flying machines that, as long as they were
not more than 401 b. in weight, flew' like birds, has not
entered a machine. Which looks as though the U.S,
Gov rnment did not choose the best man for the job.
Anyhow, it will be an interesting race.
* it * *
There is a streak of originality about the nomen-
clature of the hockey clubs of Sydney, and that startled
town awoke on Sunday morning last to read that the
Corinthians had utterly defeated the Barbarians. Students
of Gibbon thought they had awakened far back in the
days of the Decline and Fall.
* * ft *
On Sunday last in Rookwood (N.9.W.) ceme-
tery a memorial was unveiled to the memory of “ Austrian
strong man” Hajek. Hajek died of cancer about 15
months ago, and at the time there was a somewhat acri-
monious discussion in the press as to whether supporting
on his stomach an anvil on which somebody made horse-
shoes, or motor boats, or something, was the cause of the
disease. The question W’as never decided. Hajek’s
memorial consists of a huge cross about 9ft. long, with
suitable inscriptions on Carrara marble let into the sides.
So poor Hajek will go on till the Day of Judgment carry-
ing a heavy weight on as near as possible the same part
of him that carried the other weight in the circus afore-
time. This seems like sweating.
* * * »
Wrestler Hackenschmidt is still gassing about
retiring. But he goes on giving exhibitions just the
same, and there seems to be as much in his talk about
“chucking ” the business as there is in Jeffries’ narrative
about starting his game again. They are both very tire-
some, windy people.
* « *
Lawn tennis in Sydney is, so far, not a popular
sport, and outside the people who indulge in it, is of no
real interest. It is run on the club system, and the
result has been to gather all the crack players into about
three mobs, w'hich trample the others under foot regu-
larlv. This is bad for the game. As a healthy exercise,
the game is almost without a rival, and is nearly equal to
skipping, which latter is a practice that makes mighty
bruisers. It is now proposed to bring the game into line
with other sports, by establishing it on an electoral
system, with residential qualifications. If this is done
there will be a considerable increase in the public in-
terest, and the number of players.
•* * * *
In the palmy days of the Collingwood tote, a
regular staff of spies continually shadowed the sloth-
hounds (yes, that’s right) of the law in Wren’s interests.
On a memorable occasion, when an innocent-looking load
of hay, bound for the tote, set sail from the city under a
great press of horse, news of its progress was flashed well
ahead. So when Detective Carter and his merry Johns
swarmed through the false dray bottom from the bowels
of the hay and surprised the tote, not a trace of law-
breaking was to be seen. Instead, they encountered in
the tea-shop-front agile young men feverishly wrapping
up packages of tea, and serving them out to an eager
throng of customers. The Force with some difficulty
threaded its way through the dense mass of tea pur-
chasers to the back, where a big signboard and other
accessories proclaimed the existence of a woodyard.
Collingwood citizens were arriving to order Jcwt. of
wood and coal, and sharp-featured young men were
weighing and delivering their orders with wheelbarrows.
The Law retired with overwhelming evidence that
Collingwood had a premonition of a fuel and tea famine,
and was determined not to be caught unprepared.
• • * *
Not a word in the Melbourne dailies about the
row at Wren’s Scrap-shop—the Cyclorama Building-
t’other Monday night. Some time after the usual bloomin’
fight had terminated and the more peaceable patrons of
Wren’s Noble Sport had gone away, the settlement of
wagers Was disturbed by a shindy among the ugly ones.
Somebody snatched a couple of “ quid,” whereupon the
victim went for a recovery'of the money, and a glorious
uproar was quelled by the arrival of a detachment of
police. Wren’s Scrappery is likely to he the subject of a
complaint from the management of St. Vincent’s Hospital.
A while ago, when the Reverend Mother of St. Vincent’s
was gratefully acknowledging Mr. John Wren’s donations,
she never dreamed that he would presently convert the
big building next door into a Stoushing place, where a
multitude of men, boys and “guns” would make an
appalling noise on frequent occasions. It is presumably
at the instance of the Hospital that Wren has been served
with a writ by the owners of the Cyclorama, who claim
that his lease gives him no right to the use of the building
on Sundays , and that he has been a trespasser on the
premises on four Sabbath Days. The writ, so far from
forgiving Wren’s alleged trespasses, demands £5O damages.


KUGELMANN’S
/
©
©
MS
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beatty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throoghoot Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUOELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains,
The most Fashion*
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Buildings heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Good Cuisine, and
Healthful Amuse-
i^rrrrr
ments. Motor Cars and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone
4349*
( Your Bicycle „
■will always yield you greater pleasure—
greater comfort —if it possesses that in-
estimable quality SUITABILITY.
Have it built for you , and when placing
your order, specify ( |||
EADIE FITTINGS.
These components are manufactured in
l one of the largest factories in the world
" —they are designed by men with a long
and wide experience not only as engineers,
but as practical cyclists also.
They are exceptionally light—exception- |[[
ally strong—of the very highest grade, ll
and in the construction of the bicycle
built therefrom can be embodied all those
points essential to your comfort.
Write to-day for latest Art catalogue
) “Eadie Fittings.” Dept. ]
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.
| Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
o
IB
WORKS s RED DITCH,
ENGLAND.
The Western Australian
Turf Club*
Applications for the Position of
Stipendiary Stewards.
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the
positions of Stipendiary Stewards to The
Western Australian Turf Club.
Three Stipendiary Stewards will be appointed
for a period of twelve months subject to tenure of
office being terminated by three months’ notice
by either party.
Salaries, £7OO per Annum each. Railway fares
to Race Meetings supervised by the Stewards will
be paid by the particular Club concerned.
Stewards will have full control of the racing on
the courses of The Western Australian Turf Club,
the Kalgoorlie, the Boulder and the Coolgardie
Race Clubs, the Canning Park Turf Club, the
Helena Vale Race Club and the Belmont Park
Race Club.
The date of Appointments shall be as from the
Ist August, 1907.
Applications, which must be superscribed and
addressed to the Secretary, will be received up to
5 p.m. on WEDNESDAY, 29th MAY, 1907, at
the Offices of THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
TURE CLUB, HOWARD STREET, PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
By order of the Committee,
GEORGE H. WICKHAM,
Secretary.
April 16th, 1907.
GOVERNfIbNT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
'[ 'HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAYINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, I
P. E. WILLIAMS, >
W. H. O’M. WOODj
Commissioners.
“Australia To-Day, 1907.”
£5O
is offered (in two prizes of £25 each) by the Pro-
prietors of the Patriotic Annual, “ Australia To-
Day,” for (1) The Best Poem ; (2) The Best Prose
Essav. Both Poem and Essay to be on “ AUS-
TRALIA’S DESTINY IN THE EMPIRE.”
Maximum length of Poem 1000 words, and of
Essay 7000 words. The accepted works to become
the sole property of the Proprietors of “Australia
To-day.” Unsuccessful MS. can only be returned
when necessary stamps have been forwarded.
Manuscript, when at all convenient, should be
typewritten, and must'be in the hands of
The Publishers, “ Australasian Traveller ” and
“Australia To-Day,” 190 Flinders St., Melbourne,
on or before JULY Ist, 1907.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
tt REFEREE " says The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R, HERSCHELL (o f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Pill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
4 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
STECK PIANOS.
If you are considering the purchase of
a piano, and will but compare the
STECK with any other instrument you
have in mind as being of fine quality,
you will quickly learn the reason for
the enthusiasm of musicians over the
wonderful merits of the STECK,
The individuality of this Piano, so far as it can be described
in words, consists of a certain richness and mellowness of tone
—a sympathetic, singing voice, as distinguished from those
pianos characterised chiefly for brilliancy, but lacking in the
deeper and subtler qualities which art demands. Wherever
there are musicians of true culture, professional or amateur,
this piano is known for its enduring qualities, its generous
singing tone, its beautiful harmonious soul.
When the Grand Nibelungen Orchestra, at Beyreuth, desired to
tender Richard Wagner a special token of their affection, it was a
STECK PIANO that was selected for the gift. Wagner placed the
STECK PIANO in the first rank, his opinion being shared by his
friend Frank Liszt :
“ The fine STECK PIANO which # have obtained Is
everywhere acknowledged to be excellent. My
great friend, Frank Liszt, expressed the liveliest
satisfaction after he had played upon it.
“(Sgd.) RICHARD WAGNER
The STECK PIANO is manufactured by the PIANOLA CO., in
the largest piano-producing factories in the world, making last year
a little over 16,000 instruments. The prices range from £5B to £l2O.
We should be glad if you will call and see the STECK, or, failing
that, write for Catalogue “P.”
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., 357 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Branches at 185 Oollins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-St., Brisbane ; 38 King William-St., Adelaide.
m
THE MANLY MOUSTACHE.
The man with a Moustache looks more manly
than the man without one—no doubt about that.
CAPILIiAIUNE will give you a full-grown
Moustache quicker than any other preparation.
Post Free Anywhere 10s. 6d.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
f*
/ ;
I' v >»' •»» Will!.. *••:•
■'i&i i
■ ■ ■■•-•:■'■■:.'. ■
■ /A .W
,
• riiaiiiinunai mi, itijHiiiiiiHHiiiiiiiiiii uii.it.iii#
11 ii mi mi am ii i it ii ii ii ii ii ii ii it ii ii ii ii ii ii ifu ii |
■ kmi ii ii n iiimi i ii i ii ii ii ii n ii ii ii ii mi ii ii i i mm n iii
■ ■ IIII II IIIIII || II L I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII L
ac
m
iiiSiiilBi*
Melbourne: 46 Market-st.
Sydney: Garence-st.


Patrons residing at a distance will find
It both satisfactory and convenient to pur-
chase through our Mail Order Department,
where all orders receive prompt atten-
tion. All goods sent Carriage Free.
SHOPPING BY MAIL
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Our Illustrated Catalogue shows over
3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather and Optical
Goods. Send for a copy. It’s free for the
asking. A postcard will bring you a copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, comprising 6
articles, 15s 6d.
Other stvles, 7s 6d,
8s 6d," 18s 6d.
iffi
I
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, English
oak, pure silverplated
mounts, with cards, etc.,
355. Other style, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain PURSE, richly
embossed, size sin x 3Jin, 70s.
Engraved design, 60s.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
\
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, silk-lined, size 41 in x 2|in, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUMJKRS.
Toilet Hand MIRROR, pure silver-
plated, handsomely embossed, size
lOin, 10s 6d. Solid Silver, 355.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom CLOCK, solid silver mounted,
fancy enamel dial, accurate time-
keeper. 7s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH and
COMB, in ease, richly embossed, long
white bristles, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH,
richly embossed, long bris-
tles, 8s 6d. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver plated,
highly burnished, 12s oa.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
ALL GOODS
SENT CARRIAGE
FREE TO. ANY
ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR-
BRUSH, richly embossed,
15s 6d. Others, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
<s.- ■
A. SAUNDERS.
_ MANICURE SET, solid
silver, richly embossed, in
silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Travelling CASE,
comprising 10 articles, solid
leather, fits into case, £2.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Walnut CLOCK, dull polished case, strikes
hours and halfs, cathedral gong, enamel dial, 16in high.
37s 6d. Kept in free repair for two years.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud BOX,
pure silver-plated, pierced,
and embossed, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lemaire’s Field or Marine
GLASS, leather covered, achro-
matic lenses, with sling and
case, 40s. Higher grade, 50s.
SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic mirror, polished
oak base, 255. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather Purse and
CARD-CASE, pure silvermounts
and lock, 21s. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s Gd.
SSff
31i
%«
"■ 1 .
m
m
mu
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Solid Silver, richly embossed,
Coral design, 7s 6d.
Giber styles, 5s 6d, 8s Gd,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
POGKET-BOOK and Letter CASE combined, black
Morocco Leather, silk-lined, pure silver mounts and
shield, 12s 6d. Without shield, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER,
solid silver, crystal
glass roller, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet Pomade JAR,
solid silver top,
hobnail cut glass,
6s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Morocco Leather, silk and leather
lined, fitted with every convenience, pure silver lock.
£2.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, SOs, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Travelling SOAP BOX, pure silver-
plated, hind-embossed, gilt lined, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Swan PINCUSHION,
solid silver, velvet
top, 5s 6d.
Other styles, Is Gd,
2s 6d, 3s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCII, buck-
skin, pure silver shield, best
rubber lined, 4s Gd. Gold
shield, 7s Gd extra. Other
styles, Gs 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Bell RATTLE, Xylonite
Teething Ring, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, XOs 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
* .
t <
J
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco,
Leather, pure silver mounts, »
6d. Other styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, W
6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17fl 6d, 20s, 255.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


.....
mm
H—
.
. -
i
jw a - jtt $ - -- m ;
I
;
'■— -1 *»•«»»- '**' !>«l«“-«-»- “•
*—, . ' f:
MPSi
. .'* ■
■'■‘.4 a.
ijf&kk-
■
■■/ 1
■*y':
W
tm\
-
#11
'iM
m
8Sf ‘' *" !
it
.y ; r «
£ | £ y
. .■■ . ■
,
• ; -
-yy-y
-
A
\*7 ’
■
■
s«sB SI
'
'W:s .s*-' .'J
•?-.> !
\
> - . i
■0 , ...v • ■
' y:v
lllillll
~r:
■
±Mt 3 5
■
I*
r ‘i -•> v ' 4
.
nl l
yfPl
4 •
«* V*|j
£ ' ■ ■
I
■m:*?
BB|y|7
r .
<
i y . •
Hi® 1 ®
■i
■
■
■
.
Sl3*®ii
:■ : V J v ■
yf| |pp1 paw '
. .
• - - •
yyy- yy
'
Si
Hi®
fti.-lV '*
'
s., - ' ** >&
: i * r *' - -. ■
.
.
mSBrnlm. Wm
The Court adjourns—to smoke an
OLD JUDGE CIGARETTE.
99


A:nu33-neni3.
R O
H
• A S Y D i\l E Y.
J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LYENIISiGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2,
NIGHTS of BRIGADIER GERARD.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 11, a Special Revival for SIX
NIGHTS and ONE MATINEE ONLY of
monsieur beaucaire.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as BEAUCAIRE.
Utßer Characters by Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
u , lr .„.' fo - NIGHT > AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Fantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
(ft RIT E t R 1 ° theatre, syd ne y.
jr Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
, r^ N P ERBON ’ S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, beaded by the Talented Australian
Actress, MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN, in the Domestic
Attraction,
HONOR THY FATHER.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
S YD N E Y.
pALACE THEATRE,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming *
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WHAT WOULD A GENTLEMAN DO?
SAT., MAY 11, MON., MAY 13, TUBS., MAY 14
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
WED., MAY 15, THURS., MAY 16, FRL, MAY 17
QUALITY STREET,
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
■J“HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OF
MADAME TERESA
CAfiBENO,
The Celebrated Pianist,
Beginning,
MELBOURNE, MAY 20 ; SYDNEY, JUNE 8.
Direction BENNO SCHEREK.
OURING
QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
Tl V ° L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES AVEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Immense Success of MISS BIJOU RUSSELL
GreatSuccessofE.MlL AM I EL, World’s Leading-Flexible
Equilibrist and Most Marvellous Bender.
CLEOPATRA, the Fearless & Fascinating Snake Charmer
BONITA, World’s Champion Girl Rifle Shot.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN
Mr. FRED BLUETT. Miss ANNIE LAURIE
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
f\PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THREE GIBSON GIRLS, Singers, Dancers.
FANNY POWERS, Singer, Dancer, Mimic.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plavs
ADRIAN AMADIO, Boy Flautist.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Bs, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
L|ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, 9th MAY, FRIDAY, iOth MAY,
Last Two Performances of SUNDAY.
Saturday, 11th may,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
LEAH KHESHNA, 3 Nights,
15th MAY-MERELY MARY ANN, 3 Nights.
18th MAY—ROMEO AND JULIET, 3 Nights,
BVIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 * Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
the most popular of Drury Lane Dramas,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—Bs., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
f£EAL ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACIARHJM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
OPEN DAILY.
H. NEWMAN REID, General Manager.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE FINEST BIOGRAPH FILM YET SHOWN
IN AUSTRALIA depicting
LIVING SCOTLAND.
A REVOLUTION IN MOVING PICTURES.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Missing; Friends.
IF JAMES DAVIS, husband of Ellen Davis,
of 60 Junior Street, Leichhardt, last heard j
of in Brisbane about the end of 1903, will
communicate with the undersigned he will hear
of something to his advantage.
BROWN & BEEBY,
Solicitors,
46 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
IyiARTHA SEIDEWITZ, who left Sydney in 1900 for
Cape Town by White Star liner to reside with her
mother, is requested to communicate with Messrs.
GORDON and GOTCH, Melbourne, Australia. Anyone
supplying information of her whereabouts will be
rewarded.
Business Announcements.
..MtwaWgg
You can cure dealness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write for booklet, liee, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
Aledicator, «lz«
3i Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for M edicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address : Star Novelty Co., 929-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
FACT’RY ’ANDS.
EDWARD DYSON'S BOOK OF CITY HUMOR.
The Appreciative Press.
SYDNEY.
‘‘Stands high in the order of humor. . .
Delightful and wickedly true.” “ The humor
is individual and Australian. ... Dyson’s
best book to date. ... We cordially re-
commend it.” “Very cleverly and originally
written.” “ Very human, aptly individualised,
and exuding a fruity native humor.”
MELBOURNE.
“ The excellence is surprisingly level.” “ In-
tensely real and interesting.” “It is power-
ful ; it is convincing ; it is interesting.”
ADELAIDE.
“You can read it over and over again, and laugh
every time.” “ This work stands in the van as
the most humorous contribution to Australian
literature.”
PRICE 4/6 ALL BOOKSELLERS.
1
Electrical Novelties, Conjuring Tricks,
Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Write for Price List B.
Joker’s Spanish Jewel Case Surprise .
This case is neatly made of wood, decorated to represent a treasure
box. Every home should possess one of these mirth producers,
which never fails to enliven the company. Makes an ideal Booby
prize. A great joke on inquisitive people, as immediately the lid is
removed the whole box collapses, and the spring sausage inside flies
in all directions. A good surprise for posting- to friends. Price
9d., posted free to any address in Australasia.
I
Surprise Squirt Gramophone.
This Squirt is one of the most novel
and up-to-date jokes to be found in
our varied stock. It is an exact
model of a genuine gramophone, and
it looks so harmless that, when your
victim is operated on, he receives
the greatest shock he ever had in his
life. Ask your friend would he like
to hear your new miniature gramo-
phone, and of course he accepts the
invitation, and, immediately he
becomes interested, squeeze the
ball inside the instrument and watch
result. Full directions enclosed.
Price 1/3, post free anywhere.
fd
The Joker WINDMILL or LUNG TESTER.
This novelty consists of a small flat box with a
figure on the top of it holding a windmill. The
box contains soot, and is perforated with small
holes along the front near the mouthpiece. Ask your victim to try the strength of his
lungs by seeing how many times he can make the windmill revolve. Immediately he
blows into the mouthpiece the soot flies out, covering his face, and making him appear
as if he has just left a chimney sweeping job. Causes roars of laughter. Securely packed
and posted in any address in Australasia free on receipt of //- Full directions enclosed
H T HIITfHINSON NEW YORK NOVELTY c °->
1 V»AAJ.I WV/Al* 710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
The Most Up-to-date Fancy Goods Store in Australia.
For Sale.
AGENCY FOR SALE of Well-Known
Brands of Scotch Whisky
IS OFFERED TO a REPUTABLE and ENTERPRISING
NEW SOUTH WALES HOUSE.
Correspondence is invited by
McDONALD and MUIR, Distillers,
Queen’s Dock, Leith, Scotland.
Tenders.
Great Cobar Limited.
r 1 LENDERS are required for the supply of
JL STORES to the properties of Great Cobar
Limited, for the twelve months ending 30th June,
1908. Schedule of estimated Stores required may
be had on application to Works Office, Lithgow.
Tenders close 14th JUNE, 1907. The lowest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
G. H. BLAKEMORE, General Manager.
A GREAT CINEMATOGRAPH
THE EDISON
PROJECTING
CINEMATOGRAPH
mm
Fitted with all the very latest
improvements
Price, £27 10s
The Showman's Money-Maker.
Best for Concerts.
No Previous Knowledge Required.
A Perfect Machine.
Projects Brilliant Pictures.
Is Absolutely Accurate.
Is Portable.
Is Complete.
Holds 1000 to 12,000 ft. of Film
50,000 ft. of Hew Films in Stock
Write for Full Particulars —
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd
44 My
Opticians,”
OPTICIANS AND
ELECTRICIANS.
j* 393 George Street,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Half the Price and Twice as Nice
as Bush-Built Clothes !
F. J. Palmer
50 /-
Suits to
Measure.
Hand-finished and made throughout on our own premises
Serviceable cloth, correct cut, and perfect fit every time.
We mail them free, with tape, self-measure form and catalogue.
by a Staff of Experts.
See the latest Patterns.
Write for them to-day.
F. J. PALMER & SON, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. Please post Patterns, &c., to
NAME
ADDRESS.
FT TO A T Vf IT'D fo\ Fashionable Tailors,
• X /\L/rl£/lV *&& vJV/ll 9 Hatters and Outfitters
GEORGE ST,, HAYMARKET,
...and PARK STREET, * tr 1. •
gfd
THERE IS ONLY ONE
GRAPH -O-PHONE
Though its success has produced many imitators.
All Other “Talking: Machines”
depend for their existence upon the GRAPH-o-phone
system of reproducing sound, and the more
successful makes are all
Licensed Under Our Patents.
You don’t know what a vast difference there is in
musical and natural tone quality between the
Columbia GRAPH-o-phone and talking machines
advertised under different names, until you have
heard the —
1907 GRAPH-o-phone Disc
and Cylinder Models.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW MACHINE CATALOGUES, B.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO- Cen’l, 255 clarence st., Sydney.
Creators of the Talking 1 Machine Industry, and owners of the fundamental patents.


Direction of
J&N.TAIT
Royal
oth
AUSTRALIAN
Tour
Commences
Sydney
Mty • 11
in
The Finest Organisation ever brought to Australia*
“The Besses” have just concluded their triumphant tour of
New Zealand, where they gave nearly 250 performances*
“The Besses ff will visit every important centre in Aus-
tralia, commencing in Sydney on May ll* The perfor-
mances of the Besses will be something of a revelation to
Music Lovers*


Spread Rapidly Over Body —Limbs
and Arms Had to Be Bandaged
and Scalp Looked Dreadful
Suffered Untold Misery for Three
Years Better in Two Months.
MARVELOUS CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“My son, who is now twenty-two
years of age, when he was four months
old began to have eczema on his face,
spreading quite rapidly until he was
nearly covered. We had all the doctors
around us and some from larger places,
but no one helped him a particle.
The eczema was something terrible,
and the doctors said it was the worst
case they ever saw. At times his whole
body and face were covered, all but his
feet. I had to bandage his limbs and
arms; his scalp was just dreadful. I
used many kinds of patent medicines
before trying the Cuticura Remedies, —
all to no avail.
“A friend teased me to try Cuticura.
At last I consented, when my boy
was three years and four months
old, having had eczema all that time,
and suffering untold misery. I began to
use all three of the Cuticura Remedies;
the Cuticura Soap helped as well as
the Ointment. He was better in two
months; in six months he was well;
but I gave him the Cuticura Resolvent
one year, using twelve bottles, I
think, and always used the Cuticura
ooap for bathing, and do now a good
deal. He was four years old before
he was well, and his skin became per-
fectly fair when cured. I give you per-
mission to publish this letter for I am
always glad to do good when I can. I
think I have told you all there is neces-
sary to tell.” Mrs. R. L. Risley,
Oct. 24, 1905. Piermont, N. H.
.vriFii'' PWl 01 above testimonial is on file in the
the P ° w “ Urug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W
External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
PPITa’IIL 0 * C ““™ r . a .Soap, Ointment, and fiesowfnt
Pills (Chocolate Coatea, in vial of 60), may be had of all
A single set often cures. l^otteTDrug l c he„
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Disfiguring Humours.*'
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
We are just landing
an entirely new stool
of the famous
MICHELIN TYRES,
winners of all the
principal races in
1906, including the
great VANDERBILT
CUP RACE.
• AUSTRALIAN ■
BAKIVET GLASS-O
city depot. sae Flir\ders Le>.i\e .
- Mci-a .
g §
PPARA- RUBSCR-W9RKsi|
r P°,°T SCR ZKY*
mu
t/p-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
®YfTEMS for Stock Hooks.
STEMS for Indent Hooks
SYSTEMS for Indexing
SYSTEMS for all Records.
STEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agenciks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
i" your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabasii Systems.
105,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ! / / No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry 18.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 18(0. For Llfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO IftilNTD ° n Securit y of Freehold or Leasehold
Fr,>r.hTTirf _ ft r> " City or Suburban Properties, or on
“Ajsssssrisa -*5? jktkss:
States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
iinfoonviprlS'nf^ 11 contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
t P cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
D,R Short Is? 6 - H Jam^ ,? hai ™ a " ! Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Ohairman ; Benjamin
bhort, Esq. , James Bn is. Bsq. ; The Hon R. J. lack, M.L.C.; F. E. Winnhcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Es<,
„„ . „„ . Gerie,al Malla^r and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
_ D OI ‘ FICK ’ 87 FITT STKEET . SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
g
FREE.PT!
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
fdg
LEEMING’S BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at ! & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Jinoi
Foe LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity ”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted wit);
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
fd
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Xlotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
The Fourth Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
boat glided through the mist until
. I the prow grated on the shingle.
Bet out,’ said the rower, over his
shoulder.
The saint clambered over the side, and stood
shivering on the beach.
Farewell!” said the rower, standing up and
pushing with all his might on the oar. “Fare-
well, 0 saint! ” The boat shot away into the mist
and was lost to sight. There was no sound, save
hipping of the ripples on the wet sand—
bke the whispers of the restless dead.
Ihe saint wrung his hands and walked along
the edge of the shrouded sea. Every now and
| tilen be stopped, and listening intently, peered
seawards, whence the trembling echoes qf bells
came stealing across the gray water. But the
ships to which they belonged he could never see.
At last, sick at heart and weary of the voices of
the waves, he turned inland and scaled the cliffs,
where he found a path, almost overgrown with
creepers, that led through a deep jungle. Hour
alter hour he followed the faint track, every
minute getting further and further away from the
sea. Hradually it grew warmer, and the sunlight
streaming down through the branches, dissipated
the mist and awakened a tumult of forest life.
i Firds of wonderful plumage flashed about from
bough to bough and the songs of numberless
others made a medley of sound more lovely than
anything he had ever imagined.
Once he stopped and tried'to drink in the
beauty of it, but, instead, shuddered and passed on.
How lonely ! he muttered. ‘ • How lonely ! ”
Ihen, suddenly, the path, which had been up-
hill for miles, opened out level and broad in a
great mossy avenue, cut through the heart of the
torest. At the end of it was a vast white arch-
welds by a rUSty gat6 ’ half ' hidden wi tb
Ihe saint walked to the gate, and picking up a
stone beat upon the rusty bars—first softly, and
then as no one appeared, heavily, until the whole
desolate place echoed.
At last, when his arm had fallen weary at his
side a querulous voice cried, from mid-air ■
Who knocks?”
Looking up, the saint discovered, leaning over
the parapet of the gatehouse, an old, old man
with a long snow-white beard and deep-sunken
eyes He held tightly clutched in his hand a
single massive key.
Who knocks {” said the old man in a drowsy
voice, as if he didn’t like being disturbed, and
to resume his slumbers.
rank ! Sa * d tbe SOub ave name and
“ A saint, you say ? ”
Yes, ’ said the soul, confidently,
ihe old man stroked his beard with a shaking I
hand, and looked very doubtful.
You know,” he said, “ one or two saints have i
applied, who weren’t at all satisfactory, flow
long have you been dead ? ”
“ One hundred and ten years.”
“Duly canonised, I suppose?” '¥'
* Oh, certainly.”
“ Say your prayers regularly ? ”
‘ Always.”
° ld u U T ; o ,°ked at him curiously for a
“Why?” ld aSked hl “ tlle astounding question,
“ ! Because I wanted to go to Heaven, of
course !
“Why did you want to go to Heaven ? ”
Ihe samt had to think for a minute. Then he
said ’ Because I was taught to be good.”
r Did you always like being good ? ”
learnt was honest. He said, “ Not always.”
What made you persist in being good ? ” (The
old man, for all Ins feebleness, was a merciless
cross-examiner.)
Tv” Sa ’ d the saint ’ “ 1 Lad le arnt that
of earth heaVen were mor e lasting than those
1 hen it wasn’t altogether unselfishness that'-
little 6 ? 5 ’’ 5 ' 1 COntlnue bein £ ffood. You calculated a
“ Yes.”
“ You have succeeded ?”
“I hope so.”
“ And what do you expect ? ”
11 1 expect to get in ! ”
“ Yes, but afterwards ? ”
‘‘ Afterwards! ”
“ Yes, after you get in ? ”
the l ll for b pT i i d t i;ed . S: t i l nt sfcared betvvee n the bars at
n J T U]> at Bie old man, and
shook his head. I don't know,” he said, “I
never thought of that.”
“ VVab a 'cjnute,” said the old man. He dis-
appeared, and the waiting saint heard hisshuffling
step» on the stone stairway of the wutch-toweia
A minute later he came hobbling out, thrust his ;
iinfstrengfh 6 ' eil ° rmoUS lock ’ ;uul fc 'irned with all j
Ihe gate, creaking terribly, swung open and the i
saint panting with excitement, stepped in and
helped the old man to close and lock it, which
Usk they accomplished after a hard struggle
r«offhkhandf"'" **“ *• *“"• «•
“ v he » g u ate ' keeper cou & hed and looked away.
Yes, he quavered, “it is stiff !” •
Ihen the soul looked at the great silent forest
deserted'and awful in the evening light and fear
gnppeil him by the throat. Catching the old man
by Jrn e u s le ®T e > he cned ’ 111 a voice of horror,
opened?’’ £lte! " ‘' H ° W many times ha s it
‘‘ Three Times ! ” said the Warden.
And .... the Last! ”
Came the answer, “Five thousand years ago >”
bars' 6 S ° U ’ Shneklllg ’ dashed itself "gainst the
KODAK.
Wang ’ : Human vanity manifests itself
in startling ways occasionally. Paid a visit of
sympathy to some friends who had suffered a be-
reavement, and found the whole family engaged
at the congenial task of counting a stack of tele-
grams and letters of condolence. One of the
mourners informed me, with a ring of exultation
n her voice, that they had received five more than
Mrs\ Brown, down the st:eet, and that they ex-
pected three more, which would put them a long
way ahead of unfortunate Mrs. 8., and also break
Il f m ,oneyS reco, ; d - ?he then went on to say
that 10 more people followed their corpse than
had trailed behind Mrs. Brown’s cadaver I had
seen Mrs. Brown standing at her door as the
cortege passed her place, with a sorrowful ex-
pression on her countenance, but have since won-
w \ f i \? S syn ?P ;lt T h y or en vy. Perhaps it
bad K)t l ’ ® ven the best woman isn’t wholly


i! British’Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Prir#* f\(\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
l 1 ICC ”U« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British - A ustr a l asian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
BLACKING
—the superb liquid dressing for boots and
shoes. It not only gives the most approved
deep black polish, but it renders the boots
soft and pliant to the feet.
Crozine does not smut nor rub off on the
clothing; is not affected by dampness. Its
use is the vogue the world over.
Get the genuine HAUTHAWAY’S. At any
high-class Boot Store anywhere the world
around. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. 8. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
Uondon, England
R
I
B
SIT
1
LIKE
QgJSENEI^
£
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S J
"Facile Princeps"
k The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in tha World.
For Caca. amiss write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener,Blit mingham. *
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy w hen
every other remedy had failed. English Price wy v
and 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials. ___
OF Alili CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
WHOLESALE AGENTS
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
A WISH :
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
L - J
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUGRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no inconveni-
ence, and ere he is aware his complete reform is effected.
We send book of particulars and samples of Eucrasy, free
sealed.
Address : THE- EUCRASY CO.,
02 Hunter St., Sydney.
TRADE HARK
abQi&dx
lAOtl
'I , /•
r, w7s
sk
X
i mil
rjt
y
N
y
N^r*
x^j
* t
FUNoxuftel
FARM
THE EVENINGS out in the country are
apt to drag a little, as it is usually
difficult to find amusement. Of course,
there are no theatres, no concerts, no
vaudeville shows available, and the best
thing people can do is to sit and yarn.
That is when you need a genuine
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
and Gold-Moulded Records.
Nothing brings such pleasure as this marvellous
reproducer.
No skill is required to produce perfectly brilliant band music the finest
vocal solos, duets and quartettes; the funniest character songs and vaude-
ville skits.
The Edison Phonograph replaces the opera and theatre for grown tola,
and is unequalled for entertaining the children.
The Edison Gold-Moulded Records include thousands of popular, classical,
sacred, operatic and comic selections, and 24 new ones are added every month.
Thus, the genuine Edison Phonograph provides more fun and music than
any automatic entertainer —yet is within the reach of all.
Let us send you some descriptive printed matter, and the name of the
nearest dealer where you can hear the selections you like—free of charge.
The genuine Edison speaks for itself and must not be confused with the
rasping imitations you may have heard. Better write now.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia.
Limited/
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS . ..
In Whipcords and . Q Q
Saddle Twists, *" 9 OX/ U
RIDING BREECHES . ..
TOK tr Tw u.„ 32/6 to 50 -
Garbardines and Twillettes
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. llO*
50/- to 7 51-
FLY or SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED or BUTTONED KNEES, j
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,,
cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for PERFECT
FREEDOM in WALKING* FISHING*
SHOOTING* GOLFING, MOTORING*
HRff nwl
jPff fjp * hh¥
H i&s§m
itrt**Hft m-*>> ~«««\
|j| ■ *i'*f .« » -
HUH
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
Buckley & N unn
LIMITED
TAILORS and
BREECHES MAKERS,
300-310 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SE, IUE&, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANV ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd
600 SONGS
WORDS and MUSIC
FOR
f%
16
IN' the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
* which for various reasons are denied the average!
music and song- lover. It may be that your local music-i
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long'
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellerS
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Genr
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and]
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous—without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,
including such world-famous favorites as “ Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“ Robin Adair,” “ Killarney,” “Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “Men of Harlech,” “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,”
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary,” “Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer
Duiing Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
such as “Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem!
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. lOd.); if P.N.
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Address—
THE PUBLISHING CO., 460 b George St., Sydney, N S.W.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatlv reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedgefastcross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price. £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 0
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
lOOvds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. ■ • • - • • .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20tb Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price, -
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
p r i C e .. .« .. .. •• ••
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Don’t
“DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or Young.
S i
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dangerous things for you to “doctor’
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent.
of eases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Yotir Case and
We will ad-
vise you. Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
THE
ELECTRICON
brings
lost
young-, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE V IDD
tell you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses ot
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and who
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon s Eleetricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because at
we can’t Cure your case we wall
say so at oaace.
That costs you nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE L R. VERNON CO.
60-64 HUNTER STREET BYONEY.


TUB
g
THE ©-OCTAVE \
PI/SMO PLAYER l
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME,
THE ARTISTS MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the petlab while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Po not Pail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
MELBOURNE
ALLAN ®C? P
R.OP.
276-8 COLL-lIMS ST
SYDNE
Y
w
H
PALING
LL
D
O
G
E
O
R
El
G
S
IP
1
ffl
um
- L
FKUTNOW’S*!
Improved ErrtßvtsccwT Carlsbad
POWDER*
♦ Hi
m
m
Hirsciicnspnmg or Deer Leap
7?
London
_ 41, FARRINCDON ROAD E.C.T
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. t< 1
r-*
Purifies the Blood.
up , ,ti , “ Stir ton, Southsea.
nf 7Tv” tr A°' V ,f Po^ der . 18 “ost refreshing and clears the system
of Uric Acid,.and acts on the Liver and Kidneys. I have
recently been very ill from Rheumatic Fever, and since I have
taken it I feel a great deal better, and I firmly believe it is a
grand blood purifier.
“A. GRAHAME-lIARVEY.”
THE INTESTINAL BATH
-// ; N ' i ' .y ■ : . . -c- .
AND HOW
Kutnow’s Powder Cleanses the System.
The body is a form through which a stream of matter flows, or at least should flow. But un-
fortunately many people are greatly troubled with stagnation in the alimentary canal, which is
termed “ Constipation.” Ihe constipated man is like a stagnant pool from which noxious odors
aiise, while the active man with clean intestines is like the mountain stream, bubbling with
activity. To insist on eating without insisting upon getting rid of the debris is to ply the
penalty of natural law. The food becomes poison, the body is, not only like a stagnant pool,
but becomes even like a cesspool, ready for the germs of disease. The once energetic, shrewd
and brainy man becomes weak, vacillating, and incapable. He is haunted by a perpetual
dread of some impending evil—he knows not what. The blood thus poisoned gives rise to
imperfect digestion. Dyspepsia, biliousness, liver disorder, excessive uric acid and constipation,
all proceed from irregularities of the digestive organs which affect the nerves and irritate the
brain. Kutnow’s Powder clears the brain and renders the body physically fit. A dessert-
spoonful taken before breakfast will thoroughly cleanse youii system, and invigorate you in the
most refreshing manner.
REMOVES ALL YOUR LIVER TROURLES.
How to Detect
Fraudulent Imitations.
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder
is strongly recommended by all leading
physicians for the stomach, liver, kidneys,
and bowels. You can obtain it at all con-
scientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid imitations and know
How to g'et Genuine
Kutnow’s Powder.
Captain Barclay writes :
“Kirsteen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ I am very unwilling to testify that things
have woi'ked wonders, but really I cannot
speak too highly of Kutnow’s Powder. I
have suffered for years from constipation and
liver troubles. Your Powder has done all
that it claimed, and, more than that, it has
given me comfort. I have since taken two
bottles, and have to-day sent an order to my
druggist for three more. Its action is sure
and gentle, and at the; same time certain,
without any distressing effects.
“ Faithfully yours,
“R. BARCLAY (Capt.)”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW ®. CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDOK
ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
[4-10].


“ Silica ” from Queensland :
There is a fairly large-sized suspicion creeping like a
centipede round Queensland that the great city of Bris-
bane is beginning to fade out of public vision—that
it will soon be dumped in the back premises in order
to Make room for newer and more up-to-date goods
in the front window. A time there was when Bris-
bane was Queensland, when the extreme south-east
corner dictated its sovereign will to 668,497 square
miles of soil. But now it hasn’t had a native
Premier for a lengthy period ; its political predilections
are determined in Townsville, Rockhampton, Toowoomba
or Warwick ; and its small voice is drowned in the
political chorus from the country. Speaking of choruses,
Brisbane has never been the scene of a Queensland
Eisteddfod, and the only time it ever took part
was at Maryborough last Easter when it stood bottom
0I ? , hst, being defeated by Gympie, Bundaberg, War-
wick, Toowoomba and Ipswich. Toowoomba holds an
annual Austral festival in November, and packs 7000
people into a hall larger than any in Brisbane. And while
Toowoomba made, in three or four years, this festival
perhaps the largest in Australia, Brisbane slumbered
wit. 11 its head on a mud flat and its feet in a cemetery
which is growing too small for requirements. When the
Government economised in respect to the Brisbane Art
Gallery, the great city opened a heavy eye and growled
at being disturbed. In between yawns it explained that
ltdidnt want an Art Gallery. Toowoomba sent in an
application for the same, and if the civic authorities had
not yelled opprobrium in Brisbane’s ear Toowoomba
would have had the Art Gallery now. Further, Brisbane
cant afford to support a city band, and the city that
finds no delight in the big trombone is not in a robust
state of health. Then the idea of a Queensland
University uprose. At the last meeting of the Uni.
committee it was recorded that a little over £2OOO had
been received in subscriptions. At the same meeting a
prominent Toowoomba resident stated that if the Uni.
were located in his city, he could, without trouble,
raise £25,000 in a very short time. He reckoned that if
Brisbane could nob raise that sum, then Toowoomba
should be given the opportunity. There is something
stimulating in the spectacle of a city, when its time
comes, moving off the earth with the eclat of Kingston or
Pompeii, but the spectacle of Brisbane submerging
itself in a swamp, with ultimately only a mud bubble to
mark its location, is not altogether inspiring.
| spies’
Costumes
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
VIGOROUS STRENGTH
WITHOUT DRUGS 1
\
■x
I
//jfcr
Every man who is weak and failing? knows that there should be
“something” that will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He has in-
variably tried all kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He
finds himself worse instead of better. If you have been paying money to
doctors and taking nasty medicines for years, and have derived no benefit
from it all, do you not think it is time to stop? . . Twenty years
experience with Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the know-
ledge that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our appliance is
the only practical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients tell us that medicines failed
to CUPe them* and that Electricity as given by
DR. McUUBHUN’S ELECTRIC BELT
did cure them after they had tried everything else and had given up Hope. It is
the grandest invention of the age for weak people. ... No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever* regret
giving it a fair trial, It has special attachments for men and women, and is within the reach of all. The price
is as low as £1 in many cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment
in Australasia. Onr Belt is the standard. . . . It is a quick and certain remedy for all cases of Debility
WeaKness of all kinds, Nervousness, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Varil
cocele, Indigestion, Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and Bowel Troubles
FREE BOOK.
If yovx want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then - send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
-very man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
cO help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
• 'iKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Pree Consultation.
THE McLAUGHUN CO
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
" “"" r N Office Hours —9 a. m. to 5.30 p. m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
3
ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book uy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Trices, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, 1 s 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My N eioii bor,Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
Ios6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Oiiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and tiie Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Goins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
fdg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, See., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.vsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
HI IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning' mar-
nagm, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged.
, 9™}'° overed edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadpen’s Physical Training, Is. Elemf,nts of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Self.ction, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
T 6 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-’
wwe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage* Bd.
Secret History* Court of England, Is 3d post. Dover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. \ est Pocket Dictionary 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free G W
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing! Is 2d Dyna
mos AND Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
Cockle’s Rntihilious Pills.— ►
»I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."-DR. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
fdg
fdgdg
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To start the stomach after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
■ffeager’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c„ everywhere:


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £80,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.G.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts. !
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking- Business.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAMTC ns? A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
bnnnio UnnriO land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... -£4,000,000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Heserve Fund <£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA —Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA — Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance,. Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Voigtlander's Cameras
are the most suitable for Tropical Climates. They
resist heat and damp.
1
The
Folding
Metal
Cameras
are perfect.
Fitted with
Focal Plane
Shutters.
Folding Stays
make their Sol-
idity extraordi-
nary.
They embody
Efficiency with
Lightness.
VOICTLANDER LENSES.— “ Collinear,” “ Helliar,”
“ Dynar.” Made by the oldest Optical House in the
World. These Lenses are the result of a Century's
Concentrated Skill.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick,
Sole Australian Agents—
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd., 386 George St., Sydney,
and 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet: “ Talki.net with Taylor ’’
(on Lenses, Cam‘ran, tire., Cost h'rce.)
Shipping.
nxr. 3D. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINKA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANH-A 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR ..2nd JULY.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.'
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Liniiricv. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175’308 10 0
Reserve FraD(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Auents and Correspondents
Throughout thr World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fdgfdgfd
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to - Sail from Sydney on
or about 17th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
•MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
DAMASCUS '
N. Allan .. I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. Noon, June 21
H. A. Schleman .. I Noon, July 19
•Twin Screw.
, FARES:
. i Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &0., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
Daiyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
'
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA.
*Twin Screw.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
AT CHEAPEST KATES.
Write for Particulars.
«.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO'/IPA IY OF 'I.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, Ueorsre-sr.reet, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
iffc
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TXT-S.'W.
(Hlontdepieteojf||JJo.,[|td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST„ 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman: R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman;. John Grice, Es-i.';
Hon. .1. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BO It ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
\ 1 /
s=r;
'“PHIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
1 couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Mef.ks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John She, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN QOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write-for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Rabbit tSKins.
We are CASH BUYERS for Export.
Top Prices Guaranteed. No Commission.
JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
(Established ISSO.)
44 Dalgety Street, Miller's Point, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STE AMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields, y
S.S. Riverina, Wednesday
May 15.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
May 29.
BRISBANE,
MACE AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
}S.S. Marloo, May 11.
S.S. Yongala, May 18.
S.S. Wollowra, May 25.
Heat, a,n<t Cheapest Itoute to (foldjielU.i,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wanes.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOUR.ME
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOE! MS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon >/j3]:l Parade
ST. HILDA.
rilHrS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, |-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
m ■
I■ m ■
■
§8?
r'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
Ghireiidou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10/,S. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a "very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT'D!'’ TABLE EUKNfSHLNGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to hull.
Public and
Catered Eor
on Most
Banquets and
Private Ball 3
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TEIMTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
“ ( TIIE MISSES clapp)
Will Visit SYDNEY early in JULY,
With one of their Fitters and SPRING MODELS
and MA TERIALS.
Many good, healthful
dishes are made from
Grape-Nuts
•Salads, puddings* caKes,
etc. Try it.
“ There’s a Reason.”
RECIPES IN PKGS.


Oatine
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion of youth
through the hot Australian summers.
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favourite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it too after shaving, for it
soothes and heals the skin. Price 1/3 a dainty
jar, or 2,6 larger size holding four times as
much.
At all ehemlsts, stores, etc., through-
out Australia. Get a jar to-day.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
gout and
JLMU.II -O rheumatic
They Never Fail. TJ Jll C
They Always Care. K 1110
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/g per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
gfd
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE'S
QHLOROPyNE
Caution-— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS. COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor —
Pr. J. COLLDS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 2S, 1595, savs :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
gfd
fyet rid of that i
dandruff J
before it 1
destroys ’
your hair.
Those tiny
little scales on your scalp are
a sign of dryness. A dry scalp
cannot nourish the hair.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
is especially prepared to nourish
and build up dry, thin, starved
scalps. It feeds them and fur-
nishes the hair roots with proper
nourishment. It revives the
hair. Be sure you get Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap makes soft, white hands
VI IT TWT suffering from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
A TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
find, post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “ Medical Review,” London, 25 years
chief consultant * Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnos. ie,. n, Pin xi<di gn t, & Specialist_ in
nervous diseases for over 30 yea is. Cure Guaranteed.
“HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
t.
F
HBtSS
SSI
» ■ -«
PRICE 27/0
E STg 178 Z $»
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
\M PITT ST*, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers)* robert Walter
LTD.
MARTIN, Manager.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Weak mien
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Conlldence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
S3l nnfl fill RS- PILLS Cure all Contamous Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUU siß r Gravel Sores, urinary Troubles, and allßlooci
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
IR/nnlc IMnmpn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
HWcScllv VlfUßVlcll Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costivenoss Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Hoad Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. mans e ETC „
GBD
ANTtC &
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
gfdg
V
AS
]> A#
s
<1
Av-
<o
5/
s?
2$
The
AICOCK
Table
IS THE
MONARCH
• OE •
Billiard
Tables.
Slk
✓ '
/ /
fdg
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
fdg
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-healtb
known as "run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness.
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
<s■
&
#
<tV
AND
OINTMENT
mg
I
dfgfdg
w
fdg
f BALSAMofANISEED i
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable 1
remedy for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Throat '
Troubles. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
The Rev, Wm. Rush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, HorncastleFor the past twelve years t have been in
the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your balsam. I should not be exaggeration it ! •
I had never known it te fail. Whenever I have a cough l use it in preference to anything else, and°agi '
again it has cured me.” 7 6
Mr. Lionel Bkough, the eminent actor, writes: —“ X think it an invaluable medicine for members of niv
profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and sister artistes.”
Mr A. J.Woodhouse, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-tne-Sea, Norfolk, writes:-“Last year Powell’s Balsam of
pulmonary Affection 1 ” * ° bstmate cou ° h of some months’ duration, which I feared would lapse into a
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES and QUEENSLAND:—
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O'Connell Street, SYDNEY,
and Eagle Street, BRISBANB.
4E. I
A
FOR
Pccn
$
£
a.
552
A**
OE M
srnjmi
jsypspof
fdg


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS* Melbourne;
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395&397 Hay S? Perm
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward
NEW ZEALAND
W 6& 148 Queen SL Auckland
18-3 LambtonQuay. Wellington..
236&25X High S\ Ch r istchurchj
Princes £ Dunedirv.
M
«
CORKER,CEQRcf si SYOH^
trq
fdg
absolutely—on receipt of remittance. When you open up the goods
and they do not entirely meet with your views, return them and
your request for your money will be like a cheque on a bank.
Catalogues on request. Write for one to-day.
G3sS6.—Silver-plated Jam Dish
and Spoon, 65.6 d.
E 4182. —Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 13s 6d.
E3o44—Silver-plated
Butter Dish and Knife,
10s 6d
F7o9s—Silver-
plated Balance
Pepper Pot, 4s 6d.
Large, 6s 6d.
352 A. Silver-plated
Breakfast Oruet, 12/0.
353 —Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 8s 6d.
G3sBs— Silver-plated Butter Dish
and Knife, 6s 6d.
E 2359. — Silver-plated Sugar and Cream
on Tray, £1 10s.
F7739 —Silver-plated Jam Dish and
Spoon, 17s 6d.
H2o6s—Silver-plated
Serviette Ring, 3s.
G2222—Silver-plated Tea Pot
Stand, 14s 6d.
04720—Silver-plated Cake Basket, 16s 6d*
A Special One, 30s.
E 6636. —Silver-plated Breakfast Frame, £l lss.
Hl67B—New Style Silver-plated
Honey Jar and Spoon, 17s 6d.
G6B6o—Silver-plated Covered Butter Disb,
16s 6d.
G 6817-
—Small Size Silver-plated
Hose Bowl, 10s 6d.
G 4877.— Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar, 12s 6d.
Cream Jug to match, 10s 6d.
H 1679.— Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Pickle Jar, Ids 6d.
68498. —Silver-plated Rose Bowl,
Small size, 7s 6d.
i
Gs2oo—Finest China and Silver-plated Fruit Dish, £2 7s 6d.
GBB42.—New Style Silver*
plated Sugar Scuttle,
20s.
G426o.— Silver-plated Covered
Butter Dish, £1 6s.
aU£
M
P6l3l— Silver-plated Toast Rack, 22s 6d
2445—Silver-plated Golf
Cruet, 21s.
HlBOl. —.New Style Silver-plated
Marmalade and Spoon, 14s 6d.
345A —Cut Glass and Silver-
plated Butter Dish and Knife,
255.
F6l3o— Silver-plated Toast Hack,
21s.
E7B74.—Silver-plated Honey Jar
and Spoon, 255.
Gs262.—Silver-plated Cheese Dish, £2 6s.
H2o6B—Silver-plated Card Receiver, 10s 6d.
GBos2—Silver-plated Toast Hack, 13s 6d.
Hls9o—Old Sheffield Style beat Silver-plated Entree Dish, £4
Others 425, 455, 52s (id, 635, 70s.
—Best Quality Silver-plate and
Polished Oak Biscuit Barrel, £1 Is.
G 8844. —Silver-plated
Bamboo Gong- and
Striker, 21s.
G7sS3—Very Handsome Six-Cup Egg- Cruet and Spoons, £2 103
' .W
H2oG2.—Silver-plated Child’s Cup, 10s 6d.
G4s77—Silver-plated Marmalade
Dish and Spoon, 13s 6<L ,


Tiif H rea tli oitkPi n e Fores!
The Right Way and the Wrong Way of Treating Coughs and Golds.
LO
w
\
■<SN,
The advent of Peps, the new and pleasant pine-air treatment for throat, lung, and
chest diseases, has superseded old-fashioned treatment by medicines through the stomach
as completely as modern methods in medicine have superseded the bleeding-cup.
Medicines to benefit the lungs and bronchial tubes should obviously reach the
affected parts direct. Peps do this in a thoroughly scientific and unique fashion. They
convey the pleasant and palatable balsamic essences of the rich pine woods—straight to
the seat of the trouble.
A medicine for the chest and lufigs is all wrong if it has to be merely swallowed
into the stomach, which has no direct connection with the lungs. You can’t swallow any
thing into your lungs. Again, it is dangerous to merely stop a cough without removing
the cause (as is often the case with liquid cough mixtures containing opium, chloral, or
morphia), for coughing is Nature’s way of expelling phlegm, disease germs, and other
obstructions from the throat, lungs, and chest. If you stop the cough, before its work
is done, by putting your nerves to sleep, your chest, throat, and lungs get clogged up
with impurities.
Peps cure coughs and colds by making the cough easy, natural, and painless, and by
destroying disease germs.
You simply take a little Pep from its silver paper wrapping and let it dissolve on
the tongue, or crush it between the teeth. This releases the pine essences and
immediately the nasal cavities, the throat, the lungs, and the bronchial tubes are filled
1
Rs
Section showing direc-
tion taken by the Peps
fames in breathing.
1. Nasal Cavity.
%. Month. 3. Tongue.
U. Entrance to Throat.
5- Passage to Lum,s.
6. Passage to Stomach.
with the healing breath of the rich pine woods. Breathing becomes easy and natural, phlegm is loosened, and brings out with it
all the dust and germs inhaled from polluted air; coughing is eased and allayed, and the clogged-up air passages are° cleared.
The Peps way is the right way to rid the throat, lungs, and chest of all harmful obstructions, and to heal the delicate tissues
harmed by constant lung-tearing coughs.
“A Pine Fores! in Every flomel
You will never know how safe and sure a
remedy Peps are until you try them for Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Whooping Cough, Croup,
Sore Throat, Huskiness, Loss of Voice, Quinsy,
Laryngitis, Heaviness, and Difficult Breathing, and
as a preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption.
Keep a box of Peps always handy.
Peps are so/d at 116 per box by Chemists
and Stores, or by the PEPS PASTILLE CO.,
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Free Sample,
Send Id. Stamp for return
postage to the Peps Pastille
Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
when a Dainty Free Sample will
be immediately forwarded to you.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The gang that has been robbing Melbourne
house-roofs of their lead fittings is a pretty cool crowd.
A Fitzroy lady tells her tale: “ They trapesed into my
yard, took a ladder off their handcart, and stuck it up
against the house, telling me the landlord had told them
to overhaul the roof, as it was letting the rain in. Then
one who acted as boss sang out, ‘ Keep those kids inside ;
we’ll be throwing stuff down directly, and they’ll get
their necks broken!’ Sure enough, down came a lot of lead
and slates, and even a few bricks. They stuck the lead
and slates on the handcart, and left the rest of the mess
all over the yard, saying they’d be back in an hour
or two to finish the job. But they did me a good turn,
anyhow. The roof has been leaking a long while, and the
landlord was always promising to have it seen to ; now
he’ll have to get it done, for the rain comes in in buckets.
But it was awful to hear him when he went up and saw
what it was like.”
The long limb of coincidence was stretched out
over the furniture trade when the last official count of
N.S. Wales factories was being made, and Europeans and
Chinese totted up exactly the same, 485. The European
adult’s average wage was £2 6s. 5d.; in the Chinese shops
the average was £1 18s., though most years it does not
reach £l 12s. When the last row raged amongst Che chips
in Lilly Buck-stlee.t, Melbourne, it was explained that the
white cabinetmaker really didn’t have anything to com-
plain about, because the Chinese workmen demanded and
was paid as much as the white ; but here’s a difference of
25 per cent., anyhow, and that is less than it amounts to
in most years.
* * * *
The other morning about 35,000 people in Mel-
bourne saw an advt., which offered just the thing they
were looking-for—“ Wanted, representative in Melbourne,
,no previous experience necessary ; salary, £3 10s. a week
and commission.” Apply box something or other in a
country town. After they had rushed off their applica-
tions for the job that had been built for them, they
didn't have long to wait ; the stereotyped reply came
back that the “ Victorian College of Sciences” considered
the application very favorably indeed. What the Vic-
torian College of Sciences wanted was a man who would
“ control the distribution of our course of instruction in
hypnotism,” and give practical hypnotic demonstrations
at a salary Of £3 10s. a week and commission, and the
Victorian College of Sciences was willing to make a great
reduction and teach the “ profession ” for £l. “Do not
fail to send with your remittance of £1 any further
references you may have,” the Victorian College of
Sciences remarked—not that the pound mattered, of
course ; the references were really the thing that the
great heart of the College of Sciences craved for. “ All
communications to be addressed to The Secretary ” —and
the only address of the secretary was a largish town in
Victoria, llow many pounds he got he hasn’t told The
Bulletin ; but, anyhow, he can have the joy of knowing
that he caused quite a lot of excitement on one Mel-
bourne morning.
* * * *
“Mel.”: The importing craze seems to have
got such a firm hold of Sydney that a customer can’t ask
for Australian-made articles in many of the naice shops
without getting insulted. Last week I went into the
lofty emporium of a Pitt-street boot retailer, and de-
manded a pair of shoes. I was shown a couple of gaudy
yellow articles for which the vendor asked 18s. 6d. I
informed him that when I lived in Melbourne I was in
the habit of paying not more than 12s. 6d. for shoes that
lasted from six to nine months. “Colonial,” he sniffed
with rare scorn. “ Yes,” I retorted, “ I take good care
that everything I wear is made here.” Julius Knight
would give five years of his life to acquire, for stage use
when he defies Harry Plimmer, the look of withering
contempt that that seller of boots cast on me. With a
glance at the boy, who laughed loud lest he should get
the sack, he cried dramatically, “You’re in the wrong
part of the city ; you’d better go down Paddy’s Market
way for what you want.” I went and got the same shoes
for 10s. The brand “ imported ” evidently costs Bs. 6d.,
which strikes me as a trifle expensive.
* * * *
St. Helena prison, where not all the worst
of Queenslanders go, has one little industry that the
labor unions don’t worry about—the growing of sisal
hemp. Several ton lots of fibre have been sold lately
to southern ropemakers for as much as £37 10s. per
ton. He was a cynical humorist who first suggested that
St. Helena should grow its own hemp ; but his name is
unrecorded.
One product of the million or so squandered
by the North Lyell Mining Co. is the dead hamlet
of Darwin (Tas.). Unlike the ruins of Babylon and
Pompeii, Darwin is all above ground. Twenty-five houses
remain in various stages of decay, mute witnesses of the
shocking management of the defunct and flukey North.
Lyell. The railway from Kelly’s Basin to Linda was well
built, and is kept in good order by the Lyell company.
The locomotives in the running sheds at Kelly’s Basin
bear the names of “ Crotty,” “Lonergan,” and “Mackay”
—which were the names of three directors who have
joined Mitchell, another colleague, across the bar.
Everybody connected with the North Lyell Company
seems to be dead ; and the two villages of Daryvin and
Crotty keep them company. Possibly they may be resur-
rected one day, as more attention is being paid to the
big copper deposits on Mounts Jukes and Darwin.
“ P.” (who is an Early Christian of simple
faith, though without long whiskers): My heart misgives
me that my Methodist brethren have not that perfect
trust which casteth out fear. Lo, they have insured their
churches against fire, in a worldly office which chargeth
premiums that it may secure dividends. Doth an insur-
ance policy betoken a true faith ? Consider the lilies.
They insure not, neither do they establish a guarantee
fund. Why pay premiums, oh ye of little faith? The
burning bush was not consumed. Elijah was fed by the
ravens. Take no thought for the morrow. The collection
will now be took.
* • » •
“ H.”: One of the best investments in Sydney at
present is to build houses for letting purposes on
leasehold blocks. A 99 years’ lease of a villa site can
be secured for a ground rental of from £5 to £lO yearly
without bonus, and, in 99 years’ time, the villa erected
according to modern ideas of construction will be fit for
nothing but the professional demolisher. Furl her, there
is a very great likelihood that, long before the 99 years
are over, private ownership in land will be either abolished
or made a very uncomfortable amusement. The holder
of a 99 years’ lease is consequently in just as strong a
position as the freeholder, who pays what, worked out
on an actuarial basis, is about five times as much. The
short-sightedness of persons who imagine they are im-
mortal accounts for the lack of competition for leasehold
properties.
» • * *
“I’d rather you gave me a diff’rent half-crown
from that one,” a Melbourne tram conductor said to a
Bulletin writer the other day. The passenger thought
it a good half-crown, though a little worn. But
the conductor explained that the Octopus takes
no risk with coins which it is conceivable
the banks may reject. The autocrat who collects
the gilt from the man with the punch-bell makes
himself the sole judge of the excellence of a coin, and, if
he sniffs at it, the brother in the blue coat must find
another to replace it, and take his chance of passing it off
again. The tram conductor has to take silver in a bigger
hurry than anybody else except a railway ticket man, or
the deacon with a church plate, but the Octopus won’t let
any of the risks fall on its mammoth dividends. With
the paid “ spotters ” constantly ready to report him if he
misses collecting a fare, and the worry of his chance of
having to make up a bad half-dollar out of his 7s. at the
end of a day, the man who punches tickets for the Cuttle-
fish doesn’t lead too happy a life.
* » * »
Some philanthropic person should take out
injunctions against the storekeepers and pub men who
supply mining correspondence to country papers, because
the items are all delusions, and frauds, and snares, and
webs to enmesh the unwary or inexperienced. A bit of
gold, or opal, or some other mineral is found at a place.
Immediately someone opens a store or a pub. Then he
becomes correspondent for the nearest rag, and sends in
reports that “ this field is going ahead wonderfully,”
when really it is moribund; or “there are about 200
people on the field,” while in reality; there are from 30 to
33. This sort of thing is kept up/and copied into the
metropolitan dailies, and men from all parts'of the
country see it, and rush there to do in their £5 or £lO,
and go away broke. But those £5 or £lO windfalls keep
the storekeeper or publican going, and he laughs like
Beelzebub and sends in another fabrication about the
prosperity of the dead place.
♦ * * •
Brown was owner of a small piece of land
which, from the song of a little bird, he understood
the Vic. Government coveted. He thought a political
estate agent, an inside runner, would, as a friend, pro-
cure him a liberal price. “Certainly,” said Jones,
“ place it in my hands for three months at £3OO option.”
But it was Gulliver who sold it to the Government, just
on the last day of the three months’ term, and the price
was £l2OO. Jones, ag-ent number one, had given an
option to Smith, agent number two, at £5OO. Smith
gave it to his friend Jackson at £7OO ; Jackson to Dooley
at £9OO ; and Dooley to Gulliver at £lOOO. .Gulliver, tue
real expert of the crowd, brought the sale off. The foot-
marks of Jones, Smith, Jackson and Dooley were all
visible on the Minister’s doormat. They had all tried and
failed, and then passed the job on. It was a wonderful
instance of perseverance—and commission.
* * * *
“F.C.” : Isn’t there anything in the Commerce
Act that will squelch the evil habit the foreign calico manu-
facturer has of faking his goods with lime ? Recently, in
a whitework factory, I was surprised to see the sewing
machines smothered with white dust. Every particle of
this came from the cheap calico that was being worked
up into underclothing for women and children, much of
it necessarily worn next the skin. At the first wash this
would come out, and the material would remain little
thicker than muslin—but every woman might not have
the sense to wash it before wearing., Fancy the effect of
lime— of all things—on a child’s delicate skin !If these
manufacturers must load their shoddy, can’t they at least
be restricted to the use of flour or rice or some physically
non-injurious swindle and robbery ?
* * * *
“S.S.” : He was a travelling tinker, umbrella
repairer, scissors sharpener, glazier, gardener and general
handy man. He was well on in years, his burden of tools
and materials was a heavy one, and the day was hot; He
was having a fierce altercation with the stout woman
next door over payment for work and labor done, and
when he discovered me on the verandah he put in an
appeal for sympathy. “ Never you go hawkin’ your
labor,” he said, “ ’cause if you do you’ll find them what’s
loudest in abusin’ a man fer not lookin’ fer work
the first to take advantage of you. People have a
strong idea that the bloke that carts his tools round
from door to door, doin' odd jobs Of any kind, is a cadger,,
and a miserable worm, and they treat him accordin’. Bv
start out at seven in the mornin’; I keep goin’ whilep
there’s daylight; I do anythin’ that’s offerin’,
mendin’ a clock to buildin’ a ehimbley, but curse me* if:
people will admit I’m anythin’but a beat. You heard
that woman just now. I mended her umbrella, patched*
two pans, and sharpened a carvin’ knife, and when I
bucked at the sixpence she offered in payment she ups
and sez: ‘You impudent rascal, I only gave you the
work out of charity!’ Lor’ blime, Melbourne’s full of
people wantin’ a quid’s worth of work fer twopen’orth of
charity.” Then he shuffled along, justifiably cursing.
* * * *
A Fat woman came one day into a leading tea-
shop. She was all shiny with sequins and patent leather
and ornaments of polished gold. The tea-shop was one
of those which make a special feature of tea at a shilling,
while their top line is half-a-crown. Madam, in a loud
voice, demanded a pound of herbs at half-a-guinea.
She’d never been to India Or the Chinese Empire, and
didn’t know tea from tan, but she wanted something very
elaborate, and, in buying either tea or pictures, she con-
sidered the price the thing to go by. There was a
hurried consultation of juniors—all the seniors had gone
round the corner to see about the sale of some empty
packing-cases. “Well,” said the seniorest junior, “if
she must ’ave ’er tea at ’alf-a-guinea, let ’er ! Give ’er a
pound o’ the ’alf-crown, and charge ’er the ’alf-guinea.
We can’t afford to lose trade ! ” And, sure enough, the
Fat woman with the sequins and shiny trappings took
home her pound of leaf, and was quite satisfied.
* * * *
The boss of a way-out Queensland pub has
just got the surprise of his life. He had dropped in “ a
plug er two er ’bacca” to give the rum a flavor, and the
Law came and charged him at great length with keeping
for sale a spirituous liquor, to wit, rum, with which a
poisonous substance, to wit, nicotine, had been inixed.
‘ 1 ’Bacca a poisonous substance ! ” he exclaimed, with pro-
found contempt for the Law, whose innards are evidently
made of tissue paper. But the Law fined him £lOO, and
went on its way, leaving an incredulous pub-keeper
behind it.
THE PARABLE OF THOMSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Thomson toiled for twenty years —
For twenty years and something over—-
At grubbing stumps and raising steers,
And getting paddocks under clover.
He worked with spade and plough and axe,
He did his modicum of shearing,
And yearly built increasing stacks,
Fit centre to his spacious clearing.
In time he had a cattle-shed,
A house attractive, neat and cosy,
And came to own his fifty head—
The prospect ever grew more rosy.
Of course, he had his overdraft,
But that sat on his shoulders lightly ;
And ever in his constant graft
Old John was active, gay, and sprightly.
The future caused him little doubt,
He said the fates had used him sweetly,
Until a bushfire burnt him out,
And wiped Johh Thomson’s slate completely.
It licked up house and stack and shed,
The standing crop, the grass and fences ; •
It caught and cooked his fifty head,
Which, silly brutes, all lost their senses.
Of twenty years of solid graft
There wasn’t left a single thistle,
All went (except the overdraft)
As clean as any penny whistle.
He saw things vanish in a swipe,
All he had gained by long- endurance,
Then sat him doivn and filled his pipe
At least he had the small insurance.
Vain hope ! John Johnson’s little claim
The company declined to settle ;
It dallied with excuses lame,
And got the old man on his mettle
He sought the aid of fickle courts,
Who argued out his conflagration.
Till —vide recent law reports—-
He soon was sunk in litigation.
At last he got a Settlement—
It took an age to get decided —
It barely covered what he’d spent
Among the lawyers, when divided.
They’d hustled well, the legal craft,
They won. the Case for him as stated ;
They’d moved things (bar the overdraft),
And John was much congratulated.
An old man with a weedy horse—
The man himself is lank and weedy—
Ploughs weedy fields upgrown with gorse
That every year is just as seedy.
He haunts a humpy, squat and queer,
In unkempt paddocks vegetating ;
His interest is in great arrear.
The mortgagee is merely waiting !
vie.
C. G. A. COLLES.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
tSfie LEADING
HOUSE
FOR
(Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
»
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
[CANT
B
BEAT
nmnraßßßmi!
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6| to 71b.; of 16-gauge, to 6|lb
We are the Sole Agents in N.S'.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Tlx© Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, l-'ain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
B©WBjPe of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simplenminded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i*
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc ,||y.
IUQTI AC -Hearne's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
* the youngest child and the most aged person. __
FOJ\
BOSISTO’S
**PARROT ■
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
CHHnaDnMBBV
\ SUBSTITUTES^
MERE’S A BARGAIN !
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT—•
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, "
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE.
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
dfg
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand A.-cade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
Th# Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1586.
illlf
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weik Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.
fd
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of-a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gtent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £], for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
gdfd
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds* worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
g
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your Solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
ever seen. Everybody wants picture post cards, afnd if you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own
use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay vou a penny for each”one you
wish to dispose of ; thus you get double the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs., or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSINC ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
fdgdfg
fdg
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel,
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
fd
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Ic. TACKET OF TE::, tOd.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Ladies:—
The Secret
Of a
Fair Face
Is a
Beautiful
Skin.
Sulphur Bitters
Will give you
A lovely
Complexion.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so advertis.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount ojy
praise will insure its success —therefore
I give you a bottle of my remedy. to try,
before purchasingany; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, and I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Fits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World. . . ..
A safe remedy-approved by the
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum SL, Bloomsbury, London,
.England.
Send II- for parcel postage to the Colonies.


Dr. 5heldon’s
New Discovery.
Of all the new discoveries in medical
science, the most remarkable in recent years
is one which will prove invaluable to
thousands of people, and which it is believed
will take the place of all other remedies for
the cure of coughs, colds and consumption.
The preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs, Colds, and Consump-
tion, and is a scientific compound of great
merit. It is most healing to the lungs and
throat, and cures the cough or cold in a
remarkably short time, leaving no bad after-
effects. As it contains no opiates or other
poisons, it is a perfectly safe remedy for
children, and is particularly good for croup
and whooping cough. The dose is small,
and it is pleasant to take.
What a Well-Known Chemist has to say
oe Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Sheldon Drug Co.,
15 O’Connell-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —Last week I took home a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs, Colds, and Consumption. I obtained
this for my two boys, aged seven and four
years. The elder lad had a nasty, trouble-
some cough and cold ; the other a bad cold
and a cough just beginning to trouble him.
They each took your cough remedy, which,
by the way, they liked immensely, and in
two days the cough and cold of the younger
boy had entirely disappeared, having been
cut short in good time, and at the end of the
third day the elder boy was absolutely cured.
Being a chemist for seventeen years, I am
naturally somewhat antagonistic to pro-
prietary and patent medicines, but in this
instance I must recognise and acknowledge
the efficiency and merit of your excellent
preparation and give credit where credit is
due. I was greatly pleased with the mar-
vellous and striking curative and soothing
properties of your admirable remedy, which,
I will add, from a pharmaceutical standpoint,
is splendidly compounded.—Yours faithfully,
CHARLES A. FINCH,
Ph. C., M.P.S., etc.
Kuranda, Boyce-street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is procurable
from all chemists and storekeepers, or, if
not obtainable locally, will be posted upon
receipt of the price by the Sheldon Drug
Co., 15 O’Connell-street, Sydney. Price 1/6
and 3/- ; large size for hospital use, 5/-.
CURES.
Brig'Ht’s Disease. —From Mr. William John Yuille, Harveytown, Eaglehawk,
Bendigo, Vic., Ist Septenil er, 1905.
“Despite all the skill and attention bestowed on me by the hospital doctors and nurses, I
gradually grew worse, the doctors having diagnosed my complaint as Bright’s Disease. The doctors
gave me up as incurable, and gave me but a few weeks longer to live. I was then taken from the
hospital to my home to die (as my friends thought), as my father did not wish me to die in the
hospital. Bijt I had a feeling within myself that there was hope whilst there was life, and, unlike my
friends, I did not give up in despair. On the way home my father procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe
Cure, but, on arrival, I was in a state of collapse from the shaking I had undergone on the way. My
father, thinking that the Safe Cure would do me no harm if it did me no good, gave me a small dose,
continuing to do so at intervals throughout the day. I felt a little better, the agonising pain being
less severe. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and was soon able to get a little rest and sleep,
and my strength very gradually returned. My friends began to have hopes of my ultimate
recovery. Each day investigation shewed less albumen. My health steadily improved. Each
bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure I took hastened my recovery. I was then able to get up and about, and
in less than three months was restored to perfect health and strength. From that time up to the
present I have had no return of the disease, and for six years have been in constant employment on
the mines.” , •
Bladdd* Disease. —From Mr. F. H. White, 37 Errol-street, West Footscray, Vic.,
9th April, 1906.
“ About eight years ago, when living in Gippsland, I had occasion to do some heavy work on our
farm there, and brought on a disorder of the bladder, which caused me to suffer excruciating pain in
the bladder and other organs, especially in my side and back. A brick-dust like sediment pre-
cipitated in my water. At frequent intervals I suffered torture. The pain became' so severe at last
that I was not able to get about. I tried a number of medicines with no effect until I commenced to
take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking one bottle of that medicine my condition was
much improved, and the pain less violent. Continuing to take the medicine, I gradually grew better,
and my urine became clear and free from deposits. All symptoms of my deplorable condition have
now ceased. I enjoy very good health and can honestly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure for bladder
troubles.”
Liver Disease. —From Mrs. Mary Maher, 18 Burrahpore-street, Sydney, N.S.W,
17th March, 1906.
“For a number of years I have suffered from sick-headaches, indigestion, and biliousness. At
times I became quite dizzy and almost afraid to venture into the street. My blood was poor and
watery. I tried many medicines, hoping to get relief, but without success. 1 was nearly in despair
when, on the advice of a friend, I decided to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. After taking about two
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure the headaches entirely left me, and in the course of a month I found a
wonderful improvement in my general health. I gained strength rapidly, and as my strength returned
the dizziness ceased to trouble me. I can now eat and sleep and attend to my household work with
ease and comfort.”
Rheumatism. —From Mrs. Mary Regelsford, 84 Gerard-street, Alexandria, N.S.W.,
26th October, 1905.
“I was laid up with acute Rheumatism and Rheumatic Fever for eleven weeks, and for eight
weeks of that time I was quite a cripple, being unable to get about at all. I was treated by a Sydney
doctor, but after taking his medicine only got relief for a little while. I then thought a change might
do me good, so I went away, and while away I got so bad that we called in another doctor. He pre-
scribed for me, but I only seemed to get temporary relief. I also tried many professed cures for Rheu-
matism, both internal and external, but could get no relief whatever. I was beginning to get very
down-hearted after trying so many medicines. Finally I made up my mind to take Warner’s Safe
Cure. Altogether I took seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and one bottle of Warner’s Safe Rheu-
matic Cure. After taking the second bottle I began to feel a change, so I persevered with the treat-
ment and found that I was improving with every dose I took. The result was, that I was thoroughly
cured. I can honestly say that I feel like a new woman, being now able to attend to my household,
duties, washing included. You are at liberty to use this letter as you like, so as to benefit others who
may suffer as I have.
A pamphlet containing many similar letters will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Co.,
Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, proprietors of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Bowery’s Mistake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. AND MRS. BOWERY stood
together on the apex of an untenanted
ant-hill, and surveyed the red ochre
prospect before them. Mrs. Bowery’s brown
arm, modelled like that of a sculptured Juno, was
slung proteetingly across Mr. Bowery’s shoulder.
Mr. Bowery, not to be outdone in a point of
chivalry, encircled a section of his Juno’s waist
with a lean arm covered extravagantly with red
hairs. Mrs. Bowery was crying a little.
“’Tain’t no manner o’ use crying over spilt
milk, nor repining, over what’s got to be,” she
said at last, with useful philosophy.
Mr. Bowery conceded meekly, as became the
owner of such a meagre red arm, that it would be
worse than foolish to regret the overturning of
Fate’s saucer, or to decline to accept the inevit-
able.
Together they surveyed the scene, and Mrs.
Bowery’s handsome, steadfast eyes overflowed
afresh. Such as it was, in all its grim inhospi-
tality, it was her home, and as such had endeared
itself to her by the very unutterableness of its
desolation.
Before, behind, and around them stretched
burning, sunbaked plains, dotted over by fester-
ing carcases, once the life their selection carried.
Circling crows swarmed overhead between the
red earth and blue ether. The watercourse, like
a series of dry, blistered mouths, was strewn with
whitebon.es, and save for the presence of a clump
of mauled and worried saltbush, and a lonesome
gum or two, vegetation there was none.
The sight goaded Bowery into unusual speech.
"If,” lie began diffidently,' “ you’d only got that
there legacy as you was always talking about
before I married you we could have turned the
water on to this place, or sunk a bore, and there
wouldn’t ha’ been any need for me at my time o’
life to have started peggin’ out a fresh claim,
grubbin’ and clearin’ and moilin’ again after we’d
got this place tidy'.”
Mrs. Bowery agreed that the fact of his having
cherished, unfulfilled expectations, of which she
was the indirect cause, was disappointing, and
quite enough to give rise to just indignation under
the sandy hairs decorating Bowery’s breast.
“Anyhow,’* she finished in her philosophical
way, “it was none of my doin’s that the old man
is still alive and strong in his appetite, even if he
does slobber himself, and after all he had as good
arightto go on livin’, if he finds any fun in it,
as we have.”
Bowery curled up like a singed leaf, and mur-
mured that he did not mean anything disrespect-
ful to his wife’s grandfather, and that the old man
was welcome to go on living by all means if, as
she suggested, he found any fun in it. Bowery
spoke with the dejection of one to whom fun was
an unknown thing.
They descended the ant-hill and went home.
Tea was ready in the lean-to, where the tempera-
ture stood at 102° under the iron roof. The meal
was a meagre affair of salt mutton, damper, and
cold dried peas, floated down by tea out of an
iron teapot, which tea needed but little en-
couragement to stand alone.
Afterwards the children cleared off and washed
up, with a sparing hand on the water. There
were two children, magnificent animals both,
with all their mother’s build and physique, her
fiery untamed eye, and skin like the brown of a
Cochin China hen’s egg.
Mr. Bowery’s carpet bag was packed, and stood
mreadiness inside the “settin’ room.” All Mr.
Bowery’s garments had a cloudy appearance owing
to the fact that they were washed, boiled and
rinsed in the one water and that water was of
the consistency of pea soup.
It was the third year of the drought, and the
Boweries were about to give it up. The cause of
Mr. Bowery’s cloudy raiment being neatly packed
man archaic carpet bag, mended with raw hide,
was that a neighboring team was to give him a
hft to the main road, where he would catch the
mail coach, and after two days’ travelling, pick up
the train and thence board the steamer which was
to convey him to his destination up the coast,
here he was to take up a new selection and scrape
enough together to send, in due time, for his wife
end children. .Mrs. Bowery wondered when that
time would arrive, for she knew the listless nature
° rm Jwer ß hut she said nothing of her doubts.
. fine sun, like a blood-red ball, was just prepar-
to bowl over.the earth’s burnt crust once more,
when the Boweries, a sorrowful quartette, stood
to say good-bye. Mr. Bowery was visibly
ru te d ' n a small way, and this moved the
children to emotion. They expressed their feel-
mgs by brushing Bowery vigorously. There was
nothing to be said about business arrangements.
Mrs. Bowery was to care for the old place as best
®e could, subsisting on the proceeds till Bowery
“p “knocked up” a new place for her. She was
a ® to care for her cute and aged grandfather,
"'ho had the appetite of a scrub wallaby, and
VrU WaS k nown to possess wealth so carefully
widen that none of his relatives could get at it.
it was hidden with such extra eare that he didn’t
see ® able to get at it himself to pay for his board,
■'C the old man consistently owed for his quarters
ln the back bedroom, and for as much cold
mutton and black tea as the means of the Boweries
' f °nld run to.
As a cloud of dust appeared on the horizon, the
ami y went out to the slip-rails. The cloud
into a dray and four skeleton bullocks.
% officiously deposited the carpet bag in the
tay ’ whilq Margaret, with great solicitude,
jf, , an empty corn sack across the slab whereon
.tather was to rest.
~>long old girl,” said Bowery. “ So-long,
gull » ont fi° r get the best water’s in the long
They watched till the concrete shape had
in !F d ! nto t * le abstract and hung, a cloud of dust,
j Qe distance. Then the woman went inside
her lon ”’ weary fight with
1 °ugbt, des.olation and disease.
,3® doctor’s verdict was final. Grandfather
turle vG 16 ’ In spifce of llis £ rim Pioneer forti-
l, ne w as to leave a world that had never with-
u tr ° m him C orned mutton, dried peas, and
f>ional rice enlivened with the presence of
Aron and currants. Yes, the old man was to
J ,7with toothless gums he reviled death,
with gnarled hands he held it at bay.
“vp?ot- Wlth r the passins of grandfather came the
r r ation of wealth, piled sovereign on sovereign,
< >n ,alulhn g’ tying in the city banks,
andfather was no loss. He was an uncleanly
nilt w as a cross old man, too, and he
■ith r lnto “is beard and menaced the children
k ,„ ms These things notwithstanding,
ves .w? 8 f acc sh °wed anguish as his bleared
S’l besou K h , t her - The old man was a
i the past—the past that had been befor e
Fate hitched up as her mate the little travesty of
a man, whom, in her fine tolerance, she refused
to recognise as a travesty.
It was five years since Bowery had gone.
Letters had come at first, telling of the big pre-
cipitous fight the mannikin was putting up to tame
the unbroken scrub into a curbed and bridled farm.
But these letters had grown scarcer and finally
stopped altogether, and alone and unaided the
woman fought the battle of life at long odds out
on the lone far west, and pictured Bowery
wrestling single-handed with timber giants, and
taking the forest by the beard, and tearing it
down with his hands. All these long years she
was true to the man “on the.coast” who was
making a home so arduously that he had not even
time to write to her.
So in lonely aloofness she buried her dead,
sold off or gave away her small possessions, and,
w-ith her newly-acquired capital, she and the
children set out to surprise Bowery. As became
a person of wealth, a frilled cushion of turkey
twill was tied on to the plank seat in the dray for
Mrs. Bowery, and as she sat thereon she experi-
enced the first delicious thrills which are born of
wealth.
♦ -k * *
Mrs. Bowery was excited, but standing on the
steamer deck, in her neat, tailor-made gown of
blue serge, self-contained and silent as her wont,
she merely appeared impassive. As the steamer
wound in and out among the islets and narrow
defiles of the tortuous northern river, and she
saw for the first time masses of festooned creepers
and giant trees of Nature's planting, with waving
cane and smooth pastures sloping down to the
water’s edge where the hand of man had been
laid, she was silent with that silence which has
its origin in awe.
This was to be her home henceforth, and in
these pleasant places and with Bowery was her
lot cast. Her bosom swelled at his memory.
How surprised he would be, and how delighted !
She could almost see his pale eyes fill with en-
thusiasm when he returned to his lonely house to
find her there. Of course, there was no one to
meet her when the boat finally sidled up to the
wharf, so she hired a buggy. The laconic question,
“ D’yer know Bowery’s?” received the equally
laconic answer, “Yes, a matter o’ five mile,” and
they started.
As they pulled up at the sliprails the driver
asked if he should drive in. But Mrs. Bowery
was not without dramatic instincts, and she pre-
ferred a coup of her own planning. “Supposin’
Bowery’s anywheres handy he’d see, and that’d
spoil all,” she thought as she dismounted in her
stiff blue dress.
They walked along the meandering little path
and came suddenly on the house. It was a poor
little shanty, roofed with sheets of stringy bark,
and its shut wooden windows gave it the appear-
ance of a blind mendicant supplicating alms.
Mrs. Bowery’s heart beat as she espied a blue
shirt hanging to dry on a shrub by the tank. “ I
believe it is the one he went away in,” she thought
reverently, unconsciously clothing Bowery with
all the virtues, including a shirt of five years’
standing.
As a matter of politeness only, seeing that the
knotted string which levered the wooden hasp
hung at her fingers, she knocked. At the impact
of her knuckles a shower of whitewash fell from
the boards. This she expected, but not the light
footstep which she heard on the inside.
“We don’t want any cotton, nor embroidery,
norhandkerchiefs to-day—nor sewing machines,
nor medicine books, thank yer.” The tone, com-
ing through the closed door, was weak and con-
ciliatory, and betrayed the presence of a timid
temperament.
Mrs. Bowery knocked again. Was she to be
thus bearded in her own den, or contumaciously
dismissed as a book agent ?
{ ‘ I ain’t a hawker. I want Bowery,” she said
tersely, jerking the string. The door fell open
with a groan of relief, and revealed a woman, tall,
young, straggling, and with the remnants of faded
prettiness. In her arms was a baby with pink-
rimmed eyes; on to her skirts hung another.
Mrs. Bowery looked inquiringly at the woman.
Then her glance fell on the children, and she
knew.
She shut her eyes momentarily on a black mist
and opened them on tongues of living flame.
Every rag with which centuries of civilisation had
clothed the primitive passion slipped away, and
jealousy stood revealed in its nakedness, untamed
and unquenchable. Jealousy which knows no law
scorched her with the sudden blast of its fervid
intensity, and at the sight of the man’s children
which were not hers, her strong, shapely frame
squared itself for action, while lines of cruelty
traced themselves on her handsome face.
“Who are you?” asked the woman with the
baby on her hip.
“ I’m Bowery’s missus. These here’s Bowery’s
kids. ”
“ You lie ! ” Venom leapt to the faded eyes of
the tall, straggling woman, and she also cleared
the decks for battle. “You lie! I'm Bowery’s
wife. These here’s his kids.”
Something tore and clutched at Mrs. Bowery’s
throat.
“How long?”
“Four years.”
“Ssh.” The sound was that which a small,
apologetic man might make going on all fours in
dried grass. But no one heeded. With one
powerful hand outspread and swinging fiercely,
Mrs. Bowery caught the woman facing her on the
cheek.
With the scream of a tiger cat, the straggling
woman bounded on her assailant. The timid
person, who cowered behind closed doors in
mortal fear of hawkers and stray passers-by, was
converted into a raging tornado, fearing neither
God nor man—let alone woman. As ahull rashes
at the picador, she hurled herself on her foe.
Mrs. Bowery was bred on the scorching plains,
and unused to superfluous clothing. With one
wrench she tore open her buttoned serge coat
from neck to waist, and tossed it as-de. Hex-
great eyes blazed, and her polished arms, now
revealed, glistened in the sun. The younger
Boweries had never seen their mother’s magnifi-
cent proportions bared for fight before. When
she stripped for battle she suggested a Greek
statue —not that the young Boweries had ever
met Greek statuary at Byrock, or thereabouts.
Thus the Boweries of one family danced in glee
behind their mother, while the Boweries of the
other wept in doleful duet behind theirs. But
the women, heedless of the varying emotions of
their offspring, were fighting for their rights, and
they struck out with a whole-heartedness worthy
of a better cause.
Back and forth they swayed till Bowery,
watching them from the security of a fallen tree,
was convinced he had better do something. What
that something was to be Bowery, in his ex-
tremity, could not say. He resented the situation
as savoring of a greatness which was thrust upon
him, never, with his limited logic, l-ealising
that the greatness was of his own achieving.
The Boweries of the elder family descried him
first. “ There’s dad, mum ! ” they shouted, with
evident relish of the introduction of a fresh
element into the situation.
As Bowery reluctantly left his ambush and
began tacking towards them, the arms of the
women fell to their sides by common consent, and
they faced him. This naturally had the effect of
making his approach more diffident, and diffidence
in a man is not a becoming garment.
Both women regarded him critically as he
shambled forward. They noted his light-colored
eyes with one lid drooping, his moleskin bagging
over small legs, his large head and thin ape-like
arms abnormally covered with red hairs. And as
they watched, each woman mentally appraised
him at his invoice price. Yet each, filled with the
lust of blood, desired to fight for him to the finish.
Bowery waited for the women to make the first
move. The women waited for Bowery. One was
still because of the fury of hate which silenced
her; the other, because hers had always been a
waiting game.
Then the woman in possession ran to him and
hugged him where the trousers bagged most.
“ Tell her to go,” she screamed. “ Tell that jade,
that baggage, to clear out of here ! ”
He looked helplessly at the woman dispos-
sessed. She broke in mockingly :
“Which of us’s got to go, Bowery ? Which do
you love best, my man ? ”
Bowery glanced at the woman who draped her-
self round him, and the possession which is nine
points of the law settled matters in her favor.
He said apologetically : “You’d better get, Em.
I’ve sorter got used ter things here, and then the
little ’uns are so small, and she’s a poor, helpless
soul.”
Mrs. Bowery recalled her adversary’s recent
helplessness, but she merely put on her jacket
and wiped her face.
“Bowery,” she said sweetly, as she turned to
go, “I’ve got grandfather’s fortune —twenty thou-
sand pounds. Good-bye, Bowery.”
It was then Bowery recognised that he had
made the mistake of his life.
MARY LEITH.
“ Agricola ” writes
Curious specimens of the christening- art are to be
found in the names given by miners to their claims.
Repetition grows monotonous ; you can nearly always
depend on finding the “Day Dream,” “Star of Hope,”
and “ Brilliant,” etc. Often, however, you find the
“ Star of Hope ” trying to live down some such nick-
name as “ The Leaking Ghost,” and “ The Reward ” cut
down to “ The Fraud.” But among the hills round Turn-
barumba (N.S.W.) I struck a patch of originality. One
sluicing claim, the owners of which built the flumes and
boxes themselves out of rough-split bush timber, holds
its shingle out as “The Rough and Ready Effort.” A
mile farther down the same creek is “ The Bright and
Shining Venture.” Another claim is “ The Smooth and
Shiny Sparklers.” As for “The White Elephant,” its
name records its owner’s candid opinion of it.
A Bulletin man here intrudes with some experi-
ences of the very long back days when he pursued
—and seldom overtook—the shining dwt. The
new “ Yankee Doodle ” claim on the Maoriland
West Coast was doing well, so some one took up
the next ground to the north and called it the
“ Yankee Doodle-doo.” Then an adjoining bit on
the south became the “ Cock-a-doodle,” and the
“ Cock-a-doodle-doo ” arose on the east, and when
the ground on the west was taken up there were
no more “ doodles,” so it was regretfully named
the “Shanghai Rooster.” Same man owned the
“Lost Soul” claim once, but that is a painful
topic.


KIDNEY TROUBLE IS SERIOUS.
It Comes on Unnoticed—but is Fatal if Neglected.
7a
'//' Uf*
aw:
m
*3
•*%
A
&
tf
'K
t
2
**Every Picture tells a Story.”
Have you suspected your kidneys as the cause of your trouble ?
Does your back, bead, or limbs ache ? Is there rheumatism, weak
heart, or dropsy ? Is there too great or too little flow of the urine, with
gravel or sediment ? Do you feel always tired, done up, nervous ?
These symptoms, and many more, come from unfiltered blood —blood
loaded with impurities that are poisoning every organ.
If, then, you would “ get well/’ you must make the kidneys well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys and
bladder only. They are a special kidney medicine (no ac-
tion on the bowels). They are nature’s greatest healing
medicine, because they heal the kidneys, the blood purifiers,
and help them in their great work.
Bead the following testimony from a Sydney
woman :
MOTHER AND CHILD CURED
Of Fackache and Weak Kidneys*
Mrs. Louis Smorti, 1 Little Selwyn-street, Moore Park, this city, says : —“I can
give Doan’s Backacae Kidney Pills a real good recommendation to all those who
suffer with weak kidneys. I have proved this medicine in the case of my little boy,
who had very weak kidneys. Every night he lay in discomfort in a wet bed, and
the secretions were very discolored. Indications showed that the kidneys were in a
very unhealthy condition. I heard of children having been cured of this complaint
by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but did not use them at first,'ll sd various other
remedies. After a good many failures, a friend again strongly urged me to try
Doan’s Pills. I resolved that I would give them a trial, and am very pleased to be
able to tell you that they have wrought a permanent cure. Two boxes were
quite sufficient in his case, and he has been quite well for over a year now.
“ I might also mention that Doan’s Pills proved very good in my own case. I
suffered with backaches, headaches, and giddiness. Some days I could scarcely get
about my work. I used four boxes, and am quite cured—and cured permanently,
for over a year has passed and I have had no return of the ailment.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
BacKache
Kid ney
■
when I am Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I am Dead I hope to rest beside
the noble sea,
But while I live I’ll do my best to help
humanity !
When I am Gone I’d like the surf to boom beneath
my grave,
But till I am beneath the turf my country’s flag
I’ll wave.
When I am Cold I’d like to sleep upon some head-
land tall;
Till then I trust I’ll help to keep my country’s
tower and wall.
We’re here to toil and sing and laugh, and death
looks far ahead,
The making of my epitaph I’ll leave till I am Dead.
Perhaps when in another sphere I’ll rectify life’s
kink.
And think great thoughts that, while I’m here, I
haven’t time to think.
Perchance I’ll lie and meditate upon assorted
things—
Just now I cannot truly state what size I’ll take
in wings !
When men are dead, they useless be to Gentiles
and to Jews.
Their widows soon pursue some He, and strangers
fill their shoes.
I don’t know who will fill my place —some Bill,
or Jim, or Ted—
’Twere well he did not show his face until I’m
really Dead !
When you are Dead, you married chaps, who will
possess your wives ?
Yea, who will wear your smoking caps, and live
contented lives ?
You do not know, but Someone will, for brief is
human woe;
Your wives will live with Jim and Bill instead of
Jack and Joe !
Take my advice —stay home o’ nights—get all the
bliss you can,
Before jmur lonely relict sights some sympathetic
man.
For widders are gregarious, and very prone to
wed—
You’ll be an unimportant cuss when you are
merely Dead !
When I am Dead I hope to drift beside the
sapphire sea;
But while I live a gun I’ll lift to keep my country
free.
When I am Gone, I trust my wife will soon forget
her woes.
At present I am full of life and she blooms like a
rose.
When I am Dust, I hope to rest upon some head-
land bold ;
Just now I find my lady’s breast is good to have
and hold !
There’s heaps of work for me to do, and death
seems far ahead,
I mean to graft and hustle through until I’m sure
I m Dead.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY
A Cracked Affinity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
miE Drunk staggered into Macleay-
street, and stopped opposite a brown
stone villa, trying to recollect the number
of the house in which he lived. The front windows
of the villa were wide open to catch the slightest
breath of air, and dressed in white, her picturesquely
untidy hair gleaming in the gaslight like fine spun
gold, a lovely girl stood at the piano, looking over
the shoulder of a young man with a soulful ex-
pression and brilliantined hair. The soulful one’s
fingers wandered over the keys, and an accom-
paniment floated out on the sweltering atmosphere.
All down the quiet street, grouped in the amethyst-
tinted electric light, little knots of foot passengers
stopped to hear her sing.
The night was hot. Even out there, under the
stars that swung in the liquid purple of cool, in-
finite space, it was like a Turkish bath. The
Drunk was very drunk, but he loved music and
felt that he must stay and hear her sing. He was in
the ruins of evening dress, and his new guinea
hat was mere debris. But still he had a soul. He
hung himself up on the iron fence, and, as there
was no liquid within reach, opened his mouth and
drank in the sweetness of her voice. It seemed
to fall around him in foamy cascades of gleaming
notes. Far away, from behind the sweetness of
it, he thought he caught an echo of the sea—a
haunting refrain of sadness. But that was the
blessed accompaniment, no doubt. He had an
imaginative mind, lie told himself, and he assured
the telegraph pole that he saw the notes clearly,
distinctly—yes, quite distinctly, lying in showers
along the pavement and in the gutter, emitting
a translucent splendor.
Her beautiful voice died down to a whisper,
making all his soul vibrate, and then with a
final crash, like that of a breaker on a reef, the
accompaniment ceased abruptly. He watched
the notes that shimmered along the pavement
with intense interest. They turned gray, the
light died slowly out of them, till finally they
ceased to be distinguishable. He clung to the
fence, striving, struggling to recreate that cascade
of diamond-like notes. Something snapped—what
was it; had he overstrained his brain in that
effort to recreate. Ah no, thank heaven, it was
only a waistcoat button. But it might have been
worse. Perhaps if he called and congratulated
her she might sing again—and when they asked
him to be seated, as they would certainly do, he
would lean back in the easy chair, and, closing
his eyes, just float away to Valhalla, or that other
place the Greek johnnies made, on those floods of
melody. It dawned upon him that he had more
of a soul when he was drunk than when he was
sober.
A tall figure in a blue uniform hove in sight.
The light flashed on the peak of his cap. The.
Drunk felt that it was a blot on the landscape.
He determined not to allow the blot to offend his
sight. He would turn his back on it, and he let
himself down from the fence. Perhaps he let
himself down a little too suddenly—for he fell in
a heap. Quietly, and with all the dignity that he
could muster, he climbed on to his feet, and pro-
ceeded unsteadily towards where the vision was
gazing out of the open window into the street,
That beast with the soulful expression and the
brilliantined hair, which probably smelt of violets,
was standing behind her. The Drunk stopped in
front of the window, and leaned heavily on the
stone fence. He took off what had an hour ago
been a hat, and courteously but vigorously bran-
dished the ruin. His dress-coat tore under the
arm as he did so.
“Hix-scuse me! I have not the pleasure of
knowing you, but, liic—l have just had the ex-
quisite de'light of hearing you sing. I have an
imaginative voice—no, not that—an imaginative
v—, no, no, mind —that’s what I mean, and I
could see the showers of notes fall on the pave-
ment, could see them shine and glow. Burg! It.
was very beauti-i —hie ’souse me !”
“Get out, you beast, you’re drunk !” said the.
young man in disgust.
“ Qui’ sho, qui’ sho ; and if you had any ’mag--
hi-nation, you’d be drunksh too, after lish’ning;
such exh-quishite melody, hie ! ”
The girl laughed.
“ He scored off you that time anyhow,” she.
said to her brother.
“You can’t go wrong with women as long as you.
flatter them,” snorted the brother.
“ Well, there’s no danger of you getting out of
your depth through going right with them,” she
said petulantly, seating herself before the piano.
The man stood at the window watching the.
apparition in blue bear down on the figure that
was now securely made fast to the top of the low
stone fence, and standing peacefully on his hat.
“Here comes Law and Order with both eyes
fixed on your admirer ! ” chuckled the brother.
“Well, Law and Order isn’t going to get him,”
she said with sudden determination. “If he.
h idn’t stopped to hear me sing, he would not
have been here, so I’m going to bring him inside,
the gate, where he will be safe.”
“ You’re mad ! ” gasped her brother.
The girl went out just as the policeman gripped
the incapable by the arm.
“Bring him inside on to the verandah seat,
please, officer,” she said, sweetly. The constable
paused amazed. “ What a narrow squeak ! ” he.
thought.
“ 1 was afraid he might slip down and strike
his face, Miss,” he said, apologetically, as he
steered the Drunk through the gate on to the
green seat on the verandah.
But the grip of the policeman had partially
sobered the Drunk. He somewhat realised his
position, and shame smote him where he lived.
He waited till the policeman had gone, and then,
rising unsteadily, murmured some words of
thanks, and stumbled out into the street. He felt
that he should lift his hat to the lady ere he went,
and he went round on all fours, till he found the
ruin. The policeman had also been standing on
it. He put it on thoughtfully, and the severed
brim fell over his ears like a halo. Then he took
it off with a courteous but unsteady gesture, and
escaped with difficulty in a cab.
* * * m
They were on their honeymoon. For a whole
fortnight he had just wandered round the leafy
recesses of the quiet resort on Brisbane Water,
and lain at her feet, listening to her as she sang.
She seemed to tread on air, and in her happiness
the music would gush from her lips.
“ I suppose it is very ridiculous of me to burst
out singing like this, dear, but I can’t help it,”
she said apologetically, bending down to embrace
his head, which was resting against her knee.
“ ‘The god of music dwelleth out of doors !’”
be murmured in reply. “ Do you know that out
here, among gums and oaks, your voice sounds
more beautiful than ever.it did in church or hall ?
I would like to stay here for ever, dear, and hear
you sing.”
“Dear heart,” gurgled Mrs. Greatrex, “it’s
delightful to hear you say so. Do you know,
Love, that we must have been created for one
another? Real affinities ! The very first time we
were introduced at that ball, your voice, your
face, your manner, all were quite familiar to me.
Why, at first I thought I had met you before.
Rut I understand better now. All the months
we were engaged I used to try and recall some
previous meeting, but now I know it was the
stirring of the affinity—the faint memory of
having loved you in some former existence.”
He kissed her.
“ And do you know, dear heart, one night I
told Reg about it, and he was horrid ?”
“What did he say?” said Greatrex, with a
sudden burst of energetic curiosity.
“Oh, he didn’t say anything, dear. He just
shrieked, held his sides, and rolled about on the
sofa as if he were in great pain. But he was always
horrid. I don’t really love him, dear.”
“He has no soul,” said Greatrex, watching an
.ant climb the toe of his boot.
“ No, dear, he hasn’t. But you believe we met
before that night we were introduced, don’t you,
dear ?”
“ I’m as certain of it as I am of my presence
here,” he said firmly.
“Of course we had met,” she gurgled once
more, kissing his back hair.
“ We got back about an hour ago,” said Greatrex
to his brother-in-law. “I took Lavinia home,
saw her settled down for a snooze, and came right
in here. Have you got time to come out ? ”
“ Oh, I guess so ! ”
“Oh, Reg, there’s one thing I’d like you to
oblige me about. Lavinia has some curious
notions about our meeting in a previous existence,
and that sort of thing. She’s very sensitive, you
know, and you would be sorry if you knew how
deeply she feels your eminently common-sensible
remarks on the subject. Just as well to let her
have the harmless little illusion, you know, old
fellow.”
Reg smiled broadly.
“You’re quite right, Greatrex, quite right. I’ll
never scoff at her ideas again.”
“That’s right. What are you drinking?”
* * * *
As Mrs. Greatrex went home in the tram one
day a few months later a distant refrain of
Wallace’s “Scenes that are Brightest” caught
her ear. It was years since she had played or
sung it. When she entered her little drawing-
room and looked into the rose-strewn garden she
found herself humming it. She went out and
ascertained how the dinner was progressing.
Then she went upstairs and removed her hat, and,
running down, she seated herself at the piano,
struck the overture, and sang it over.
She turned with a start. Her husband was
leaning on the sill of the open window, watching
her with silent worship. All in a flash a picture
rushed on her mind. Macleay-street, the lights
outside, a man leaning on the coping of the stone
fence round her brother’s tiny garden. She
stared at her husband m terror.
“ Excuse me -
She screamed. He scrambled through the
window and caught her by the shoulders in alarm.
“What’s the matter, Lavinia, dear; did I
scare you ? ”
“ Let me go ! Oh, you wretch, I hate you !”
C. A. JEFFRIES.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing at Calmain, N. S. W., whose portrait
is also given.
4 4 Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
would beconie so ill I would ha
to go into a neighbor’s house
until I was fit to walk again. I /
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
i
£ ‘ At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There ard many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER S S arsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills aet on the liver; they cure biliousness.
gfd
And Artistic
POST CARDS
%
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we /will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 3s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Lathes’ or Gent’s Stiver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take air the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
2» wStmm.
YX7ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
T “ BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ot. Cold-Riled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING , Colo’s
Book ArcaNe, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
fy.
% rvy
m
\Y,
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and WpmeJn.
We will give Free son venting
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read! by all
.Men and Women. If you are weak in ahy way
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
g
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
hicon- .
fdg
fd
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
gfd
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36.8 ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & 80., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Tn interesting
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the"
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on,APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
At/dress : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
g
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frve, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Cbnfassions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fr«e, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lints of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
How
?
are
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for ** How are you?” Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion* or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECHAM'S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for giving strength to the stomach* correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Fit.
You
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 \ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send ypur.••
Rabbit iSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
———TO —H
HILL, CLARK <a CO.,
SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
Era PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand,
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
a Gentleman having trie* in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o£ charge, to any-
one interested,
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
dfg
EHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemitts.
The Bulletin
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.’' From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norinan Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Sourer, G. Rambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. *
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
SIU George Street, Sydney.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
z>
MEN
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Uobertsi n and Co., bid., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, anti 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Cclcred
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical woik published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. JS r o similar book has ever been published.
ETD ET |T A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
11 ' giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST /-SEE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on l)r. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s five Lectures on “Special” Ailments pasted
anywhere on receipt of Is (id (stamps). 83gf”/Vote Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “&na*y House, ” EHzabeth-st.
Please mention this paper when writing. hydf PARK, SYDNEY.


HOT
WATER
BAGS
fd
gfd
gfd
The Very Best ,
Qua'ity, with |
Patent Stopper!
and Handle. '
Without
Sizes. Covers.
12in. x (till. 7/-
12ih. x Sin. 8,-
l‘2in. x loin. 8/6
THESE WE Gl!
Sealette
Covers.
7/9
Si-
-916
Perdriau Rubber Co,ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
Our List ot Winter Requirements Free on Request.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
g
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi s marvel ous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
fdg
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address-
fd
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
O | RUM D St lIJ
01ilir©Vl« DllUOij
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
gdfg
fd
g
fdg
If
fd
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries.. Weight about lSlb . (inerareii bv corn etss'wl air. consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
ot air per minute. Only GN3 WORKING PARi— Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE
LEMPIftSB
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
gfd
Sold
by
all first?
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 81761 2-HLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21 - N
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PM! PA’
POCKET
KNII/ES
are the
BEST.
&
*
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*»*■
■
-ilfiilHW-
a*.
=s*?—*r
. ;fT '-r
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
' All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/*
u
S 5
Ei
H
S 3
P 5
O
09
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Solf* Ag'ents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL sizes fund FOR ALL PURPOSES,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.fi§. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Bopes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
THE
TELEPHONES—BB2 and 2435 CENTRAL.
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
g
Silvertouin j
279 GEORGE S h
m
SYDNEY, N.S,
1
i
k
m
s
m
■m
I . 4
—-
NITER,
THE HAND MACHINE
for Laboratory
THE POWER SIZE
2 to 3 cwt. per
is invaluable
Work.
will grind
hour.
Winding ENGINES
Of Superior /Design and
Workmanship.
Single and Soluble Cylinder.
——— ■ m S -
From 5 to ff Cylinders.
We*can give you Good Valued I** 1 ** Satisfaction.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
BEET,
263 GEORCrX;
T
SYD
