

The Bulletin
V01.28._N0. 1425.]
[Thursday, June 6, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
A.
FOR
PARTICULAR PEOPLE
I
R. G. WATEIINS CO.,
107 Kent street. Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS for KiRCHMER'S
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists.
m
P
—mii
UOBArtT.
— —""
jjadley’s Orient fiotel
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Sou Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pinc^pplcßrand
chubb’s nnnsK
STROKE ROOMUUuiVd
7lafionaly
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jp. d. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. T*®
U LH&fr.
RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
_ _
' ' , , , L - '' ,• ■ ' ■ J V
"GH. MORT
'WB ■■
SYDNEY.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent .
HIGHEST PRICES .
PROMPT RETURNS .
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
BLNSDORP’S
FOE^
Trade Mark.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILING
Trade Mark.
a
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS, Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery,
AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW
iiihiiWiUMAUUUUfaAUAi
GOLLIN & CO.,


TEH RED PAGE
WAGTAIL AND BABY.
A baby watched a ford, whereto
A wagtail came for drinking ;
A blaring bull went wading through :
The wagtail showed no shrinking.
A stallion splashed his way across,
The birdie nearly sinking ;
He gave his plumes a twitch and toss,
And held his own, unblinking.
Next saw the baby round the spot
A mongrel slowly slinking ;
The wagtail gazed, but faltered not
In dip and sip and prinking.
A perfect gentleman then neared :
The wagtail, in a winking.
Rose terrified, and disappeared . . .
The baby fell a-thinking.
Thomas Hardy (in “ The Albany Review ").
MADAME DE STAEL
SHE tried to be grande amoureuse, and
was not —that is the story of Madame
de Stael. For in the end, as Francis
Gribble says in his Madame de Stael
and her Lovers (Geo. Bell), she loved love
better than she loved her lovers ; and that,
to man as well as woman, must always be a
tragedy. Madame de Stael was, in her life-
time, a woman famous throughout Europe-
reckoned by her contemporaries a great poli-
tician, a great philosopher, a great novelist.
The cooler judgment of modern critics sees
her politics to be mere wire-pulling, her
metaphysics but echoes, her novel, Corinne ,
—of which six editions were printed in her
lifetime, and whose author the Edinburgh
Review proclaimed the greatest literary
genius of her time—but a little flash of
futile brilliance. Like that of her novel,
Madame de Stael’s story is the vain endeavor
of a woman of genius to find happiness in
love. She tried hard—and often ; but the
end was unhappiness.
“I always loved my lovers more than they
loved me in return,” she complained. Her dual
nature restrained her from esteeming the world
well lost for love for many consecutive hours. . .
Unless men sighed at her feet, she felt not so
much fmhappy as uneasy ; and when they did
sigh, her first impulse was to advertise the con-
quest. . . For love was mote to her than any
particular lover; and the post of lover was merely
the most important of the offices in her gift, and
one which it was her practice to fill as soon as
ever it became vacant. .. . The history .of
Madame de Stael’s own love affairs is generally
this: that she won men’s affections because she
talked so well, and then lost them because she
talked so much.
A terrible woman, as Benjamin Constant,
the most enduring of her succession of lovers,
found- to his cost. Yet in some respects these
two were made for each other. Madame de
Stael had the domineering masculine quali-
ties strongly evident in her composition,
while Constant, vacillating, futile, weak,
had many of the qualities usually regarded
as essentially feminine. Weininger, in his
Sex and Character , might furnish a plausible
explanation of the need each of these had
for the other —her mental strength the com-
plement of his weak will. Yet Madame de
Stael was in many respects purely feminine ;
and in all her writings the feminine point of
view keeps breaking in.
The truth is that, in so far as Madame de Stael
wrote like a man, she wrote badly, not thinking
for herself, but reproducing what men had told
her.
Only upon the subject of love did Madame
de Stael write with a convincing sincerity,
and in all her works we can trace transcripts
of her actual experiences. For in her life,
as in her writings, that feminine heart of hers
kept intruding —with disastrous results. Iler
love affair with Benjamin Constant lasted
many years, and in the end it was he who,
after many ineffectual efforts, broke away
from her terrible dominance. In his Journal
Intime, in which Constant laid bare his heart,
we see again and again the weak man strain-
ing at the rope that bound him to his mis-
tress and kis torturer. He forms wild plans
of getting married, as a desperate means of
escape. He doesn't care to whom—as long
as she is a paragon. He writes thus to a
relative :
I am going to ask you to find me a wife. I
want one in order to be happy. ... I should
like her to have a little fortune ; and as for herself,
I would rather that she were Genevese than Swiss,
.because it would suit me, newly naturalised as a
Frenchman, to marry a Frenchwoman. Let her
be not more than sixteen, tolerably pretty, with-
out any conspicuous defeat, of simple and orderly
habits, capable of supporting life in solitary re-
tirement, reasonable enough to be willing to live
eight leagues from*Paris and go there but seldom.
As for her character—l leave that to you. As for
wit—l am sick and tired of it.
You see, he was tired of that mistress
who, as Byron sneered, “talked folios.”
He has all our masculine sympathy. But it
was not so easy to break off relations with
such a termagant. Constant notes in his
Journat,
In the evening I have a terrible scene with
Madame de Stael. I announce that I will defi-
nitely break with her, and then there is'a second
scene. Fury, reconciliation impossible, departure
difficult. I must get married.
And then a later entry :
Madame de Stael has reconquered me.
At last, however, the timid Benjamin,
who had divorced his first wife, falls des-
perately in love elsewhere, and after Her-
culean struggles achieves a secret marriage
with his twice-divorced Charlotte. He
writes :
Evidently the comparison with Madame de
Stael is the cause of it all. The contrast betweenher
impetuosity, her egoism, her constant occupation
with herself, and Charlotte’s calm, humility, and
modesty, and sweetness, makes the latter a
thousand times more dear to me. lam tired of
the “man-woman,” whose iron hand has held me
enchained for 10 years, when I have with me a
woman who is really a woman to intoxicate and
enchant me.
But in the gentle Charlotte the enfran-
chised Benjamin finds faults—the funda-
mental faults—as, after a series of quarrels,
he is fair enough to record —not of the
individual but of the sex.
What an inconvenience a wife is !... She has a
mania for sitting up late, which causes me to pass
abominably bad nights. And, remember, I got
married in order that I might go to bed early....
Fundamentally, Charlotte is just like all women.
I have accused individuals when I should have
blamed the sex.
Poor (divorced) Benjamin ! And poor
(twice-divorced) Charlotte !
But Madame de Stael was not so easy to
cast off, and Benjamin always felt the yoke.
The lady, by now secretly married to M. de
Rocca, invites him and his wife to visit her,
and-tells her old lover not to think of her
new husband “as a hindrance.” As Francis
Gribble Remarks :
Since she means well, nothing that she does can
be wrong. She Moll be equally kind to all her
lovers, reckoning her husband as one of them.
They shall form a happy family. . . . For the time
being Rocca must give way to Benjamin; he is
good and amenable, and he will not mind.
The biography is sufficiently interesting as
a picture of the salon a hundred years ago ;
and Gribble gives us a living portrait of
that unprepossessing, domineering European
celebrity, who was ‘ ‘ always feeling the pulse
of her own sensibility,” and always looking
for love and finding only the lover. And—
after this lapse of time—the love-story of
these two singular creatures, neither of whom
ever could quite escape the influence of the
other, seems to us a little ridiculous, con-
ceived almost in a sense of Mereditliian
comedy. But, to the unsympathetic on-
looker, do not most love-affairs look
ridiculous?
AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
In Paying (he Price (Simpkin, Marshall, etc.,
and Co., per Wm. Brooks, Sydney), F. W. Mont-
gomerie has utilised a striking idea with some
imagination, but with little literary art. Mont-
gomerie, who is an Australian, conceives of the
discovery by a doctor of a germ—the germ of
death —which will expeditiously and effectively do
for the human race what alcohol and tuberculosis
somewhat tardily and incompletely do. This
germ of death will wipe out the physically unfit,
leaving the physically efficient, against whom the
germ is powerless, to carry on the race. The
doctor is inspired by a high ideal, “If any people,
having disposed of its physically unfit, lopped off
the dead branches, as it were, were to spend its
time and money in raising and encouraging only
those of the best type, or for three generations
were to keep disposing of the unfit, the whole
world would be at its feet. ... With this germ
I shall sweep away the unfit. I shall raise
men and women till they become as gods. . . .
In the past every decadent nation has fallen a
victim to, has been swept away by a people, or
horde it may be, which lived in closer, truer
touch with Nature .. . There are now no
Vandals, no Huns and Goths, nor Berbers of the
desert to sweep away the vileness of those who
have once been great and who have fallen to be
but the dregs of a mighty people. Nature her-
self will do it . . . When human agencies
are not at hand for the cleansing of the
world, she calls in Death. For the world
must be cleansed . . . We have saved the weak,
the unfit, the incapable. We have nursed them,
petted them. Nature has risen against it.” So
the doctor lets loose his little germ on Austi’alia,
and the plague ” does its work admirably. He
begins practice upon his poorer patients, and the
funerals of the physically unfit take place with a
gratifying frequency. Then the germ spreads
through the world, and, presumably, hospitals
and charity organisations for the preservation
of the inefficient have to close up their doors.
Unfortunately, the author’s treatment of his idea
cannot be commended. His doctor handles
microbes in altogether too Unscientific a fashion ;
and of interest in the story there is none. And
the question of the survival of the mentally fit—
the sound brain in a weakly body—is not touched
upon. Apparently, the germ does not discrimi-
nate between brains ; and brains are as necessary
nowadays for the existence of a race as physical
efficiency. The germ would have got all those
geniuses who suffer from dyspepsia—and most
geniuses suffer from dyspepsia. F. W. Mont-
gomerie has yet to learn how to construct a novel,
and he is cheerfully ignorant of the technique of
style. Nevertheless, he suffers from ideas.
Artist Will Ashton, recently returned from
England and Paris, where he has exhibited in the
R.A. and New Salon for some years, holds an
exhibition shortly. Tickets for an art union, the
prizes in which total a value of £500, are to be got
from Tyrrell’s, Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
THE INDISCRETIONS OF WAR
Modern civilisation has relegated war, like
abattoirs and'sewage-farms, to the background of
the civic-consciousness ; and the estimable citizen
probably regards it as a disagreeable thing about
which, as long as he votes and pays his income-
tax, he does not expect to be bothered. He has
even invented rules for the game, and an English
statesman credits Germany with the courtesy of
giving England ample warning before she is
attacked. Thus it is difficult to bring home to the
man in the ferry-boat what exactly war is. Cor-
respondents tell him of battles and heroisms ; but
to the man in the tram it is merely a pageant
played for his cable columns on some other fellow s
ground. Occasionally, however, some unsophis-
ticated eye-witness writes down the real thing
and the real thing is neither pleasant nor stimu-
lating reading.
Most readers are familiar with the siege and
relief of the Legations at Peking, seven years
ago. We have had official histories and way-cor-
respondents’ picturesquenesses; but it has been
left for B. L. Putnam Weale, the author of several
books upon the Asiatic littoral of the Pacific, to
give us the indiscreet truth of the defence of the
Legations, and the subsequent sack of Peking by
the foreigners from Europe. There is no doubt
about the “blazing indiscretions” of Indiscreet
Letters from Peking (G. Bell and Sons, per George
Robertson and Co.); but Putnam Weale adduces
ample reason for his indiscretions. In the alleged
diary of an eye-witness, which is what book
transparently pretends , to be, the unnamed eye-
witness observes: —
“An official diary is now being written up
under orders of the headquarters. It will be full
of our Peking diplomatic half-truths. But, worst
of all, our only correspondent, M——, who was
shot the other day, and is getting convalescent,
has been taken under the wing of our commander-
in-chief, and his lips will be sealed by the time we
get out—if ever we get out. With an official
history and a discreet, independent version, no
one will ever understand what bungling there has
been, and what culpability. It is our chicken-
hearted chiefs, and they alone, who should be dis-
credited. With a few exceptions, they are more
afraid than the women, and never venture beyond
the British Legation.”
The Indiscreet Letters are probably based on a
real diary of one of the besieged ; but there are
evidences that subsequently it was “ touched up”
by Mr. Weale. The eye-wdtness is too dramatic,
too fully informed of the future. But this trans-
parent pretence does not in any way vitiate the
truth of his, picture The present writer, w'ho
was present at the sacking of the Chinese city by
rescuers and rescued, can confirm—though not
in detail —Weale’s account of those horrors.
It is a pitiable story of petty jealousies, general
incompetency and polyglot muddle that W eale
herein unfolds. You are afforded. a glimpse at
the eleven ambassadors and ministers plenipo-
tentiary menaced by a terrible danger, occupied
in writing dispatches, in making silly little
political moves, in settling questions of official
precedence. The white men of Europe do not
come out of the muddle without a stigma upon
their honor—even upon their courage; though,
individually, as always, there are examples of
fortitude and long-sustained heroism. As Weale
observes : “ Practically, it may be said that while
there is death and murder outside there is only
armed neutrality within. ” Ugly stories of Russian
cossacks and Chinese convert girls, and of the be-
haviour of the Indian relief-troops are given ;
but worst of all is the allegation that
of 204 able-bodied men “ most are shirking.
There are less than eighty taking an actual
part in the ‘defence—the eighty being all
young men. The others have claimed the
right of sanctuary, and will do nothing. . » .
In the British Legation time has even been found
to establish a model laundry, and several able-
bodied men actually fought for the privilege of
supervising it, they say, when the idea was
mooted.”
Of the miscellaneous troops that took part in
the defence, the author praises the Japanese, but
has nothing good to say of the Italians. He is
enthusiastic about “the bull-dog dasperation”
with which the French clung to the ruins of their
Legation—a vital point in the barricades —“ a
desperation making each house a siege in itself,
and ending only with the total destruction of that
house by shells and tire.”
Here is a picture of war : —
“ A young (French) volunteer, named D ,
found, after watching for two days, that a num-
ber of Chinese crept into a tunnel-mouth every
night only twenty feet from his post, and, began
working on a mine right under his fedt. He
decided to go out himself and kill them all. He
told me the story. He crept out two days ago as
soon as he had seen them go in, and, post-
ing himself at the Entrance, called on the
men to come out, else he would block them
in and kill them in the most miserable
he could think of. They came out, crawling
on their hands and knees, and as each man slipped
up to the level he was bayonetted ... in the end
thirteen were killed like this. Three remained,
but D— 5 —’s strength was not equal to it, and he
had to drive them in as captives. Then they were
despatched and beheaded. They say the French
sailors slung back those heads far over the
advanced Chinese barricades, with taunts and
shouts.”
‘ Of the horrors of the sack of the city by the
European victors Weale gives the squeamish
reader hih fill. Everybody went out looting, and
if the Chinese resisted they were killed. “Silver,”
says our eyewitness, “is a drug in the market.
Everybody, \Vithout exception, has piles of it.”
And the writer of these Indiscreet Letters got his
share, and by methods that he does not cloak.
The climax of his story tells how, returning with
his Chinese servants at the head of his caravan of
Peking carts stuffed with loot, he met a number
of Manchu women of the highest class, who had
been abandoned by the men of their household,
and were now in terror for their safety.
“They saw my hesitation, and, woman-like,
renewed their pleading in chorus. I ndticed, also,
that two or three of the older ones grouped them-
selves close together, and, putting down their
heads, began rapidly discussing in loud whispers,
which showed their trepidation. Then they
called a tall, .splendidly-built woman, and, telling
her something in an undertone, pushed her for-
ward towards me. Unahashed, she advanced on
me with a firm step, and, laying a white-skinned
hand—for the Manchus can be very white—on
my arm, she begged me to stop here myself— to
make this my house for the time being—to do as
I pleased with-all of them. . . . After all those
weeks of privation, that constant rifle-fire, that
stench of earth-soiled men, this woman so close
seemed strange.”
That evening, the diaryis* returned with his
men and'his loot. “The gate was unbarred by
weak women’s hands, and the soft Manchu voice
which had first begged me to stop was speaking
to me again... . Inside, I found ... it was a rich
house, and there was a profusion of everything
which could be no men! We
securely bolted and barred the main gate, and for
safety loopholed a, little, because that, is an art in
which we had becpme adepts. .Then, with candles
murkily shedding their light, I explored every
nook and corner to guard against surprise, always
with that soft voice explaining to me . . . ’
His subsequent adventures, such as his making
his way into the Emperor’s-harem, and his unex-
pected difficulty in getting out, are as frankly
told. The picture of the excesses wrought, by
European soldiery is a terrible one.
“ Yesterday some Chinese whom I knew in the
old days came stealthily to see me, and as soon
as they were alone with me, without excuse or
warning, they fell on their knees and began bit-
terly weeping. They had lost everything, abso-
lutely everything. But they did not mind. They
were bitter and beyond consolation, because they
had lost the intangible—their honor. Each one
had had women of his household violated. One
with many hideous details told me how soldiers
came in and violated all his womenkind, young
and old. That account, muttered to me with
trembling lips, was no invention. Their blanched
and haggard faces showed me it was only the
truth they were speaking.”
But Weale has other things -than horrors to
tell. For instance, this looting incident is sug-
gestive :—“Beneath the books we found helmets,
inlaid with silver and gold. There were also
complete suits of chain armor.... For these
things were not even early Manchu; they were
Mongol; Mogul—the war-dress of conquerors
whose bodies had been rotting in the dust for cen-
turies. ... We donned these suits and went down
below, clad as the conquerors of old. There were
some Indian troops waiting, and when they saw
these things they exclaimed, and muttered ex-
citedly to one another, casting half-startled looks.
These were the same trappings and war-dresses
as in the days of the Great Moguls at Delhi. The
conquerors, who had swept across high Asia, had
worn such things, and every man from Northern
India must have understood their meaning and
message.”
In a purple boat upon a green sea The Lone
Hand for June sails into the sunrise. The cover
design is an effective decoration by H. J. Weston
—for The Lone Hand evidently intends giving its
readers a new cover every month._ And, as pro-
mised, the second issue is decidedly an improve-
ment upon the first. It looks more like a magazine,
less like a clever scrap-book ; there is a dignity
abqut it that in the first number—which was
largely an experiment —was necessarily lacking.
Mr. Archibald’s memoirs are surcharged with a
sense of real humor. Justice is done to a great
Australian by an appreciative article upon David
Syme, whose portrait forms the frontispiece. The
fiction begins to look like filling the special class of
magazinestory —incontradistinction to The Bulletin
story —which it should be The Lone Hand’s joyous
task to create. The general high level of the illu-
strations is this month maintained without certain
unhappy intrusions of the inartistic and immature
which spoilt the last issue. George Lambert s
black-and-white of “The Overlander” is one of the
best of his recent illustrations. The “exposure
article will be read with interest by every “re-
ligious ” person ; while for the others special
mention might be made among a variety of articles
those upon etching, and upon literary life m
Paris. Altogether, a well-balanced number.
“The earnest instigation of many friends” is
responsible for much weariness to the reviewer.
To this cause is due Forty-Five Years’ Experiences
in North Queensland. , by W. R. O. Hill, ex-P.M.
and Gold Warden (H. Pole, Brisbane), a book of
innocuous gossip, from which the conscientious
historian may haply dig some interesting facts of
the old days of North Queensland.
A change of editors of The Native Companion
is reported. Owing to the press of other work,
Mr. Bertram Stevens has had to give up the con-
duct of the little magazine, and E. J. Brady fills
the niche. Brady gleefully announces that lie is
to be allowed to say what he damnwell likes;
and, as lie has choked down a lot of things for
years, it is probable that he will damnwell like.
Some Stevenson notes: Treasure Island fell
flat when it was first published in The Young
Folks’ Journal , and Stevenson wondered what
young folks did like. He tried again with The
'Black Arrow, and found they liked it, though he
scornfully called it “ tushery.” The 60,000 words
of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde were composed in
six days when Stevenson was very ill. On the
completion of Prince Otto, he and Henley spent a
few congenial weeks in weeding out the-blank
verse which had got into the romantic prose. In
The Dynamiter , Mrs. Stevenson alleges “ that she
was responsible for ‘The Destroying Angel’and
‘ The Fair Cuban ; ’ ” while Lloyd Osbourne claims
to have had The Wrong Box “actually finished
and ready for the press before there was any
thought of Stevenson’s collaboration.”
A useful summary of the Elizabethian period
of literature is furnished by E. W. Edmunds
(Murray), written rather as an introduction to
that great phase of our national life than as an
original contribution of thought to the exposition
of its causes and results. The first volume of The
Story of English Literature is pleasantly written
and admirably concise. ,
NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST.
SYDNEY.
Peters, Princ. of Copper Smelting-, 25e, post Is.
Hoffman, llvdrometallurgy of Stiver, 20s, post Is.
E Wheeler Wilcox, The Kingdom of Love, Is 3d, post 3d.
Pett-Kidge, Nearly Five Millions, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Zangwill, Ghetto Comedies, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Foster Fraser, Bed Russia, illus., 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Sewell, Construction of Dynamos, 9s, poet 9d.
Duckworth, Encyclopaedia of Marine Law, 6s, posted.
The Green Boon: Book, 1907 ■ A Guide to Who’s Who on
the Stage, <fcc., 6s, postage 6d.
Sladen, The Secrets erf the Vatican, 18s, post 9d.
“ Bita,’’Personal Opinions Publicly Expressed, 3s6d, p. 6d.
THE NOVEL OF
THE DAT.
HALF A ROGUE
By HAROLD McGRATH, author of “ The Man on the Box,” &c., &c.,
with illustrations by Harrison Fisher, in cloth binding 3/6, postage 6(1.
HUDSON’S
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
A—The Larynx, or organ of'voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
G—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissedted lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES” do not interfere' with 0
the abnormal
their Antiseptic properties* preveu
fermentation of food.


The Bulletin
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 1907.
Lassetter’s Specials from the Silver and Plate Department.
Lassetter’s pay Trainage or Shipping Freight on ail orders for Siiver Goods, Electroplate, Cutlery and Jewellery in New South Wales,
and Shipping Freight or Postage to any port in Australasia.
SHOPPING BY POST—You have the same advantage as any customer buying personally.
R
OD 304—Presentation Set of Cutlery—Seven Pieces, Hall-marked, Silver Handles. Price, 775. Cd.
Important Notice.
Please Quote Numbers
when Ordering.
Send for our Complete
Catalogue.
Every Article Guaranteed
as stated.
m
■ iih i; a m,
or* r - '
Afternoon Tea Set—Best Quality Sti ■ cr.v.'atr. Finest Decorated Qtiftia. 84s.
BSHSflcrai
«: j c
iliggM
»-OTT^»a,
OD 809—Pearl Handle Dessert Knives and Forks, in Handsome
Case. 275. (id., 355., 425.
m
as**.
UJ~
->
£3£
»*>
OD 310—Pearl Handle Fish Knives and Forks, in Handsome Case.
28s. Cd., 355., 40s.
m
OD 311—Pish Knives and Forks—White Xylonite Handles,
255., 305., 40s. per case.
OD 313 —Sta" Handle Carvers—3 Pieces, Great Variety of Designs.
10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 15s. 6d., 17s. 6d., 205., 255.
OD 314—Set of Carvers in Handsome Case, Silver-plated Handles. 12s. 6d.
OD 308—
Case Carvers—
Hall marked,
Silver Handles,
20s.
Special Value.
Quality is
Economy.
OD 532 B—Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Set, with Hot Water Kettle
(complete). Price, £5.
F. L.AISISETTER & Co. Ltd., The Universal Providers
of Noted Good Values, Greater CHeapside, SYDNEY.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
4/so KANGAROO, WALLABY.
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to
a
a *
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency o®.
Xitd.
S YDNE "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered pron p y.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.3.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
C.R. tailor-made Q.R
m 3 CORSETS. ** m*
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-.proof
supports.
ZS
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct etyle, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
IK **
CL—7
a
WIAIARDSf°R
Tfflt AOMI ■
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’c Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCKACo.
422, GJBOKLGf: ST SYPMEV .
AMD
mtuumti*
MELBOURNE.
«gEST° 178 2 $>
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
117 PITT ST.* SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers). Robert Walter martin, Manager.
FREE!
MAKE. BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
ol our New Life Vegetable Puis (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the S/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed, this is the bigyest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and.
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
&ioo
a WeeH
Given
W Away
Free
mini!
I
I
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEIFY OOMFETITIOKT.
WINES Bed only ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Oomic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds Court of London series, zs.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of the Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates & engraving's, 7s6d posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Midwivks’Handbook, 92i11u5., 2s6d, posted 2 10.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3/6. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Business Failure Impossible,
Is 6d. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. _
tSTAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
Visitors to The Old
Country
Gloucester RoaA, South Kervsirvgtorv, London, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
Z°YA u
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Am Capsule marked EMO'B 'FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpued only by J. O. UNO. Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. KNG.,
by J. O. BNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , <Stc.. everywhere.
Its
gfiCCTEB’g
Pffipoy.
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
gjfestfMSS'' “ ,te
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
r . rtP ,.' B Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature ol


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
Mger’s
ytair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Ce., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days' approval, our
highest grade HEAD
Coventry Flyers
l at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
I Absolutely British-made throughout, and
I guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
■ fiTllfr i nriiTO wanted in each dig.
AullVb Abtfllo trict. Laree iproflt)
easily made. Write at onoe, using sufficient poßtage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample maohlne. i
MEAD CYCLE CO., i»,. aeo LIVERPOOL
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 1s- Packet of Ten, lOct.
A Young Man’s
Restoration
The Evidence
from 104 Morehead Street, Tdedfern,
Sydney, N.S.IV., September Ist, 1905.
“For years my son Arthur, aged 18,
had been a great sufferer from weak-
ness of the chest and lungs, and he
was also troubled with severe pains in
the back and kidneys. I tried very
many preparations without success,
until at last, hearing of the great good
it had achieved in similar cases, I tried
Scott’s Emulsion. An immediate im-
provement set in; Arthur was able to
eat and sleep well, which he had long
been unable to do. A course of Scott’s
built up his system and gave him
strength and enriched blood. He is
now restored to complete good health,
and has gained very considerably in
weight.” ( Mrs .) JESSIE FOSS.
The Reason Why
He got his Strength
C The potency of Scott’s comes from
the pure, vigorous Tofoten oil, of
which, it is made, and from the
original Scott process, by which it is
manufactured. Result: (1) Immense
invigorating power ; (2) Perfect
digestibility; (3) Attrac-
tive taste. These quali-
ties are of sovereign
worth for young men
and women, just as they
are for older folks and
babies. But be sure the
emulsion is SCOTT’S,
guaranteed genuine by
“ The fishman with the
trajSe mark fish” on every package.
Scoffs
EMULSION
OF AFF CHEMISTS AND
DEAFERS IN MEDICINES
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Philosopher.
“ It has often occurred to me,”
The young Philosopher said,
As he sat at the foot of the tree
And scratched at the straws in his head
In a manner assured and free,
“ It has often occurred to me,
“ Did it never occur to thee
That Work is a beautiful thing,
That Love is no end of a spree,
That flowers come out in the spring,
And that no one is nicer than me ?
Has it never occurred to thee ? ”
But the reapers were reaping the wheat,
And the diggers were digging the ground,
So he climbed to a higher seat
And he howled with a louder sound ;
But the workers worked in the heat, .
And their deafness was deep and complete.
Then he lifted his voice and called,
And he lifted his feet and crept
Higher and higher, appalled
At the deafness wherein they slept;
And so wildly he caterwauled
That some of them closer crawled.
Then he got to the top of the tree
And he howled with a mighty voice,
And one said, “ It seems to me
That it’s up to us to rejoice ;
Here is one who is wiser than we,
What a wonderful man is he !
“Great shall his glory be
Who calls what we only thought;
Let’s worship him thankfully.
Why, hang it, we really ought! ”
So they came and listened, and he
Echoed continually
“ Did it never occur to thee
That work is a wonderful thing,
That Love is no end of a spree,
That flowers come out in the spring,
And that no one is nicer than me ! ”
And they praised him perpetually.
HARRY SULLIVAN.
On the Stair.
Daily do I sit and ponder
As I hear the footsteps wander
(Pitter-patter, patter-pitter !)
Up and down the stair,
If the boarders—they are seven—
Will rush up the stairs of Heaven,
Then rush down again, and titter
As they do their hair.
Nightly I would gladly throttle,
As I sit beside the bottle,
All the mob that madly clatter
Up and down the stair,
Vanished hopes and cash pursuing,
Gasping, shrieking—also chewing—
Trying daily to get fatter—
Fatter here and there.
Once I had some noble notions
Of attending to devotions,
Doing something most prodigious
(Hear them on the stair !).
Now I whisper horrid curses
Day and night, and scribble verses ;
Never feel a bit religious—
Never say a prayer.
Well I know I’ll not be grieving
When the institution leaving,
And I make my absolutely
Last appearance there.
Calling wildly for a hansom
I will pay my last week’s ransom
(Twenty-two and sixpence) mutely
And leap down the stair.
VIO.
KODAK.
George-street North (Sydney).
The curse of Asia, it brings—
This crooked street of motley things,
Where, day and night, with colored smells,
The Aliens take their saunterings.
Here, down dark lanes, one must but see
The horror of our history,
The lash, the leg-irons, blessed days—
And Red Coats round the Gallows’ Tree.
At every kind of Fried Fish Shop
The varied brands of Vagrant stop,
The cobble stones beneath their feet,
But ever the blue sky atop !
And cosmopolitan this mob,
From English dude, with fancy fob,
To Dago, Hindu, Jap, between
The Harbor and the Golden Cob !
And bloated pugs—those denizens
Of darkened boudoirs, and of kens
Where painted women leer and laugh—
Scowl grimly from their gambling dens.
And fearful of the public grin,
Shy, hurried scribes flit out and in
That ink-stained castle where there gloats
The Ogre of The Bulletin.
And here in Upper George-street’s view,
Upon his perch in Janson’s Zoo—
A raucous, scoffing fowl of sin—
Jeers that baldheaded cockatoo.
Life as a joke to him exists,
For as the Talent shake their fists
He watches, with bad, blinking eyes
The passing of the journalists.
VIO.
LOUIS ESSON .
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
L-xri
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MO
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
STOP THAT PAIN
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
“There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent ,a 3M
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches, in cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don't Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this ‘WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/m, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL; A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
« A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
The HIGK-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY and
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:—"You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round,”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGI
By
Royal Warkan
Purveyors to
His Majesty tiib
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Post Free 6*l. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing foi*
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
4ade by F. C.Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
NATURE’S
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
BlanoMange
DELICIOUS 6 DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST,


«/ sor/s and conditions o/* JPeoj^let
Ca£lJhzsjryts Cocoa
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable,
it is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
for all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
of the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
For the preservation of your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavor and tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not he without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE
which, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only £ h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick Ice Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of '2oolb. of
Ice ; i.e., if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion, BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save ypu money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., X»tcL, 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
RISKS
OLD
SCOTCH
Whisky.
A LL LEADING HOTELS.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U. s.a BY HAND LABOR.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF.
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers—
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
Scotch whisky
3
a
nwi
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
7
7*
r
Z
z
:
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” W-£r.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yai d, and we_.rs longer.
the NEW LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen a'd
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-5 and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Siik Mercers throughout the Colonics.
Beautiful Home Decorations
SLS
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” COLD ESAMEL (Washable) - llich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
I ‘S AI’OLI Y EJIAMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Aletal Beds and
any other article.
-‘BAFOEIV” BATH TUB KISAMEL. In White, fiose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENRORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Alsp makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOiri” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
I
m
mm
§
■"#fi
&
6 50 FT.-:
P
I
IND ON EP
* S «al »
<§] »
k» utino in* tfWiW
MON END
mm
*■ IMSULftti,'
tf *SCH & CC
—-
< • . •'*' ,
_TIHOM4*.
SYD/NEY &c BRISBANE.
The names
given are
only a few of
the firms
selling
RUBEROID.
Every general
store carries
a stocK.
SYDNEY.
GOODLET & SMITH, Ltd.
SAXTON & BINNS, Ltd.
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & 00.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS.
F. LASSETTER & 00., Ltd.
W. GARY & SONS.
JAMES SANDY & 00.
GRACE BROS.
O. G. HATTE, Ltd.
COUNTRY.
Armidale : F. BEAUND & 00.
Bathurst : E. WEBB & CO.
Coolamon : FEEDK. HALL.
Dubbo : J. G. BEOWN.
Glen Innes : J. F. UTZ & CO.
Goulburn : C. EOGEES & CO.
Goulburn : GEO. LANSDOWN.
Grafton : J. T. McIvITTEICK.
Lithgow : BEACEY’S LIMITED.
1 COUNTRY.
Muswellbrook : M. CAMPBELL & CO., Ltd.
Newcastle : FRED. ASH, Ltd.
Scone : M. CAMPBELL & CO., Ltd.
Slngleton : JAMES MOORE & CO., Ltd.
Tamworth : T. J. TRELOAR & CO.
Tamworth : LEWIS BROS. & CO.
Tumut : SANDERSON & TAYLOR.
Wollongong : A. PARSONS & CO.
Young : W. S. MILLARD & SON, Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
v0, 25.-N0.««.
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 1907.
p-*
THE STATE PREMIERS’ CONFERENCE.
BIGJOHN FORREST: “WELL, YOU CAN BE DARNED ANNOYING, ANYWAY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A astralians."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-streat North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Hi/ sending direct to Tint Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Maci.kod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bum.ktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bum.ktin," is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivor ls, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tub Bum.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tub Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly render -
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nmf ours i u Itlacle anil White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufllcien)
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
<i'otch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holbom, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver Thomson Stationery Co., I 'ancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin. x 1/dn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTuTZhxzlleZMi.
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 1907.
CARRUTHERS’ PROPOSED FAKED
REFERENDUM.
Joseph Carruthers, Premier of N.S.W., has
never been known to play fair in political matters
when some point, however small, could be
worked by playing otherwise. The sporting
instinct, in politics anyhow, was left out of
his composition. He is the political welsher
and balancer and scaler, the political player
with marked cards, the political dodger with
loaded dice. And in his silly proposal to
hold a referendum at next State election
over the matter of the Australian
Joseph plainly proposes to be the same
old Joe. His declared idea is to take a
vote on one single issue: “ Are you satisfied
with Dalgety as the proposed site of the Federal
capital, or are you not ? ” That, at the first glance,
looks transparently honest, but when Joseph
Carruthers does anything in politics, or pro-
poses anything in politics, that looks transparently
honest, then it is best to walk carefully round the
proposal, and view it from all sides, for the in-
curable political crookedness of Joseph is always
a cause for suspicion. Now let it be assumed that
the number of votes recorded at Joseph’s pro-
posed faked referendum is the same as at the
second Federal referendum, the results may be as
follows:
In favor of Dalgety (the selection of the
Australian Parliament) as an Australian
capital .. 40,000
Then against Dalgety
Because of a preference for Canberra .. 10,000
Do. do. Tumut .. 10,000
Do. do. Yass.. . 10,000
Do. do. Lake George 10,000
Do. do. Lyndhurst . 10,000
Do. do. Albury .. 10,000
Because of a preference for some northern
site, the whole northern half of N.S.W.
having been left out of consideration
(say seven northern sites at 10,000
adherents each) .. 70,000
Because of a desire to get Clause 125
altered so as to give some place in the
district within the 100-miles radius of
Sydney a chance to be the capital (vote
very much divided, every place inside
the circle really voting for itself) .. 20,161
150,161
That will account for the whole 190,161 votes cast
in N.S.W. at the second Federal referendum.
And Joseph Carruthers, with his invariable
tendency to load the political dice, will cheerfully
assume that it knocks the place selected by the
Australian Parliament right out. That place will
be beaten by 150,161 votes to 40,000.
• * * «
Then Joe’s Legislature, acting under Joe in-
fluences, will wade in to “select ” and “ recom-
mend ” a site. Perhaps the site will be dry and
dreary Lyndliurst, in Mr. Lindon Biddulph’s
back-yard, which is recommended by the Con-
gested Population party because all its trade
will go to Sydney, and will help to further
bloat a place that already contains much too
large a share of the population of N.S.W.
If the State Legislature puts Lyndhurst to
a popular vote in the same way as Dal-
gety, then, on the figures in the above table, it
will be knocked out by 180,161 votes to 10,000,
which will be a far worse knock-out than that
of Dalgety. Consequently Joseph will take
exceeding good care to hold no referendum
over Lyndhurst. Possibly the site “recom-
mended ” will be Canberra. Canberra on a refer-
endum, according to the above table, would also be
rejected by 180,161 to 10,000; but then Joe will
take every kind of care to hold no separate refer-
endum over Canberra, if it is “selected.” And it
will be the same with every site, except the one
which the Australian Parliament chose on the
recommendation of the official who was appointed
by the N.S.W. State Government to deal with the
matter. For in this matter Joseph has struck a
device for stacking the cards which is quite extra-
ordinary in its meanness. Owing to the desire of
everybody to have the Federal city right against
his own door, it is almost certain that there is, in
N.S.W., a huge majority against every site that
can be suggested. The case is akin to that
described in Besant’s “Monks of Thelema,”
where a vote was taken among a horde of girls at
a fete to decide the destination of the prize for
beauty, and each girl received one vote —
her own. Therefore every girl was in a
minority that was simply dreadful. Even
if Dalgety has four times as large a following
as any other site it may be rejected by four to one,
according to the way J oskpii proposes to stack the
cards.
* * « #
Of course, a referendum which professed to deal
with the site of the Australian capital, but which
was taken without the sanction of the Australian
Parliament, and which utterly ignored the opinions
of two-thirds of the Australian people, would be
treated with contempt, even if it happened to be
honest. But taken after the dishonest fashion
which Joseph Carruthers suggests, it will be
treated with extra contempt. If CARRUTHERS
reports that the site selected by the Aus-
tralian Parliament has been rejected on a
State vote, and that his Legislature there-
fore recommends Canberra or Lake George,
the Australian Parliament will naturally ask
whether Canberra or Lake George received more
votes at the referendum than Dalgety. And
Carruthers will have to say that it didn’t. Then
the Australian Parliament will naturally ask how
many votes the proposed site did get at the
referendum, and Joseph will have to say that it
didn’t get any. After that the Australian Par-
liament will reasonably inquire how Joe can tell
that the people of N.S.W. prefer Canberra or
Lake George to Dalgety, and Joe won’t be able
to explain. And if the Australian Parliament goes
further, and asks under what clause of the Con-
stitution Joe, a mere State Premier, professes to
interfere in the matter, Joe won’t be able to find
the clause. In fact, the whole business of the
proposed fake referendum promises to be a rather
cold business for Joe.
THE LOGIC OF SECESH.
During the recent Sydney daily paper splash of
anti-Federal lies, slanders, inventions and mis-
representations, there arose, among others, a
person describing himself as F. J. Hodges, who
stated wildly in Sydney Evening News :
Your correspondent would have us believe that the
Constitution is like the laws of the Medes and Persians,
without variation or shadow of turning. If so I would
like him to explain how it was that the capital site was
not decided upon by the first Parliament, WHICH WAS
DISTINCTLY PROVIDED FOR IN THE CONSTITU-
TION. Your correspondent states that we are to blame
more than we can imagine in not having this matter
settled. Now I would draw his attention to the fact
that, if N.S.W. has, by its objections, caused the Federal
Parliament to break the Constitution, there surely cannot
beany objection to N.S.W. giving it a sledge-hammer
blow, and knocking it all to pieces.
The remarkable F. J. Hodges thus advanced, as
one reason for Secesh, that the Constitution had
been wrecked and broken already because the
Australian capital had not been fixed by the first
Parliament, which, according to Hodges, was
“DISTINCTLY PROVIDED FOR IN THE
CONSTITUTION.” The Bulletin naturally
inquired whereabouts in the Constitution this
amazing and previously unheard-of clause could
be found, and it thereby evoked a letter which
ran as follows: —
Dear Sir, —In reply to lettersappearing in your issue of
May 23rd ; first, I would like to say that the manner and
conversation of the writer is not calculated to gain for
him many followers. With reference to my previous
statements that the Constitution has been broken : I
still maintain that it has been broken, and if he will have
the good manners to give me chapter and clause of the
Constitution where it states that the Federal site should
not have been selected by the first Parliament, or that
there is anything in the Constitution postponing its
selection for an indefinite period, I then will give chapter
and clause which distinctly proves what I have said. I
would like you to explain why things which were to
operate against N.S.W. should be carried into effect at
once— viz., the Federal duties, and why the capital
should still be undecided. That will be the only benefit
N.S.W. can expect to get through Federation. —I am, etc.,
F. J. Hodges,
Carri ngton-road,
Marrickville.
* # * *
This reads like the letter of the typical anti-
Federalist. It is wonderful and marvellous with
what assurance the anti-Federalist demands to
know why the capital has not been selected,
or some such question, when he knows per-
fectly well that it was selected nearly three
years ago. And there is something interest-
ing, also, in his allegation that the pos-
session of the Australian capital is the only bene-
fit “we” can expect to get out of Federation,
when “we” have already got cheapened tele-
grams, an immensely increased revenue, Joe Car-
ruthers’ surpluses, better postal arrangements.
Protection for local industry, relief from the fiscal
tyranny of the blatant importing Governments,
and the pleasure of reading Mr. Hodges’ letters.
But this is a side-issue. The main point is that
Mr. F. J. Hodges appeared, among a swarm of
inventors of imaginary anti-Federal griev-
ances, with the statement that it was ex-
pressly provided in the Constitution that
the Australian capital should be selected by
the first Federal Parliament. As the discoverer of
this amazing alleged proviso, he almost ranked
with Columbus finding America; and he was
naturally asked to produce the wonderful and pre-
viously unheard-of clause on which he based his
charge of ill-faith on the part of the Australian
Parliament. Then he backs down and out, and
asks impossible onditions. He will only produce
his alleged claut s declaring that the Australian
capital was to be selected by the first Federal Par-
liament if The Bulletin first produces a clause
which no one ever alleged to exist anywhere,
stating “ that the Federal site should not have
been selected by the first Parliament.” Imagine
theological controversy conduct'd on these lines,
in which case it might run someth.ug like this :
Assertion (by somebody like Hodges) : “ It is expressly
stated in Genesis that Federation is an unmixed evil, and
that Bill Squires can’t fight.”
Anxious Question : “ Where is it stated in Genesis that
Federation is an uninixed evil, or that Bill Squires can’t
fight.”
Rejoinder (b; somebody like 1 odges): “Your manner
and conversath a are not calcul. ted to gain you many
followers. If y» i will have the e ood manners to show
me where it is st..ted in Genesis that Federation is not an
unmixed evil, and that Bill Squires can fight, I will then
give chapter and verse which distinctly prove what I have
stated.”
Of such is tlio logic of the anti-Federalist. If the
assertion had been that the Talmud clearly stated
that Mr. Hodges was Beelzebub, the matter
could be argued out just as effectively by the
adoption of Mr. Hodges’ brand of logic.
« ■*» * *
The Bulletin has before it a heap of 50 or
60 anti-Federal letters, cut from the Sydney
papers within the last few months. They repre-
sent a monumental collection of lies produced
by an incredible horde of anti-Federal liars.
They include all manner of imaginary v\ lungs
done on N.S.W., and imaginary breakages
of imaginary agreements said to be in the Con-
stitution. Yet not one of the writers has even
suggested going to the High Court in Sydney,
and demanding that it should annul and declare
ultra vires any one of the alleged illegal acts of
the Commonwealth. No one has even suggested
getting the opinion of, say, three leading Sydney
barristers on any such fool assertion as that, for
instance, the Federal proposal to create a capital
on Monaro is a breach of the Constitution, or that
the Constitution provides that the capital shall bo
“ within a reasonable distance of Sydney,’’ or that
there is a clause in the Constitution setting forth
that the capital shall Vie selected by the first
Parliament, or any other such item in the whole
wilderness of anti-Federal assumption, fiction
and folly. The reason is obvious enough. No
barrister of standing would wreck his reputation
by endorsing such clumsy fables, and any Court
would laugh the ridiculous case off its premises.
Therefore, the party of Secesh makes no attempt
to back up its crazy assertions with legal opinion,
and even a request for the authority on which it
makes its statements either meets with a silly
evasion or with no answer at all.
• * « *
Australia is our country and our mother-land.
The Australian Parliament, created by the
suffrages of practically every adult in the com-
munity who cares to vote, represents Australia to
a degree that is hardly known in any other Legis-
lature on earth. It is Australia and the Aus-
tralian people in a far greater degree than the
British Parliament is Britai'., or than the German
Legislature is Germany. And the person who
accuses it, on sham evidence, of ill-faith
and breach of trust, or who charges it,
on evidence which is glaringly untrue, of
being unjust and false to its duty, should rank in
public estimation as the same kind of unutterable
cad who invents charges against his mother’s
honor, either out of mere gratuitous wickedness
or because he thereby expects to gain some
personal profit or advantage. Among all the
crowd of anti-Federal correspondents who have
lately, in the congenial columns of the Sydney
daily press, charged Australia with doing wrong,
insult and robbery upon N.S.W., there was not
one who, when challenged to produce proof of his
statements, did produce it. Therefore, when The
Bulletin, in a recent article, summed them up as
“The Liars,” it did so advisedly. And, as no
writ has yet reached this office from any one of
the Liars enumerated in that article, it would
seem that they also recognise the fitness of the
description.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Conference of State Premiers.
The State Premiers have been sitting in con-
ference, and snarling a good deal at each other, in
Brisbane. The record of the conference emphasises
the necessity for the unification of Australia, the
abolition of States, State Premiers, State Parlia-
ments, and State boundaries, the transfer of rail-
ways, debts, public lands, and all other powers to
an Australian Parliament of one House elected on
a purely population basis, and the subdivision of
Australia on a new plan into a multitude of Local
Government districts under Federal supervision.
The conference included all the prominent State
Frights who bark and clamor at the heels of
the Australian Government because it doesn’t
do this, that, and the other, just as each
separate and special State Fright or Insect
would have it done. They met together, as
usual, to devise plans for putting everything
right, to show exactly how everything should be
done, to clear up all difficulties by their transcen-
dent wisdom, and generally to make the crooked
things straight. With one or two exceptions
(Price, of S.A., may be specially mentioned), it
was a gathering of anti-Federal grievances. And
straightway it became a gathering of Kilkenny
cats which had hardly an idea in common. There
was a question, for instance, about the division of
the Federal Customs and Excise surplus among
the States when the present agreement expires,
and it is a special anti-Federal grievance that the
Commonwealth has failed to satisfy everybody on
this point. One State Premier had a suggestion
that the Commonwealth should, after 1910,
guarantee each State a subsidy equal to the
average annual amount it had received in the pre-
vious nine years ; and another suggested that the
subsidy should equal the annual amount received in
the past years; and another suggested that the
Federal subsidy should be so much per inhabitant;
and there were other schemes. It was then found
that each of these State persons had figured out
which scheme would give his State the biggest
share of the surplus, and in consequence every-
body regarded everybody else’s scheme with
mockery and other obnoxious substances. (One
joke was the spectacle of Victoria crying out for
a division of the surplus on a nine years’ average,
and then finding that it had barked up the wrong
tree, and that an eight years’ average was its tree.)
Westralia and Tasmania had proposals for grant-
ing to themselves special subsidies, which pro-
posals no one save themselves wanted to hear
anything about. A sort of compromise, which
really satisfied nobody, and which the State Legis-
latures would probably reject if theyhadthechance,
was arrived at by a majority, with a minority
wearing a hostile expression in the background.
At one stage of the proceedings, Jack Evans, of
Tasmania, declared that his State was being
robbed by the other States in the division of the
surplus, but on Carruthers calling the Common-
wealth a robber instead, Evans agreed to be
comforted. The Commonwealth gets none of
the surplus, so it can’t be the party which
robs Tasmania, if that small place is being
robbed; but the insult was thrown in on
general principles. The Conference bent its
gigantic intellect to the work of devising
a method of transferring the State debts to the
Commonwealth, and did as every other confer-
ence of State Premiers has done —gave it up as
something beyond its size. A really glad feature
of the case was the peremptory intimation by
Bigjohn Forrest, that the Commonwealth
would wait on State incapacity or State vacilla-
tion no longer, but would take over compulsorily
the £202,(XX),000 of debt which the Constitution
authorises it to annex, and would immediately
start a s iking fund for the repayment of the
same. TL is peremptory shout of the Strong Man
roused Carrdthers to allege that the Common-
wealth hasn’t the powers which Forrest claims,
ami that the statement in clause 105, that “ the
Parliament man ‘ake over from the States their
public debts as existing at the establishment of
the Commonwealth ” really means that it may
take them over if the States give permis-
sion. If Joseph's story is true, then, of
course, there is no need for Joe to worry:
all that Joky has to do is to go to the High Court
and get any Federal action for the compulsory
transfer of debt declared illegal, and thus cover
Treasurer Forrest with scorn and defeat. As
Carruthers didn’t make the slightest hint about
going to the High Court when the time comes,
one possibly inference is that he knew his asser-
tion was mere bluff. Anyhow Biojohn Forrest
brushed him away as if ho were a fly. There was
a time when things got so bad among the State
politicians who had met to tell the Commonwealth
exactly How To Do It, that Carruthers and
Ashton of N.S.W. refused for a while either to
speak or vote, and merely sat and glared at their
colleagues. It was only after Food, in the shape
of lunch, that they came out of their trance. The
only point on which the conference was, appar-
ently, unanimous, was that State Premiers should
be allowed to communicate personally with the
British Government instead of addressing it
through the Federal authority—presumably so
that the British Government will remember,
through the extra worry in its correspondence,
that there are State Premiers. And tne confer-
ence was fairly unanimous (Premier Prior, of
S.A., dissented, to his honor, be it mentioned) in
wasting £3OO or so per annum as the salary of a
1 tired Anti-Federal Grumbler. The Hired Grum-
bler is to examine proposed Federal laws, and see
if they “infringe upon State Rights.” So far,
no Federal law has infringed on “State Bights”;
if it had, Carruthers and Evans would have
rushed madly to the High Court and had it
annulled. Also, no Federal legislation which in-
fringes on “State Rights” is suggested, and, in
any case, seeing that the High Court is ready to
peremptorily annul any Federal Act which in-
fringes on “State Rights,” the Australian Parlia-
ment is not likely to take the slightest notice of
the Hired Grumbler. He simply represents the
same sort of petty and useless insult as would the
appointment of a State official at £4OO a year to
see that Prime Minister Deakin doesn’t beat his
wife.
*
Melbourne’s Cabby, Licensed and Otherwise.
The Board that is investigating the grievances of
Melbourne’s cabby is getting some surprising evi-
dence. It isn’t so much the troubles of tlm public
cabby that strike one, that peripatetic individual
being usually capable of looking after himself.
An interesting item is that which explains how
the Railway Department creates a practical mono-
poly of the cab service at stations. The conse-
quences are that (1) the Department sweats the
tenderer ; (2) the tenderer sweats those to whom
he sublets or whom he employs; (3) these in their
turn sweat the public—and if an outside cabby so
much as touts for a fare at a station he is
liable to be fined. Another disastrous cir-
cumstance is that half the vehicles that
transport the Melbourne public are unlicensed.
At football matches, races, sports, picnics,
etc., dozens of express waggons, furniture
vans, and even cabs from livery stables, do the
licensed cabby out of a job. These may be, and
often are, in charge of irresponsible and some-
times incompetent lads, and the driver is as
unlicensed as the vehicle. When a representa-
tive citizen sends to the nearest rank for a hansom
to drive himself and his pet barmaid to St. Kilda,
that cabby must be licensed, and can only require
the legal fare ; but if the citizen telephones to a
livery stable for a hansom, the man who drives
the vehicle need not be licensed, and he can
charge any fee he thinks he can get. As for the
conditions of life of these livery-stable employees
—in reality cabmen—they urgently call for the
establishment of a Wages Board in that industry,
and the inquisitive intervention of the Board of
Health. Hours running from 15 to 20 a day
are common ; wages of 15s. and 17s. fid.
a week are the usual thing; while the
“boarding” accommodation is execrable and
unwholesome, physically and morally. Perhaps
the worst offenders of all are the large carrying
cos. They are not cab-proprietors, of course, but
they will take a load of live men to a picnic or
football match as cheerfully as a load of dead
parcels. Not only do they work their men shame-
fully long hours, and pay wretched wages, but
one co. actually compels its employ-i s to live in
its own cottages and pay whatevei rent it deems
fit, the fact being indirectly notified to the public
by a large advertisement covering the side of
each cottage. The Inquiry Board s evidence
already shows that the regulation of the whole
cab and carrying business should be taken out of
the feeble, nerveless hands of the City Hackney
Carriage committee, and placed in those of the
Factories Inspectors, with a Wages Board to fix
pay, hours, and general conditions of employ-
ment. As for the “traffic regulation” part of
the contract, the police carry that out at present,
with little assistance from the City Council’s in-
spectors—and that little they could very well do
without.
Work in the North—Loaf in the South.
That representative whom Sydney Telegraph
sent up to the Northern Territory to justify the
paper in ratting on White Australia, gave it very
lukewarm encouragement. But it made the most
of what it had ; and, on its own account, it drew
harrowing pictures of the climate of the North,
and scrawled at the top of its representative’s
half-hearted expressions of opinion the uncompro-
mising dictum, “Colored Labor Necessary.”
Sydney Telegraph, in this matter, has tried to
pretend that it was an explorer, entering a new
field, making inquiries which it had never occurred
to anybody before to make. Of course, that is non-
sense. Men specially qualified by lifelong training
have spent as many weeks or months as the Tele-
graph s investigator spent days, digging deep into
the whole question of Northern Territory hygiene.
Only last year S. Australia’s foremost authority
on the subject, Dr. Ramsay Smith, the President


of its Board of Health, made local scientific in-
quiry extending over four weeks, and followed
that up by a further elaborate investigation of the
records in the Health and Registrar-General’s
Offices. Of Dr. Smith’s high and special qualifi-
cations to investigate such a subject, there cannot
be a question ; he is a specialist in zoology and
geology, has studied both in relation to agricul-
ture, and stood high enough in his specialty to be
examiner for the Royal College of Physicians,
Edinburgh, for the degrees in Medicine and
Surgery. And this highly-qualified man, pur-
suing his investigations scientifically, and with no
newspaper or party behind him waiting for him
to give it the excuse it hankered after to turn its
coat, came to very definite conclusions: —
The truth is the objection to white labor is not a health
objection at all. The facts are everywhere in favor of
the whites. The question is really a commercial one.
And he proceeds with his investigation :
Not only is it (the Northern Territory) healthy as com-
pared with other tropical countries, but it possesses a
climate, and enjoys an immunity from disease, that are
remarkable w'hen compared with many temperate cli-
mates. Further, such local unhealthiness as it is subject
to, e.g., malaria, is of a mild form, and is preventible.
Passing from generalities, Dr. Smith discussed
the diseases separately. As to malaria, on which
the Telegraph hangs its somersault :
True malaria appears to be usually of the tertian type,
is mostly mild, and affects whites, Chinese, and blacks.
Withproperprecautions—and these could easily be taken
—the problem of banishing malaria from the Territory,
completely and permanently, is by no means a difficult one
The Sydney Telegraph practically has to admit
that it has no proofs. All it has is fears—the
same sort of bogey that it lost the last Federal
election with. Malaria isn’t bad, it says; but it
“lurks in the grossly overfed earth, and the first
white farmer who disturbs the germ by turning
up the soil is almost sure to suffer.” This picture
of the lurking germ, with its fine appreciation of
color, so that the white farmer only will be way-
laid —it is very touching. But fortunately we
don’t have to take the Telegraph’s bogey on trust
this time. The Territory is simply a western ex-
tension of Queensland, the only difference be-
tween them being that the rainfall and the vege-
tation are generally heavier in the Queensland
country, and the lurking germ ought therefore to
be a trifle more ferocious. Now, “the grossly
over-fed earth ” of Queensland is still being
turned up; and—more deadly than a lurking germ
for the Telegraph’s theory—Queensland keeps
death records. For all Queensland for five years to
the end of 1903, the deaths per 1000 of the white
population were 11’56. For the Kanakas the rate
was 36'39. Dr. Smith quoted those figures. But
there are still more modern ones, available only
within the last few weeks. For 1905 the Queens-
land “ white ” death rate was 10’30 per 1000. For
Chinese it was 10 ’46, and for Kanakas and other
islanders 22’41 per 1000, notwithstanding that the
Chinese and islanders included hardly any young
children or old people, among whom the
“natural ” death rate is heaviest. The Queens-
land Government Statistician in his report “Vital
Statistics, 1905,” (p. xvi.), sums up the matter :
Jt has already been pointed out that the colored alien
population is hostile to the birth-rate ; unfortunately,
they prove equally inimical to the death-rate from an
exactly opposite cause, the deaths among them being
excessive.
The experience of Queensland, then, is that the
lurking germ hasn’t such a fine color sense as
the Telegraph pictures him with, or, if he has
any preference, it is for the colored man. It is,
at any rate, quite certain that the colored man
suffers infinitely more than the white ; that is
proved, not by one year’s figures, but by the
figures for every year for a quarter of a century.
AVhat then? Well, we simply get back to Dr.
Smith’s conclusion—“ The question is really a
commercial one.” The white man can work there,
but he will only work as his own master. He
may begin as a servant, but, if he is worth his
salt, he won’t long continue in that state. The
colored man, on the other hand, if he is a care-
fully-selected nigger—not aHindu withthetrading
instinct in his soul—will work for all time as a
serf. With him, therefore, there will be large
possibilities of great plantations, of great tropical
farms, of vast possessions held by the absentee.
The colored men may die off quickly, but
while they live they will do what the white man
will never do for the capitalist who wants to loaf on
his fellows. These Southerners, who dearly love
their little syndicate—and the Telegraph is the
typical syndicate’s mouthpiece—may pretend that
they are interested in the question whether the
white can live and work in the north. That is
their humbug. What they are really interested
in is the introduction of a systenj that will allow
the white to live and loaf in the south.
— ; 4
The State-Subsidised Anti-Socialist.
One of the employers in the drapery trade, giving
evidence before the N.S.W. Arbitration Court,
last week, stated that he had in the employ of
his firm a young woman of 23 who was now re-’
ceiving 10s. a week. Formerly her wage had been
ss. a week ; but, after 12 months’ experience, she
had qualified for the munificent advance of 100
per cent, in her earnings. From the general tenor
of his utterances, the gentleman who testified
was a good anti-Socialist, who deprecated the in-
terference of the State in Private Enterprise ;
but had he taken the trouble to analyse the posi-
tion of this particular girl whose labor he
utilised for a year for ss. weekly, he could
not have helped seeing that his firm was,
in her case and in every similar case, assisted
by a substantial subsidy from the commu-
nity, and was, in reality, just as much an
eleemosynary institution as the Benevolent
Asylum or the Lost Dogs’ Home. The other
evidence given before the Arbitration Court
showed that the very least amount for which a
girl may obtain board and residence in Sydney is
6s. 6d. a week—one unfortunate hoarding-house
keeper having replied to an advt. offering to
provide acconlmodation for that sum. Probably
the accommodation was a long way short of that
necessary to satisfy a medical man of the most
Tory tendencies, and if the enterprise paid its
way the food must have been somewhat on the
same scale as that of the Lost Dogs’ Shelter,
and the inmates must have eaten the bone
on the mat. The provender certainly couldn’t
have been equal to that which the Benevolent
Asylum or the Penal Department provides, for
the cost of victuals alone in those institutions is
considerably in excess of 6s. 6d. a week per head,
leaving lodging out of the question altogether.
However, even if 6s. 6d. be taken as the bedrock—
the very bedrockest—cost of maintaining an able-
bodied girl earning ss. a week, it is plain that
eighteenpence a week must have come out of the
pockets of somebody or other than her employers.
Then, as she was a shop assistant, and not an
artist’s model, it was necessary, in the interests of
her employer alone, that she should wear sufficient
clothing to satisfy the susceptibilities of his naice
customers. Putting down the cost Of her clothing
at another eightteeffpence a week—though how a
girl could be clothed for that, Heaven only knows
—it follows that the firm in question profited by
extent of 3s. a week in this one case alone —that
the public of New South Wales paid the firm 3s. a
week for the pleasure of gazing into its windows
and pluming itself that it had in its midst such
splendid captains of industry as the gentleman
who stood in the witness box. And probably it
was really subsidising him to the extent of 15s. a
week at least. Had this firm, instead of having
its headquarters in Sydney in 1907, had its venue
in Mobile or New Orleans in the year 1860, it
would have had to conduct its business on lines
more sturdily individualistic. Instead of being
besieged by girls anxious to work for nothing, or
ss. weekly, in the hope of attaining the dizzy
eminence of 10s. a week 12 months later, it
would have had to go into the slave market
and pay hundreds of dollars for a nigger or
mulatto or quadroon maiden. It would have
had to make provision for interest on the capital
outlay, sinking fund for depreciation of girl, and
insurance against ill-health, unexpected death,
or any other cause which might interfere with
her usefulness. Having expended this money, it
would thereafter have been required to expend a
sufficient sum weekly to house and feed the girl
and, further, to dress her—for even in the
Southern States of America, before the war, it
was not customary for slaves to pursue their call-
ings in the altogether. This total weekly expen-
diture, instead of being ss. weekly, would be
nearer £l, and instead of relying upon the
genera] body of the public to pay its employees,
the unfortunate firm would have had to keep
them alive at its own risk. If the slave died
without any sinking fund being provided against
her, a gloom would have fallen over the pre-
mises, for the firm would have sustained a
serious loss, whereas to-day, if the 55,-a-week
girl developed plague in her 6s. 6d. a week
boarding-house, which is not a remote possibility,
and expired the same evening at Little Bay, the
firm would probably be able to fill her place with
her little sister at 55., and let the people of Sydney
go on paying the balance. Without using the
word “kept” in any offensive sense, it is mani-
fest that a very large number of the girls employed
by the firms, whose doings have lately come under
the notice of the Arbitration Court, are not paid
sufficient to enable them to live, and are kept by
outside persons. In most instances, these persons
are relatives—many of them are good trades
unionists, who would scorn to think that they were
indirectly assisting in sweating of the most virulent
type. In a few instances —and it speaks volumes
for the virtue of the Sydney girl that they are few
—the keep is provided by others for value received.
When the former class does the keeping, the em-
ployer who fails to pay a living wage occupies the
position of a sturdy beggar who subsists on alms
received from the general community. When the
latter class does it, he is simply a well-dressed
variety of the individual who lives on the pro-
ceeds of prostitution. In the one case he is a
cadger; in the other a bludger.
— 4-
The Braddon Clause and the Federal Capital
Clause: Two Things That Go Together.
The announcement made by N.S.W. Premier
Joe, that the people of the State are to be called
upon to get up in their State capacity and “force”
the Australian Parliament—which is largely them-
selves acting in their Federal capacity—to make
the Braddon Blot a permanent part of the Con-
stitution, raises the Federal capital question in a
new aspect. For N.S.W., acting in its State or
any other capacity, can’t well ask the Australian
people to make the Braddon Blot permanent
without giving up the claim that N.S.W. shall
alone be eligible as the site of the Australian
capital. The two things went together, and were
part of the same business. The original Federal
Constitution provided that the Braddon Blot (it
was always called a Blot then) should be per-
manent, and that the Federal capital might be
anywhere in the Commonwealth. That original
measure did not become law in N.S.W. for two
reasons. First, the State Legislature, led by
the Reid-Carruthf.rs Government, committed a
shabby breach of faith with the other States, by
raising the minimum vote required to ensure
acceptance from 50,000 to 80,000 ; second, Reid
and other members of the Reid-Carruthers
Government stumped N.S.W., telling the people
in words of flame about the utterly disastrous
character of the Braddon Blot, and the Sydney
Freetrade papers cried out in pages of blazing
wrath about the disastrous nature of the same
Blot (it was invariably called a Blot then), and
the public was so impressed that the 80,000 affirm-
ative vote wasn’t reached. Then George Reid,
of the Reid-Carruthers Government, went to
Melbourne, and harried the other Premiers into
two concessions : (1) That the Braddon Blot (it
was never called anything but a Blot then) should
be fixed for ten years only, and (2) that the Aus-
tralian capital should be in N.S.W. Reid, of the
Reid-Carruthers Government, got the chance to
secure the promise of the Australian capital
because the first Constitution miscarried in
N.S.W., and it miscarried because Reid and his
press barrackers assured the people over and
over again that the Braddon Blot would
just about ruin the State. The concession
whereby all the States except N.S.W. were dis-
qualified as possible sites for a Federal capital
was thus gained solely through the alleged bad-
ness of the Braddon Blot. Now Premier Oar-
RUTHERS tacitly admits that the rejection of the
first Constitution was secured by a lie, and that
the guarantee that the capital should be in N.S.W.
was obtained by the same lie. It now seems that the
Braddon Blot (to-day called the Braddon Clause)
is a mighty good Blot (or rather Clause). It is
so good that, whereas the old Reid-Carruthers
Government said N.S.W. wouldn’t federate unless
the dreadful thing were struck out, the present
Carruthers Government now almost threatens
that N.S.W. will break aivay from the Federation
unlessthe uoAe and beneficent thing is put in again
permanently. So the question arises : If it is pro-
posed to go back to the original Constitution in
the matter of the Braddon Blot (no longer called a
Blot), is it also proposed to go back to the original
Constitution in the other matter, and to make
every State of the Commonwealth equally eligible
as the site of the Federal capital? And if Joe
doesn’t propose that, why doesn’t he? Why
should he want tp go hack to the old Constitution
in one respect and not in another ? As the chance
to demand that the capital should be fixed in
N.S.W. was gained almost wholly by the assur-
ance that the Braddon Blot was ruinous, and as
the assurance now appears to be a fabrication and
the concession gained by it merely so much goods
obtained by false pretences—how pan Joseph
reconcile it with his conscience to admit the false
pretences and yet keep the goods ? As a matter
of fact, Australia will be well-advised to let the
Braddon clause expire in 1910, and to drop it
utterly. But if any party in N.S.W. is going to
ask for the permanent reinstatement of the clause,
it must, in common honesty, express its willing-
ness at the same time to give up N.S.W.’s ex-
Saul Among the Prophets.
When the Commerce Act was fighting its way
through the Australian Parliament, one of its
fiercest opponents was the Melbourne Argus.
Day after day that infuriated journal screamed
that the Act would paralyse our trade, disgust
the British and foreign manufacturer, bring
trouble on the local consumer, and spread ruin
and desolation in all directions. Also “Mer-
chant,” and “ Fair Play,” and “Britisher,” and
“Trader” —not to mention “ Vox Populi,” and
“Pro Bono Publico” —stormed at great length in
the same columns, and refused to be comforted.
The dreadful Act has only been going a very short
time, but already it has had such a salutary effect
that the Argus, without even a preliminary
cough or blush, now rises clumsily on its feet to
bless it: —
In so far as it is designed to promote honest trading, the
measure is welcomed. Its usefulness can only be marred
by official indiscretion. One effect of the measure, it is
stated, has been to improve the quality of imported
articles.
While, as for “Trader,” “Fair Play,” and the
rest of them, according to the same Argus :
All the leading merchants in Melbourne are said to be
assisting in the administration of the Commerce Act by
every means in their power.
In the same article are given a few examples of the
frauds which the Commerce Act is placing its
heavy boot upon :
Perhaps the greatest ingenuity to evade the spirit of
the Act has been shown by Japan. The “ little brown
man” produces tooth-brushes branded “extra-fine” or
“ superior quality.” One fancies he is handling an
English-made article, but an examination will reveal the
word “Japan,” in narrow letters on the edge of the
brush. This device fails in its object, as the Act requires
that the “country of origin shall be permanently and
prominently marked.” .. . We find that Japan is produc-
ing sardines a, Vhuile. There are so many French words
on the tin that the small trade-mark of the Japanese
cannery in the corner is quite overlooked. Such goods
will not be admitted until the label is altered.
It is always thus with the Tory journal. When
any good measure is being passed it declares
the same to be utterly ruinous and dam-
nable. When the measure is passed, and
gets to work, and the results prove the Tory
paper a false and incapable prophet, it just
remarks that the Act is quite a good Act; it poses
as if it had recognised the fact all along ; and it
implies that, in view of its friendly atti-
tude towards the democratic measure that
has arrived in spite of it, and proved a
success in the face of its lugubrious prog-
nostications, it is absurd to regard it as a Tory
every progressive measure that is still ahead, and
points to its approval of the democratic measures
that are behind as proof that there is no bias in its
denunciation of those in front.
—4 .
On the Land.
A recent casual happening at Narrabri (N.S.W.)
is a dismal essay on what may chance to the
girl on the land. The Shearer family was on the
land pursuing the stupendous natural resources.
According to the father’s statement, he, his wife,
and six children live at home. Home was, till
recently, a place of one apartment, but some time
ago another room was built for daughter Adeline,
aged about 13| (Adeline herself, however, de-
clared that they all occupied one room). Another
girl, aged 18, according to the father’s evidence,
was not at home. She had been “living with”
Kingsley for 18 months (she must have been
16J when she commenced living with Kingsley),
and had one child. The fact that Kingsley
had a wife somewhere didn’t seem to make
any real difference. The father admitted
calling daughter Adeline a name which
implied that her parents hadn’t been married
when she was born. (The name seemed to reflect
more on the parents than on Adeline.) There-
upon Adeline, he said, went away, and for three
weeks slept in the tent of her cousin, Frederick
Shearer. Frederick camped only about 100
yards away ; his tent was on his uncle’s land, and
he worked for the man with whom Adelines
sister had been “living” since she was 16|.
Father Shearer admitted that he. knew his
daughter was sleeping in her cousin’s tent, but
that he didn’t interfere. The cousin had wanted
to marry Adeline, and take her away from the
amazing one-roomed house, when she was 12£ years
of age, and apparently he wanted to marry her all
the time after that, but the old man (whose eldest
daughter lives with Kingsley) refused his con-
sent. Finally, daughter Adeline, using the
fence as a desk, is said to have written
a document which purported to be her
parents’ consent to her marriage.. She seems
to have done this with her mother’s know-
ledge, but with her mother’s indifference rather
than her consent; the said mother alleged : in
court that she wasn’t even sure about her
daughter’s age, and seems to be a rather blank
sort of woman. Then Frederick Shearer, aged
about 28, and his cousin Adeline, aged 13£ or so,
went to Narrabri with the old man in pursuit, and
on the strength of the unconvincing document
which the girl is said to have written on the fence
they endeavored to get married. Now the law
has sent girl Adeline to an institution as an
uncontrollable child, and committed Frederick
Shearer for trial on suspicion that he was privy
to the unauthentic nature of the document written
on the fence, and that his removal of Adeline
was therefore illegal and done out of cussedness
aforethought. And all these people were primary
producers, and were on the land, engaged in de-
veloping the great natural resources of the country.
♦-
The Canadian Example.
Quaint extract from S.M. Herald leader Of
May 29 :
We do not forget Mr. Watson’s naive proposal to take
£8,000,000 in gold from the banks and issue Government
paper by way of security.
The most naive feature about the whole business
is the foolish old Herald s inability to remember
that Watson simply proposed to adopt in Aus-
tralia a system invented, and successfully used for
30 years or so, by Canada, a steady-going British
possession to which the Herald frequently points
her gamp of admonition, bidding us in vague
terms to go and do likewise. And when we begin
to go and do likewise, the Herald always grows
angry. When it is suggested that we should
adopt the Canadian tariff and foster manufac-
tures as in Canada, the Herald is mad. When
it is suggested that we should break up the big
estates, so that we can have the means to follow
Canada’s policy of small settlement, the Herald
is madder. When it is suggested that we might
follow the system of the majority of the Canadian
States, and have cheap little State Legislatures of
one House, the Herald is maddest. When the
adoption of the Canadian banking system is
alluded to, the Herald is supercilious, or else
raving; and when the Canadian Federal Consti-
tution, which makes the States almost wholly
subject to the Federal authority* is mentioned as
a good model for Australia to follow, the old
paper is ravinger (or more raving, whichever
it,prefers); and it is ravingest (or most raving)
when it is suggested that N.S.W. should follow
Canada’s lead and start a big sinking fund for the
reduction of the public debt, instead of applying
the surplus to the abolition of the income-tax. In
fact, unless the Herald wants us to get bears and
snowstorms like Canada, it is hard to imagine
why it so often points its gamp at that place, and
tells us to go and do likewise. We can’t begin to
do likewise in one single, respect without the
Herald becoming a most excited old lady.
A Northern Queensland paper with “ black ”
tendencies has allowed its correspondent at
Geraldton to report that “ quite a number of local
men, young and old, have embarked in sugar-
farms”; and he mentions six who have 'just
“ put their little bit of ready cash into ‘ ruinous ’
sugar land.” Geraldton is on the Johnstone,
where it rains more heavily and frequently than
at any other place that keeps records in Aus-
tralia, and the climate was once supposed to be
something so extra-specially impossible for white
men that Tam Sie and other Chinese were allowed
to get the run of the town. They now mostly
own the town. And yet, after actual personal
experience, “quite a number of local men, young
and old,” stuff all the yarns that the black-labor
crowd spread into their pipes, and “put their bit
of cash ” into the land that wasn’t going to have
any value once Tommy Tanna was bowed out.
= 4
The anti-Sosh spook has turned up in Maoriland,
and has been gibbering at rustic audiences. for
some time past. The horrors of Sosh, as an
emanation of the brutal Labor Party, have been
systematically drilled into the skull of the sus-
picious person who spanks the cow and the.
superior individual who studies the sheep quota-
tions, until the myth is a real thing to the country’s
backbone, which howls, for the freehold of State
lands. Wherefore when Attorney-General Find-
lay told a partially hostile meeting of agricul-
tural persons, at Palmerston South, that the
farrners of Maoriland were deplorably Sosh, the
combined gasp of astounded stock-raisers en-
dangered the roof. According to Findlay, the
Labor Party had cause for complaint at the
Socialistic trend of farming legislation. Land
was socialistically taken from wealthy grabbers,
and small farmers were settled thereon. Money
was socialistically lent to the “backbone of
tbq country ” to preserve its financial stiffness.
Lime was socialistically carried free on the
railways, for the cultivation of. the backbone’s
pastures. The stock and produce of Mr, Backione
The Great God Cow.
THE LATEST VOYAGE OF THE ARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Archdeacon admitted that the cow had “come to
stay,” and he advised the church to adapt its machinery
to new conditions in dairying districts by having church
sites near creameries, with times of service to suit the
dairymen.— News item.
Heigho ! these irreligious times
Are trying to Archdeacons,
And passing perilous to all the churches ;
In search of more congenial climes,
Through seas all void of beacons,
The leaky Ark of Orthodoxy lurches.
Men have no faith at all, it seems,
In that old ship of Shinar
Which bore the pious patriarchs so stoutly—
Each individual now deems
It well to go per liner —
So safe that he can never fear devoutly !
They’ve blasted out the rocks of Hell,
The reefs of endless Torment,
And dredged the shoals of Dogma and Delusion ;
The channel’s buoyed and lighted, well
With light that long lay dormant-
dear Reason has dispelled the old confusion.
And yet withal, by zealots manned
Blind, deaf, or undiscerning,
Contemptuous of modern innovations,
The old Ark drifts far, far from land
With candles dimly burning,
To barter musty lute-strings with the nations.
They take no heed of time or tide,
These tars anachronistic,
The turbine or the motor would perplex them ;
Whilst liners pass them in a stride
They revel in ,the mystic,
Or fatuously curse each wave that checks them.
Dry-rot above, sea-worm below,
Her iron bolts corroded,
A sure prey to the storm of years before her,
The old Ark drifts, unwieldy, slow,
Her rusty cannon loaded
With harmless blank—to frighten the adorer.
What tedious voyage makes she now?
To what port is she sailing
In tarnished panoply and tattered vesture ?
She goes to meet the great god Cow
With prayer unavailing,
And threat —perchance with minatory gesture !
The great god Cow ! These hapless tars
With mad, pathetic blindness,
His very stronghold dare, and fain would storm it
With collects, and the mournful bars
Of ■“ Scatter Seeds of Kindness,”
Would “ Hold the Fort ” of Cow —perchance re-
form it!
The triple-armored ships of Cow,
Whose strength no man may utter,
Will pay no heed to prayers or imprecations ;
The business of every prow
Is just to carry butter—
To butterless and very hungry nations.
The devotees of Cow, alas !
Have very little leisure
To worship or appreciate the mystic;
They recognise “all flesh is grass”—
In grass is their chief pleasure,
They’re reprehensibly materialistic!
And so, although the Ark may plough—
With crew enwrapt in dreamery—
Through seas, storm-swept, and void of lights or
beacons,
In hope to break the great god Cow,
And pierce his inmost creamery,
They’ll fail. The times are trying for Archdeacons.
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


socialistic veterinary surgeons, and socialistic
experimental farms happened along for his bene-
fit. Socialistic poultry were bred to improve his
fowl-runs, and socialistic bulls and stallions were
imported to improve his stock. A socialistic
High Commissioner cabled produce quotations
from Bull’s country to temper the rapacity of the
middleman ; and other forms of Sosh, too numer-
ous to mention, hurried around to do the back-
bone’s bidding. Findlay remarked that the
Government might accede to urgent requests, and
give less Sosh ; whereat the backbone hastily
rose, and passed a unanimous vote of confidence
in the Administration.
The Sydney jury which found Richard Riley
guilty of murder, and the law officials who put
him on his trial, gambled with a very big respon-
sibility in a very ugly fashion. Over a year ago
Riley killed a young woman at Surry Hills, and
then endeavored to commit suicide. He spent
three weeks in hospital, and after that was put on
his trial. But the result showed him to be so
glaringly insane that the trial was abandoned,
and Riley was sent to an asylum. Now, being
supposed to have recovered his mental balance,
he is tried again and sentenced to death.
The law solemnly decides—looking back over a
period of 14 months—that though Riley was in-
sane almost immediately after the killing of Rose
Arnold, he was sane at the time of the crime.
It takes a very powerful telescope to inspect such
a finely-split straw as that at 14 months range,
and the people who gamble away a life on that
half-straw, seen dimly at that distance, take a
stupendous moral responsibility. And it won’t
be made much less of a responsibility by com-
muting the sentence in the usual fashion to
“life.” Riley, judging by his behavior in the
dock, seems to be fairly mad still, and the depart-
ment which put him on his trial must get credit
for being a very energetic department, with the
prosecuting instinct in its soul.
♦
The scramble in the Waverley (N.S.W.) electorate
is a sample of the difficulty which confronts many
constituencies. This seat has been held for years
and years by one Jessep, a respectable fruit mer-
chant in the city, but a poor thing politically ;
whose record, dating from the time of Parkes, is
summed up in the damning phrase, “a staunch
party man.” Jessep pursues the Scarlet Woman,
though he isn’t married to her ; is a cold tea fanatic
with a cold eye, and nurses the local church vote by
banging a bible in the Sunday school. These are
all his Claims to the seat. Lately the boundaries
of the electorate have been changed, and also there
has arisen a Pagan generation which is getting
dead tired of Jessep. Whereupon several
local Pillars banded together, and called
themselves the Waverley Deform League,
and announced to Mr. Jessep that they were
prepared to listen to his claims (if any) for
nomination. This came as a shock to Jessep,
but, instead of turning the other long ear like a
Christian, he rudely remarked that the league
was stacked by his enemies, and that his name
(T. Jessep) was to be sent direct to the Central
Executive of the Deform organisation, and that
he was prepared to abide by the result. The
local Pillars retorted that the Central Executive
was composed of frayed political hacks, all
Jesseps, and that it didn’t count for much. In
the ensuing fight the district had the time of its
life. Several esteemed citizens got so excited
that they said and did things that their worst
friends imagined were beyond them. The result
is that, whatever the Pillars do, Jessep will go to
the poll for a certainty, even if the only person to
select him is Mr. Jessep himself. The incident
illustrates the hold that small, faded men of no
earthly account get on their constituencies by
sheer force of habit, though their whole visible
merit lies in the fact that they sell a fairly-good
banana down in Sussex-street.
♦
Hysterical cry from Sydney Evening News
about those N.S.W. Representatives who have
been on the side of the Deakin Ministry :
Practically without protest these men have seen the
Federal Parliament gradually merged into a Victorian
Legislature; they have seen the requirements of the
other States of the Union systematically ignored in favor
of local demands, unhesitatingly granted to local peti-
tioners by the Central Administration ; they have
watched, while in themselves undergoing the process,
members from distant States growing denationalised,
until to all intents and purposes they are Victorian mem-
bers, using their privileges for the benefit of their adopted
State, and forgetful of their obligations to the people
who elected them.
Itisquite needless to say that the News gives no
particulars in support of its lie. There is always
that amazing lack of particulars. Last election
N.S.W. was given an extra member and Victoria
lost a member, which was, presumably, part of the
processof making the Parliament a Victorian Legis-
lature. Last financial year the Commonwealth
5pent£1,572.901 (21s. per head) in N.S.W., and only
£1,198,381 (19s. Bd. per head) in Victoria (these
are the N.S.W. Statistician’s figures). In propor-
tion to population, Victoria had less Federal
money spent in it than any other State, and it was
the same in previous years ; yet all these alleged
concessions, “unhesitatingly granted,” must
surely have involved the expenditure of some
money if they were worth anything at all. The
charges which two or three virulent anti-Federal
papers bring against the Australian Government
amount to accusations.of flat dishonesty in divert-
ing the money of other States to Victorian pur-
poses. If the charges went into details, the
Minister in whose department the alleged swindle
lay might take proceedings and land somebody in
gaol, but the details are always wanting, and the
anti-Australian slanderers hide behind a cloud of
vituperative generalities. Yet surely, if a whole
crowd of renegade members are using all their
powers and privileges to boost Victoria, it ought
to be possible to show where Victoria has gained
some solid cash return. There ought to be a list
of at least a dozen profitable swindles worked on
Victoria’s behalf at the expense of the other States.
♦
Sydney Health Board is on the warpath against a
dirty municipality. Cobar (N.S.W.) has just had
another outbreak of typhoid—the third within
three years or so. It was a mild outbreak com-
pared with former ones ; still 37 cases between
January 1 and May 10 isn’t a bad record for a
small town, and, according to Health Board Pre-
sident Dr. Thompson, the Municipal Council may
claim full credit for the performance. From the
beginning of the trouble the Health Board’s
medicoes and sanitary inspectors have inves-
tigated and advised the Council, and the
Council has duly “received” the advice, and
allowed the dirt to increase and multiply and
breed more typhoid. The Council has a com-
petent sanitary inspector of its own (though what
it pays him for, heaven only knows) and he also
investigated and advised until he got weary of the
useless business; and when the Health Board’s
officers went up to investigate the last outbreak
they found that the heart-broken local man was
just letting things slide. Now the Health Board
also grows weary -of advising, and threatens to
clean Cobar itself, and send in the bill to the dirty
Council. But wouldn’t it be better to arrest the
Council on a charge of murder or something ?
The N.S.W. Labor party is again making the
foolish mistake of opposing the reduction of the
membership of the State Assembly, on the ground
that such a reduction is liable to “stifle”
democracy. Democracy has nothing to fear from
enlarged constituencies. The results of the recent
Australian elections are sufficient to show that.
McGowen can’t be so optimistic as to expect that
he is going to do as well as Watson did. The
Labor party should accept the situation, and
clamor on two points where they can outbid Car-
ruthers. First, they should demand another
referendum to find out whether the people
wouldn’t like to wholly do away with the Upper
House, and should point out that the community
has as much right to be heard on the question of
abolishing one House as on that of partly abolish-
ing another. Secondly, they should point out
that, what with two Federal Constitution refer-
endums, two referendums re the reduction of the
State Assembly, one referendum about an
alteration of the Federal Constitution, a proposal
to hold a silly ass of a State referendum re the
Australian capital, and periodical local option re-
ferendums, it is surely time to make the referendum
a permanent feature of the Constitution, so that
on the demand of a sufficiently large section of
Parliament,'or of the people apart from Parlia-
ment, a popular vote can be taken on any subject.
There has been so very much referendum in the
last ten years, that it is impossible to argue
seriously any longer that the thing is a strange
foreign institution, and contrary to the spirit of the
British Constitution.
♦ *— •
Before the Queensland elections the Brisbane
daily papers shrieked that every vote cast for
Kidston’s party was a vote in favor of the Labor
party, and that there was no likeness between
Kidston’s policy and Philp’s. At that time they
believed, on the unreliable word of Philp, that
his party would come back stronger than the Kid-
stonites and Laborites combined, that he would
be Premier within a month of the elections, and
that he would not form a coalition with Kidston
or anyone else. Now, after the elections, when
they find that Philp has another deficit where a
surplus was expected, the same Brisbane papers
suddenly see a marked resemblance between the
Kidston and Philp policies, and they ask Kid-
ston to forget all the slanders uttered by the
Philpite candidates, and the press which supported
them, and implore him to take Philp and Leahy,
and possibly Denham, the produce-store rat, into
his Ministry. It further asserts that there is no
similarity between the Kidston and Labor poli-
cies, so that an alliance between their parties is im-
possible. But the lie is given to that yarn by the
Ipswich election. Ipswich returns two members,
and there were three candidates—Attorney-
General Blair (Kidstonite), Ryott Maughan
(Laborite), and Philp’s ex-Treasurer Cribb
(Philpite). This gave the Ipswich electors an
opportunity of saying which two parties they con-
sidered best fitted to work together. For Blair
and Maughan 2064 votes were cast; for Blair
and Cribb, 795; and for Maughan and Cribb, 76.
And what these 76 were thinking of, heaven only
knows.
—O
After much persuasion, the Victorian Govern-
ment has retired its ancientest P.M., but its most
doddersome J’s.P. remain. In Victoria 50 per
cent, of the J’s.P. who actually sit on the Bench
are aged fossils —older than Panton, more fossil-
ised than Panton, and j ust as Tory. These men
have outlived every normal pleasure known to
man, and so they hobble painfully to the police
courts and take an imbecile delight in flattering
themselves that they administer the law. In
reality, they are only pandering to the senile
desire to domineer over others. And the Govern-
ment is apparently powerless. Attorney-General
Davies has given it as his opinion that a J.P.
can stay on the Bench till the end of his
life, unless he develops some such defect as
complete deafness, and persists in deciding cases
when he can’t hear the evidence. The fact that
he persists in deciding cases when he is too intel-
lectually decrepit to understand the evidence,
doesn’t matter in Victoria. Apropos of this
aspect of the case, Davies has offered to make
Panton a J.P. with jurisdiction in any and
every part of Victoria. Can anything more
illogical be imagined ? Here is a man so old as
to be regarded by common consent as useless.
He is retired from the one Court in which, as
P.M., he had jurisdiction, and the same Govern-
ment which, because of its conviction of his use-
lessness, retired him from the Bench, offers him
the right to sit and adjudicate on every Bench in
the State. Panton seems to be Victoria’s Old
Man of the Sea. It is impossible to shake
him off.
How these lawyers differ ! When present
Lands Minister Mackey, who is a Gent. One, took
office in Victoria as Bent’s Chief Secretary, he
announced his intention to practically suspend
the Vic. Factories and Shops Act, by issuing per-
mits to small shopkeepers to keep their premises
open after 6 p.m. Before Mackey could do it, he
was succeeded by Langdon, who hung back
awhile. Then Langdon gave way to Peacock,
who also hung back. Now it transpires that
both these non-legal Ministers doubted the
Cabinet’s power to suspend the Act, and asked
the Crown Solicitor’s opinion, which was that
such action would be in direct defiance of sec. 1 of
the Bill of Rights of William 111., cap. 2.
Thus N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers
wildly:—
If a substantial majority of the people of N.S.W. object
to giving up 900 square miles at Dalgety, with a strip of
land for a railway to Twofold Bay, will Mr. Chapman,
and the Federal Government, take it in defiance of such
objection ?
On the evidence one would say—“ Most as-
suredly.” To oblige theßeid-Carruthers Govern-
ment of N.S.W. the other States consented to the
arrangement that the Federal territory was to be
any old place in N.S.W. provided it was at least
100 miles from Sydney ; that it was to consist of
any old area provided it was not less than 100
square miles; and that the location of the seat of
Government was to be decided by the Australian
Parliament. To let it be decided in any way by
the N.S.W. State Parliament, or any other State
Parliament, or by the people of N.S.W., or of
any other State, except in so far as their Federal
representatives speak for them, would be wholly
illegal. There is no provision for anything of
the kind in the Constitution, and Carruthers’
question is a braying ass.
The Showman’s Moneymaker. —The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
—
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Palace “The Coal King.”
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Virginian.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Millionaire.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
Town Hall Marie Hall.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Liz was a girl who lived on The Rocks,
and worked at Dixson’s Tobacco Factory. She
was a warm one with the blokes, and, because she
was always stealing someone else’s bloke, she got
into much trouble at the factory. There was a
new “ cop ” on the beat where she lived—Joe. He
had won two stripes for the smart arrest of a
housebreaker, and filled his uniform proud. Liz
marked him down for hers. And he was willing.
Liz being a girl that had a hundred tricky little
ways, Joe went “ fair barmy ” on her, and to get
her presents he joined in a little affair of swindling
the Customs at the tobacco factory. He was found
out, and was a broke bloke after that. But
lie was happy so long as he had Liz.
Liz, though, wasn’t of the staying sort. There
came a new pug to the Rocks quarter who
had outed Rollo, the 10-stone wonder, with a
brand-new hit. He was a likely lad, and thought
many beans of himself, and had no shy little ways
where the girls were. Any girl that walked with
him was the glassy agate of the Rocks that week.
Well, Liz took up with him, and gave Joe the
cold eye. Jos. took it badly, started on Rocks
rum, went clean off his chump, and, meeting Liz,
once when she was hanging around after the pug,
hit her so hard that there was an inquest.
* * * &
That’s the story of “ Carmen” in Australian. It
was an old, old story, as told of great courtesans
and kings, and was immortalised and not
vulgarised when Bizet brought it down to
the level of the great mass of humanity and
showed the wreck that a woman with a man’s
ways of passion in her hot blood can make. It is
racially of Southern Europe ; but in Australia—
especially north of the Murray—it can be under-
stood and sung. The Bulletin hopes to hear it
sung in the Australian dialect of the English
language, by an Australian company, some day.
Meanwhile, it has no desire to hear it sung again
in German by German singers. “Carmen” is
antipathetic to the German spirit. Teutonic
languish is a little oleaginous ; Teutonic love
sentiment is still flavored with the ideas of
forbears who, Tacitus states, punished adultery
with death. The Carmen (Miss Johanna Heinze)
whom Mr. Musgrove presented to Sydney at the
Royal last week was a plump, respectable Ger-
man fraulein, or frau. She had no abandon,
no suggestion of a lava flow of passion
burning up the men who hovered at her mouth.
This Carmen is obviously entertaining her lover
at a musical soiree in a suburb of Berlin—the
police having been informed, in accordance with
Municipal Regulation 50314, that there was to be
music—with herr father and frau mother nodding
fat approval in the background. And the dear,
pleasant, respectable Carmen, who obviously never
had a vagrantthought in her prim little life, gave the
key to all the other singers. Don Jose (Richard
Olser) was a nice young man, with a pleasant man-
ner and a pleasant voice, who had got papa’s con-
sent and enough in the bank to buy the furniture.
Escamillo, the bull-fighter (Mr. Fritz Rupp),
showed all the harmless gallantry of an elderly
Irish gentleman at a gathering of respectable
ladies. He was effusive, but clearly meant no
harm. Complete the cast of principals with a
Micaela (Miss Mia Barckow), who was more
appropriate in being colorless, and who sang with
some charm. Among the rest there was more
promise. The Smuggler Chiefs (Emil Greder and
Karl Foller) had something of the spirit of the
piece, and scored in the mild clowning and the
patter singing of the second act, and the two
gipsy girls (Miss May Slotter and Miss Eliza-
beth Kuhnke), showed out above the principals.
But on the whole, “Carmen” in German, by a
German co., is an experiment that had better not
be repeated. Supposing—which is unlikely—a
German cast that could enter into the spirit of
the piece—the language would be a drawback.
There are the best of reasons for singing “ Car-
men ” in French, and .fair reasons for singing it
in English in an English-speaking community,
but none at all for singing it in German, except
among Germans who would be content, for the
sake of better understanding of the plot, to put
up with the matching of unmelodious words to
music of a particularly vivid and racial type.
Mr. Musgrove’s co. must win its reputation on the
Wagner productions. (The production of “ Tann-
hauser ” on Wednesday cannot be noticed this
week, as The Bulletin goes to press on Tuesday
night.)
# $ $ $
“Mother Goose” will moult Florence
Young and one or two more of those fine tail-
feathers which have been held proudly aloft, first
in Melbourne, and then at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, from Christmas till midwinter, and
will start out on tour next week. The old bird
will be followed by “The Spring Chicken,” which
unfledged little atom has been shivering on the
hoardings for a week past, and making plaintive
appeals for the loan of an umbrella. The Royal
Comics will contain some new faces and voices,
and it is currently reported that the Chicken
contains some new humor.
* * * #
“ The Squatter’s Daughter ” continues on
the flurry of her way at Sydney Criterion. The
grass is still green enough in her father’s paddock
to make any removal unnecessary, and the lady
can still get a good drink at the waterhole. When
the drought comes again she will doubtless be
herded along the great stock route in search of
new pastures, unless the water along the route
has dried up. In that case the management will,
presumably, be driven to kill and salt the lady.
Of all the desperate villains that ever came
to Sydney, the “ desperatest ” is Walter Harford,
in “The Coal King,” the new melodrama staged
on Saturday by the Holloway Co. When this
writer wandered into the Palace, Harford,
who is the son of Sir Reginald Harford,
the Coal King, was violently embracing a
pretty, squealing damsel, and demanding that
she should become his’n on a dishonorable and
temporary basis. For an heir-apparent to a coal
kingdom he doesn’t seem to have a sufficient
income. Some 16 minutes later he entreats
the girl to marry him—he cannot, will
not, live without her. Between the pro-
posals he has learnt that the girl—she is the
village schoolmistress—will be a great heiress.
Knowing how unpractical women are, he
now desires to marry her, so as to help her
spend her money unwisely and too w ell.
She is deeply in love with the mine manager,
Tom Roberts, the hero of the coal drama,
and it is to the villain’s interest to “remove” (1)
Tom Roberts, (2) his own mother. But the
latter is not known to be Harford’s mother. She
is accepted as the hero’s mother. She had palmed
off her own darling on the Coal King as his son
when she was nursing the pair of youngsters,
and had kept young Blue (or Coal Black) Blood
for herself. This stage device, like the mercy of
God, will go on for ever. Age cannot wither nor
custom stale the infinite and melancholy drivel of
the dodge. Audiences like it as well to-day as did
those sitting about on trees when the first chim-
panzee actors played the first substitution joke.
When the maternal person comes into the Coal
King’s office, she sees her son (the real son) half in
half out of the tall safe. He is robbing it,
and she says “Don’t steal.” He replies, “Ha,
that woman,” stuns her with a heavy ruler, and
puts her body into the safe. He thinks she’s a
body—but she’s not. And presently the safe
has to be opened for cash reasons, and the
lady walks out and accuses the villain.
Still nothing happens to him. And later,
the woman and the villain meet on a bridge.
Below is a clear fall of several miles into the rush-
ing river. He throws her over, and exults aloud
because he’s “a-safe at last.” Along comes the
hero, her supposed son. He has no business there.
He just comes, and not until then does the drown-
ing woman scream. She has been too busy fall-
ing to scream. There is such a lot of fall.
That of Eve was nothing to it in steepness.
The hero takes off his coat and dives (amidst roars
of applause from the house). He and the woman
are drawn up dry and undrowned, and covered
with limelight. It is a deed to win an Empire !
In fact, there is none like it in Fitchett’s
Retriever Annals. Still, nothing happens
to the gilded villain. He goes to good
old Pa’s office as usual. Also, he swears
at the working man. But he isn’t idle.
His mother being evidently immortal, he lays
trails of explosives in his father’s mine to blow up
the hero, Tom Roberts. But Tom gets out in
time, although the mine is wrecked and a lot of
miners entombed. The desperatest of all des-
perados fills in time by killing the pretty little
schoolma’am’s father. This murder leaves the way
clear for the girl to come into great wealth and marry
the hero. Finally (there must be finality, as the
audience hasn’t brought its mattress with it), a
comic policeman puts the darbies on the villain’s
wrists. The well-tailored, benevolent Coal King
accepts the intimation about the change of heirs
as he would a strawberry ice, and folds the hero,
now his son and heir, to his well-laundered
bosom.
* * * *
It’s no flattery, but solemn fact, that the
whole co. plays the frantic thing capitally. So
frantic and familiar a piece has to be played well,
or audiences would stay from it as if it were
Shakspeare. Pretty little Beatrice Holloway
and Robert Inman are heroine and hero. Godfrey
Cass is the villain, and Wilton Welch is the comic
policeman. “The Coal King ” will have a good
reign.
ifc * * #
West’s Pictures at Sydney Lyceum are re-
inforced by a splendid series—“ The Kingdom
of the Czar.” To be hoped his Imperial Nibs
doesn’t hear of it. If he does, there’ll be an
interruption of diplomatic relations for sure.
*• sfc * *
The Besses o’ th’ Barn Band, the most-
travelled combination of its kind on this earth, so
far as the evidence goes, has been playing at
Sydney Cricket Ground to twenties of thousands
whose ears expanded as they listened. (N.B. —
This ear statement must not be taken literally.)
This week it plays at Maitland, Tamworth and
Armidale. After Thursday manager Stetson
will make further announcements of fixtures.
** m *
The Judkins that is fizzling so miserably
through Sydney at present is a very different-look-
ing article from the Jud that came over with a
flourish of trumpets six months ago. The mighty
atom has lost all the ascetic lines that made him
look the embodiment of his cause, and he shows a
disposition towards fleshiness that belies his holy
calling. There is no denying the awful truth —
Judkins is getting fat. To-day he looks like a
particularly well-nourished mediaeval monk, or
one of England’s greatest character comedians.
If the carnal Judkins continues to progress
at his present rate, his photo will soon make
an admirable advertisement for somebody’s ale
and stout, and ’his name will be Pudkins.
The new entertainer’s endeavor to introduce the
Dreary Sunday Afternoon into Sydney was a sorry
fiasco. The Centenary Hall, last Sunday, con-
tained only a couple of hundred people, and both
Jud and Woodfull received a welcome that was
very cold, as compared with the kind they re-
ceive in Melbourne, when their own meetings are
carefully packed. But the gathering was useful
as revealing the objective of the Judkins party,
which is, to use Jud’s own words, to let the
“ Church wade, wade deep into the sea of politics
and seize the Parliamentary machine.” As usual,
while Jud was sensational, Woodfull was
simply vacuous. He stumbled over his as-
pirates as of yore, and added a word to
the language bv remarking that tno liquor
traffic, in modern times, was an “anchorism.”
A naive admission was made by the Rev. W. G.
Taylor, who presided. In endeavoring to explain
away the beggarly array of empty benches which
faced Jud and Woodfull, he attacked the Besses
o’ th’ Barn Band, asserting that the people who
weren’t there to listen to Jud while he judded
were down at Chowder, enjoying the music.
Even if his contention were correct, it would only
prove that Judkins and Woodfull are regarded as
a sort of entertainment to be suffered when there
is nothing better with which to while away a
Sunday afternoon that would otherwise be drearily
spent loafing on the meter box. If the Besses o’
th’ Barn can turn a Dreary Sunday Afternoon from
a prosperous show to a wide expanse of hall with
a cluster of folk in one corner, a Sunday display
by the Modern Milo would probably leave Judkins
and Woodfull to harangue each other turn about.
*• « * *
Carreno’s Sydney season begins next
Saturday at the Town Hall.
*# m *
Latest newcomer at the Tivoli is Frank
Hartley, who reminds you of old Sam Johnson’s
dog, which walked on its hind legs. It didn’t do
it very well, but, as Samuel said, it was a great
deal that a dog should walk on two leg| at all.
Hartley is a youngster who juggles, and, though
he juggles pretty well, the remarkable thing is
that, at his age, he should juggle at all. His per-
formance with the plates is particularly deft; the
only drawback is that so many people at the
Tivoli have lately been, so to speak, feeding on
plates. For the rest the programme, which has
been drawing packed houses, is one that never
rises very high, and never falls very low, but is
solid in the music-hall sense.


Having read the somewhat monotonous
story whereof “ The Virginian ” is a dramatisa-
tion, one is unable to say exactly how bad or how
good a play it may appear to the world that meets
its characters for the first time. A large mixed
audience at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), on Saturday
night, seemed to take kindly to “ The Vir-
ginian,” especially when Steve and “Spanish”
were escorted into the background to be hanged
on no evidence whatever, and their executioners
came walking back in single file. Silent effects
are the salvation of the show. They give the
“atmosphere” a chance, and the management
justly claims that “ The Virginian ” is a Play of
Atmosphere. The atmosphere of the first scene
is considerably poisoned with cheap comic relief,
and the second act has no atmosphere worth men-
tioning ; but in the third and fourth acts the
atmosphere is sometimes so thick you could cut it
with a shoehorn.
* * *'•
The plot, which hangs together in the
same way that sausages are connected at the pork
shop, gives the actors little chance to put any
subtle work into their character sketches. Charles
Waldron gets the largest chance, and he turns it
to pretty good account. Up to a certain point
his handsome appearance and pleasing manner
may be said to play the part excellently. Beyond
that point he acts tamely. He takes no risks.
Miss Olga Humphrey, on the other hand, takes
some risks as an actress, and gets through credit-
ably enough. But her style is hopelessly artificial.
She is always the stage lady—charmingly decora-
tive, but not a bit convincing. Hardie Kirkland’s
notion of Trampas is exaggerated on powerful
lines ; Cyril Mackay makes a satisfactory Steve ;
and the minor creators of atmosphere—Holmes,
Bryant, Chalmers, etc.—are fresher than the
scenery, which looks the worse for wear. The
atmosphere of a back-cloth sky has three rents in
it, and one of them hadn’t been patched on
Saturday.
* * * #
“The Great Millionaire” seems to be
prospering more than ever at the Royal. Mel-
bourne has reverted to its old habit of theatre-*
going, and a large Drury Lane drama that puts a
bloated capitalist in the foreground is more popu-
lar to-day than it was three years ago, when
money was not so prevalent in the city. There is
even a mild outbreak of satisfaction in the amphi-
theatre when the millionaire recovers his lost
spirits. If he were to state the full value of
his real and personal estate, the figures would
probably be received with applause. Never-
theless, he is a deplorable person, who
doesn’t deserve to be saved from ruin by the
intervention of Providence. Providence should
allow the rich man’s secretary to get away with
his cable code, and reduce him to the necessity of
working in a Melbourne starch factory,
* * * *
Marie Hall met the eye and appealed to
the ear of Melbourne at the Town Hall on Satur-
day afternoon. Appearing for the first time as
the soloist in a Mendelssohn concerto, with an
orchestra behind her and a tall dark namesake
holding a stick in proximity to her head, she
sounded a note of disappointment before she got
to work at her violin. Marie Hall doesn’t look true
to the romantic story of her youth and education.
She has no platform manner. Even her fragility—
the slight figure, thin arms, and somewhat pinched
face—fails to attract attention. As a violinist her
facility of execution is equally unobtrusive. She
has no tricks and no personal magnetism. She
plays with singular delicacy of skill and purity
of tone, but the results are not thrilling.
The tone is not thin. What it lacks is
breadth, or warmth, or color—which three terms
mean much the same thing in violin performance.
Apart from two concerto pieces, in which she was
more at ease than the orchestra, she played four
little things to the piano accompaniment of Miss
Basche, who gives her the best possible assistance
in the quietest possible way. With the pianiste
for a junior partner, Marie Hall is to give three
recitals, and in these her art will be fully ex-
pressed. The second recital is due to-night
(Thursday) and the final on Saturday.
* * * *
At the Opera House a musical sketch by
Fred Graham and Miss Dent has been added to
the bill. Also Bluett is back, and Carlton has
turned on some new patter, and the Svengalis are
getting through their “ turn ” with improved
neatness, and Claude Leplastrier, the young Aus-
tralian, who made lightning sketches for 143
consecutive performances at Rickards’ Sydney
house, is on his way over to brighten the bill.
** * *
The Poster Carnival, at the Glaciarium,
which will eventuate on the 26th, suggests many
subjects for apt illustration on skates. Even the
early amateur, whose legs are in the first stage of
uncertainty, is offered a choice of opportunities
for suiting the action to the advertisement, and
bearing off the prize for the best sustained
character. For instance, a representative of
Somebody’s unrivalled barometer or thermometer
would be naturally expected to fall and rise, when
he was not remaining stationary. He needn’t
skate at all. The same suggestion applies to
cough drop advertisers. The animated poster
must cough violently in the first place, and chen
drop. And for the practised gliders there are
many brands of bicycle waiting to be postered.
A fleet and fluffy ToOrakienne might represent,
say, the Red Bird, with killing effect ; whilst a
Gussie, in proper descriptive costume, could skate
attendance upon a pair of cream-costumed dames
of quality, and give an intermittent impersona-
of a Cream Separator. Lots of ingenious things
should transpire at the Glassy Harem Poster
struggle.
* * *- *
Charles Waldron and Ola Humphrey,
with their large and very capable crowd of sup-
porters, have put in a brief time at Adelaide
Royal. For two nights, fragments from “The
Virginian ” novel were presented, and the other
two showed American ideas of the British aris-
tocracy in “ The Sqaw Man.” The cast in both
cases was nearly the same as last year. Now
“Parsifal” has just come in, and Adelaide is
rushing from the racecourse (Birthday Cup week)
to see the Triumph of Purity, and back. As a
cuddlesome drama it puts “The Sign” away back
in the “ also ran ” division. A pleasant piquancy
is lent to the situation by Miss Ada Ward’s visit
of denunciation ; but Adelaide has received this
lady very quietly. The Black family is making
music at the Town Hall, but just why these
people call themselves the All Blacks has to be
carefully explained to South Australians, who
don’t know Rugby football from shinty.
THE VIRGINIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Silence, pray—for a simple song of whisky, love, and
woe:
A ballad of the wondrous West, where cows on ranches
grow,
And boys are boys, and fiiends are friends, and f.o.e.
spells foe —
Hard unrelenting foe.
A young Virginian takes the stage, a cowboy brave and
cool;
He plays the noble Hero, whilst his comrades play the
fool.
And he’s the lover of the girl who teaches at the school —
The local infant school.
One Trampas plays the deadly Foe—a Guy Fawkes fiend
in black.
Morn, noon and night, he lurks around upon the Hero’s
track :
For, Lord knows why !—he wants to shoot the Hero in the
back—
His manly, upright back.
The future is at once revealed to every mental e3'e ;
The school-marm’s born to love her boy, and fix him by-
and-bye;
And Trampas in his wicked boots must violently die—
O yes ; he’s got to die.
But, ere the climax is attained—alas! that this should
be—
The Hero does an awful deed, an awful deed does he :
He traps a pair of cattle thieves, and hangs them from a
tree,
A verdant gallows tree.
Still Trampas lives, and Trampas vows to lay the Hero
low :
Each man is in the other’s way, and one of them must
go:
And with this gory fact in view they wander to and fro
(But Trampas drinks, you know).
The whisky’s in when Trampas shoots—it causes him to
miss,
And nothing now is left to mar the sober Hero’s bliss.
The school-marm sights the villain’s corpse, and gives her
boy a kiss,
A joyful tableau kiss.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Philo”: Celia Mavis (otherwise Celia Marks), the
Australian Jewish actress, who is reported to have struck
oil in the land of Baked Nigger, was for years a teacher in
the Sydney Hebrew School before she turned to the foot-
lights. Her powerful, well-trained soprano voice first
commanded attention at a Hebrew melody concert.
Shortly after wards her acting, in an amateur performance
at the Criterion, Sydney, so impressed Widow Sheridan
O’Brien that he engaged her, and she played leading lady
under that mummer-manager for years.
“ J.A.C.”: London cables of June 1 announced the
death of George Leitch, an actor very well known here
for a number of years. His age was not stated, but he
must have been pretty well up in the century, for he looked
elderly when he first came to Australia,'some 25 years
ago, and opened at the old Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
He was a fair actor—he could not be classed as a
really good one, but he was useful. He was possibly at
his best in the “ Private Secretary,” but the play
suffered greatly through his interference with the origi-
nal text and his introduction of an allegedly-comic
music-hall song, “ The Good Young Man that Died.” The
part of the Rev. Robert Spalding suited his girly style—
he was very ladylike, and was variously known among his
associates in the theatre as “Maudie” and “Gertie.”
Leitch was also, in a way, a dramatic author, and under
the name of George Walker, which, I believe, was his
patronymic, or at least a portion of it, wrote many
plays, which were once popular with Londontranspontine
audiences. Among them were “Scithors to Grind”
(condensed bathos), “The Madman ” (a lurid production,
with a profusion of red light cast on the protagonist),
and many others, whose names I do not remember.
While out here he produced, in company with “ Jimmy ”
MacMahon, the “ Pearl Divers,” which, if I mistake not,
first saw the light in Auckland (M.L.). In one produc-
tion of this play, the diver calmly took off his helmet
with one hand while he was supposed to be under water ;
whether he did it to breathe or to fish I know not. “ The
Land of the Moa,” also first staged in M.L., was possibly
the last thing Leitch did in the way of authorship. His
plays were no worse—certainly no better—than the aver-
age run of bellowdrama. He appeared in the first
Australian production of “ Paul Jones,” as “ The Insect,”
and was very successful, but his humor was always, to
me, a hidden mystery.
If, as rumored, Clarence Brune, who played a very
frosty season in Sydney three years ago, joins his wife to
play Shakspeare, after she has done with J. O. Williamson,
they will be known as the Jot and Tittell Co.
Franklin Peterson at Melbourne University Conserva-
torium’s welcome to Mrs. Carreno: “We, here in
Australia, are far from the world’s centres of art, and the
news ive receive in the daily press from, fortunate visitors
to Europe, too often darkens counsel with words." And
quite recently the speaker’s esteemed predecessor,
Marshall Hall, had served up in the Argus many yards of
enthusiasm about his trip to Europe. How these Profs,
love one another ?
“ Aus.” : Contralto Eva O’Connor, who goes to London
under the Melba patronage, is throwing the kingly old
name of O’Connor overboard on the voyage, and will sing
for the future as Mademoiselle de Fuci. Apparently any
name but a British one is good enough to sing under.
How these Frenchmen and Italians must snigger in-
wardly at the bogus Parisians and sham Florentines, who
came out of Anglo-Saxondom—the lady from Ballarat
who calls herself Madame de Bally, and the man from
Kidderminster who calls himself Signor Kiddy, and
all the rest of the affectations !
“ Blister ” (from Ballarat) : Miss Faded Fraud, who re-
cently took a farewell of our city, is said to be returning
to lecture some more under the flag of the local Salvarmy.
The Methodies are arranging to be out, or busy, or dead,
or something, when she gets back, excepting a small,
noisy crowd in the Amen corner, and an odd parson or
two, who seek to share the remains of the limelight.
The late George Leitch, actor-manager, was haunted
by a curious financial spectre. Some ancestor or name-
sake of his in America once, before Washington was built,
owned a large area of land on the site of what is now the
U.S. capital. The proceedings of this ancestor, and the
disappearance of his claim to the land, seem to have
been wrapped in some mystery or irregularity, and now
and then some speculative Yankee lawyer would drop on
the matter, and would offer, for an adequate considera*
tion, to bring action to recover the best part of the city
of Washington for Leitch, or in default of the city to get
him about fifty million dollars compensation. But pro-
bably Leitch knew more about the case than they did ;
anyhow he never made any serious attempt to capture
Washington.
Dear Bulletin.— Re Sarah Bernhardt’s action against
New York World for “ impugning my honesty as an
author” (B. 30/5/07). While the virtuously-indignant
lady is on the warpath she really ought to investigate a
translation of Max Nordau’s “ Paris Sketches ” (Chicago :
Laird and Lee, publishers), wherein a whole chapter is
devoted to herself, her “friends,” the “originality” of
her sculptures, and so on. Compared with Nordau, the
World’s allegations seem to be as infant’s food to red
pepper, and, as a representative Melbournian of high
moral principle, I feel it only right and proper to draw
Miss Bernhardt’s attention to the charges, so that she may
take steps towards a refutation.—Yours morally, W. Gim-
let. P.S.—It is, perhaps, needless to state that my
shocking revelations are made with a high moral view.
Any person who doubts may be referred to my bankers,
who are authorised to show him my overdraft.—W.G.
Melba had a great send-off, by all accounts, on the last
night of her season at the Manhattan Opera House, New
York. There were curtain-calls after every act, and, at
the finish, the audience stood up and cheered, howled,
wept, waved and raved for 40 minutes on end. Then a
person named Hammerstein gave the songstress a supper
on the stage, and when the speech-making epoch arrived,
“ brought his hand down on her back and declared she
was a jolly good fellow.” Well, the singing girl who fails
saves her back, anyhow. Some of these supper dogs
hit pretty hard when they call you a jolly goo’ f’ler.
“Raffles’’has been translated into German, and is to
run at a dozen German cities, starting with the capital.
Also, RCjane—no less—is going to produce it in Paris.
“S.T.S.”: London Referee critic, naming the manv
Richard the Thirds he has seen, follows up Barry Sul-
livan, Dillon, and Creswick, with “Harry J. Rickards, a
long-popular East End Glo’ster.” Can it be our own
Harry ?
An unexpected diversion was created in the dress circle
of a Melbourne theatre, the other Saturday night, by the
conduct of a large, wiry-haired, nut-brown dog of
Hibernian parentage. The dog ambled gaily into the
theatre a few minutes before the rising of the curtain,
and, taking a recumbent position on an “ engaged ” seat,
started kicking itself vigorously with its left hind leg,
whereat there was a precipitate retreat from all those
seats within range. An usher reprimanded the dog,
and ordered it off the premises, but Carlo dived down
and scurried along the row, past the feet of the
assembled patrons. Then it ducked beneath a seat. The
usher went in pursuit, but the intruder was not dis-
coverable at the spot where it had dodged down, and
while the search was in progress a sedate old gentleman,
a neat study, in pink and grey, suddenly bounded up,
uttering a wail of misery, and nursing his damaged calf.
The dog had scrambled along under 20 or 30 seats, and,
having nothing better to do, had bitten the unsuspecting
elder out of pure wantonness. The dog was then put out,
but a little later it re-appeared in the stalls, where it
attracted attention by howling dismally at the band.
It was again ejected, and at 11 o’clock it again
came into public notice by attacking people as they were
leaving the theatre. Evidently it was a dog that har-
bored resentment.
The Australian stage is at present adorned by a
married couple who do the two-souls-with-but-a-single-
thought-two-hearts-that-beat-as-one act more success-
* i ,?? e s tage than at home. Recently the hash
establishment, where they are temporarily lodged, was
startled by the roar of battle on the part of the lady, and
strange dancing sounds on the part of the gentleman as
he dodged flying crockery and other missiles. In a lull
a stern masculine voice declaimed : ‘ * Madam, this is too
much. I shall take my cheild and go my way. Go you
yours alone.” The lady’s retort, punctuated by what
sounded like the soap-dish, was : “ Your child ! Did I
e Z*™ « w as your child ? I will thank you to leave my
child where she is.” That and every other evening since
have seen the twain cavorting together on the stage just
as happily as ever.
The fact hag escaped comment that “Leah Kleschna ”
is even more fleshly than “ Parsifal." Of course, the
flesh, so to speak, was practically the most significant
theme in the holy extravaganza, while, in the other pro-
duction, it is merely a detail of the whole strong and
vital picture. One is apt to lose the realism of Raoul
Berthon’s too obvious advances in the conception of the
powerful Kleschna, but it is nevertheless there, and,,
relieved of its environment, it has the ugliness of truth..
In fact, the whole piece has a vigorous truth in repre-
sentation, and is thoroughly and brutally modern ; fortake
as evidence the cynical speech of the bounder Berthon ::
1 Sylvanie doesn’t drink or smoke. He doesn’t even keep
a mistress. He’s a rotter!” Still the piece is rather
powerful, cursed by the feeblest and most conventionally
ridiculous of last acts.
The actress-Christian controversy reminds
me of a gentle Christian I saw in London—Madame
Eugenie Somebody. She was drawing an enormous
salary at the Holborn Empire, when she was arrested on
a charge of shop-lifting. She got out on bail, and her
manager announced her re-appearance in a pathetic
speech. He said the cruel and false charge was a plot of
Madame’s enemies. She was a good woman and a true
Christian, and he waspurrrroud to have her in his theatre..
All her enormous salary had gone in charity. “ Madame
comes before you to-night, penniless,” he said, with tears
in his voice. I got out my handkerchief, and waited for
a pale, broken-hearted woman to drift on to the stage;.
On dashed the Frenchest of Frenchwomen, with a beauti-
ful wicked face, and ten devils in her eyes, and a gorgeous
golden dress cut so low that the bodice seemed unneces-
sary. She sang two hair-raising songs, and gave a French
idea of the cake-walk. Then she changed into another
gorgeous dress, a little lower, and danced La Maxirc—
which is about the limit. It was a touching scene. There
was not a wet eye in the theatre. Madame may have
been a Christian, but she was certainly a mighty swift one.
“ N." : Apropos Macready’s dislike to the stage, as
elicited apropos Ada Ward. One would treat it w'ith
more respect if he had been a religious man, like Sheridan
Knowles. Henry Irving, by the way, pointed out, in re-
sponse to a ke-ind person who advised him bo go and do
likewise, that Knowles went on taking the royalties from
his plays of “ Virginius,” “ The Hunchback,” and so on,,
after he turned Baptist preacher. Macready’s grievance
was, all through, that he did not have the social con-
sideration received by his friends, Bulwer, Houghton and
the like._ He ought to have felt, as Kean did, how mubh
the ability to move the human soul lifted him above any
consideration of rank. Superficial people ask—“ What
does the actor leave behind?” As much as the
preacher. Macready ought to have reflected that
thousands of people had been taken out of their
grovel by his sublime impersonations. But it is no
use talking to a genius with a tradesman’s mind.
Don’t let us echo the falsehood that genius in any shape
can pass away. It is transmuted into something else
beautiful. Then there is the point about eminent players
not wishing their children to follow the profession.
We must consider how the snobbery comes in
here too. But there is yet another consideration. The
great player has a horror of his name being carried
on by a stick, in the way of a son or daughter. Edmund
Kean was reconciled to Charley when Charley could act
Hamlet. Irving may well have been in terrible fear about
his H. 8., but ultimately did all he could to furnish him
with an Elisha mantle. Barry Sullivan had in his Mel-
bourne company a Mr. Macready, doing “My lord,
the carriage waits,” and said to' be the son of the
eminent one : anyhow, the likeness was striking.
Just imagine the disgust of the tragedian if he
heard of a thing like that. The sons of Coppin and
Greville who went on the boards will pardon a statement
that they did not quite step into the shoes of their sires.
Perhaps there is nothing less hereditary than acting. I
never heard of a great man’s son, in this line, who came
up to his father, like the Pitts in statesmanship. On the
other hand, inferior theatrical performers do unmistak-
ably try to egg their progeny on, in the hope of producing
a Kean or a Bernhardt.
“Actors must pay in advance!” is the sign hung in
the window of a big, cheap, North Melbourne boarding-
house. This is the passionate revolt of an injured woman
who put her trust in kings—tragedy kings.
From the Sydney papers :
Owing to the increased cost of materials, labor, etc.,
the two companies that control practically all the tele-
graph services in the United States have raised their rates
by from 20 to 40 per cent.
Yet the Ma State can still send telegrams all over
herself for 9d. instead of Is. as in the pre-Federal
days.
S. Australia passed a Factories Act last
year, and the first Wages Board under it has
made its award. The Board said that, if a woman
has been five years at the business, she mustn’t be
paid less than 16s. a week of 48 hours for dress-
making. Come to think of it, fourpence an hour
doesn’t seem extravagant. After five years’ prac-
tice, a woman ought to be worth that much, even
where she isn’t the Power she is understood to be
in S. Australia.
“ Hassan ”: The Monkey is a-lashing of
his tail, and threatening to destroy America un-
less Ape-baiting as a sport discontinues in ’Frisco.
The Monkey is a very sensitive Simian nowa-
days. But it is to be hoped that ’Frisco goes on
assaulting him until he learns the great truth, that
what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the
Japanee. As soon as we hear that he has apolo-
gised and paid compensation for the recent out-
rage upon Mr. Weigall, in Corea, we will be very
annoyed at ’Frisco. Till we do, let ’Frisco kick
its Jap. As for the Japanese bluff of war with
America, I have a strong idea that when that war
comes it will teach the ourang-outang something
he hasn’t even dimly suspected—that there are
white nations which will fight to the last gasp;
which will, when one fleet is wiped out, build
another in a year or less; which can support itself,
and so laugh at any brown blockade—in fact, that
there are contracts which are beyond Monkey size.
In the inquiry in Melbourne into the
wages in the Victorian starch industry, manufac-
turer Robert Harper admitted that, though the
duty on English starch brings the price up to £43
a ton, he had sold his own product down to £3l
10s.—evidently in a competitive fight with other
manufacturers. That is a desperately hard nut
for the teeth of the Foreign-trader, who says
that the consumer never gains by protective
duties. The Foreign-trader’s idea is that the
protected manufacturers league themselves to
make the public pay the last farthing that the
duty will allow, and that the consumer never gets
any protected article for more than a fraction less
than the importer could sell the duty-paid article
at. Harper knocks that fetish out, anyway. The
real trouble is that under Protection internal
competition may drive the price so low temporarily
that the workers suffer; and that is why Arbi-
tration or Wages Boards should be grafted firmly
on to the Protective system.
OUR THEATRICAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tanner’s our theatrical, and entertains the camp
With tragic recitations full of cringes and grimaces ;
All his personations have an unimpressive stamp
Of artificial struts, and wooden attitudes and faces.
Why so many characters immortalised in books
Should be (if Tanner’s accurate in his interpretations)
Cursed with such distorted shapes, and supernatural
looks,
And locomotive snorts, defeats our mixed imaginations.
Certainly if energy makes recitations real,
He pictures Hell as it must be with passages from
Dante,
How the Hesperus was wrecked he tells us while we feel
It must have been a dreadful wreck! (He also wrecks
the shanty !)
“How we beat the Favorite,” he frequently explains,
And gives of riding quite a paralysing exhibition ;
That the winner wasn’t tripped and strangled with the
reins,
And that he beat—well, anything—passes definition.
In the role of mad King Lear he makes the rafters ring,
He meets Cordelia, and you should just hear him disown
her ;
When he plays “ Otheller ” everybody has to spring
Up quick, and save the china while he smothers “ Desdy-
moaner.”
With the “ Death of Little Nell ” pathetic’ly he earns
Our heartfelt sobs to think the Reaper’s grisly apparition
Took to that eternal sphere, whence nobody returns,
Poor Little Nell, and didn’t strike down Tanner in
addition.
Oft with “ Eugene Aram ” he will morbidly transfix
His weary mates who wish the dreary verses were
diminished,
Since he ultimately has, with energetic kicks,
To wake them up and tell them that the recitation’s
finished.
Hamlet’s Ghost, with bowyangs on his knees, I must
admit
To me seems something quite dissociated from the
heavens,
Pausing intermittently to twist his quid and spit
Across the floor, and glidingin his bluchers (large elevens).
With the ostentation of a moralist he prates
About the Village Blacksmith, whilst the moral that
he teaches,
“ That he owes not any man,” compels his wistful mates
To wonder why the rotter doesn’t practise what he
preaches.
Simpson argues irritably : “ What’s it matter now
If Brutus did kill Julius Csesar ? What’s the use er talkin,
Mornin’, noon, and night erbout the blamed thing, any-
how ?
And when is ’Amlet’s Father’s Ghost agoin’ to give up
walkin’ ?
What’s Othello’s fam’ly matters got ter do with us ?
We know the scandal off by ’eart, and Tanner ought to
let it
Rest at that, I reckon ; ’sides, who cares a tinker’s cuss
If Cassius'got the sack? We’ve got to take it when we
get it.”
I agree with Simpson, for it’s more than I can bear
To listen to tragedians who lend themselves too cheaply,
Who, like Tanner, have no clust’ring, classic hair to tear,
Or beetling brows to frown with when soliloquising deeply.
They have dreadful habits, from a critic’s point of view,
Of reckoning invariably authors use too many
Aitches altogether, and make shift with one or two ;
And as for punctuation—well, they have no need of any.
Now when Tanner threatens to recite, immediately
Our inoffensive souls are thrilled with sudden appre-
hension,
Whereupon, with rational expostulations, we
Endeavor to dissuade him from his harrowing intention •
Or McGrath to bed the horses slithers, and the cook
Protests he has to split the beans, and Patterson
declaring
That he’s got the cramp, departs ; and Simpson goes to
took
For something that he doesn’t want, and others hang
round swearing.
Yet when Tanner’s peaceful, we esteem him as a mate,
Because his sunny disposition wins our admiration—
Not for long (alas !), because he blasts, as sure as Fate,
Our brotherly affection with another recitation.
VIC.
A[?]BEO E. H[?]DGES.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Mr. W. Tyree. Dear Sir, —Father has had a
busy time this week in Sydney. He has been demon-
strating the value of the Tyree Spray for shipping pur-
poses. He was down on the Orient Oo.’s s.s. Oruba
whitewashing the hold, and disinfecting the cabins, and
the general opinion amongst the nautical men was that
every ship that sails the ocean in a very few months
will be carrying Tyree Sprays on board, as they are
so useful for all purposes. Father also gave a demon-
stration at the Police Court, Sydney, to all the Police
Inspectors and Sanitary Inspectors. He had all sorts of
vermin in bottles, which he let loose, and sprayed them
to their destruction. The general opinion was that
the Tyree Spray would be shortly in use in every
hotel, boarding-house, and private hou3e in Sydney.
Father has got quite pathetic ; he started off one of his
lectures by quoting the words of Emerson: “The best
political economy is the care and culture of men.” This
means protecting life against infectious diseases, and this
should be done by everybody. In fact, it should be made
compulsory. Nothing protects life better than the Tyree
Spray: therefore, father considers that all parents
should teach their children the advantages of the Tyree
Spray for all purposes. No more at present.—Yours,
eto., Bill Williams.*


THE FIGHTING AUSTRALIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Premier of N.S,W., In his speech at Byron Bay,
said the danger was that the Federal Government would
put Up some wild-cat scheme of an Australian navy.
The willing, long, Australian bloke, he Scents a distant
foe.
He heats the tramp of heathen feet go thundering to and
fro,
He kno\Vs df Yellow fastnesses, whete lie in readiness
Tart legions, trained td sdW red war, disease artd dire
dlStfesS
BrdadcaSt across odr healthy lands—and yet tib flaming
Swdrd
Swings at our gdtes lest yeliow men may ravage hottie
and hoard ;
May grab our unexploited wilds, and, with a roaring
flood
Of lustful Mongol Monkey Men, pollute our nation’s
blood.
The careless, long, Australian bloke, his hand is on the
plough,
His reaping-hook is in its place and, in his yard, the cow
Of commerce chews her placid cud ; the sun fails not to
shine
On primly-tilled potato-patch, on fat, contented swine,
And all the good, productive works of plain, contented
men ;
But, through it all, the thoughtful bloke goes wondering,
now and then,
Why.yet the noise of hammered battle-plates, the clang-
and chime
Of shaping steel is never heard, in melodies sublime.
The curious, long, Australian bloke, he has a restless Soul
That dries out for the truth, and when he gets it, hard
and whole.
He bellows for a swarm of boats to deal With swarming
foes,
Artd Up-to-date munitions for htir tneh-o’-war. Me
knows,
\Vith all her treasures lying iooSe, Australia can’t afford
Art irriitatidn rtavy, with imported tars aboard—
An Cighteenpehny iiavy, dashirig up and down our coasts.
And drdwlirig cheap defiance at the hungry northern
hosts.
The sturdy, long, Australian bloke is strong as his own
gums,
And if at last unto our gates the Mongol army comes.
He’ll sally forth, hard-faced and brave, to strike his
foeman dead
Clad in a shoddy tunic, with a cheap hat on his head.
A shoddy shirt against his skin, a crowbar in His hand,
Australian Bill will march to meet the wild, invading
band—
Although beneath the azure deep Australia’s strong front
door
Of cruisers (hired) lies, blown to bits, upon the ocean floor.
The anxious, long, Australian bloke he fears this may he so,
And, if he’s thwarted in his wish, then something’s sure
to go ;
For, though time-serving nation-bosses try to hold him
back,
He’ll get his navy yet, with rows of shooters, grim and
black.
And, when the alien brings with him his overwhelming
host
Of mercenary Chows, he’ll find the long bloke at his post
Upon his own Australian ship, with Death leg-roped at
hand
To let loose and exterminate the yellow contraband.
Vic,
FRANK HENTY.
SOCIETY
THE SHOP-
MADE SHOP-
GIRL.
To Mr. Beeby:
Witness said that it
was a fact that
many firms employ-
ed only good-look-
ing girls. “There
are only a cer-
tain number to
be got,” remark-
ed the President.
“But there are
many processes
by which beauty
may be ob-
tained,” said Mr.
Beeby. “I have
seen them ad-
vertised.”
This gives
rise to some
very unpleas-
ant theories.
“ B.” writes
Sydney Ferries, Limited, the co. that dodges the
Sydney Harbor Trust regulations by running picnic boats
to its picnic grounds at old Chowder Bay from Circular
Quay, on the excuse that the service is a bona-fide ferry ser-
vicefor the benefit of the local residents, hired its outfit to
the Besses o’ th’ Barn Band (or hired the 8.8.8.
for its outfit) on Sunday, June 2, for a band
recital. The law prohibits the charging of admis-
sion to any Sunday performance, but the Sydney Ferries
dodged the law by the simple expedient of allowing the
fare to be raised from the usual 6d. to Is. 6d. People
didn’t pay an extra shilling to hear the hand ; they
simply, for some reason unexplained, paid an additional
bob to be carried the same old distance. The Ferries
monopoly evidently regards itself as quite superior to the
law.
One Scholz, of Melbourne, is taking pro-
ceedings for a divorce from his wife who mysteri-
ously disappeared four years ago and has re-
mained a matter of doubt in the meantime. Mrs-
Scholz —a girl in her teens when she packed up a
few garments and left home after a quarrel with
her husband—seems to have been one of the
oddest things that ever happened to a married man.
previous to her suddeh escape from domesticity
she had put ill all hour’s conversation at the house
of a Mrs. Hart* who accompanied her for part of
her return jourhey home. Phis Visit* late in the
evening, was the subject of her quarrel with
Scholz, on the strength of Which She Cleared
Out. There being no evidence at that time
of another man ih the ease, neither Scholz
nor the neighbors could suggest a “clue
to the missing matron of giddy 18, ihe
police dragged the river, and sought her in
opium deHs and other shady places, but found her
not, Nobody can swear to having seen Mrs,
Scholz, The reward offered by her husband for
definite information concerning her has gone un-
claimed all these years, Thus far, the least un-
reliable hews of the runaway is a Story told by a
WoUtan, who Was informed by a hiafi that he had
met another man, who said he had been travelling
With Mrs. Scholz, who toid him that if he left her
she Would gO back to her husband. Scholz was
shared at the prospect of his wife’s coming back
bebaUse the other mail had deft her. Hence his
movement for a divorcb; This story goes to show
that a husband never kndws what to expect from
the other man. If his wife didn’t lehve him oil
acbount of this other map; she is prCtty certain td
find the other man in due course, and when M
leaves her she reckons it just about time to’
resume married life.
* * * *
“ Melbournian ” (who is reckless with his
capital letters at times) writes about an image :
I had a ticket for the enclosure at the Inauguration of
the Victoria Statue, but fortunately lost it —fortunately
because this caused me to obtain a correct gauge of the
procedure, having to stand outside the Ring Fence of
glittering bayonets. How this World is given to Tara-
diddling. Such is my reflection in perusing the news-
paper reports. About 40,000 people were there, say such
a number as at Governor Ilopetoun’s Inauguration of the
Commonwealth, in Sydhey. But what a difference in the
two scenes ! I never saw stlch a Sail and sullen gathering,
ih large numbers, as that at the Queen Victoria Statue,
It fades right for the Melbourne Post Office. Direct in the
teeth of the StatUe a stiff bteeße blew. Outside the Sob
diety with their bayonets, Hot OHe Word Was audible f; Otti
Chief Justice Madden Or Mayor Weedott, and precious little
inside, the Enclosure wUs about a qiiarterfUil of Peacock-
ery from Toorakia. Dhe Maw-ttaw World did not even
Condescend to accept the' invites. The men and women
voters Outside the Soldiers i knives had as much wonder
as to how the Privileged Ones Were inside as George 111,
felt as to hoW the apples got into the dUmplihg, Hot the
ghost of a cheer. If it had jleett Deakin Unveiling a statue
to Higinbotham, or Flinders, or Batman, or Bass, the
40,000 would have been electrified right enough, instead
of being like 40 million damp fish caught the day before
yesterday at Schnapper Point. Knock this Enclosure
business on the head. If Common People had
been allowed to get close to Madden who has
lost the bloom and gloss of his oratory they
would at all events have raised a few squeaks.
When Governor Northcote laid the Memorial Stone, re-
cently, of a Church of England Mission House at the
Australian Wharf, close to the Shipping, the Sailor Crowd
was so fenced off with bayonets that it couldn’t hear a
word of the speeches, over a wide expanse occupied by a
handful of Swells. Are we Muscovys, or what? I admire
the cunning of Sculptor White over the Victoria Statue.
MTnerney and other comparatively sensible men in the
concern wanted to have the Statue etberealised, young,
radiant, beautiful for ever, emblematic of Victoria State,
or Australia. The Committeemen insisted on the squat,
dowdy, and venerable—something that, hoisted up 30 feet,
would have been Little Buttercup’s Grandmother, the
Bumboat Woman. Nevertheless, the ingenious White
has contrived to make Vicky look not more than 35, as
gazed up to.
• * * *
Heaven only knows what this is, but the
sub-editor poured water over it lest it should
combust: —
Dear Bulletin.— Hurroo ! Mr. John Mac Madden is
imploring all Caledonians in Victoria to help to save the
“ auld brig o’ Ayr,” celebrated by the poet Robert
O’Burns in his foine pome “ Tam mas O’Shanter, the
Colleens’ Deloight.” It appears that the bonny lasses of
Ayr askit Mr. Mac Madden if Australia’s gallant braw John
Irishman—no, Hielan’men, or Lowlan’men, or something
unco seemilar, begorta—wadna gi’ the price of tvva
dreenks towards repairing the bridge, and now Lord
Mac Madden is out in his kilts with a collection-box.
’Tis a great oidea. Anything a poet mentions, ye ken. he
has instantly “ celebrated,” be jabers, and if we fail to
worship it we are naething less than fashless omadhauns
or good-for-naething spalpeens. I recollec’ several queer
places within the meaning of various Acts that the poet
Shakspeare “ celebrates.” Let all modern representatives
of sic places and their inhabitants he sacred evermore.
Further, the poet Esson has lately “ celebrated ” the
lovely advertisement hoardings of Sydney Harbor. Who
would lay a vandal’s hand upon them after the exposition
of Duke" MacMsdden’s theory ?—Yours for owid Scotia’s
glory (and never mind Australia), Tirisce Hamish O’Gregor
MacFinnigan.
* * * *
The Melbourne cabmen had a Grievance
Board sitting last week at the local Parliament
House, to take evidence re license fees, and the
carrying of passengers in furniture vans, and other
smail troubles. The one great grievance mutely
endured by Melbourne’s cabbies is the persistent
overcrowding of tram-cars that carry theatre-goers
to and fro Bourke-street. A painted notice in all
the cars states that they are licensed to carry not
nearly so many people as they invariably do carry
at certain times, but the licensed hackney carriage
drivers are seemingly too tired to take action in
the matter. They 101 l around the rank waiting in
vain for “fares,” who would—some of them—be
bound to take a cab if the licensed Tramway Co.
were not allowed to make unlawful profits. Every
foot of standing room in many cars is covered at
11 p.m., by the boot or shoe of a woman whose
expensive costume proclaims her a fitting candi-
date for a seat in a cab.
* * * *
An attempt to draw Melbourne type-
writers and clerks into a protective union
appears to have failed dismally. A meeting
was called last week, but seeing that the
crowd didn’t amount to more than 30, in-
cluding two lads in knickers, it dispersed by
general consent, without discussion. Even the
shes of the gathering didn’t take it seriously,
though the educated girl worker is more of a
trade unionist at heart than her brother in the
bank. “ I meant to go to the meeting—just for
fun, ” chortled a fluffy-haired brunette. “ Haven’t
a ghost of an idea what it’s all. about. Someone
told me I’d get a box of bon-bons to go in. and a
pot plant to come out,. Aren’t they silly?”
Evidently Percy and Bertie had been jeering at
the idea of starvation-wage-earners of
bred” brand leaguing together in emulation of
vulgah bricklayers, and mechanics, and such-like.
- Afc * *
Evidently, if given the chance, Australian
brains are quite up to the job of effectively hold-
ing their country. Within a few months, there
has been sent to England an Australian inven-
tion for sighting big guns, which promises to
revolutionise naval warfare ; _ an Australian-
invented military rifle, which is ahead of any-
thing of its kind, so far; and now another Aus-
tralian leaves with a new military field telephone
that can be carried comfortably on the waistbelt.
EVERY MAN IN HIS HUMOR
THE LITTLE UN (propitiatory) : “ All right, old
man, we won't qilafret about that!"
THE BIG ’UN : “ Then you'd better find some-
thing else, for quarrel we dam well will, and
now! ”
Hempiah Day was a damp and dismal fool-
ishness in the Holy City. It rained continuously
all the morning; but, notwithstanding, the S.
Aus. school authorities marched the unfortunate
kiddies through the sloppy streets. The out-door
programme had to be abandoned for the forenoon,
and the heavy-weight personages had to make their
Union Jackass remarks in a building that smelt
and steamed of wet school-kid. The occasion
was a great success from the point of view of the
doctor, the nurse, and the cough-cure man !
» * » »
“Hamer”: In Woolloomooloo (Sydney)
I came upon a disturbance recently. Two
women had been pointing an argument
with knives, and were being taken to the
hospital. They were being carried from
the verandah of an empty house, and a
veracious inhabitant explained matters to
me: “They ran in there. It’s not where
they live; it’s been empty ever since a
bloke cut ’is throat there. .No, I don’t
think as how people won’t take the place
because of that. Why, that ’ouse over
there—a woman was murdered there, and
it’s been let ever since ; and a bloke ’ad
’is ’ead nearly cut off in that place w’ere
the boarding-’ouse sign is. And I b’lieve
a murder ’appened in that red ’ouse you
can see up there, but it was a long time
ago—a couple of years, I think.” This
unimpassioned recital reminded me, by
way of comparison, of the man in a quiet
country place who told me, when I re-
marked on the town’s dullness, that they
sometimes had great excitement there,
and that he remembered an attempted
murder, of which he gave thrilling details.
When he had finished, he looked at me
for a moment and then, to emphasise the
frequency of incidents in that town’s his-
tory, remarked : “It can’t be so long ago,
neither—not more than 40 years at the out-
side.”
* * * *
Melbourne people are remarking that the
intimidation and corruption associated with
Wren’s tote business seem to have utterly
demoralised the Purists who laid siege to that
malodorous stronghold. The tote tactics were
adopted by the godly enemies of derrink and
gambling. They also employed watchers and
“spotters” and secret inquiry agents, and, in the
course of their crusade, they persuaded themselves
that the simplest Kerristian way of getting a
politician to do something is to threaten to
“show him up” if he doesn’t. The latest whisper
in the circles of Melbourne Righteousness alleges
that Judkins will “expose” Chief Secretary
Peacock, if he longer refrains from shaking up the
Police Department in the matter of Sunday
trading at the pubs. Peacock’s peccadillo—the
acceptance of a free insurance policy from a
Canadian log-roller—was “ exposed” years ago,
and the foolishness of it was soon forgotten, but
the Judkins crowd imagines that a revival of the
same old yarn will have awful results for Peacock.
There is little enough of wisdom in Juddy and
the Brethering. ’ They don’t even know they are
on a bad wicket this time. The world in general
cares nothing about Peacock’s paltry bygone in-
discretion, neither does it bless Judkins for keep-
ing count of its illicit Sunday beers. The world
in general would think all the better of Judkins
if he were occasionally convicted of buying a Sun-
day beer himself.
J * * * *
Bit of Melbourne' sut’ur'bUii Police' Gout!
evidence : “ The hippycrit, fite orff aStfSendWch-urelr
to pick up words to curse his missus with,-
* * * *
“ Itan ” : Concerning the remarks o i
“ Silica ” (B. 5/9/’O7), anent the way Toowoomba
overlays Brisbane in some things, it isn’t a matter
for sorrow—it is a matterf or a hooray —that Queens-
land’s capital city is not bloated at the expense of
the rest of the State. The only rhalf friends the
State had amongst the politician's of the
past were those who decentralized*
trade by establishing railway ship-
ping ports in Northern, Central, and
Southern Queensland. It would
have been a good thing for
N.S.W. and Victoria if a similar
idea had struck the early rail-
way builders in those States,
instead of turning Sydney
and Melbourne into hugely
disproportionate blood-
suckers. If one excepts
Newcastle and Broken
Hill, whose prosperity
is entirely due to
local cord and local
silver and lead,
N.S.W.-, with its
much greater popu-
lation, has not a city
to be compared with
Townsville, Rock-
bump ton, Toowoom-
ba, or Mary hot Oil gh,
Without mentioning
Charters Towers. Bris-
bane’s illness isn’t all
due to the slackness of
its people ;• it is largely
due to 1 the land boom
which sfrh'cfc it a feW
years ago. Yet if the
railway lines had con-
verged there, as they
do in the other States,
Brisbane would have
been on its feet again
before this—but it would
hate been at the expense
of the general taxpayer
and the ptoyineiar cen-
tres. Brisbane’s own worst
enemies are its big land-
owners. They absolutely
control the City Councils
and take good care that
taxation is not raised to
even balancing point; so
both Brisbane and South
Brisbane go further into
debt every year, and still
nothing worth mentioning is*
sn«nt on iniDrovements. Parks
and gardens are starved. Municipal property is
falling into disrepair. And that sort of thing is
infectious, and shows itself in the general neglect
of private houses and gardens.
* * * *
One of N.S.W.’s famous beauty spots, the
Bulli Pass, is on the brink of ruin. Private
owners hold the land, and the whole neighborhood
of the famous Pass is to be cleared and laid waste
in the interests of Cow. As a beauty spdt, the
Pass is rare and wonderful, and as a cow-haunt it
probably won’t amount to much. But Private
Enterprise would lay waste the Garden of Eden
if it could thereby get two more quarts of milk
per day. If Oarruthers could spare a minute
from his great job of yelping at the Common-
wealth, he might, by some process of resumption,
save this bit of earthly Paradise from being eaten
up by the cow-vandal.
bcßkssod
*
bar of heaVcrv
' Her qcs vJert deeper macn"
Ihun a deep le§ercVer\.
:sKehad iKree shillings inher hard
and Ihe beeD on fne Doard \Votscven.
“Snell”: Woefully inadequate is the
Melbourne Presbyterian Assembly’s condem-
nation of Cow. She keeps the pastoral
person, who possesses her, from church, and
makes him a Sabbath-breaker and negligent of
the plate and the church service. She also makes
slaves of his little children. That is the sum of
the Presbyterian impeachment, but it is only the
beginning of the direct and indirect iniquities of
Cow. What of the infamies of the milk business,
one of the wickedest businesses on this fair, green
earth, (when it isn’t brown)? Milk is probably
adulterated in more ways than anything else that
is poured or dropped into the inward cavity of
man. Then the milk vendor is a cheat in the
matter of measure ; he won’t even give you a full
pint of water. And he is a reckless profaner of
the seventh day. What, too, of the cow’s progeny,
the bullock, considered as stock or as a beast of
burden? What the Australian is to-day, as a
sweater of strange oaths and a blasphemer before
high Heaven, the bullock has made him. Ihink
of this question as a subject for a newspaper
debate : “Can a bullock-driver be a Christian .
Deafness Official Tests
THE Official Investigations of the Deaf are well described
in the “ BAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear ;
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c.,
and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
The Welt,-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
or 62 Bondi Road, Waverlky, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better,'and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your BAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write ' for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W
Since Adam delved and poor Eve, span,
Since first the human race began,
Mankind has suffered countless ills,
But suffered most from coughs and chills.
Foundations they for all disease,
But now the hacking cough must cease,
For science now makes all secure
With W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for brain or body,
and there will be no bad after effects. TTe, are,
talking of Wolfe's Schnapps.*
There is a good old saying to the effect
that “the proof of the pudding is in the eating. „
In other words “you cannot tell till you try.
If you have a cough or any form of lung trouble
you really ought to try Angler’s Emulsion, pend
4d. postage for a free sample bottle and mention
The Bulletin. The Angier Chemical to., b< ■,
7'Barrack-street, Sydney.*


Melbourne Literature Society is booming
these times. It scattered invitations with a lavish
hand on the just and on the unjust for the presi-
dential address, and filled the Masonic Hall as
only a free entertainment can. Walter Murdoch
had the floor, with Chief Justice Madden —who
is a patron—in the chair. A platform full of
Irishmen helped to make things hum. Walter
stirred up a breeze right away. His subject was
the enemies of literature. For a start he made a
grab at so-called “society,’’and wiped the floor with
the very naicest. The breeze increased in volume,
and Janet Mrs. Clarke grasped her new toupee
lest it should be blown away. After Walter had
finished with the fat man, he proceeded to lay out
the Puritan, the scientist, the social reformer
and the dilettante. High Court Higgins girt up
his loins, and asked him what he meant by letting
off at Puritans. Professor Osborne told him that
science was worth a lot of poetry. Gyles Turner
opened the flood-gates of reminiscence on him,
made an accidental allusion to the carelessness of
monks, and hit a Yarra-banker in the balcony.
The Yarra-banker talked back. Mr. Madden
demanded order. The man in the balcony didn’t
care a something or other for no Lieut.-Governor,
and poetically said so. Then the star turn of the
entertainment came. That portion of Melbourne
which is still out of gaol knows only a suave
Madden. It hadn’t seen the tails of his coat
trodden on before, and when he knocked his
opponent out in one round, it came to a definite
conclusion about literary societies. “ I’m coming
here again,” remarked a man in the audience as
he mopped his heated brow. “I don’t know
that chap Plato; and unless Tolstoi’s a bloke I
once met in Queensland, I don’t know him either.
But it s worth five bob a year to get so near to a
scrap.”
* • * *
Somewhere in the Western District of
Victoria, where Chows are scarce, one of the
most respected and finaneially-important Chinese
magnates lately seized a local damsel as his lawful
prey, and married her, with the full consent Of
herself and none of her family. Mrs. Chow has
been on a trip home—to China, not to our old,
well-worn British home—and tells by letter to
those few girl friends who still remain true to her,
that she has been having a most lovely time. All
her husband’s Chinese tenantry, or whatever they
were, came out to greet her and Mr. Chow with
crackers and triumphal arches of red tissue paper,
while at night there were colored lanterns and
much preserved ginger and embalmed fruits, also
the beating of gongs. And these girls wonder
greatly if they have tenantry and squires in
China, or if it is all a fake and a jest.
* * •» *
The N.S.W. Stockowners’ Association,
which was responsible for the Danysz experi-
ments, wants public judgment to be withheld
until the report of Dr. mrlswell is presented ; but
it isn’t likely to get much comfort from that. Aus-
tralia has, by the firmness of the Federal Govern-
ment in blocking the microbes until a thorough
test was made, been saved an imported disease
which might have broken loose and run riot.
THE WRONG ELEVATION.
HIM : “ I don’t think much of this hair restorer, anyhow. It makes my
head feel funny.”
HER : “ Great heavens! That’s not your hair restorer I That’s my bust
developer.”
Melbourne Presbyterian Assembly rejected
by a big majority a motion to import some more
parsons from Britain. Dr. Rentoul pointed out
that the importation business was the worst way
to get men, because “clergymen were too well
placed in England, and only the ‘stickit minister’
would be likely to come to Victoria.” Come to
think of it, there is a world of wisdom in this
remark, and it doesn’t apply only to the clergy.
The imported “expert” of different brands not
infrequently turns out to be only a “stickit
minister” in another dress.
* » » *
The way the dairy-farmer has of living on
his children savors much of Swift’s “cold baby on
the sideboard.”
FIRED OUT.
THE PROSPERIUS ONE : “ But, dear bop , if you want to rise in the profession you must get
turned out by a good tailor"
THE OTHER ONE: “ Why , dammit, I’ve been turned out by every sort of tailor in the city.”
Thus Snowball raving in Melbourne
Quite recently a Roman Catholic foreman had been
placed in charge of a Belfast factory, in which the pro-
portion of Protestants to Roman Catholics was 60 to 4'o.
Soon the numbers were equal; then the Protestant em-
ployees were reduced from time to time, until there were
82 Roman Catholics employed and only 12 Protestants.
And if the employer had not become alarmed at what
had taken place, they would have all g'one. Was it wise
for their working men, who depended upon their employ-
ment from week to week to sustain their families, to
commit themselves to an organisation like that? Yet
they found working men handing over the control of
their affairs to the Catholic party. He besought them to
help our people to grow up into a great, united race
where both Roman Catholics and Protestants would be
on an absolute equality.
Now, if Eishball can’t find an illustration of the
horrors of Rome right here in Australia, and has
to go all the way to Belfast for it, the inference is
that Snowflake is wasting his time here. Ob-
viously Puffball should hasten to County Antrim,
and preach his gospel in Belfast and the adjacent
towns of Carrickfergus, Ballymena, Cullybackey,
Ballymoney, Ballycastle, Ballynahinch, Bally-
branagh and Killyleagh. Thereabouts there
seems to be a demand for Horseball, or Iceberg,
or whatever he likes to call himself. There isn’t
much here.
“ Curlew ” : “ Quandong's ” reference (B.
16/5/’O7) to residences at small Victorian country
schools, reminds me of a case I one time came
across ’way down in far Gippsland. A married
teacher was living in a little two-roomed lean-to
residence. One room did duty as kitchen, dining-
room, etc., all in one. The other was bedroom
and general store-room. This bedroom was so
small that when the ped. got his furniture in
there was not room to swing a fly, let alone a cat.
In fact, in the evening the teacher would stay out
n the kitchen until his wife was in bed, and in
the morning one would lie in bed until the other
dressed. The room was not large enough to hold
the two plus the bed at one and the same time.
What space was available for a Sloyd or Cookery
class there? And isn’t it nauseating, in the first
place, to ask any ped. to inhabit such a dogbox,
and in the second, to make him pay rent for the
dog-kennel whether he lives in it or not ?
• * » .
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy assists
nature. Being purely vegetable, free from all
narcotics, it fulfils the requirements of a perfect
cough remedy. It is soothing and healing It
not only checks the cough or cold, but assists
nature in throwing from the system the cause of
same, and helps bring about a condition that
renders a second attack less dangerous. It tones
up the mucous membrane, enabling it to withstand
exposure. _ Its power to control congestion and
inflammation puts it in a different list from all
other cough medicines. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy loosens the cough, relieves the lungs and
makes expectoration easy.*
Joshua Dickeson has just afforded three
days’ mild amusement to Melbourne Court
loungers. Josh, being a widower of the immature
age of 65, bethought him that an elderly widow
would be a soothing thing to have about the house
in his declining years; so when a nephew casually
mentioned a widow in a neighboring toWhsbip—
a ladies’ nurse of 00, with a house and a feW afcrfes
—Josh journeyed over to interview the dame.
He made a second visit a few days later, and then
proffered his hand ahd heart—and he also had a
farm worth £'7ooo or £BOOO, a mortgage of £4500,
and ah income of £260 or so. The nurse promptly
accepted. She also accepted £lO to buy her
trousseau, which sum was subsequently trebled.
Perceiving she was on a good wicket, she later on
requested the loan—which meant the gift—of £2O
more. But Joshua had by this time received
certain pungent advice from two grown-up daugh-
ters, not to mention some anonymous letters.
Wherefore he declared the engagement off, and
the widow demanded £lOOO damages. The jury
listened to the tale of woe, viewed the lady her-
self—a quiet, firm-looking, elderly dame in sober
black noted the three expensive barristers argu-
ing the pros and cons at great length, and decided
that £2OO and costs would be a fair thing, So
farmer Dickeson goes home to retrench for a
space, and spend the remainder of his days in as
placid solitude as the grown-up daughters With
opinions of their own will allow.
* * * *
An agitation is on foot, at Broken Hill, for
the reprieve of Peter Sadeek, whose execution is
fixed for June 11. The plea is, that he is an alien
: and a stranger, and that the reputation of the
murdered woman wasn’t of the highest anyhow.
Why a nig. should have this pull in the assassina-
tion line over his white brother isn’t explained ;
neither is any argument advanced in support of
the theory that “ lost women ” may be slaughtered
with impunity. If there is anything in orthodox
theology it is a more serious matter to kill a sinful
woman than a good one. The latter will go
promptly to Paradise, whereas if she hadn’t been
killed she might have gradually fallen away and
lost her chance. The former will be Lost, yet if
she hadn t been killed she might have reformed
later on and been Pound. Orthodox theology
should make the violent taking off of the woman
who isn’t much good ten times as great a crime as
the slaying of a pure white saint.
* * # *
The other day, in Sydney, Divorce Court
Simpson had a respondent and a co-re. who told
such a remarkable story of the co-re’s alleged
goodness of heart (he had taken the lady in to
welcome a little stranger in his house, though he
wasn’t personally interested in the little stranger),
that his Honor committed them both for perjury!
That was all right; but when his Honor proceeded
to make the usual few remarks, and went along to
comment upon a case that had then become sub
judice, as it were, it was all wrong. Can’t a
judge be somehow haled up for contempt of him-
self?
“Gip”: “ Generally speaking, a woman
is generally speaking,” says the Lone Hand.
Well, I have met a woman who is not generally
speaking; in fact; though she isn’t dumb, 1 don’t
think shb speaks at all. She is quite J'OUtlg, &ttd
with her oldish'hUsbatldj hunts for skins: They
had pitched their Camp, and I strolled Up fot a
yarn. The man vTas Sorting Out his traps, and the
womail sat in a corner staring Vacantly into spate:
Asked the man how he was dding. Kangaroos
and wallabies Were scarce, he said; but he Was
getting a good many ’possutns. He told tab
“ she ” did her work well ; he hadn’t brdkten her
in properly to pegging Out, but she was Very drill-
ing. He said he’d made 4 mistake in marrying
her; he’d have done a lot better by hirfiself. ,Jt
seemed to vex him that hbr boots Wore out: Hb
knew of a half-caste bop whb Wdtiid havb pone
just as well, and who iieVbr wdfb bdots. And the
image in the corner, with the hot unattractive
features, moved nary a muscle—just stated stolidly
as might a faithful and rather tired dog,
* * * *
Holy Trinity Anglican church at Kelso
(N.S.W.), the oldest tabernacle beyond the Slue
Mountains, has just celebrated its 72nd' anniver-
sary. The foundation-stone was laid in 1834,
“but,” says Sydney EVening NewS; “the
parish records show that 26 years previ-
ously there was a temporary church bh a
site somewhere near where the rectory hbiv
stands.” As Blaxland, LaWsdfa, and WentWortn
did not cross the Mountains until jsi3, it sebihs
that it must be ah aboriginal bhurbh that the News
Is talking about. Or perhaps it is a corrobboree.
* •» * *
The real reason why women understate
their age is because they cannot believe they are
so old. They never have been so old; is it likely
they would be so old now ?
IN THE CHURCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They sang of Death and Judgment in tl.e church,
A narrow wooden structure by the sea,
While outside sunlight shimmered on the sands,
And little laughing waves made melody.
Thro’ a wide-open window, one wild bee
Blundered against the cross of beaten brass,
Dizzy from digging in lantana blooms,
Or dazzling flights across the sun-warm grass.
They sang of an unreal, revengeful God,
That pain was best —to grieve was dutiful—
And all the while the little, laughing waves
Spoke of a world that Love made beautiful.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
EDUCATION
BY
POST
m
m
BS
039
Improve your position by taking
a Postal Course of Tuition from
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Moore St., Sydney.
“ Home Study,” Post Free.
Tub few E Hwa
The June number of The Lone Hand was
published Oil Friday, May 31. By seven o’clock
of that day the whole isstle of 50,000 was Sold blit,
and orders which could not be fulfilled tb the
number of 1100 had aCCUiilulated. It was impos-
sible to add to the publication HuMbSt after the
result Of the May sales was known : nearly one-
half the June issue Was then itt print. For the
future, hoWever, a larger number Will be printed.
As regards June, every effort Will be tnade to
withdraw copies from any quarter Where a “ sell-
out” is uncertain, to supply the demand else-
where.
The proprietors are deeply indebted to the
public for the prompt and getibrOus Suppdrt given
to the effort t'O establish a worthy Australian
magazine; and design for the future many im-
provements in printing. The Lone Hand at pre-
sent challenges comparison with any foreign pub-
lication for its reading and artistic matter;
shortly it hopes to issue the same challenge in the
matter of mechanical production.
Meanwhile, the July issue is well underway,
and will mark a distinct improvement on the
June number.
Some press opinions on The Lone Hand :
The magazine has the qualities—the braininess, the
audacity, the freshness, the humor, the reliance up. n
the artist’s aid—which have achieved for The Bulletin
a popularity so remarkable and sustained.—Sydney
Daily Telegraph.
A magazine full of items of varying interest, and far
more truly Australian in character ahd outlook thah
any other monthly publication in Australia.—Adelaide
Register-.
Enterprise, ehergy ahd ability ate all mahifest in the
pages.—Adelaide Advertiser.
the rieW magazine is as clever as Tnk Bulletin ... a
most excellent magazine.—Sydney Stock and Station
■Journal.
The very best that Australia has turned out in litera-
ture and in art to date.—Bathurst National Advocate.
The new magazine approximates to perfection. . . . It
is a sublimated Bulletin. The satire, irony, and
cynicism are all perpetuated in The Lone Hand, but
purged into literature. . . . Marking a new epoch in
Australian literature. —Daily Mail (Brisbane),
Quite equal to the very best of contemporaneous
magazines of the British speaking world.—Cowra Free
Press.
Beautifully written, most interesting. .. . One article
alone is worth the price of the entire number.—Numur-
kah Leader.
A complete fulfilment of high expectations which have
everywhere been formed in respect to it. Should be in
every patriotic Australian home.—Temora Independent.
The best shilling’s-worth of literature issued in the
Commonwealth.— Gippsland Times.
Australia will have an irresistible champion in The
Lone Hand.—Ballarat Echo.
The [one Hand
Subscription 12s- per year (post free).
Advertising Rates on Application.
214 George St., Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.* '
DO YOU Want a
NEARLY every man has seen the necessity for possess
ing a bag like this at some time or another. It’s
handy for short trips—for city and country use—
for a week end vacation—and for other purposes. It is
roomj - , compact, and holds a surprising lot of things.
It is a staunch, well-made article of solid leather, with
brass or nickel fittings, lock and end clips and is lined with
drill.
SIZE 12 14 16 18 20 inches.
PRICE 13/6 15/6 17/6 19/6 22/6
Carriage 1/6 extra; Interstate 2/-.
PEAPES & CO, Ltd,
Men’s
Outfitters..
309-311 George St., SYDNEY.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department :
Added
Claims Provided to Insur-
and Sur- Ex- against De- ance
Revenue, renders. penses. preciation. Fund.
1896.. £394,985 £166,369 £55,019 £10,500 £163,097
1897.. 398,121 205,193 59,164 133,764
1898.. 410,148 210,245 58,825 4,650 136,428
1899.. 421,569 211,383 59,639 14,400 136,147
1900.. 423,700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901.. 460,753 256,100 59,194 145,459
1902.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
The insurance fund now amounts to £3,991,599, and, be*
sides, there is an investment fluctuation reserve o 1
£63,809. The progress is not rapid—largely, no doubt,
because the department confines itself strictly to
Maoriland. No matter how hard an outside competi-
tor may press it there, it cannot return the favor by
pressing the outside competitor in the latter’s own back-
yard. But this policy of keeping close home ought to
mean a lower expense rate. That rate is not, however,
as low as it ought to be. Maorilanders could, if they
liked, have about the cheapest and most profitable life-
insurance in the world. If they voluntarily supported
their own State office, and didn’t compel the canvasser to
drive them into it, they would save an enormous amount
of the present cost. As matters stand, expenses have
been as follows :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1897 ..£l4 17 2 per cent. 1902.. £l3 5 5 per cent.
1898 .. 14 610 „ 1903 .. 13 19 4 „
1899.. 14 211 „ 1904.. 12 11 8 „
1900 .. 14 10 0 „ 1905.. 13 0 0 „
1901.. 12 16 11 „ 1906.. 13 7 6
Still that is not so bad. The National Mutual, with a
larger income, and with a less rigid policy with regard to
medical examinations (which mean expense), had last
year an expense rate of £l7 13s. 9d. per cent, of total
income. Besides, there is the weight of Maoriland
taxation to be kept in mind. Of this office’s totai
expenses (£67,828) last year, land and income tax ab-
sorbed £10,613, or £2 Is. lOd. p.c. of the total income.
In the A.M.P. the total corresponding charge was
£26,024, or only 17s. 7d. p.c. of the total income. Now,
it is this taxation—chiefly graduated land tax—which has
been mainly instrumental in bringing about Maoriland’s
prosperity, so that, if the Maorilander pays more, he is
on the whole in a better position to do it. In other
words, he pays £2 Is. lOd. p.c. of the Maoriland State
Insurance Department’s expenses into his own pocket,
for a service which gives him a very handsome return ;
and that fact has to be reckoned in any comparison of
this office’s expense rate with Australian offices’ rates.
A worse trouble by far with the Maoriland
office is the lapse rate. Maoriland, on account of its
prosperity, ought to show few forfeitures. Yet its State
office has a disheartening record. Take the figures for
this office and the A.M.P. (unfortunately it is impossible
to carry the comparison further, because hardly another
office shows its lapse rate): —
A.M.P. Maoriland.
Death or maturity .. £847,673 £161,461
Surrender .. .. 956,707 118,761
Forfeiture .. .. 440,863 249,608
£2,245,243 £529,830
Thus while 19‘7 percent, of the total discontinuances in
the A.M.P. were due to forfeiture of policies, 47 per cent,
in the Maoriland were due to that cause. Or in another
way, while o'6 per cent, of the amount insured with the
A.M.P. lapsed last year, no less than 3'9 per cent., or
over six times more in proportion, lapsed in the Maoriland
State office. No doubt the A.M.P.’s figures are particularly
good; but the Maoriland State office’s figures should,
from the very nature of the office, be particularly good
too. Possibly the office suffers because it is confined
to the State. If a man moves from one part of Australia
to another, or from Maoriland to Australia, the A.M.P.
does not lose him. But if a small policy-holder moves
out of Maoriland, the chances are that, with no local
office to pay the premium to, he will drop out. That
may be the explanation. At any rate, the matter calls
for inquiry. For it is a tremendous drag on an office to
pursue new business and then lose it after a year or two.
Take the cost of managing the old business to be 7 per
cent, of the premiums, and of securing the annuities and
single premiums 3 per cent.; then the balance (£46,653)
will represent the cost of the Maoriland S ate Life
Department’s new business last year. And that was at
the rate of 214 per cent, of the new-business premiums.
In other words, reckoning on this basis, it costs over two
years’ premiums to secure a policy-holder.
As to the funds: —
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 8 3 percent. 1904 .. £4 610 per cent.
1901 .. 4 7 8 „ 1905 .. 4 811
1902 .. 4 7 5 „ 1906 ..4 8 5
1903 .. 4 611
Funds include the insurance fund and investment fluc-
tuation reserve. This question of earnings is, of course,
closely bound up with the character of the securities.
High earnings are not everything ; security is the main
consideration with such funds as these. And the com-
parison that follows throws some light on that. The
figures show the proportions of various assets in three
typical Australasian offices :
Maoriland
State. A.M.P. Citizens’.
Public Securities .. 20 - 2p.c. 29‘2 p.c. 49-7 p.c.
Mortgages .. .. 52'9 ~ 42*9 ~ 29'1 „
Other Loans .. ~ 16'9 ~ 19‘5 ~ 5'7 ~
Freeholds, &c. .. 3'o „ 4’4 ~ 11'2 ~
Cash, &c 7’o ~ 4 - 0 ~ 4 - 3 ~
So the Maoriland State office’s holding of public securities
is less than that of either of the other offices. While
this is, in a general way, something to be the reverse of
enthusiastic about, it at any rate shows how absurd is the
gibe that, when the State establishes this, that, or the
other provident institution, the first thing it does is to
grab the coin.
During the past year the triennial valuation was
completed (and this added also a trifle to the expenses).
The total premiums received were £925,607, and the sur-
plus to be divided, with interim bonuses paid, was
£189,867, or 20’5 per cent, of the total premiums paid—a
very handsome bonus, which indicates careful manage-
ment and a highly satisfactory mortality experience. The
future interest earnings have hitherto been assumed to
be Zb per cent., but that is being gradually reduced ; the
present rate works out at £3 9s. per cent, all round, or
19s. sd. under the present actual rate.
* * * *
The Bank of New South Wales
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar.. 1901.. 100,153 10 p.c. = 100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901..104,647 10 „ „ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
lifar 1902.-115,507 10 ~ „ 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902..118,229 10 „ ~100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar 1903.. 115,793 10 „ ~100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903.. 117,370 10 „ ~100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar 1904.-119,582 10 „ „ 100,000 19,582 1,368,024
Sept.. 1904.. 120,435 10 „ ~ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905..127,811 10 „ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905.. 126,963 10 „ ~100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar. 1906.-129,385 10 „ „ 100,000 29,385 1,472,618
Sept., 1906.. 130,115 10 „ ~100,000 30,115 1,502,733
I(VV7 /141,581 10 ~ ~ 100,000 26,581\ 1599314
Mar., 1907| Votedto Provi dent Fund 15,000/
This £15,000 mentioned in the last line goes, not to the
bank’s regular pension fund, but to the Buekland. 1) und,
which many years ago was established by the then presi-
dent to give help in special cases. It is, of course, no
part of the bank’s assets proper, though the directors
administer it; and with various miscellaneous reserves it is
included in that composite balance-sheet item “ Bills pay-
able and other liabilities.” After this term, the bank will
have a capital of £2,500,000 instead of £2,000,000, and the
half-yearly dividend, if paid at the old rate of 10 p.e., will
absorb £125,000 instead of £lOO,OOO. So the opportunity
was taken to put an excellent but hitherto not well-
endowed fund on a good footing before this extra strain
came on the finances. With such conditions as have
ruled lately there would be no strain, however. It is
extremely unlikely that the published figures show the
full strength of the recent prosperity. Thus, though this
has been a period of new branches and extension of
branch premises, bank premises account stands at £15,000
less than it did six months ago. Compared with one or
two of the banks, however, the item is still large. The
disclosed profits show up like this on the basis of share-
holders’ total funds:—
Sept., 1903 ..£7 011 p.c. Sept., 1905 .. £7 8 8 p.c.
Mar., 1904 .. 7 210 „ Mar., 1906 .. 710 3 „
Sept., 1904 .. 7 3 0 „ Sept., 1906.. 7 910 „
Mar., 1905 .. 710 10 „ Mar., 1907 .. 8 1 8 „
But if the £15,000 which has been transferred to the
Buckland Fund is cut out of the profits, the return shows
only £7 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum.
Several Australian banks show higher figures.
But there are two ways of running a bank ; in fact,
2|- ways. One bank shows its profit; then, instead of
making large additions to reserves, it uses what is not
needed for the dividend to write down assets. That
bank’s reserves would not grow rapidly; wherefore on
the basis of capital and reserves, the rate of profit vvould
show high. Other banks in the past followed a policy of
writing down assets out of undisclosed profit whenever
the chance offered ; and their earnings show high, too.
The B.N.S.W. may make some internal provision like these
others; but, generally speaking, it evidently prefers to
show its reserves—and there are people who insist that,
if it is not as dangerous to undervalue as to overvalue
assets, at any rate the right policy is to value them truly,
neither under nor over. This explains why “ the Wales,”
in spite of its admitted great prosperity, shows earnings
of only from 7 to 8 per cent, on funds, while the Austral-
asia, for instance, last term showed £lolls. lid. per cent.
A further comparison of Bank of N.S. Wales
figures:—
Mar., ’O6. Mar., ’O7.
Notes .. .. £1,027,892 £1,085,704 Inc. £57,812
Bills, &c. .. 3,303,305 3,338,069 Inc. 34,764
Deposits .. 25,352,701 26,235,346 Inc. 882,645
Liquid Assets 13,958,459 14,129,901 Inc. 171,442
Advances .. 18,591,358 19,481,752 Inc. 890,394
Premises .. 715,000 700,000 Dec. 15,000
The liquid assets represent 46 per cent, of the debts to
the public ; and that means that there is money available
for a good deal more financing than the Bank can at
present command. As to the liquid assets themselves,
the chief change is in the reduction of money at short
call in London (the phenomenal rates are easing off) and
its transference to public securities (which haven’t yet
felt much of the recovery in the London money market).
The holding of public stocks has increased from £1,811,991
to £2,291,723 in six months. The public’s money in the
business is about 8J times greater than the share-
holders’; and that makes the increase of capital
desirable. For the shareholders’ capital is the guaran-
tee fund for the whole of the liabilities, and
must protect all creditors in the event of disaster.
At the end of the half-year the bank owed the public
£30,659,119. Its liquid assets were £14,129,901, leaving
£16,529,218 of debt represented by £20,181,752 of non-
liquid assets : that is, £1 4s. sd. of non-liquid assets for
every £1 of debt. In a country of violent changes such
as this, the margin is none too large (true, the actual
value of the securities may be much greater than the
amount of the advances), and the increase of capital is the
right thing.
* * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co. (Perth) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Oct., 1901 .. £6Bl 10 percent. = £473 £2OB £5,711
Apr., 1902 .. 769 10 „ „ 473 296 6,007
Oct., 1902 .. 730 10 „ „ 473 257 6,264
Apr., 1903 .. 1019 10 „ „ 473 546 6,810
Oct., 1903 .. 986 10 „ ~ 473 513 7,323
Apr., 1904 .. 1443 32J „ „ 1523 7,243
Oct., 1904 .. 1363 10 „ „ 525 838 8,081
Apr., 1905 .. 1551 30 „ „ 1575 - 8,057
Oct., 1905 .. 1611 10 „ „ 525 1086 9,143
Apr., 1906 .. 1252 10 „ „ 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1906 .. 714 10 „ ~ 525 189 10,059
Apr., 1907 .. 1197 15 „ „ 787 410 10,469
The extra dividend is paid by way of a bonus for the half-
year, so the directors are not at all committed to continu-
ing it. At the same time the staff gets alO per cent,
bonus, amounting to £244, which is in the foregoing
deducted from profits. Other movements are shown here-
under
April, April, Oct., April,
1901. 1906. 1906. 1907.
Commissions .. £1,540 £2,464 £2,186 £2,659
Interest, rents, &c. 535 484 480 596
Expenses.. .. 1,321 1,696 1,953 1,814
Expenses, p.c.
revenue .. 63*6 57*5 73*4 55*7
Profits, p.c. funds 10/12/7 13/1/7 7/3/9 11/18/6
Trust balances .. 103,234 264,948 302,732 394,499
But if the bonus to officers is added to the half-year’s
expenses, the rate goes up from 55*7 per cent, of revenue
to 63*3 per cent. This co. apparently does a good deal in
the way of acting as agent for absentees ; so, while the
trust balances in hand amount to £394,499, the value of
all estates managed by the co. is given as £882,848. This
non-trustee business probably explains the wide varia-
tions in the co.’s profits. The co.’s capital (£10,000) and
reserves are mainly represented by premises (£12,999), the
title to which is lodged with the Treasurer, and £5450 of
debentures and mortgages. Of the trust balances,
£298,281 is in first mortgages.
* * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and
Building Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Oct Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1898’ .. £4916 8| p.c. =£2785 £2131 £16,723
Forfeited Capital .. .. 512 17,235
1899 .. 4235 7 p.e.= 2325 1910 19,145
Forfeited Capital .. .. 16 19,161
1900 4392 7 p.c.= 2339 2053 21,214
1901 ! 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 . 5261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 . 5900 7£ „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 6591 9 „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905 7639 10 „ „ 3792 3847 36,622
1906 .. 8952 12J „ „ 4742 4210 40,832
Apr.,
1907 .". 4206 10 ~ „ 2006 2200 43,032
The directors report that “they have considered it ad-
visable to issue 7000 shares at par to shareholders only,
as per circular already issued.” The capital six months
ago was in 39,043 shares at 15s. and 18,000 shares at ss. ;
total £33,782. But £4153 had been received by way
of calls in advance, and £797 represented “ issue of for-
feited shares,” number not stated. The last item has
disappeared, but 43,000 shares at 15s. and 18,000 at ss.
were out at the end of the half-year. So far, therefore,
only 3000 out of the 7000 shares had been issued. The
co.’s business is to buy land, and, after subdivision, to
sell it on terms. In financing these transactions the co.
has the help of £18,920 of deposits, and it owes otherwise
£8094 ; total, £27,014. Six months ago the total was
£2B 750. But this comparison shows that, and more :
Oct., Oct., Oct., April,
1900. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Debts (deposits, &c.).. £17,417 £26,219 £28,750 £27,014
Freeholds/ &c 29,999 26,163 29,759 21,532
Advances .. •• 43,611 75,149 80,230 88,276
Other assets .. 154 1,551 1,171 2,924
The advances are “ after deducting suspense account.”
Apparently that account is built up out of expected
profits not shown in profit and loss (profits, that is,
if and when the time-payment bargains are com-
pleted) ; and on the size of that provision a very
great deal depends. If there were a bad slump in
values, and many recent transactions were uncom-
pleted, it might even happen that some of the pro-
fit which the co. has taken credit for would not be
realised. A very great deal has to be taken for granted.
One thing': the deposits and other debts are compara-
tively small, so that at least the shareholders don’t have
that spectre to worry them. #
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Net 1 Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901 .. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
1902 .. 1528 6 „ ~ 104 £1262 162 418
1903 .. 2957 6 „ „ 253 2583 121 539
1904 .. 2778 6 ~ „ 320 2147 311 850
1905 .. 4958 6 „ ~ 368 4188 402 1252
1906 .. 4206 6 „ „ 432 4126 900
1907 .. 4351 6 ~ ~ 479 3872 900
In 1905-6 5 per cent, of the commissions paid on maize
consignments were returned as bonus. But for the past
year that department shows a small loss. Hence no
maize bonus is paid, which accounts for most of the
shrinkage in total bonus. On dairy produce consign-
ments the same 25 per cent, was paid ; and a further
benefit accrued to consignors during the year through
the reduction of commission on f.o.b. shipments to 2j and
2 per cent. net. The society wrote off £65 (10 per cent.)
from plant and fittings; but, apart from that, no
visible reserves were made. This is the least
satisfactory feature of the accounts. True, the
society works almost exclusively on a commission basis ;
that is to say, it is not a produce speculator. But it has
to carry a heavy responsibility in the shape of book debts ;
that is inevitable on a turnover of over half-a-million a
year, with most of the goods supplied to small traders on
weekly or monthly settlements. At the end of the half-
year the total outstanding accounts were £33,214. That
‘is probably as little as the nature of the business allows ;
yet it calls for provision against a time when losses are
liable to be much heavier than they are in these days of
prosperity. If, in those days, the co-operator would be
willing to put up with a 5 per cent, bonus, or perhaps
none at all—just at a time when a bonus would be most
welcome—then less fault could be found with the present
policy of paying out every penny. The danger is that,
when that happens, the co-operative system will get a
bad shaking.
* •* * *
Broken Hill Junction Mining Co.
Written off
for
Loss. Depreciation Deficit.
Mar., 1903 .. £2740 £1766 £17,914
Sept., 1903 .. 3904 1686 23,504
Mar., 1904 .. 1910 1600 27,014
Sept., 1904 .. 1858 1520 30,392
Mar., 1905 .. 3708 1381 35,481
Sept., 1905 .. 2468 1303 39,252
Mar , 1906 .. 6802 1249 47,303
Sept., 1906 .. 3731 1177 52,211
Mar., 1907 .. 1172 1118 54,501
The capital is 200,000 shares of 10s. each, of which 6d.
remains to be called. The first co., formed in 1886, was
in 100,000£1 shares; but, after paying 17s. in divs., it
got into difficulties, and had to temporarily reconstruct
in 1900, when 100,000 new shares were issued at ss. each.
In 1901 there was another reconstruction, 200,000 shares
being issued (one for each old one) on payment of 6d.
Since then another 4s. per share has been called up.
Under ordinary circumstances a 20-year-old silver-
lead mine which has not been able to make a profit in the
high metal markets of the past two years might very well
be given up as hopeless. But the Junction has had some
bad luck —the fire, for instance—which alters the case.
It is a mine in which anything may happen, and scrip
has been a great gambling counter. With its position
and possibilities the mine will never he thrown up for
good while Broken Hill lasts ; but it will have to change
completely to be worth a second thought as an invest-
ment. And as a gamble it is dangerous for the outsider.
The co. has only £7820 of a liquid surplus, with £5OOO to
call up ; the one in sight is nearly all hard and poor; and
a change in the metal market would mean another recon-
struction and another assessment.
* * * *
There is a proposal before the shareholders to
remodel the North Queensland Insurance 00. Eighteen
months ago, finding that it had no power to do accident
insurance, it formed a subsidiary co. to attend to that
branch. The directors now recommend alterations in the
articles to give the parent co. the power it didn’t have
before. The two cos. will then amalgamate under the
name of the Queensland Insurance Co., with an authorised
capital of £500,000 in £1 shares. There are two denomina-
tions of shares at present ; the idea is to issue one share
paid to 10s. for each two present shares paid to ss. The
greater number of shares will still be held in reserve, but,
for the further security of the clients of the co., there
will be at once a small issue of new shares at par,
amounting to about one-ninth of the existing issue.
These will be available only for present shareholders.
* * * 11-
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, resumes its rightful
position as the champion mine of Westralia. Lake View
Consols, Great Fingall, and Oroya have in turn, mainly
by “fireworks” outputs, ousted the Boulder from the
premier position, but their day is done. The Oroya return
cannot be maintained any longer, and the May profit will
drop to about half what it was reoeiitly. The Great
Boulder, on the other hand, has now 7 started re-treating
the old residues, estimated to be worth about 12s. per
ton, of which about one-third can be recovered. The 10
Ridgway vacuum filter presses, designed to treat about
15,000 tons monthly, are at work, and are doing so
well that an output of 20,000 tons or more monthly
is probable. In future the co. should make a
monthly profit of nearly £30,000, and it is likely
to maintain that much for a long time to come, as
the mine has not been strained to force a fictitious output
and boom the scrip. Both the main arid Edwards shafts
are being sunk from 2050 ft. to 2250 ft., and this work will
be completed by September. These shafts are situated
about 550 ft. apart, while Hamilton shaft is about 1600 ft.
north of the main shaft, and is opening up the northern
continuation of the Ivanhoe lodes. The conservative
policy always practised by “ Boulder ” Hamilton may not
have been appreciated by gamblers, but it no doubt had
much to do with saving the market from collapse on the
exposure of the scandals connected with the Lake
View, Associated, Perseverance, Deep Levels and other
“ ramps."
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is rather under a cloud owing
to the decline in output and profit during the last three
months. Prior to that the output used to average about
11,000 tons monthly, and the profit over £20,000. In
February the output dropped to 9600 tons, and the profit
to £18,000; in March the figures were 10,100 tons and
£18,300 ; and in April 7800 tons and £11,900. The cause
of this collapse was the gradual breakdowm of the mill
engine, due to over-weighting ; a new engine of 400 h.p.
is now being installed, and, w'hen started, a return to the
normal condition of things is predicted. The co. has still
five years’ ore in sight, of a recoverable value of 60s.
per ton, and the two lowest levels are better than this.
The lode at 1250 ft., w'here cut, is worth 845., and at
1350 ft. it is worth 725. for the first 6ft. penetrated. So
far as one can judge, the position of the eo. is good.
Moreover it is a co. not run for market purposes ; the
largest shareholders have consistently objected to
splitting the shares, as they wanted an investment, and
not a gambling counter.
* * * *
Feldtman’s stay at the Associated (W.A.) is
drawing to a close. Since he arrived at the mine two
months ago a few thousand pounds have been mopped
up in deep level prospecting, and much disappoint-
ment has been the result. In one or two instances
bore-hole discoveries were decidedly promising, but sub-
sequent development proved the ore struck by the drill
to be as poor as Lazarus. The failure of crosscutting and
driving to confirm bore-hole results has become so fre-
quent in the case of the Associated that no one takes any
notice of such things nowadays. Not a single ton of ore
has been added to the reserves as the outcome of Feldt-
man’s prospecting-, and by this time he is probably con-
vinced of the futility of looking for rich shoots in localities
where values only occur in patches, and small, isolated
patches at that. As the dividend value of Associated’s
reserves is only about 7s. per share, and as a yearly dis-
tribution of 2s. is the most that shareholders can expect
for the time being, investors can judge for themselves
whether this stock is worth its present price.
* * * *
Frank Gardner’s old colleagues on the Perse-
verance (W. A.) Board seem determined to have their full
pound of flesh, and apparently won’t be contented until
they get it. He had one friend who was game enough to
stick up for him at the recent shareholders’meeting.
This person, it is said, narrowly escaped being trodden on
for reminding the directors that the late chairman had
financed the co. in its hour of need. Some of the
securities pledged by Gardner in return for the loan
appear to have been sold too hurriedly, and others seem
to have been nursed too long. For instance, Boston
Coppers, which eventually rose to over £6 per share,
were got rid of too soon, and the names of the lucky
buyers are now being asked for. On the other hand,
Mexican Avinos, upon which an assessment of Is. 3d. has
just been made, are still held, and the Perseverance co.
was obliged to pay the call and look pleasant. At the
meeting it was mentioned that Gardner’s obligations to
the co. ran to a little over £40,000.
* * » *
Sons of Gwalia’s income for 1906 amounted to
£237,418, and a profit of £74,030 was netted. Four
quarterly dividends absorbed £78,125, leaving (inclusive
of the sum brought forward) a credit balance of £8149.
The general managers state in their annual report that
the character of the lode renders it difficult to estimate with
accuracy the tonnage and value of ore reserves, but they
are confident the present output can be maintained from
ore above the No. 14 level on the main shoot for over two
years. Past year’s development has unearthed the under-
lay of the Gwalia South shoot at the No. 7 and 9 levels,
arid the mine authorities claim that this is the most impor-
tant discovery made in the mine for years past. The
occurrence of payable values is so irregular in the bottom
of the main workings that a run of good ore, such as
the Gwalia South shoot is likely to furnish, will come in
very handy\ » * ,
Boulder Deep Levels (W.A.) has at last been
reconstructed, and has afresh working capital of £20,250.
The mine is a poor proposition, like all its immediate
neighbors. Five levels have been driven, at 500 ft., 600 ft.,
700 ft., 900 ft., and 1100 ft., and they have opened up 45,000
tons of ore, said to be worth 38s. per ton. This should keep
a 20-head mill going for a couple of years. But shareholders
are not likely to reap much advantage. As, however, the
mine is improving with depth, and the pay shoot at
1100 ft. is worth 17dwt., for a width of sft. 6in. and a
length of 280 ft., there is still a chance of recovering some
of the money sunk in the mine.
* * » *
The Central and West Boulder Co.’s six-acre
block is now being tested at depth by a crosscut west
from the seventh level of the adjoining Oroyasouth block.
Some people believe that the rich pipe of ore, known as the
Oroya-Brownhill shoot, will one day be struck at depth
in the Central and West Boulder lease, but it is hard to
see what they base their belief upon.
* * *
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) has again failed to
realise 8., M. and Co.’s optimism. Last December the ore
reserves were estimated at 200,000 tons, worth 30s. per
ton, or thereabouts. These figures induced the Govern-
ment to lay down a pipe line from Pig Well—eight miles
away—to supply sufficient water for crushing purposes.
This work was completed some months ago. Since then,
milling operations have, on account of the ore being
worth a good deal less than the estimated value, been
carried on at a dead loss. Plant may close down at any
time.
* * * *
Owners of Black Range (W. A.) shows are think-
ing hard over a recent award of the Arbitration Court.
The minimum wages hitherto ruling have ranged between
10s. 10d. and 13s. 4d. a shift, according to the class of work,
but the Court has raised them to 11s. Bd. and 15s. No
award has been given for rockdrill men ; but, as hammer
and drill men are to get 155., rockdrill men will probably
expect from 2s. 6d. to ss. more. Only one mine, the
Black Range, owned in Melbourne, has ever paid a div.,
consequently the effect of the award may in a few cases
be serious. The Oroya-Black Range, which expects to
start crushing in June, and which has already expended
nearly £lOO,OOO in preparations, estimates that the in-
crease in wages will be from 6 to 12$ per cent., and will
average nearly 10 per cent. The Sandstone Development
Co., of which a lot of shares are held in Sydney and Bris-
bane; is also affected. At present, living is undoubtedly
very expensive on the field, and the men were therefore
able to make out a strong case ; but things will improve
when-the railway is finished, and that is expected to be
within a year. The award, nevertheless, is made for
three years, and the mineowners regard that as the worst
feature of the case, from their point of view. The Kal-
goorlie case will be heard in August. The cos. will resist
the advance asked for on the ground that ore-values are
deteriorating.
The Black Range (W.A.) mining cos., instead
of having to pay more, were pretty confident they would
get a reduction in schedule wages from the Arbitration
Court. Their agent (ex-Treasurer Jimmy Gardiner)
thought that he had punctured the case for “ the other
side,” when he produced evidence that the officials at one
mine lived like fighting cocks for 265. per week each.
Later on the fact was elicited that most of the “ tucker ”
consumed was purchased in Perth, that the co. paid
carriage to Black Range, paid housekeeper, and provided
house, wood, water, furniture, cooking utensils, etc.
Then the conversation stopped.
• * * *
The Golden Cliff lease, Mt. Margaret (W.A.),
for many years a derelict, has been taken up by a ’Groper
speculator named Frank Hassell. In the early days of
Coolgardie this property was floated in Melbourne by
Fitzgerald Moore ; but after striving with it for some
time” Moore and his friends lost heart, likewise the capital
invested. Hassell will probably do the same.
■* -Jr * *
Mt. Morgans (W.A.) is very likely to be trans-
ferred to 8., M. and Co.’s stable. Under the control of
A. E. Morgans the mine has recently been a failure. The
last two crushings have panned out at 225. sd. and 235.
Id. per ton ; and, unless this can be improved upon, it
will be necessary to close down. The mine is now being
thoroughly sampled by 8., M. and Co.’s staff.
* * * *
The most uncomfortable thing said at the
Broken Hill Junction North meeting in Melbourne was
that, while at March 31, when the half-year ended, the
excess of liabilities over liquid assets was £1259, on May
29 (the dav of the meeting) the deficit had grown to
£13,013. Of course that includes money spent meantime
on mill alterations, &c. The directors, as they must have
expected, were left in a bad minority on a ballot being
taken ; director Hogan, working in with the Palmer in-
terest, which represents most of the Sydney' shareholders,
easily carried the day. The directors’ report was there-
fore rejected. But that puts things no forrarder. A lot
of people have been anxious to know what would happen
if, some day, shareholders refused to “adopt the report
and balance-sheet ” ; and now, wffien a meeting has done
the awful thing, they find that nothing happens. The
directors don’t even resign. Yet they must be fairly hard
in the case to stick when the holders of an overwhelming
number of shares evidently want them to clear out. To
complicate matters, the general manager is a frank parti-
san with the side that is set against his nominal bosses,
the directors ; while the directors give facilities to a
former general manager to throw damaging criticisms at
the present general manager. It is a beautiful shindy
altogether ; and the chances are that the outsiders who
get caught in it will be hurt in the pocket. Some of the
insiders may get hurt, tod.
* * * *
Broken Hill North made a gross profit of
£18,956 in the eight weeks to May 18 ; but from that
£1231 must come off for depreciation. And then £7141
was spent at the mine and charged to capital account
instead of to profit and loss, which will have to carry it
some day. So long as a regular charge is made for wear
and tear afterwards, it is righ t enough to charge machinery
to capital account; but to charge up shaft sinking and
driving, etc., to capital, instead of setting it against
revenue, is the same thing as the insurance co. reckoning
“extension of business expenses ” among the assets. It
it is a fair thing to set against revenue only a part of the
half-year’s expenditure on mining, it is also a fair thing
to take credit for only part of the results of the present
high metal prices ; because the boom prices of to-day are
very largely responsible for the slump prices of t -
morrow. Deducting then the capital ■**&*&*&!;
North’s profit for eight weeks was £10,584, or a. the rate
of £34,398 a half-year— a shade under ss. per share. This
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.


was on the basis of about £l9 15s. for lead. A fall to
£l6 15s. would knock £6072 off the profit, reducing it
to 4s. per share for a half-year. Nothing is, however,
allowed for here for the uncertain zinc-bearing tailings.
* * * *
The directors of the Broken Hill cos. must, for
& good while, have known well enough that they were
very likely to be asked for modifications of the terms on
which they either sold or bonded their zinc-tailings heaps
to the Zinc Corporation. That precipitate Co. has been
tided over its present difficulties by an advance of £50,000
from the biggest holders, who saw that it was a case of
back Up or forfeit; but production on a scale capable of
giving the co. any relief is still a good way off. The price
which the Corporation will pay for the tailings is not
likely to be modified ; but the payments will probably be
pushed further into the future.
* * • •
The Broken Hill South Blocks Extended and
the Argus have given it best. They were both miserable
little kittens, produced during last year’s boom. Most of
this litter started, with very little cash, to scratch for
the southern continuation of the Broken Hill lode. That
lode loses itself somewhere in the White Leads flat; it is
forgotten every bopm-time that it must lose itself some-
where. Still, there are several of these shows left. The New
White Lead’s pot seems to be coming to the boil again, but
there is little in the pot beyond comparatively valueless
lode formations—it is all “ lode formation ” down that
way. So far as existing development has shown, there is
only one solid shoot of ore in the mine, and that was
proved years ago, when Manager Kneebone was after
carbonates. That shoot extends to a little below the 300 ft.
level, and it is neither rich nor wide. Search at the 400 ft.
level failed to locate it, but a poor sort of lode formation,
made up in places of stringers of galena, zinc, and a deal
of copper pyrites, was found ; and this body has since
been worried on its course north and south under the
belief that it is a big lode in disguise. The south drive at
the 300 ft. level was, in the early days, driven on the
course of the lode, and recently a crosscut was put in
west at the most promising point in the drive to get the
hanging wall. A width of 2ft. or 3ft. of ore was dis-
closed, and then the face passed into the good old “ lode
formation ” that the reports are always talking about.
Unfortunately it didn’t contain enough silver or lead to
make a shadow with. Manager Kneebone took out a
quantity of very rich carbonates from between the sur-
face and the 200 ft. level, and he also closed on what
he thought was a make of much richer oxi-
dised dirt. Assays showed this latter to be worthless,
containing only crystals of magnesia. The magnesia
is still there, and may be used as an effective “ bluff ” on
the new-comer. The directors are right in desiring to
get down to the 500 ft. level, because that will at least
carry them 100 ft. nearer to the ore body which may pos-
sibly exist at depth. But it is just as well to be honest
and say that up to the present there isn’t enough ore to
do more than keep one jig going.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd., is naturally
fighting the opposition of the Uinberumberka Water Trust
at every ditch. All the B.H. cos., except the big B.H.
Prop., have undertaken to supply capital. Block 14’s
share is £7500. At this co.’s half-yearlv meeting Oolin
Templeton, for years past a director of the Water Supply
Co., opposed this use of the funds, and quoted counsel’s
opinion. But, on the chairman’s assurance that that
wasn’tthe only counsel’s opinion forthcoming, Temple-
ton got no support. Meantime the Trust has been con-
stituted, and the preliminaries are being pushed on. And
to relieve the early necessities of the field some moderate
showers have fallen, so there should be nothing to fear
on the point of water supply for, say, five months.
* * * •
A slight settlement continues in the Sulphide
Corporation’s Central mine, Broken Hill, but so far it is
very gradual.' Any day, though, the tired monster may
sink down with a groan of relief, and then there will be
more crushed gangways to pick up.
* '* * *
Most of the old-time miners on the Barrier are
full of beautiful schemes for the safe working of the
mammoth lode at the B.H. South’s 970 ft. level. In the
meantime, developments are taking place which go to
indicate that the big lode is not such a monster as it
looked, and that the long west crosscut happened to hit
it in its widest part.
Old copper shows about Blayney (N.S.W.) are
being fossicked out, the more greedily because the
Blayney Co., Scantlebury’s recent float, finds that the
mine water contains enough copper to make it very pro-
fitable to pump it up and precipitate the metal; 95 per
cent, of the copper can be recovered by running the
water through boxes filled with wire clippings. It is
estimated that Blayney mine itself has about 100 tons of
copper contained in 5,000,000 gallons of water ; it is cal-
culated that it takes 223£ tons of water to deposit one
ton of copper. The figures have probably got stretched,
for 601 b. of copper per 1000 gallons is equal to nearly loz.
of metal to the gallon, and the copper is associated with
other things. The drawback is that, in order to effect a
95 per cent, precipitation, the unwatering cannot be
rushed, so the mine itself won’t start work as early as had
been expected. But that will not stand in the way of the
co.’s custom-smelting programme.
* * * *
.Rylstone (N.S.W.) feels better. The mining
experts of the Moore-Hesketh Co. have visited the iron,
shale, and limestone deposits in the district, and are
negotiating for one large property. Whether the Moore-
Hesketh Co. is financially strong enough to carry out the
business it talks about is a matter that Rylstone, in its
great joy, hasn’t stopped to think about.
* * » *
At the True Blue, Wy along (N.S.W.), develop-
ments at the 1100 ft. are satisfactory. The level is now in
195 ft. south of the Brilliant shaft, on a 4ft. lode of high-
grade mineral ore. Up above there is plenty of stone in
the stopes, and the battery is constantly employed. Par-
cels of mineral ore are sent to Cockle Creek monthly.
The Barrier, Homeward Bound, Junction, and Welcome
Stranger are also raising high-grade mineral stone, which
is all sent to Cockle Creek for treatment; consequently
very little is doing at the local reduction works, which
have always been more or less of a pale elephant. The
Golden Fleece has the western reef opened out for over
100 ft., at a depth of 650 ft. ; it is only Bin. wide, but it goes
2oz. For the past six months, the Fleece has turned
out 788 tons, valued at £6824 ; charges amounted to
£1244. Improved hauling machinery is now going up.
A syndicate has been formed, and a start made to work
the Red Flag, which has been idle for some time.
• •* * *
The Cobar (N.S.W.) strike is settled; Labor-
member MacDonell talked the men back to reason, and
they accept the Arbitration award. Now general-
manager George Blakemore points out that there wouldn’t
have been any trouble at all if the cos. didn’t have to ob-
serve the Mines Inspection Act, which says that only
certificated engine-drivers may be employed. “ The con-
sequence was that if the mine owners were not prepared
to break the law by employing men who may be quite as
competent as any on the field, but were not in possession
of certificates, they would have had to stand by and see
the mines flooded.” So Mr. Blakemore wants the law
altered. But there is a much easier way than that. Let
these very competent engine-drivers get engine-drivers’
certificates. That will be far simpler, and safer too, than
to alter a good law which prohibits incompetent persons
from taking charge of machinery upon which the lives of
hundreds of workmen hang.
* • * *
Cobar Gold Mines, which have been hanging on
to the substantial surplus left over from working their
oxidised ores while waiting for a process to turn up that
would treat their sulphides, are satisfied that the Catter-
mole process will do it. This is the system that is giving
the Zinc Corporation some hope at last at Broken Hill,
with the very different zinc tailings. The co, has had
bulk parcels tested in England, and the results are good
enough to decide the directors to go ahead.
* * * •
The way in which the Old Jubilee Co., Dayles-
ford (Vic.), is being run suggests a state of high
prosperity. To start with, the co. was brought out
with a 30,000 share register. Then for the patch
of old Rose of Denmark ground, the vendors
first of all got 6000 shares paid up to 10a.
This should have been ample for a worked-out show, but
4000 shares paid up to Is. 6d. were also issued to the
vendors under the heading “Purchase of property.”
Receipts were £l5OO from application and allotment
money, but £167 was swamped by preliminary ex-
penses. The payment of this £l5OO brought the
vendors’ 4000 shares to a level with the rest of
the contributing scrip. Plant took £678 and build-
ings £7O, so that, before one could turn, £lOOO was
gone. Although the co. in its short existence has
had £2lOO to play with, it has only paid £631 in wages,
and has got the luxury of a bank overdraft. The only
indication of value is a formation struck in the east cross-
cut. It is reported to be “payable” stone, but Dayles-
ford estimates of what is and what is not payable are so
variable that one knows not where to find the exact defi-
nition of the term. Share-value progression has been
steady—2s. 6d. to 4s. last week, with paids at actually
the same level. The public had best bide a wee, if it
wants to get into Jubilee society, and see first how loyal
those who pay calls will be to the co.
* » * *
Birthday New Find, Berringa (Vic.), has one
Job to manage it. Not the man of tribulation, though
an equally cheerful, God-fearing sort, even when the
trials of this hard world beset him. Job hasn’t
got a much better show to drive along just
now than had the original patriarch. The co.’s
only real hope is to get into settled country.
That requires deeper working than is so far done. Job
knows every inch of a mine, and the best side of his
reports so far has been their modesty. In his No 1 tunnel
he got the usual Berringa slide in the north
drive, and in the south he has to prove the reef,
so there isn’t much to occupy the new battery and plant
from that point. In the workings off No. 2 tunnel, two or
three small veins have been opened up ; but as there isn’t
much there either to help the battery along, it seems as
if the shareholders will have to borrow some of Job’s
patience before they can look for anything over working
expenses, even if they get that much.
•* m * ♦
Magenta is a quartz show up Chiltern (Vic.)
way, which was to have put a cheerful coat on the dis-
trict, but so far the coloring has been very dingy. Yet
it should not have been so when suave Tilley Brown
became associated with stout old John Cock. Melb. people
proved to be poor call payers, though ; and, moreover,
they do not like Chiltern as a quartz field. Besides, No.
1 level did not come up to expectations, and there was no
guarantee that the blanks there would be filled up in No.
2. With easy sinking and only eight weeks’ work to get
down to 300 ft., it would have been thought that a rally
would have been made ; but almost all the contributors
pulled out, so now a new co. is to be formed to buy the
mine and plant. Pluck of this sort on the part of the
faithful deserves support, and it is a pity that there isn’t
a little more to show for those who are to take the risk.
* * * *
From the manager of the Lord Nelson, St.
Arnaud (Vic.): —“Bulletin correspondent (30/5/’O7)
showed more spite than reliable information. The hostile
criticism may interfere with, or induce, market opera-
tions, but does not detract in any way from intrinsic
value of the mine or its output of gold. The only break-
age in the new battery since its erection is one cam shaft,
and the monthly tonnage crushed speaks for its efficiency.
The statement about Wilfley springs being constantly
broken is not correct. The stone in the upper levels
awaits battery test, which it will get; and your corres-
pondent should stop guessing and await results.”
• * * *
The Lady Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), being
apparently satisfied that it is about to follow in the foot-
steps of the Lord Nelson, and experience a long dividend-
paying career, is going in for heavy expenditure. The
shaft has been cut to a uniform size, a new battery and
winding gear are being installed, a cyanide plant is'being
erected, and the air compressor from the defunct Mary-
borough Leviathan has been purchased. Meanwhile the
shaft is being sunk so as to get the development work a
bit ahead of the battery. Everybody is very sanguine,
and the property certainly has possibilities ; but it is
well to remember that the present shoot is only about
65ft. long, and that the gold is worth only about £2 6s.
an ounce, owing to the presence of silver, so the yields
look considerably better on paper than they actually are.
There is no visible reason why it should cost a mine like
the Lady Nelson about 245. to work ore averaging about
265. per ton, with calls in addition to carry on the sinking
and crosscutting ; and it is certainly a state of things
which needs altering. The St. Arnaud mines, by the
way, with their silver-gold alloy instead of gold, furnish
a striking illustration of the common sense of the Wes-
tralian practice of recording value of “pay-ore” in
shillings and pence instead of ounces and pennyweights.
The forgetfulness of people to mention that their gold is
half silver is sometimes phenomenal, and the outsider
frequently doesn’t discover it till he strikes the half-
yearly balance-sheet.
* * * «
The miners in the Ballarat district, where
Death hunts for live meat in the deep levels, have wrung
some concessions from the Mine-owners’ Association, a
more or less irresponsible body, which amounts to some-
thing, but not much. Six hours shifts are promised to
men working in temperatures exceeding 80 degrees, and
an extra 6d. a day for truckers on eight-hours shifts.
TheA.M.A. is now circularising the mining companies,
as the “concessions” made by mine-owners’ associations
are so much beer-froth unless the big cos. are willing to
be bound by them.
* * * *
The Sebastopol Plateau, Ballarat, the grave of
many hopes, has had an average of about £BO,OOO a year
poured into it for the past 16 years. The mines respon-
sible for present outlay are the new Kohinoor, Central
Plateau, South Star, Band and Loch, and Star of the East.
Shareholders’ only comfort at present is that you never
can tell what is before the pick.
* * * *
Ballarat is hugging itself because geological
surveyor Dunn has discovered indications of a saddle
reef at the New Kohinoor. Dunn says: “The section
exposed in the crosscut driven east from the shaft at
850 ft., which is out 680 ft., clearly shows that in this
portion of the Ballarat field a structure prevails akin to
that found at Bendigo, and that a succession of anticlines
and synclines can be made out. At the surface of the
bedrock, over the present end of the crosscut, rich alluvial
gold was obtained, and quartz workings at a higher level
than the crosscut furnished the reason for driving in this
direction.” Ballarat is so far down in the dumps latelj"
that anything anybody says of an encouraging nature
causes a mild excitement. It doesn’t stop to reflect that
mere geological terms don’t pay dividends. If they did,
Bendigo, which had a fine lot left on its doorstep two
years ago, would now be wallowing in dividends.
A mine manager weighing 20st. recently fell
18ft., at the Central Plateau mine, Sebastopol (Vic.),
breaking both legs, but not seriously injuring the mine.
Now, if the accident had taken place at Daylesford, in
the present nervous state of the market, the chances are
that he would have knocked the bottom out of it.
The directors of the Stony Creek dredge, in the
Grampians (Vic.), have resolved to instal a carrier pigeon
service for the speedy conveyance of news to Stawell.
Now some men with an unholy thirst for “inside” in-
formation are reported to be assiduously practising
pigeon-shooting.
“Mainshaft” puts a side of the case which is
just now appealing to a good many speculators The
Cloneurry (Q.) position in the market is ridiculous.
Macgregor Co. has 275,000 shares issued and £70,000 to
credit— i.e., ss. per share in hand. In the co.’s Wallaroo
mine a crosscut at 84ft. is now in 30ft., in ore bulking 10
per cent. Yet the market says the mine is worth only
Is. a share over its liquid assets. Mt. Elliott, with £190,000
in hand, or 30s. per share liquid, stands at 555., or 255. a
share for the mine itself ; and the mine has £7 per share
divs. in sight, figuring on copper at £BO. Hampden has
11s. a share liquid in sight, and the market is steady at
13s. 6d. —only 2s. 6'd. a share for the mines. And Queens-
land Copper Freeholds and Queensland Explorations tell
the same story. West Oloncurry, Limited, in its Argylla
North shaft, has struck the Argylla lode at 100 ft., and a
crosscut is, so far, 10ft. into sulphides bulking 8 per cent.
Still West Oloncurry is not quoted at all. The market
strengthens on Australian buying one day ; in comes Mr.
J. Bull, a strong seller, and knocks the market out.
From November last to the end of February Mr. Bull fed
greedily on Oloncurry copper, and his table manners
were beastly, and then New York gave him an emetic,
and he’s feeling very unsettled still.”
Mention of the large sums Oloncurry cos. have
in hand recalls in a roundabout way the remark a ribald
shareholder once made at a meeting of the then unprofit-
able Australian Newspaper 00. (Sydney). The management
had announced that it had some thousand pounds’ worth
of paper on hand. “Then why not sell it before you
print on it and spoil its value?” Many Oloncurry cos.
have large sums in hand, but they will have to use those
large sums in order to carry out their works policy. The
money, therefore, isn’t lying there available for dis-
tribution. But the proved mines are beginning to be
worth attention on their own account, so much have the
shares slumped.
* * * •
There is warm feeling up in North Queensland
over the proposed deviation of the Etheridge line to take
in Charleston. That town certainly deserves something
—there are not many more dismal places in Australia —
but there are doubts about the permanence of the mines
there, and, though the Ohillagoe 00. may get some
return, it is very questionable whether the State won’t
make a bad bargain if it has eventually to pay for about
25 miles of line to serve Charleston. Georgetown (Ethe-
ridge) and Gulf people, of course, kick —it means 25 miles
extra freight for them. Queensland railways have a bad
habit of straggling around, which is one reason why they
don’t do the development work they should ; and sharp
eyes ought to be kept on the present proposal. If the
Ohillagoe 00. is game, it might put out a light cockspur
line to Charleston, to be taken over by the Government
on the basis of its own profits (or losses) when the other
line passes over.
* * * *
The Ohillagoe co. (Q.) is on the look out for
copper and lead shows near the Etheridge railway. The
survey actually crossed a copper lode that may be worth
prospecting. The line doesn’t seem to have any very
clearly defined objective; the popular idea was that it
would go to Georgetown, and ultimately the Government
or somebody would connect it with the Croydon line.
But no one can say where a railway in mineral country
will pull up for good.
* * * *
Returns from Mt. Molloy (N.Q.), issued fort-
nightly, are about as erratic as the ore body. Latest re-
turn was 19 tons copper from 207 tons ore and 156 tons
fluxing ore. The latter is pyritic ore, and costs nearly as
much to get to the furnace as the ore that is reckoned
to contain nearly all the copper. Ironstone flux also
comes expensive ; it has to be carried from Mt. Card-
well, on the Mt. Garnet railway. A find of a rich patch
of ore at 60ft. lately caused a few punters to nibble at
the stock. A co. with a new find of 30 per cent, stuff and
a large credit balance, has some baited hooks for the
English punter, who has become interested in Molloy.
In the mine the ore at the 270 ft. level is from 8 to 12
feet wide in places, and has to be sorted. Machine drills
are goinginto the deepest level (370 ft.) to try to pick up
the "shoot proved in the level above. So far as the pre-
sent workings go, Mt. Molloy is not in a position to
claim permanency, but the recent discovery of rich
pockets should brighten up the gamble.
. • » *
Deep-level mining at Charters Towers (Q.) is
not rejoicing over its luck ; at least the Deep Levels
and Brilliant Extended are not rejoicing. Yet Pfeiffer’s,
at No. 3 underlay shaft, at a vertical depth of over
2400 ft., shows good prospects, and proves that there is no
cause to condemn deep-level mining altogether. Pfeiffer’s
is over half a mile from the Brilliant Deep Levels, so if the
latter and Brilliant Extended get better prospects, the
Towers will begin to take notice again. Brilliant Ex-
tended is really not in such a bad way as a sick share
market would imply ; certainly the returns from the last
crushing barely amount to £2 per ton of stone, but it is
one of the few Towers’ shows that are striving after
economy. No. 14 level, at 2530 ft., has Ift. to sft. of
patchy stone. For April, 19,544 tons were crushed, for
an average yield of £3 14s. 6d., and a field that can talk
like that need not despair. Gympie, with its occasional
rich patch, averaged £1 4s. 9d. per ton for 15,414 tons,
from which it is evident that things at the other field
might be a lot worse.
» * * *
If the official figures are any good (and they are
not put forward with much confidence) the Queensland
gem-fields make poor progress. The State’s output of
opal last year was returned at only £3OOO ; while White
Cliffs (N.S.W.) set down its output at £50,000, as against
£140,000 in 1902, which was supposed to have been the
field’s best year. But the White Cliffs figures are not
worth much either ; because opal inay be worth pence or
pounds, it’s no use weighing it, so there is no check on
the alleged value. Mostly the tendency is to under-state
the value: the digger doesn’t want a crowd, and the
buyer doesn’t want to give the impression that gems are
getting as frequent as bricks. Anakie, Queensland’s
sapphire field, has, however, been doing better than its
opal fields; yet the 1906 alleged total came to only
£17,125. Considering the quantity of Queensland sap-
phire on sale, and the price asked for it, no wonder the
miners say they don’t get a “ fair cut.” The Queensland
Under-Secretary says “it is probably true that the
greater number of them are earning little more than a
bare living.” Best stones got lately have been a 22-carat
green sapphire, reckoned on the field to be worth £2OO ; a
126-carat yellow stone (but there is a dispute about its
value) ; an orange-green gem of 30 carats, for which £25
was got. But first-class blue stones won’t, as a rule,
fetch locally more than £3 10s. an ounce ; and from that
they come down to 3s. The sinking on Anakie runs
nowadays from 10ft. to 40ft.
* * * •
It is Great Fingall (W.A.) money which is pro-
bing the old Burra copper mine (S.A.) to see whether it is
worth reworking. The failure of the Fingall present
deepest level has sent the eo. searching for other proposi-
tions.
»* * ,
The British Australasian (London) has. been
throwing some light on to the “ inside ” history of the
Union Consolidated, the mysterious concern which got
hold of a batch of mostly-derelict S. Australian low-grade
copper shows, at the back of nowhere, and proceeded to
boom them vigorously. The inwardness of the vigorous
booming is suggested by the movements in the share
register. The secretary originally held 138,600 shares, of
which presently about 50,000 were transferred in a
lump; and these two holders have passed on all
but 78,469. In other words, 60,131 shares have
been unloaded, mostly in small lots, The system,
if these figures are correct, is just about as bad as
it can be. A co., formed on that basis, is practically a
bogus co.—it doesn’t really exist. When a man reads a
prospectus he knows that he is reading statements made
by one who wants to sell him something ; when, however,
he is led to believe that the co. is formed, he accepts
subsequent reports as the advice of experts to their
employers, the shareholders. And under this system he
is very likely to then fall in. On its mine prospects the
Union Consolidated only had the most meagre chances of
success ; and this sort of co. isn’t likely to turn such
Chances to account.
* * » *
“Vag.”: I have been over having a look at
Mt. Cleveland tin mine (Tas.). The co. was floated only
a few months ago in 75,000 shares at 10s. ; they rapidly
rose to 245. , on the strength of reports from the mine of
almost unlimited tonnage of 7 per cent, to 8 per cent,
dirt. The northernmost tunnel is, so far, the deepest
below grass roots (about 45ft.). The lode was reported to
be 32ft. in width. It appears to rest on a cap of rock
that, unfortunately, is not tin stone. Southward, the
cap of the lode, 16ft. wide, has been burrowed like a
rabbit warren to the extent of a few feet only below the
grass roots. A .tunnel would tap the lode 100 ft. deeper if
driven about 50ft. That tunnel has not been driven. A
tramway and machinery costing £lO,OOO will be necessary
before the matrix can be treated. But delay in spending
that much money is, no doubt, wise. The'metal, tin
oxide of the fineness of paint, will require some holding.
Share sales took place last week at 12s.
The exceeding dullness of the Melbourne Stock
Exchange is due largely to the rule forbidding members
to halve commission with agents introducing orders.
The Melbourne Exchange is about the only Stock Ex-
change in the world that enforces this rule. In London
every big firm of brokers has “runners” collecting
orders and creating clients. In this way a body of cus-
tomers and dealers is reached which otherwise would
never speculate on ’Change. In Melbourne, the com-
mittee is so afraid of giving any rebate to accountants,
agents, and people who act for investors, that they have
cut off a large and profitable branch of their business.
Of course, the rule does not affect the half-dozen adver-
tising firms, but it bears heavily on the poorer and smaller
sharebroker, who has but few clients, and who ekes out
his income by dealing for himself, or by “ jackalling ” for
the bigger men. The Exchange Committee is at present
having a bad time with the Accountants’ Association,
which is kicking hard against the rule,
* * * *
A new find of coal has been made at Collie
(W. A.) which may shake up that dispirited field. Hitherto
the Westralian railways have only taken Collie coal because
it was dug up in Westralia : it had a poor calorific value,
was irregular in quality, gave an excess of ash, and fell to
pieces when carried. Straining the matter as far as they
could, the Railways have been paying only Bs. 9d. per ton
for the fuel. Now, however, YV. D. Bedlington, who put
down the first shaft at West Collie, has completed a
series of bores still further west, and has mapped out
further seams of higher calorific value and yielding less
ash than any yet worked. Whether the bores have struck
the seams at particularly favorable spots nobody knows
yet; but it would be a large coincidence if they had all
done so.
For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2,4, (81 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding- the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining cos., because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing- the output and reducing the cost, which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. These machines have
been supplied to leading mines everywhere by the makers,
Messrs. Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have ap-
pointed W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, the
sole Australian agents. The machine has the distinction
of being a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* * * «
P. W. Tewksbury, managing-director of a num-
ber of dredging companies in the Ovens district, writes,
under date 20th May, 1907 “ I find Rubberised Leather
much superior to ordinary leather or pure rubber for air
and other pump valves.” W. P. Shaw and Co., manufac-
turers, Abbotsford, Vic.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two.
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.]
* * * *
In summarising the figures contained in the
annual report of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited for the year ended 31st December, 1905,
The Joint Stock Companies Journal (London) in its issue
of sth September, 1906, wrote:—“He would be an in-
genious manipulator of facts who could take the records
which we have summarised here, and disprove the state-
ment that they show beyond question that the popularity
of the Colonial Mutual is great and growing.”*
* * * »
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* » * *
Oobar. — For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
4c * m *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Her midale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keamand Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
•«•***
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrmtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
■#•**■*
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., aud several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * »
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Percole”: “Jostler” (B. 15/5/’O7) en-
ters a frog in a voracious animal competition. My
candidate is the anemone found in the rock-holes
on the coast. I have fed one of these flower-like
creatures with limpets and other shell-fish until I
wearied of the occupation. It seemed as though
the anemone had already eaten twice his own
bulk, but he would never refuse another contri-
bution. I wasn’t able to spare the time to wait
and see if Greedy would bust, but his capacity is
enormous.
* * * *
“Janor”: Bully on “J.M.”for landing
“ Brad ” one on the point (B. 9/5/’O7) over his hat-
snake-jackass fairy tale ! Certainly, it may be
said, in excuse for “ Brad,” that there are stacks
of people who believe that dropping snakes from
an altitude is the great natural industry of the
kookaburra ; but, as they are mostly bushmen who
have been within hail of a hansom all their lives,
they don’t know any better. As a matter of fact,
the laughing jack avoids a live snake even as
Beelzebub avoids holy water. But the dead snake
is a proposition that Jack loses no time in assimi-
lating. I have tried scores of times to get tame
jackasses to tackle a live snake, and failed ; but
directly the reptile was killed, they rushed at
him, and if he was too long for one issue the bird
made a serial of it. Jack is an eater of carrion
mostly. The boss snake-killer in the feather
outfit is the plain turkey. I’ve found as many as
four snakes in the cool-storage apartment of a
turkey, and that bird does business with anything
up to sft. in length.
* * * *
A really nice circular issued by a N.S.W.
landowner up Gunning (N.S.W.) way :
As Mr. Danyz, the French Bacteriologist, is satisfied
that he can destroy the rabbits, which are now devastat-
ing our crops and pastures throughout New South
Wales, it behoves all landowners to do their utmost in
obtaining the consent of both the Federal and State
Parliaments to pass acts permiting of the microbe being
introduced on the main land from Broughton Island.
The only chance we have of attaining this end is to pi-e-
-vent trappers and rabbit catchers generally from entering
private lands adjacent to the Railway Lines where
rabbits can be converted, into a marketable commodity
and thus end the trade which now exists at the expense of
the land owner ; otherwise there is little hope of the labor
members in both Parliaments ever allowing any bill to
pass.
With this end in view, I trust, you ivill not allow men
on your property this winter and join many others who
are adopting this course.
The N.S.W. Lands Department might send along
a special officer to look for these “ many others ”
up Gunning way who propose to break the rabbit
law this winter.
* * * *
“ F.H.R.” : “Agricola” (B. 16/5/’O7)
wants to know how the eaglehawk catches his
rabbit. When I was fettling out west of Hell
two eaglehawks frequented our length, and nearly
any morning they could be seen at work. The
method of this pair was to run bunny along the
wire-netting fence, where he fell an easy prey.
One eagle would fly beside the victim while the
other flew behind, and, on a favorable oppor-
tunity, j ust grabbed brother rabbit by the back.
I have often taken rabbits from these two, and on
several occasions Mr. Eaglehawk had a good mind
to argue the point of possession with me, though
lam a man of some size. But for a real scientific
rabbit hunt watch two crows. I saw a rabbit
retire into a box-drain once, when hotly pursued
by a pair of crows. One black ruffian sat back at
the end of the drain and waited like the plague
hovering over Sydney, while the other poked his
nose up the farther end of the waterway, and
endeavored to frighten bunny out of his retreat
by discordant cries. In the end, bunny escaped
into a foreign burrow, from which, later on, he
was duly expelled by a rabbit policeman.
HER MAJESTY.
“The cow” was much in evidence at the meeting of
the Presbyterian General Assembly of Melbourne yester-
day evening. The Rev. A. I. Davidson, of Noorat, was
telling the Assembly of the difficulties of clergymen in
dairying districts. Ministers must, he said, be constantly
mindful in their movements and engagements of “ her
majesty the cow.” They must remember that the cow
demanded to be milked at certain hours in the morning,
and the evening, and on Sunday as on any, other day. The
toll of the church bell must await the ceasing of the
rattle of the milk pails, the church wait on the cow-
shed.— Daily Paper.
“ Now then, old hoss, you can pump ahead;
I'm milked, and all that.”
“Lantana” : Ox-persuaders up Tweed
River (N.S.W.) way have one and all taken to clean
shaving. And for this reason. A whiskered
teamster hailing from Billinudgel, when taking
his cattle across the border, was suspected of
having ticks amongst the foliage surrounding his
face, wherefore he, as well as his team, was
“ dipped.” The law, in this matter, is inexorable,
and until further notice flowing beards are to be
run through the disinfecting tank. The indignity
is resented up that way, the bullockies arguing
that they “are neither blanky sheep nor Baptists,”
but a clean shave is their only remedy.
THE REASON.
BROWN: “ I came to ask ye to be me uife, Mrs. Smith.”
WIDOW SMPTIL : “ Ha, ha ! Ye're got the sack, have ye ?”
“Croweater”: “Brice Bum” errs re that
alleged “ petrified ” blackfellow (9/5/’O7). When
I struck Narracoorte, in ’B4, I was shown the cave
where the deceased nig had been entombed, but the
corpse was gone. The local accounts —they all
agree—are that the blacks had driven a mob of
sheep close to the caves, broken their legs to pre-
vent them getting away, and were feasting
joyously when a party of armed squatters arrived.
One black was shot, and crawled down to the big
cave, where he died—not on, but under, a ledge,
by the way. Shortly after the body 1 was dis-
covered it was stolen by a Barnum agent. The
local authorities recovered it, and, to secure the
interesting relic, had an iron grating built around
it. However, the circus man was watching, and,
before the mortar had set, once more snatched the
horror, which is now on view in the U.S.A. I
would like “ Brice Burn ” to explain how a petri-
fied nigger could look like a crumpled bullock-
hide, anyhow.
* * *
“Yarrum”. These agricultural colleges
are all right to a certain extent, blit some,don’t
extend far enough—don’t fit men to run extensive
farms successfully. Little plots that have been
well manured and watered regardless of expense
look right enough, but that sort of fine tooth-
comb business is not farming. About five years ago
a once-prominent Sydney man
bought 200 acres of the best dairy-
farming land on the coast of
N.S.W., and put his two boys,
fresh from ’Oxbury, to farm it.
They worked hard, early and late,
and were real steady fellows ; but
things wouldn’t gee at all for them.
They kept losing ground at such a
rate that Pa ruse up indignantly in
his office in Sydney and sent a
young cocky, who had never been
to any sort of college in his life,
but who had a good practical train-
ing, to look after matters. The
result is that the farm is now pay-
ing handsomely. As for the boys,
they are out West striving to raise
wheat, but it is reported that they
are not doing “too well.'’ Just
fancy men from college providing
pigs with sties with cemented floors!
The pigs all died, as they couldn’t
wallow in the hard, cold cement. Pigs must
wallow in something, or die. And then the
agricultural college youth wants to brush his farm
with a clothes brush every morning.
* * *
“ Polstan ” : Parts of Victoria which till
lately escaped many plant pests are now being
covered with the gentle stinkwort—a crop that
usually goes more tons to the acre than any-
thing else. At a recent sitting of the Bet Bet
Shire Council, a member remarked that a year or
so ago he noticed a shrub on his land, and he
and a neighbor admired it greatly. The neigh-
bor said he would like a plant, but the coun-
cillor wouldn’t part. The following year the
neighbor had some to give away, but no one asked
for any. Now it’s all over the district, and if
the rich and copious Footscray atmosphere could
be let loose in Bet Bet, it would purify the air
a bit, for stinkwort lives up to its name all right.
No one seems to be endeavoring to cope with
the pest, and it spreads like mad. The plant is
absolutely useless in itself, and is the very worst
sort of imported nuisance besides.
‘ ‘ David H. Richards ” : ‘‘ Broncho George ”
(B. 16/5/'O7) recites, as an instance of bovine
vitality, the case of a bullock that carried a spear-
head embedded somewhere in its Little Mary for six
years. That doesn’t prove vitality, for, providing
the thing wasn’t in a vital part, any animal could
have carried it for the term of its natural life.
But, all the same, the ox has a pretty good grip on
this mortal existence. There have been numerous
instances of cattle existing for almost incredible
lengths of time in paddocks destitute of grass,
and often of water. A boundary rider on Euroka
(Walgett) told me of an old “lumpy” bullock
which was missed, on account of its anchoritic
habits, when the herd was removed to fresher
fields' and pastures not quite so dry. It vvas
found four months afterwards, apparently as alive
and as anchoritically inclined as ever. There
had been no water in the paddock for at least a
month, and only the atmosphere to browse on for
two months. (The bullock had eaten most of the
atmosphere thereabouts.) I know of other in-
stances of this sort, but their recital to inexpe-
rienced audiences only serves to bring the cold
optic of scorn upon me, and a remark that I must
have married again after Sapphira died. But
an instance that is well testified to comes
from the N.S.W. tableland. During Easter
week a young bullock disappeared from a
paddock on the Essington Park estate, near
Oberon. A few days since it was found standing
in an old miner’s hole, about sft. deep, its back
being nearly level with the top. It was extri-
cated from its strange prison, and didn’t seem
any the worse for the adventure, except that it
was a bit finer; and it is now bucking up well. It
was about 40 days in durance vile, without any
possibility of food or water.
* * * *
“ David H. Richards” : The person who
chases the job that is always on the sky-line has
many and various sobriquets for those of his call-
ing. He refers to them commonly as “ bagmen,”
from a weakness they have for suddenly appear-
ing at a station behind a long array of empty
bags. At other times, he alludes to them loftily
as “tourists,” and, in the same vein, when
questioned as to his present occupation, he will
reply : “ Oh, viewin’ the country ! ” Then there
is the comparatively new term for the itinerant
job-pursuer of “strider,” and also “professional
pedestrian.” No swagman would condescend to
use the term “tramp,” or “traveller,” or “swag-
man”; he considers those terms fit only for
townies and school children. A swag is known
amongst the ilk as “bundle,” “parcel,” “nap,’
“ matilda,” “ drum,” and various other designa-
tions. Some more of the languages of that section
of the unlisted legions are also rather cryptic.
Bread is “ dodger,” .and that hated weapon, the
axe, is “Douglas”—“swingin’ Douglas for a loaf
of dodger ”, being a frequent expression. Then
there is flour, which is “dust”; and tobacco,
which is “fuel” or “snout,” or, of course,
“ weed ” ; and innumerable others. The amatory
vocabulary of the bushman who toils where Eat
reckons white men can’t, is also pertinent. He
always assures his best girl that she is “ sweeter
than sugarcane.”
- “Nivel”: In answer to “ C.R.” B.
2/5/’O7) who wants to know the direction of a
snake. Observe closely, and you will find the
dust raised on- the right hand side only. This
from a black tracker.
THE BLINDIN’ BLAZIN’ WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a bushman comes to Sydney for a flutter with ’is
cheque,
Why ’e ’ates to hear a city cove a talkin’ through ’is
neck
Of the country, an’ the stations, and of “ goin’ on the
land,”
’Cos’es talkin’ on a subject as ’e doesn’t understand.
If the cove ’as bin to Narrabri, or Gunnedah, or Hay,
Why, ’e thinks ’e knows the country in a compre’ensive
way ;
If ’e’s bin to Bourke ’e fancies ’e’s a sort o’ Sturt or Wills,
Though ’is ’ome may be a ’ash-’ouse in a street in Surry
’llls.
But ’e needn’t get a gassin’ or a throwin’ out ’is chest
Fur, if BOurke ’as been ’is limit, why ’e ’asn’t seen the
West,
An’ the West, as bushmen know it, is a long way further
back,
An’ it’s tryin’ umpin’ bluey up the sand’ills on the track.
But you’ll know the West is cornin’when yer tongue’s as
big as two
An’ yer water-bag is empty, an’ you’ve struck the “ Dry
Paroo ”
It’s a land of perspiration, an’ muskeeter-bites an’ sin,
An’ it's Hell, with flies an’ centerpedes, an’ sojer-ants
throwed in.
If yer wants to go a-livin’ what they calls the “simple
life,”
Get a bluey an’ a billy, an’ some ’bacca, and a knife,
Get some dilly-bags for rations, and, perhaps, a second
shirt,
An’just strike fur them there “Meadows” wot’s been
christened after Sturt.
They’re to westward o’ the Darling, an’ to west of the
Paroo,
And you won’t put up no records in the sand you hustle
through,
An’ you can’t expect the trip to be a picnic or a treat,
But the livin’ there is simple, ’cos there isn’t much to eat.
When you’ve tramped from dawn till evenin’ in the
blindin’ blazin’ sun,
When yer blistered feet is scaldin’ an’ Matilda weighs a
ton,
When yer lower jaw gets droppin’ in dejection Qn yer
chest
You’ll be just about beginnin’ to appreciate the West.
You’ll be ’appy with a blanket slung on coat-straps fur a
tent,
While the water from the “ clay-pans ” coats yer stomach
with cement,
For the general style of livin’ would exasperate a hog,
An’ the tucker’d give dyspepsy to a Dresden china dog.
All the stations you will meet with will be few an’ far
between,
An’ you won’t get apoplectic with their generous
“queseen,”
For the squatters an’ selectors on them lonely Western
tracks
Is as plain and unpretentious in their ’abits as the blacks.
There’s a cook on Mumble Bumble oughter be in gaol,
they say,
For’is numerous offences in the culinary way,
An’ ’most anything the beggar ever curried, ’ashed, or
fried,
Would create a revolution in an ostrich’s inside.
All the crows and the goannas gets most dreadful
stummick-aches,
Takin’ chances on the fragments of the dampers that ’e
bakes,
An’no self-respectin’ emus ever venture on ’is “cake,”
For they gets appendicitis if they eats it by mistake.
They're good ’earted sort o’ fellers is the stockmen in the
scrub.
But they gets a bit dyspeptic an’ short-tempered with the
grub;
Chasin’ cattle through the inulga for a livin’ makes ’em
hard,
For it ain’t all golf an’ tennis runnin’ scrubbers to the
yard.
It’s a place to keep away from is the mulga, for the ants
Run a sort o’ private circus in the inside o’ yer pants,
An’ the sand-flies keeps yer scratehin’, fur they’ve teeth
like carpet-tacks,
An’ there’s nothin’ seems contented but the camels an’
the blacks.
“There’s a law of compensation,” says the scientific
bloke;
If ’e ’umps ’is bluey westward ’e’ll be sorry that ’e spoke,
For the only compensation ’e’ll be privileged to see
Will be flies instead of sugar in ’is coffee and ’is tea.
They may say the West is ’ealthy, an’ the doctors says
they find
That it’s good fur some diseases of a pulmonary kind,
But you might as well be dyin’ of a weakness of the
chest,
As be murdered by the tucker on the stations in the West.
Say you brings a pore consumptive to the country back
o’ Bourke,
An’ you gets ’im convalescent ’till ’e’s nearly fit to work,
An’ a station-cook, with murder in ’is ’eart an’ in ’is
breast,
Ups an’ socks ’im with a damper wot no emu could
digest!
Wot’s the good of all the trouble you’ve been takin’ with
’is lung
When ’e’s landed in the stummick by a cook as should be
’ung? ,
As for curin’ ’is consumption, what in thunder is the use,
If the beggar dies a victim to ’is outraged gastly-joose?*
N.S.W. IRONBARK.
* Bill probably means gastric juice, but we can’t be
sure, as a man from across the Darling might mean any-
thing.—Ed.
HALF«A>GUIN£A for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything- chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-g-uinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kescli’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David storer »Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade MarrJ
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
Ira Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
<£>
Slept by ...
AL,iL, T MERCHANTS
.
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
fggp. THE PERFECT
b'** SHEEP-MAHKE^


From G. Morton, Poverty Bay (Maori-
land) : The Maoris are not as black as you paint
them (2/5/’07). They do work, and work hard, at
other things than shearing—at grass seed sowing
and bush felling, for instance. Fully 50,000 acres
of bush have been felled by Maoris during the
last L5 years in Poverty Bay alone. They have
also felled considerable areas of their own land.
One Maori station which started a few years ago
with 170 sheep has, by bush-felling, scrub-cutting
grass sowing, &c., had the carrying capacity in-
creased to 10,000 sheep. All the improvements
have been paid for at the ruling rate of wages.
At Nuhaka, three-fourths of the milk supplied to
the factory comes from Maori farms. These, at
least, have no time for “shouting, rushing and
pandemonium generally.” The Maoris are not in
a state of “deplorable poverty.” Poverty, as
understood in the European sense, is absolutely
unknown amongst them, every man having a
right to a piece of land to grow food upon, rent
and rates free. One thing in favor of the Maoris,
in comparison with other dark races—and it
makes all the difference —is, that they do not
crowd to the towns and herd together, nor enter
into trade, nor do they work for less than the
standard wage. It is an indisputable fact that
wages are higher in Maori districts than in other
parts of the State.
IRRECONCILABLES.
MRS TONE : "It's the long engagemint yer havin',
Mrs. Stobie."
WIDOW STOBIE : “ Thrue for yer , Mrs. Tone.
We're that pig-headed. I won't marry him
whin he's drunk, 'n' he won't marry me
whin he's sober."
“ Percole ” : Going home from business,
the other evening, I noticed, as I looked out of
the train window, a horse in a paddock with a
larg efungus of some kind in its teeth. It was
apparently eating the fungus. Next day the
horse was lying dead, defunct, lifeless, and a
corpse; it had also perished. Now, had the
toadstool, or whatever it was, anything to do
with it ? Is there a fungus known to be virulent
enough to cause death to a gee-gee ? If so, would
one dose be sufficient, or must it be repeated !
THE EARLY RISING MICROBE.
COCKY: “ Ere ! Get up ! You're gettin as bad as the men."
“Stony”: The mention of bush rum
(B. 9/5/’O7) reminds me of my own solitary Far-
North experience in that direction. I was “up at
the township ” for a Saturday evening, and had
altogether six nips of rum—as a kind of experi-
ment, the whisky being of a very doubtful
standard of purity. Most of the evening I spent
in the company of a large, decent pal of mine,
whom I hadn’t met for some time. We had a
good deal to talk about, and he accompanied
__ me part of the way back to
camp, and my feet didn’t
stumble over any impediment
in my speech, nor did the
rope of my vocabulary tie
itself up in hard knots. My
tent was not more than a mile
down the creek, and as we
came to the crossing we
stayed there talking. J ust as
I had reached the peroration
of my farewell address, I
found myself saying “Well,
goo’-bye, o’ shap.’ Shee-shee
y’ neshtimey’ ” and then
I limply collapsed on Bill’s
shoulder as he caught me
round the waist. Those were
my last intelligible remarks
for some time, although I was
able to indicate the position
of my camp by feebly w’aving
towards that quarter, and I
had to be dragged bodily to
my bunk. There were painful
intervals on the way, during
which the usual symptoms of
an irritant poison showed
themselves, and then we
would resume our journey.
When we had reached the
camp, and Bill had done what
he could for me, he went
back for the doctor, and found
that responsible person in a
state somewhat similar to
mine. Otherwise, however,
he was just plain happy, and
with the greatest affability
he doled out three bread pills
for Bill to apply to me as
soon as possible. The follow-
ing morning I was unable to
appear at the scene of my
daily labors, but in the even-
ing, when I began to get about
a little, I tottered up and upbraided the publican
in a, limp tone of voice, and my anger was as the
wrath of a caterpillar. He was very amiable and
forgiving about it. He explained that it was the
tobacco— everybody put tobacco in the rum, only
some people’s" stomachs were not so strong as
others. That was how it was. He said my
stomach would probably improve.
* * * *
“The Prooshan”: Re the powers of bunny
to dodge the hawk by side lepping, there’s a lot
of full-moonshine in the argument. The hawk
can lob on to the rabbit any time he likes. I have
often known him to take bunny up 40 or 50 feet
and drop him, and be on to him again the
second he landed. I have also known a hawk—
not the sparrow hawk, of course, which seldom
tackles anything much bigger or more aggressive
than mice—to sight a rabbit taking cover under a
briar bush and flop wildly with his wings round the
bush to frighten the rabbit out. But bunny knew
the futility of running the gauntlet, and declined
the invitation.
“ Gelb. ” : Attended a Northern Territory
bush court once, when the solitary prisoner was
a scrubby little individual with hops in his hair.
“What’s the charge, constable?” asked the magis-
trate. “ Being drunk, and refusing to fight, sir.”
“Five shillings,” said his Magistracy, auto-
matically.
Dear Bulletin. — Re “Ess” (B. 25/4/’O7)
and his simple process of dismembering a bottle.
The.same advice is tendered by scores of amateur
glass cutters who never practise the alleged
method themselves. If they tried it, they would
discover that the job can be done just as satis-
factorily with an axe.—Yours, &c., Tiger Snake.
* tk * *
“Benbee ” : For some time the crocodile
experts have been out of business, without settling
the knotty question whether the ’dile catches its
dinner with its claws, or belts it into submission
with its tail, or just simply wolfs it the way the
shark does. As Mr. A. Meston, who attends
to the Queensland crocodile business, is away,
I creep out timidly and suggest that the
crocodile takes its dinner in all three ways.
Some years ago I ha'd some horses on the
Bowen River (Q.), and the crocodiles tried to
take one of the foals, but it got away. Its thigh
was very much torn, but soon healed up, though
it ever afterwards carried the plain imprint of
five claws. Some years later, some 100 miles
further south, Pompey (my black boy) and I were
having lunch on the bank of a freshwater lagoon,
close to a crocodile-infested tidal creek. We had
been horse-hunting all the morning, so spread out
for a short camp after dinner. Pompey chose
the shade of the trunk of a ti-tree, overhanging a
deep and dark corner of the lagoon. Presently
there was a yell and a commotion, and Pompey
came out of it covered with slimy water-weed.
Judging by the commotion and the weed and the
marks on the tree trunk, the ’dile had tried to
land him one with its tail, and the tree trunk
had saved Pompey’s hide. Yet another croco-
dile experience on a tidal creek near Blooms-
bury Station (Q.) in the 1902 drought. There
was a cow in our mob that had its nose bitten off
by a crocodile. It had been drinking, and the
’dile had grabbed it by the face and tried to drag
it into deep water. The niggers in that part
assured me that the crocodile’s most common
game is to snatch its dinner with its mouth, and
drag the said dinner away into deep water and
drown it. It sounds a horrible death, with all
that mass of musky, scaly, clawful beast holding
you under.
“E.”: Have just prised this from the
“ Facts ” column of an English paper :
The longest English drought in recent times was in
March-April, 1393. It lasted twenty-nine days.
Drought! Why it barely gave the damp islanders
time to get their goloshes dried !
* * * *
The insidious hyacinth is scooping things
in along the fresh water reaches of the Clarence
River (N.S.W.). And, as an evidence of the
vigor of the vegetable, in a swamp at Ulmarra
scores of young swamp oaks are growing strongly
with 25ft. or 30ft. of water underneath them—
rooted in a floating island of the hyacinth curse.
The hyacinth that holds up oaks is no slouch of
an herb.
THE HALF-MILE HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is there ever a man of the station crowd
Who has fought with the Fates out-back
That doesn’t remember the hoof-beat loud,
The rattle and rush and the grey-dust cloud,
And the joy of the Half-Mile Track ?
The shed-roof is silver beneath the sun,
And the sheep-yards stretch below,
Where the gate click-clicks and the weaners run ;
And that’s where the hardest work is done,
As the sweating yardmen know.
But there comes an hour when the shade grows black
On the woolshed’s silver dome,
When each man springs on his circling hack,
And gives him his head on the station track
For the same mad scamper home.
There’s a smother of dust, but it’s little you heed
As the boss’s brown mare draws away in the lead.
“Come on, you slow beggars!” his challenge is spoken,
And Ted drops the whip on the Ally half-broken,
And Micky the Kid hustles up on The Bride,
And Billy pulls out for the grass at the side,
And loses a length by his colt running wide ;
Then every man-Jack of you settles to ride !
And so you come up to the flat by the yard,
And the brown mare has won (always does!) pulling hard,
And the white foam is spattered on Sally and Seth,
And eight willing horses are panting for breath !
Then someone says, “ Ghost ! She can travel, that
brown ! ”
That’s the way we come home when the sun’s going' down !
u.s.a.
WILL G UGLLNIE
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Paddymelon : You “sigh for the comfortable
rooms for white workers in the Jo’burg mines.” But the
mine-owner whom you revere so, doesn’t sigh for you or
any other white man to overcrowd those gorgeous rooms
while a Chow offers. Starving white Australians are
being- shipped from S’Africa at the Commonwealth’s ex-
pense A. G.W. : “ Song” shows some talent, but not up
to standard “ Bex et Vir ” : Commonplace, and metre
faulty G.H. : You can’t, by any stretch, call the
British sugar and tobacco duties “ protective.” Britain
practises the most complete Freetrade in the world, and
is beginning to find out what it costs... .Ted. P.P.: Bain-
bows at night (caused by the moonlight refracted on mist)
are rare, but they are quite authentic, so to speak....
Mother Goose : Doggerel suitable enough for pantomime,
but not for The Bulletin Omar: (1) If they care
to advertise, though The Bulletin “slates” them,
that’s their business. (2) Wouldn’t advise you to
invest 8.M.0.: Too“rough” in the moral sense....
G.W. : Too many artistic defects....o. Dunne: Over-
melodramatic in treatment, and the “ situation ” is an
old one Sam Cornstalk : It hadn’t the slightest
chance.. .Typiste : Hardly good enough ; and surely the
case presented is an extreme one F.O.K. : You have
poetic ideas, but not enough verse-skill... W.VV.B. : Par
below the standard of either publication . ..Jimeff : No
doubt you feel that way, but Bacchus deserves a more
rollicking stave.. ..A.O. : “Moonlight Bide” shows a
grievous lack of literary gift Tatty: Unskilful and
prosy Tobat: Some of it is smart, and some of it
strained and far-fetched.. ..Dion : Too trifling for print...
G.W. : Too jerky and erratic M.A.S. : Has good
touches, but is flat and colorless as a whole Dion :
Feeble bit of doggerel Leslie D.: Not vigorous or con-
vincing enough Lunatic : There’s method in your
madness, at all events J.P. : “Benedict” lacks force
and vividity Koamer : Rather silly ingenuities
C.C.T.: A flux of flabby phrases merely.... Wilhelm : Too
pompous and declamatory for the subject Pessimist:
Not good enough to get in on its merits, and not bad
enough for a Bad Verse Competition Bonny G. :
“ Question of Environment ”is rather nicely written, but
it all boils down to the fact that she decided to marry
the rich man for his money. It is wonderful how very
little jelly a pretty large octopus can boil down t 0....
Coasting Officer : Tiie Bulletin has always advised the
use of merchant vessels as “ subsidiary cruisers.” It
was suggested once in this paper that the naval subsidy
and the postal subsidy should be amalgamated ; absolute
protection given to Australian shipping to secure to it all
the coastal trade ; and that the export of frozen produce
be monopolised by the Government so that it could be-
diverted solely to Australian boats ; and, in return for
these advantages, that Australian shipowners should be
required (1) to provide a naval reserve, (2) to build a cer-
tain number of fast boats capable of being converted to
cruisers John S.: Nothing in them but feeble pretti-
ness Bex : Neither of them is good enough to print...
Deo : We’ve just received a signature that beats yours
hollow for humorous illegibility... .Dalmorton : Thought
over it a good while, and its end was mud—regretfully
mud J.C.: “ Hedge ” (alas !) was cut down :
“ Tale of Two Ads ” met bad luck somehow, and perished
by the wayside Arcady : “To —has four excellent
verses. Then it taileth off. Try again, and don’t tail off.
Miss K. : Stretched a point to return your MS., be-
cause we feet sure that you are a really nice girl
Old Salt: The point is good, but the working-up is feeble
Demo: Both have good features, but they are very
unequal and scattery (new word) Mosath :We think
we understand it, but the general reader certainly
wouldn’t Xavier A. : You don’t handle your theme
effectively Wattle Bloom: Requires a crisper and
lighter touch B. : Scarcely reaches the mediocre
N.N. : Rather weak and wooden....N.L. : Obviously
from life, but hardly good enough to print D.G.K. :
It would take three pictures to express that joke : (I)
Sandy borrowing match; (2) Sandy finding he had no
tobacco ; (3) A disgusted Jock asking for the return of the
match J.G. : You ask “Are the musical and elocution-
ary competitions of Victoria educating and developing a
crowd of prigs?” Yes! A thousand times, yes!!....
W.E.P. : Not nearly good enough E.H.G.: The ideas
are ill-expressed, and the verse is stiff and unmusical *
Michael C. : Very middling only A.F.: Sorry it
couldn’t escape the basket Groper : Spoilt by the
dragging in of “ sparrow ” merely to rhyme with “ arrow.”
There was no earthly need for “sparrow."....Miss B.
(W.A.): Interest rather feeble N.F.: Verse not bad,
but subject a bit “ cr00k.”..:. J.W.M. :It nearly climbed
in J.T.H. : The story is poor stuff, and both the
postage and the “return” stamps were insufficient
Lyre Bird : Name and address undecipherable. Sketch
no good anyhow C. Aswed : Very stiff and awkward,
though you have large ideas... .Yttik : The theme needed
stronger and graver treatment... .E.M ; : Not amiss, but
somewhat out of our line.... Alphonso K.: None of them
up to standard Eric : The “ Decay of Love ” has been
done so very often Geo. E. : You make out a good
case, but your manner is dull and stodgy.. ..Kelpie : Has
a good lilt, but is otherwise unsatisfactory The Hack :
You versify well, but your stuff doesn’t appeal to us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H. Ivers : Purely English. That brand of bumpkin is
named Giles, and is quite distinct from the Australian
bush lout (named Bill) Limestone : Quite hopeless and
impossible W.M. : “Squatter’s Daughter” too rough
a drawing P.G. : Not a good subject, and a very poor
drawing, and a quite inferior joke at the tail of the draw-
ing Fletch : Declined. Too blotty W.S.P. : All too
rough in execution, and a grievous lack of humor in the
ideas G.H.S. : Nothing about the picture to compen-
sate for the unpleasant joke... .E.C.: Broughton Island
picture rather belated. The Danysz rabbit experiment is
dead. (Also, the picture isn’t much of a picture)
M. Ker : Drawings in the faintest possible pencil declined.
You’ll never do anything in art on those lines....
B.S. : “Water Nymph” rejected with loud scoff
8.J.8.: Received two pictures. They are in faint pencil
on thin paper. The paper is crumpled and torn and a
general wreck. The jokes are no good. Also the pic-
tures are worse than the jokes. There are other draw-
backs which we haven’t time to enumerate C. Eyles:
Only a moderately good idea, and the picture might be
better (also it might be worse) A Gumleaf : Drawing
hardly suitable. Thanks for clipping J.B. : You
haven’t caught the “ Methodist Face.”
Closer settlement is wiping out the rabbits
all through the Mallee districts of Victoria. A
few years ago, when the land was all station-
owned, bunny was in millions. Poison carts and
traps failed miserably to keep him and his missus
in check, but the cutting up of the big estates is
fast making the rabbit a back number. And it is
the same with thistles, Bathurst burr, prickly
pear, foxes, and all the other horrors. Closer
settlement might even wipe out big landlords.
A STIMULANT _^ a
It imparts laatmd exhilaration
scßNArrs.
ELEVEN
REASONS
Why we sell so many Rings.
2 Eubies and 1 Dia-
mond, or 2 Sapphires
and 1 Diamond, 18ct.,
635.
4 Pearls and 1 Aus-
tralian Sapphire,
£4 4s.
2 Choice Sapphires, 1
Tourmaline, with Small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
No. 1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them on the premises.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring setters.
No. 7. We only make 18ct. Gold Gem Rings.
8. We are Gem experts.
9. We carry a large stock of unset stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
11. We sell them at LONDON Prices.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.


IMPEDIMENTS TO ENTERPRISE^
Many prudent men decline to take the risk
accepting directorships. Therefore important
modifications of the law are suggested. —Argus on
Vic. Companies’ law.
Wild-Cat Gentleman : “This harassing legislation is simply
driving prudent men from our callings. Why, we have
to run almost as much risk as our clients 1 ”
Three-Card Philanthropist : 11 Bli’me, yes ; a man gets very
little encouragement to be dishonest nowadays I”
X ' CERTAIN I
The Conference had teen an ill-
natured one. There had been high
words and sharp verbal exchanges,
which indicated that the hopecl-for
harmony had not been existent. —George
Reid on Deakin’s part in Imperial Con-
ference.
Georgie : “Call HIM Affable I —now if
it had been me, I’d have shown
’em what affability really is.”
We are still, as a people, going through the process of denuding
our lands until our settled country presents the stark appearance
pf a treeless plain.— Aye.
George Washington: “ I did it, father, with me bloomin’ hatchet.”
The Legislative Parent: “My child, your honesty is greater than
your discretion. Let me give you a lesson in discretion I”
STRINQENT ADMINISTRATION.
Instead of rushing into rash schemes
of tyholesole prohibition, State Govern-
ments should strike directly at the root
of the pest evil. They should rigidly
enforce the laws against orchard pests.
Argus in- anger at S.A. prohibition of
(mil from “Fruit Fly ” States.
Something of this kind would about
meet the case.
So long an it.Ove hard and long they were not subjects far
condemnation.— Hu Ko.xelhncy Madden. J S
on %r d °s S J t ohn S n , ! a : d t a! d L °T hope y° u ’" them kin<|
words, John, next time we do business together.”
SELFISH.
The attack being made by President
Roosevelt on the great railway corpora-
tions of the United States ; the income
tax and other problems that are now
agitating France; and the Socialistic
movement in England, were all “ killing
the goose that lays the golden eggs.”—
Barotvrlzzy Rothschild.
The Fat Person : “ Vat I kill that peau-
tiful pird I How could you be so
short - sighted ? V'y, don’t you
know it lays me eggs of pure
l gold I”
SHORT WEIGHT FUEL.
A prevalent" fraud.
—A Melbourne Complaint.
There is one consolation—there will
be no short weight there.
IN VICTORIA AND ITS VICINITY.


THE PARTING.
ALFRED THE AFFABLE "WELL, GOOD-BYE, MR. BULL. I HOPE YOU WILL BE LOOKING BETTER WHEN WE MEET AGAIN
IF I COULD ONLY PERSUADE YOU TO CHANGE YOUR DRINK NOW ”


BLOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne Customs authorities have discovered
that a large proportion of goods imported as woollens
consist of inferior fluff blown on thin cotton substances.
The importations are so large that it was deemed inad-
visable to confiscate them, and the difficulty is now under
consideration.— News Item.
You’re ready for the flies that buzz in summer round the
meat.
You fight against the ones that worry fruits;
But it’s something new to learn they’re in the things you
cannot eat,
And you’ve got to keep a safe for hats and boots.
Yet it just has been discovered that of blowflies there’s a
breed
In the sweat shops near the distant Arctic zone,
Where they make the things that pander to the fat Aus-
tralian’s greed—
Where the “ best imported woollen goods” are blown.
Blown, Blown,
Just to give it tone,
Is that fancy vest you were so proud to own,
While the other things you sported
That were labelled “ Best Imported,”
Just were shot on rotten cotton sheets and Blown !
When the kids have got pneumonia, and the doctors’
bills run high,
Even if no undertaker comes as well,
It’s advisable to take a pull and keep your weather eye
Upon the imports that the traders sell.
When your newest suit divesfsdtself of finish and of form,
And nightly through the cold you toss and moan,
And wonder why the fleece upon the blanket isn’t warm,
It’s a guinea to a gooseberry it’s Blown.
Blown, Blown,
Its wool has never known
A sheep, but on the kapok tree was grown—
With some cotton for foundation,
There’s a lot of vegetation
In the things of which Freetrade so oft has Blown.
N.S.W.
MILTON NACGREGOR.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judging by his conduct in the matter of
Solicitor Daley—disclosed before N.S.W. Supreme
Court last week—Attorney-General Wade can be
a very severe and prosecuting type of person at
times. He doesn’t always bungle in the direction
of lenience.
“ Paddy melon ” ; Be your article about
carpenters’ wages in England—4gd. per hour, not
sgd., is the lowest wage paid in England. This
is at Falmouth. [The Bulletin refers again to
the list and finds that “Paddymelon” is right.
At Falmouth and Penrhyn the “ free breakfast
table” is built by men who work four hours for
Is. 7jd.]
The gist of the S.M. Herald’s lesson from
the Northern Territory is that no industry there
is sufficiently profitable to pay white wages.
Well, the Territory is mostly paying Chinese
wages, and its utter failure and desolation, as
compared with the live, bustling, growing white-
man State of Queensland alongside it, isn’t en-
couraging. Anyhow, if the industries of the
Territory are unprofitable, it must be mostly the
muddling Chow who has made them so, for the
Territory is mainly Chow. And that isn’t an
encouragement to get more Chow muddler.
STATE FATHER
WANTED.
A boy of 14, assisted by a younger brother, had to get
up at 4.30 a.m. to herd up 200 cows, and had to go after the
milking machine and strip them. He then walked three
miles to school. At night he performed the same task
again.— Rev. J. A. Davidson on overworked Victorian
farm, kids.
The Youngster : “Oh, Tommy! Save me from
my parents."
The N.S.W. shire councils, which have
already had the land-tax handed over to them,
and huge subsidies granted out of the Treasury,
aren’t satisfied. Still they don’t ask for much.
This is a resolution passed by Macleay Shire
Council:—
That the Shire Councils be placed in full control of the
Lands Department, and the revenue derived from the
lands and timber, &c., and of the Stock Boards when they
are willing to be taken over.
That’s all. Macleay Shire Council doesn’t ask for
the Customs and Excise.
When Jim Hogue, N.S.W. Minister for
Education, was asked, the other day, to improve
the conditions of N.S.W. teachers in certain par-
ticulars, he put on his sage look and observed that
until teachers were better paid, it was useless to
discuss other improvements. That sounds good,
but why does not Hogue prepare a scheme of
better pay, and lay it before Parliament ? Hogue’s
style is to do nothing till something else is done,
and not to do the something else.
“ F.C.” : Hey, Mister Carruthers, here’s
another grievance! The Federal Postmaster-
General has just accepted a tender for the supply
of material to Melbourne Post-office from It. B.
Hungerford, of Sydney. Don’t let him do it,
Mr. Carruthers ! Should we allow good N.S.W.
material to be sent to Melbourne in return for
filthy Federal lucre! No, never! It’s another
conspiracy to drain Sydney of good material; I
know it is. Down with such cunning tactics, I
say.
Matthew Davies formed one of a deputa-
tion which the other day told Federal Attorney-
General Groom howto make a Companies Act.
“Men declined to act as directors [under the
Victorian Act of 1896], because of the pains and
penalties attached to every section,” said the ex-
chairman of the Mercantile Bank of Australia.
No doubt. It certainly wouldn’t be as easy to
keep out of gaol under this Act as it was under
the Companies Act which was in force, in, say,
1891-2.
Sample of Carruthers’ financial policy :
Had we expended as much per head as the Lyne
Government, we would have expended £12,472,000. But
we put the brake on, and expended only £ll,Boo,ooo—a
saving of .£672,250a year. . . The £672,250 is due to a re-
duction of expenditure, and X say I am .entitled to take
credit for every penny of it.
Dyne’s expenditure included the cost of running
the postal, telegraph and telephone services, the
defence expenditure, the cost of collecting Cus-
toms and Excise, and some other items which
Carruthers doesn’t pay—the Australian Parlia-
ment pays them now. The convenient Joseph
quite overlooks that trifle of discrepancy.
Dear Bulletin. —That proud remark of
little Willie Kelly, M.H.R., that
The old idea of local defence and squadrons which stopped
at home had been abandoned
has set me thinking of a modern instance It
seems to me that I have read somewhere —pro-
bably on a bit of newspaper—that Togo and his
Japanese stayed by their own coasts, while the
Russians came round Europe, Africa, and Asia in
search of them. Did the Russians win, or am I
under a delusion ? Also, was Willie Kelly at that
battle? —Yours &c., Bill Smith.
The fight for the Flinders seat in the S.
Aus. Assembly ought to help Premier Price in
his struggle with the Legislative Council. It was
a straight “go ”on the Council Reform question
—by far the biggest Price has on hand. Foster,
an ex-Minister, wobbled on it, as he wobbles on
almost everything; but he wouldn’t agree to
women having the Council vote, as well as men, on
the broader franchise. Wjirren, an unknown
farmer, stood on the Government’s compromise
policy—husbands and wives who pay £l5 a year
rent, or have improved a leasehold to the extent
of £5O, to both have a vote. And, after one of
the toughest fights known in S. Australia for years,
Foster was beaten. He asked people to vote for
him on the ground that they didn’t believe they
were good enough to vote for the Leg. Council ;
and Foster’s attempt to get people to throw mud
at themselves in that fashion was a failure.
The grasping landowners of W. Victoria
have struck a new way of sweating their tenants
—by casually inserting in the agreements, as a
mere matter of form, a stipulation that the tenants
shall comply with the Health Act. The tenant
cordially approves of this, thinking naturally that
it merely means he is to keep his stock in sound
condition, and his cow-yard,
stables, etc., clean and
healthy ; but to the land-
lord the provision
doesn’t mean any-
thing so simple. The
> other day a dairy-
inspector called on
a farmer, and, after
a look round, said
the cow-sheds must
be re-drained and
paved, the roof re-
paired, the dairy
moved some yards
further away from
/ the sheds, and other
improvements effect-
ed. The tenant ac-
quiesced, and said he
would bring the matter before
his landlord. He did so ; whereupon that
gentleman cheerfully pointed to the Health Act
clause in their agreement, and invited the tenant
to go ahead as speedily as possible. As the im-
provements will cost some £4O, and the lease has
only 14 months to run, a'nd as those improvements
will assuredly mean a larger rent in future, the
tenant is at present arguing points, but to little
effect.
Joseph Carruthers to the Premiers’ Con-
ference
He could quite understand the dislike of the Common-
wealth to have to reflect that, compared with a State like
New South Wales, its revenue was not so large.
That’s just the sort of small, mean, jealous insect
kind of thought that would strike Joseph, But
the Federation wears a man’s size in souls. Its
troubles if N.S. Wales has ten times its revenue.
And the statement was hardly even true —at
least, it is only the money which the Common-
wealth pays to N.S. W. which makes the N.S.W.
revenue a shade the larger of the two.
As prognosticated, Sj'dney Telegraph’s
special correspondent to the Northern Territory
is convinced that black labor is necessary. But
he’s been rather clumsy in finding reasons for his
conviction. One of them is the prevalence of
malaria ; and malaria isn’t caused by white labor,
but by mosquitoes. Kill the mosquitoes in their
swamps (as the Americans have done in Cuba),
and you kill malaria. On the whole, it’s a pity
that the Telegraph went to the expense of send-
ing a man all that way to be convinced by such
inaccurate reasons. He might just as well have
stayed in the office and been convinced that black
labor was necessary, owing to Federal tyranny, or
some such other office fantod.
BREAKING IN.
We welcome the visit of our Japanese allies without suspicion, without fear, and with the most cordial of
greeting's.— Brisbane Daily Mail.
The Adelaide Tramways Trust has issued
a preliminary statement as to its new routes.
The present tracks being of no use for electric
purposes, the Trust claims an absolutely free
hand in mapping out lines, and the Vested
Interests that have grown up round the existing
arrangements are likely to get some nasty shocks.
A straight run through the city from north to
south, and another from east to west (practically
from the hills to the sea) is promised.
Carruthers’ yap at the Australian Govern-
ment is infectious. T’other day, N.S.W. Attorney-
General Wade announced that the Federal
authorities had refused to grant a post-office for
Willoughby, and regarded the matter as consider-
able of a wrong and grievance. Thereupon the
secretary of the local Progress Association wrote
to the Herald to say that he held a letter from
the Deputy Postmaster-General, dated May 21st,
promising the post-office, and all that was un-
settled was the question of what site would be
most convenient for the district.
“ Oh ” writes :
Austin Chapman’s geniality in notifying that, while he
is determined to put down adulteration, he is not going
to take harsh measures without giving fair warning, is no
doubt highly appreciated by adulterators and importers
of adulterations. The foreign manufacturer will go on
adulterating and the importers will go on importing
while Chapman is considering the terms of a “ fair warn-
ing.” The passing of the Commerce Act was fair
warning. If, however, further warning is neces-
sary, why not issue it promptly? No Act of Parlia
ment is much use unless it is administered by a man
who believes it ought to be administered. A man who
administers under a sense of being obliged to do it gets
out of administ ring when he can. *♦
“ Silica ” writes :
The postal vote in connection with the late Queensland
elections plumbed about the lowest depth of corruption.
The law provides, in its generosity and the length of its
ears, that females may, with the assistance of a J.P., vote
by post within a fortnight of election day. The aim of
the clause is, of course, to prevent women being brought
into contact with men, who are supposed to strip off
civilisation at such times, and appear as ravening
savages. It was a magnificent opportunity, and
the J.P. spoilt his hat and disarranged his attire in
the rush. In most urban electorates—the country
didn’t count—the justice broke and entered the
voter’s house, and witnessed her application for a vote.
This he posted to the returning-officer, and directed
that the ballot-paper should be sent to a private P.O.
box, which was leased by the candidate’s committee.
The applications were then collected, and the justice made
another domiciliary visit, usually attended by a person
who was believed to have the most “pull” on the voter.
If the vote was “good,” the J.P. placed a sympathetic
arm on the back of the chair, and politely explained bow
the candidate’s name was spelled. If the voter were
slightly refractory, the person with a “pull” performed
prodigies of strength. In some very obdurate cases the
J.P. would suggest that the voter go into the secrecy of
her chamber and vote according to her conscience, and
in a burst of generosity 7 he would hand her a clean piece
of blotting-paper—so friendly and engaging was he. The
vote and the blotting-paper returned, the J.P. read in the
inkstain on the latter how things had gone. If they had
gone wrong, something mysterious happened to the
ballot-paper. The laxity 7 of the post-office, success-
ful candidates said with a snigger, was something
to be deplored. Again, postal votes cannot be chal-
lenged, and the number of electors who could have
been challenged for not fulfilling residence conditions,
and who escaped by this method, has caused some unsuc-
cessful candidates’ faith in human nature to slump badly.
In several cases where a candidate had a shortage of Js.P.
he secured an addition to the list of justices. It only
remains to add that the postal ballot clause was inserted in
the Act by the Queensland House of Fossils over the head
of the Assembly, but the amount of vituperative language
heaved at it and at J.P.-dom will speedily cause the cor-
rupt clause to be struck out. There are some instances
in which vituperation is more efficacious than prayer.
You often sing of England,
And of Ireland, too, and Wales,
And the “Braes of Bonnie Scotland,”
With her stirring Border-Tales ;
But don’t forget Australia
(No other skies are bluer),
And its famous household remedy—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Sydney Telegraph, when it girds at Arbi-
tration, is fond of throwing off the gibe about the
workman who said—“ Arbitration ? Call that
arbitration ! Why, he’s given it agin us.”
Nobody ever mentions who the workman was, or
where he said the foolish thing; the chances
are that he wears a long beard, and sits at a desk
in the Telegraph office. But the other side has
produced a gentleman who actually has said
something of the sort. Following is from the
report of the conference of employers and em-
ployees in the S. Aus. implement trade :
Mr. E. G. Bagshaw said the employers at a meeting had
resolved not to sit in conference with any men who were
not engaged in the manufacture of articles subject to the
excise tariff.
The chairman (Mr. A. Buchanan, Industrial Registrar)
said if they came there with their minds absolutely made
up to a course of action, they had better go away home
and save time.
Mr. W. J. Usher said the employees were desirous of
avoiding a deadlock, and they had unanimously decided
to leave the question with the chairman, on the under-
standing that his decision would he final.
The Chairman.—What do you say to that, Mr. Bagshaw?
Mr. E. G. Bagshaw said they were willing to leave it to
the chairman, providing he gave his decision in their favor.
And the rest of the employers agreed with the
gentleman who was willing to play so long as it
was arranged that he should win—agreed with him
so thoroughly that things came to a standstill.
Then the employees, rather than smash up the
conference, let the employers have their way.
EMPIRE DAY
AT MUDDY
GULLY.
Pickchur oe
our Mare kor-
lin ’ for three
chears for
the “ Onion
Jakk .”
Dear Bulletin, — I have decided to add
my bulk to the anti-Federal aggregation, being
prompted thereto by the utter selfishness and
hungriness of Victoria. Not satisfied with what
she has annexed in the past from N. S. Wales, as
soon as the office-boy’s back is turned she grabs
one of our plague-patients and lets him die on her
hands. Will these infamies never cease ?—Yours
soberly, A. W. G.
Do you easily catch cold ? If so you need
a remedy that will not only soothe and strengthen
the lungs, but will also act as a tonic. Angier’s
Emulsion does both, and is the remedy above all
others for coughs, colds, and all lung affections.
It is wonderfully soothing and a great help to
digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
era
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and S fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-, Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
GO TO HEELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss—
SH
Elastic |
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is theacmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.


Fashionable MANTLES
At Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices.
Terms :
SPOT
CASH.
4730
2146
2133
No. 2133 —Black Velvet Mantle, trimmed
Real Fur and Silk Braid, 37/6.
Patterns
and
Price Lists
Post Free
on Applica-
tion.
4721
No. 4721— Black Corded Silk Mantle, trimmed Ostrich
Feather Trimming and Silk Embroidery. 42/-.
4-628
No. 4628—Black Silk Mantle, embroidered Silk,
and trimmed Ostrich Feather trimming-, 47/6.
No. 4730—Black Velvet Mantle, trimmed Silk
Applique and Feather Trimming-, 30/
4630
No. 4630—Black Silk Mantle, trimmed Real
Fur, and embroidered Silk, 30/-.
No. 2146 —Black Silk Mantle, trimmed Ostrich
Feather Trimming and Silk Embroidery, 50/-.
More elaborate styles— ss/-, 63/-, 72/6,
84 -, 95/-.
165
178
No. 120 —Throw-over Marmot
Fur Stoles, Light or Dark
Brown, 21/- , 27/6, 30/-.
No. 178—Bound Marmot Fur
Muffs, to match Stoles—
-10/6, 13/6.
Send for Autumn and
Winter Fashion Portfolio -
, . . .J i
Post Free to any
Address .
120
4732
No. 4782 —Black Velvet Mantle, trimmed Feather,
and embroidered Silk, 42/-.
More elaborate styles— so/-, 57/6, 63/-, 72/6, 84/-,
io
No. 165— Real Dark Brown Bear Pur Sets,
75/-, 84/-, 9092/6, 105/-.
Beaver Brown, 77/-, 84 /-, 90/-.
Brown Stoles, 37/6, 42/-, 57/6, 63/-,
70/-.
No. 10—Real Bear Muffs— l9/6, 23/6,
29/6, 35/-.
AntHony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 4, 1907.
My Deae Akini,—
No matter how many old girls the youngish
mother may see over-blowing or withering around
her, she never doubts for one minute that her
daughter will marry well soon after she comes
out. “I dread the day I shall have to part with
her,” says the Daughter-Owner to Mrs. Obtuse.
“Yet, of course, it must be soon.” “Why?”
asks Mrs. Obtuse; “why must it be soon?” In
surprise, Mrs. Daughter-Owner replies that
“Ethel is 17.” Her look and tone convey that
that is reason enough ; the implication stands up
like a mast. Mrs. Obtuse remarks that the
Misses Obtuse have not yet left their mother,
and the eldest of the trio is the same
age as Mrs. Daughter-Owner herself. Mrs.
Daughter-Owner evades ' the challenge and
asks “But don’t you think Ethel will
marry soon—and marry well? She’s pretty and
clever and charming—now honestly , isn’t she?”
“Yes, honestly ,” says Mrs., Obtuse, “but not
prettier, cleverer or more attractive than were my
three girls at her age. Why, you know that when-
ever the Sydney photographers adopted a new
process, they always wrote to me to request the
favor of a sitting from the girls.’’ Mrs. Daugh-
ter-Owner does know, and begins to soothe
Mrs. Obtuse; but at the back of her mind
is a conviction that the Obtuse girls were very
well for goslings, but they shouldn’t be men-
tioned in the same- breath with cygnets.
(Despite the fact that her young swan has never
been paid the high compliment of free portraiture.)
At an “ At Home ” held recently by a suburban
mayoress, a lady and her two grown-up—very
much grown-up daughters were announced.
They were from another State, and an elderly
lady who had been eyeing their arrival got up at
mention of the names and greeted the three
effusively. They reciprocated, and when they
had drunk some tea and departed, the old
ladies around the elderly lady commented on
the pretty clothes of the girls, and added—
“ They’ve been good-looking girls, too.” “ When
those girls came out,” explained the elderly lady,
“ they were beautiful, and they were as nice as
they were good-looking. My daughter was the
same age as the elder of those two, and I’ll never
forget the day their mother told me, by way of
consolation—l was ill and dreadfully anxious about
the future of my child—not to worry, because as
soon as her girls married, mine would have a home
with her for life, if anything happened to me.”
The listeners were sympathetically snortful, and
one of them asked, “And did your daughter
marry? ” “ Oh, yes. One of the Blank Brothers;
andshe was working for her living at the time.”
Glances of respect. She had mentioned a dis-
tinguished firm. A Mother of Five Daughters
sighed and said : “ I fear yours is an exceptional
case. _ Men, the men we meet, hardly like to be
seen in public with a girl who works for her
living—unless she’s an actress or a barmaid. They
don’t look upon them as workers somehow, but
as”
But the string band drowned the rest with the
not inappropriate “Waiting at the Church.”
Mrs. (Dr.) Herbert Marks, one of Sydney’s best-
lookers, is acknowledging the congratulations of
friends over a visit of the stork. All her friends
are glad to hear that the large bird wasn’t too
busy to call in.
A few inches of the carpet on which Lady
Northcqte will stand to open the Women’s Work
Exhibition was shown at the Mayoress Hughes
meeting last week. Miss Eirene Mort designed
the pattern. Coats of arms of the States of the
Commonwealth make up the main design, and
the “pile ” is deep and thick enough to ambush a
bunny. “ I shouldn’t like to have to sweep it,”
whispered one commentatress. “If it does get
littered they’ll have to get a reaper and binder.”
Lady Northcote has finished a marvellous piece of
work “in silk threads on silk.” That sounds in-
conclusive, and apparently none of the executive
has seen the artistic thing.
Mrs. Carslaw died this morning, at Miss
McGahey s Hospital, of heart disease. She was
a much-liked woman. She married first Mr. 1
George Cruickshank, a squatter, some twelve
years ago. He died o vefi two years since, and a few
months ago she wedded Professor Carslaw (mathe-
matics), of the Sydney University. Mrs. Cars-
law leaves one adopted child. She was sister of
Rupert Clarke.
Tenor Chester Fentress, now building sand
castles and walking in the ripples at Manly
(Marie Narelle is in hospital, and the rest of the
Australasian tour is cancelled), tells a joke or two
of his Maoriland journeyings. The Narelle Co.
and the Willoughby-Ward combination were
appearing in the same city, and Miss Narelle and
Fentress, after their show, used to go round to
the rival entertainment and help the Ward-W.
people sing their famous “ Tammany ” The out-
siders sang off stage, of course. One night Sweet
Marie soared right up to her top note at the finish,
and Palotta, in what she thought was a whisper’
said to Ward : “ They think that iss me.” Came
a clear, dreadful voice from the gallery : “No, we
don’t, ma’am.”
In the same city a certain hostess was enter-
taining the principals of the two companies at
luncheon. Seated near Miss Palotta was the son
of the house, aged nine. To him spake his
mother : “Reggie, I’m afraid you are not looking
after Miss Palotta very well. Offer her the
scones.” “ Mother,” said the injured youngster,
“she’s had six already.” In the chorus of
laughter Grace’s voice could be heard explaining
that one of the scones was a small one, but the
other five were full size.
Of Miss’ Amy Murphy, just engaged by Mr. J.
C. Williamson, Fentress says (let us hope it is
true) : “ She has the voice of Melba with the art
of Dolores.” She sang ten songs for the “ Ship-
man Bunch” one night after the concert, and
when Miss Narelle got back to her hotel she told
Mr. Williamson of the rare bird, and an engage-
ment resulted.
Missuses are still discussing the perversity of
girls who half (or *75) starve on ss. or 10s. or 12s.
6d. a week shop wages, instead of taking the 10s.,
125., or 15s. with board, lodging, hairpins, cottons,
use of sewing-machine and scissors and thimbles
thrown in, and hot water laid on, at domestic ser-
vice. Ten-shilling-a-weekers were often asked,
“How on earth do you contrive to exist on
that?” Most of them replied that they lived
with parents or other relatives, but every second
or third girl told the Court that she had a room
for which she paid 3s. or 4s. a week, and that she
boiled her kettle over a kerosene or spirit stove.
“ With a bun and a ‘ bit of jam on Sundays ?’ ”
interjected Mr. Rolin. The suggestion that do-
mestic service would be kinder to them seemed to
enrage the girls. Several times they “ sassed” the
Court when that alternative was mentioned.
The great desire of the working girl seems to be
to go to, and to get away from, the scene of her
work at fixed hours—to have her evenings quite
free. _ The shop girl, at ten shillings or less,
imagines the domestic service girl as spending
her e venings in awful loneliness, in a dreary kiteh en,
near the sink, with a candle and a cockroach, or a
LEAH THE FORSAKEN .
mouse eyeing her from some coign of disadvantage,
whilst in a brightly-lighted front room Miss Em-
ployer is accompanying her “intended” on the
piano, whilst he bellows out “La Donne &
Mobile,” or “Jerusalem.”
A Sydney girl, by way of being a black-and-
white artist, who left here two years ago, writes
to me from Maoriland : “ In India I met a nice boy
and married him. Even now he’s only twenty, and
I’m nineteen ; but I really did want someone per-
manent to carry my dress-basket. He is also an
artist, and we’ve got a good bit of work in English
papers. The (name undecipherable) engaged
me to make sketches of the .wedding splash of the
youngest daughter of Colonel Herbert, British
Resident at Jaipur. It was a regular Durbar !
Who d’ye think I recognised, and put into the
sketch ? The Wilders, over whom Sydney society
went silly a few years ago. They were staying at
the Residency with the Herberts. Her frockmg
was superb—lrish lace crochet robe, huge ermine
stole, and a cream panne hat, trimmed with silver
roses.
“ Now Jacky and self are doing a lot of work
here_ in Maoriland . . . we camped after dark
5000 ft. up the mountain, and in the morning
found ourselves close to it magnificent bell-tent
with six rooms. There were animals about and
servants, and every sign of a haughty breakfast-
getting. Jacky asked the guide of the bell-tented
folk, ‘ Which of the European Crowned Heads is
stag-shooting here?’ Old Scotty replied, ‘Some
un who can shoot better n’r any of ’em.’ The
Wilders again! Missus takes along an extra
pack-horse to carry her feather bed. He had 24
splendid heads —deer, of course. Jacky ‘drawed’
the cook, and we got venison steaks in payment;
and I ‘ dror’d ’ Madame’s maid and got a box of
hairpins, for my hair had been tethered with three
goose quills and a patent clothes peg.”
Sydney will now look out with all its eyes and
opera-glasses for the Wilders, who are to be here
this week. Their motor brougham, with its fawn
leather trappings and fawn silk window-curtains,
is already here. Some Coming Events cast their
motors before them.
I thought my jokelette about getting hats from
the municipal dust-heap was really jocular and
baseless. But one of the Eoy partners, giving
evidence before the Arbitration Court, stated that
cartloads of out-of-fashion hats were sent every
year by his firm to the Randwick tip. “Good
hats, worth several shillings each,” he said in
reply to the question. But their vogue was done.
It seems sinful waste, when you consider how
our aboriginal sister Mary, away in the interior
of this continent, where the only shade is that
cast by the overland telegraph wire, is just dying
for such hats.
Even at a small race meeting like that of
Monday (A.J.C.) a woman has to wear something
conspicuous for its good taste, or its bad taste,
or its remarkability, before she’ll take the collect-
ive eye of the gathering in the rac6 interludes.
Under the label “Remarkable” goes the lady
who wore with a becoming gown red fox furs—a
boa with mask, paws and brush, and a muff with
a second head on it. They were such cute-looking
foxes, and the brush waved so gallantly! Another
memory is a Fair Circumstance in black with a
violet hat and violet gloves. Violet was having a
day out; every lady of over lfist. was an obvious
violet bloom. Several velvets were abroad. Mrs.
Ted Simpson’s was a grey-blue in Empire back
fashion, giving an illusion (or should it be
delusion) of an 18in. waist. There were few
’possum furs —they are the jolliest of all furs and
so cuddlesome. Sables and white fox were in
plenty. One missus asked “Do you like my
new rabbits?” in the tone that other women
use when they speak of their ermine or
sables. She wished it understood that she wasn’t
putting on “ dog,” and that there were no flies on
her —only rabbits and a red cloth gown.
General Gordon, looking like a highly-finished
advt. for everything the Tailok and Cutter
speaks of most respectfully in the way of a
gentleman’s afternoon outfit, was out to see what
the race-book calls the “events.” His white silk
knitted waistcoat, speckled with black, wasapeach,
and several of his women friends wondered how and
where his collar fastened. It seemed to have been
created and laundered on him. Probably it wasn’t
made—it just was and is, like space and matter,
and the welkin and things that give one brain
fag. He and Mrs. Gordon leave to-day for
Medlow Bath. Last week, at Riverview College,
when some scenes of “The Pirates of Penzance”
were staged by the students, small-boy Gordon
made a ripping Mabel, fixed up in frillies and a
fair wig and rosy cheeks.
This must be a good year for hairdressers and
hairworkers. Every second woman’s head looked
too big for her body. She seemed to have rushed
out and bought a multitude of head in addition to
her own. Curls, puffs, coils —no one makes
any pretence of its “being all her own,” except
by right of purchase. “Give me a lock of your
hair, beloved, to help me to disremember you,”
says the departing swain, and She says, “Select
one for yourself. You will find one of those
pinned into the hat very satisfactory treatment
for that absent, yet present, feeling.”
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe (daughter-in-law of the
Much-Wandered and Removable) gave us a treat,
in a smart, rough-haired, terrier type of tweed.
If she were more of a blonde she’d be a duplicate
of the Princess of Wales. Her husband is here
with the German Opera Co. That is to say, he
is here with the Musgroves, who are here with
the Hochderkaisers.
The Degens, Mrs. Willie Manning, Mrs.
Monty Severn, and Miss Byron Moore were
present, in the golden weather, on the dismal-
looking race place. The grand-stand is sur-
rounded by a “keep-off” fence and masonry and
workmen. It has no roof nor sides, and presents
anything but a brilliant appearance.
The German operatics now with us are pro-
foundly miserable at being so far from their dear
native German sausage. This superb winter
weather? No, they don’t care a pfennig about
it. “What’s doing in our little flats in
Berlin?” only interests them. The half-divine
tenor (when he’s Lohengrin), Studemund, sits
down to sausage and lager after the Swan Thing,
and Gabriel’s trump itself would not make him
hurry through the meal. Baritone Riinger pulls
his coat and vest forward to let one see “how
he’s fallen away,” because he can’t get his German
cookery in this unblessed country. And instead
he should be thanking his gods for the loss of a
ton of superfluous flesh. Even the American
Elsa Anderson confesses that she “ adores break-
fast.” The whole co. must be a trial to the lean,
nervous-looking Harry Musgrove. It is such a
foody (I invented that word) combination.
From Figako of April 30
Mgr. Alarcon, archevgque de Mexico, b6nira le mer-
credi 8 mai, dans cette ville, le manage du comte
Emmanuel de Peretti de La Rocca, charge d’affaires au
Mexique, avec Mile Concepcion de Suinaga, fille de M. et
Mine Francisco de Suinaga.
Thought perhaps you’d like to see that in its
original Frog. The Archbishop of Mexico will,
on May 8, bless the marriage of Count Emmanuel
de Peretti de la Rocca, Consul to Mexico, with
Miss Conception de Suinaga. The “Narcissus”
has been plucked.
“ George Boyle, the Sydney pianist, has ap-
peared at a London recital, and made a brilliant
success of it,” says a correspondent. Sydney
won’t be surprised at the success. The youngster
is a genius, and played like one before he left here.
A tiny card, tied with tiny white satin ribbon
to another and larger (maternal) card, intimates
that “ Theo will be At Home on the 6th, 7th, and
Bth of June.” Theo is the lately-arrived son and
heir of Mrs. and Dr. Wunderlich.
Miss Beatrice Holloway is very girlish and
prettily-dressed as the village schoolmistress in
“ The Coal King ” melodrama at the Palace. A
Prince of Wales Birthday audience packed the
house on Monday night. Women wearing poodle-
skin boas agreed that the schoolmistress’s gloves
were above her station as well as above her
elbows.
Lady Northcote has been “out of everything”
for the week past, and has been staying at the
Macarthur Onslow’s place, Camden Park. The
heavy musical season and the Women’s Work
Ex. fully occupy Sydney, and there’s nary an
inch of space left for further happenings.
It puzzles me why people go to “Mother
Goose ” when once a year they can see the Druids’
procession free. No pantomime could ever be so
funny as that long procession of drags and drays
interspersed with grown women with velvet
horse-collars round their necks, and grown men in
white nighties posing as the heathen clergymen
of Ancient Britain. Most of the performers wore
white, goat-like whiskers over their faces, and
camisoles over everything else; but there were
lorries whereon the brethren forlornly waved
tin swords and sickles, and surreptitiously pulled
up their pink flannel pants. All I remember
about the Druids is that they sacrificed ; but
there wasn’t an altar in the procession. Instead
of offering up victims to their gods, and
urging Boadicea to energetic and public-spirited
action after she had been “whaled” by
the Romans, these Druids wore pink Aus-
tralian-wool pants, and gilt spangled shirts,
and white nighties, while they waved tin, and
handed out (valueless) cheques to the afflicted.
There was one sweet widow, who clasped her
cheeild, and across the table a Druid, in a frock
coat, passed out cheque after cheque as the widow
shed tear after tear. This was to show the advan-
tage of getting your husband to pay into the
Druids’ burial society before he dies. And there
was a very fat invalid in bed on a dray with a
doctor—he looked thin and worried enough to be
the real doctor of the lodge—sitting by the bed-
side and suffering from a cold. This was to show
the advantage of joining the Druids’ sick and
accident fund before you get measles. The lorry
stopped for five minutes, and all the time the doc-
tor’s cold seemed to get worse. Someone said it
was a “boshter” of a cold, whatever that might
be. At last the lorry creaked on. The last I saw
of the doctor was that he was still suffering from a
cold. But the sweetest thing in lorries was one,
half of which showed a sick man who belonged to
the Druids, and the other half an invalid whodidn’t.
The sick Druid was attended by doctors and
nurses and medicine ; but the bloque that didn’t
Druid lay dying under a sack, and on a table
stood a candle stuck in a bottle. Whether he was
dying of drink wasn’t explained—probably he
had tried to eat the candle at both ends. By his
side sat a woman, presumably his wife, with
ragged hair, who all the time wept uncon-
trollably with her (somewhat unshaven) face in
her hands. Nobody seemed greatly to care
whether the Druid died ; but here, at least, was
somebody who, even if she didn’t shave, loved the
dying man who didn’t Druid. Somehow, this
little picture of love that persists even when it
doesn’t shave consoled me for not being a Druidess
—or a Druidina ; I don’t know which is the proper
designation for Mrs. and Miss Druid.
The dreadful news comes from the Northern
Territory that Mr. W. E. Johnson, M.H.R., of
N.S.W., nearly sat down on an alligator, and that
tlje animal was so angry that it wanted to fight
Mr. Johnson.
From a Brisbane correspondent:—
While the light of the Chelmsford menage is shimmer-
ing in the North, Miss Scott casts a pale radiance through
the gloom that lies like a garment round the vice-regal
pile. Twice she has been to the races, the monotonous
white garment giving place for once to a fetching blue
chequered rustle; and several times to the theatre to
view “The Oingalee ” and the mixed Michus.
Pretty, auburn-haired Nellie Callan came back engageu
—to a fruit-grower of Tasmania, with a leaning to the
Church, I am told. How is it that our Brisbane belles
always seem to get engaged when they go to that little
Island, supposed to be almost bereft of the lords of
creation ?
The first of the exclusive Assembly balls came along on
Tuesday evening, and of the floor, supper and music there
was nothing to complain. But the men —where were
they ? The Brisbane male is either very few or very shy,
or else he is too busy or too serious for balls, or he has
recklessly sat on the tail of his dress coat, and it is so
crumpled that he hates to show it in public. Talk of
Clara Clifton’s men who looked like wet umbrellas against
the wall! On this occasion there wasn’t enough human
parachute to hide the nakedness of the dado. No
debutantes debutted. Celia Cooper, the stately McMillen,
a handful of Harts and Elsie McDougal acted as
hostesses, and among the southern visitors were the
Misses Huxtable, Backhouse, Suter and McDougall, the
last a pretty picture in lilac gauze.
The rain came down in lumps on Friday, washed out
the Circus, damped the Grace Palotta d6but, and gener-
ally made things beastly. The Hospital people postponed
Saturday’s sports, but the Q.T.C. hung undecided. Satur-
day morning broke sunny, and the races were advertised
as being on. A good crowd went out at one o’clock. At
two it rained again—in stacks. The turf became a bog,
in which the best swimming horse had the best chance.
The misty showers drifted right across the stand, uncurl-
ing feathers and destroying gowns. The gee-gees mostly
didn’t gee, and everyone went home early and disgusted.
Weather also marred the visit of the Premieresses.
Friday’s garden spree and river run had to be put off, as
well as other minor doings.
This week the eldest son of Richard Edwards, M.H.R.,
weds Madeline, first daughter of jolly Harry Baynes. The
wedding cake and list of presents are the biggest of the
year.
AKENEHL.
Yours Affectionately,
The horrible State Frights squabble has
broken out in a new form, at Adelaide this time,
and the alleged culprit is the Bent State, not the
Commonwealth. The Victorian Government re-
cently subsidised Currie and Co., to the extent of
£200(1 a year, to run a five-weekly steamer service
between Melbourne and Singapore, to develop
the wheat export trade. Now some foolish South
Australians are fussing because Currie has sent
boats to Wallaroo and Port Pirie to get wheat.
What is the slab-sided State barking about ? As
it has the corn to export, it ought to be pleased to
see an Australian-owned boat taking it away in-
stead of a foreign one. For years Westralia has sub-
sidised the Adelaide Steamship Co. to run a service
along its north-west coast; and these same fuss-
ing S. Australians never saw anything unsisterly
about that. In fact, they probably thought that
Westralia ought to be mighty grateful for having
such an energetic sister. And Queensland’s sub-
sidising of the Orient Co. is another case in point.
Lonsdale, whom Laborite Foster outed
from New England (N.S.W.), at last Federal
elections, is seeking selection as the “Reform”
candidate for the Newtown (Sydney) State seat.
Judging by one of his yarns to the Erskineville
electors, he is still the same vague mouther that
New England got so tired of. Said Edmund
Longtail
The only way to increase wages is to increase produc-
tion. When that is done, nothing can prevent wages
rising. That is an economic law from which there is no
get-away.
Lonsdale, the Freetrader, doesn’t explain how he
is going to increase production in Australia by
importing all Australia’s manufactures from
abroad ; and Lonsdale, who doesn’t believe in
breaking up large estates by a progressive land-
tax, doesn’t explain how he is going to increase pro-
duction in the “primary industries” byrefusing to
give the primary producer land to produce from.
Lonsdale merely lays it down that wages must be
higher in countries where there is much produc-
tion than in those where there islittle, just as he
might have said that the thermometer must be
higher in hot countries than in cold ones, or that
where there is a demand for labor there must be
more chance of the laborer getting a job than
where there isn’t a demand for labor. How these
platitudes will help Newtown if it elects Long-
tail, Heaven only knows.
“Vulcan”: Australian defences at Port
Darwin consist of a mud fort, without a gun ; an
ancient cannon, placed in the Residency grounds
to prevent it being stolen; and a brass gun “ that
you could carry under your arm—salvaged from the
wreck of a Malay pearling proa!” There isn’t even
ammunition to serve the relics. One of these
days the world will enjoy the spectacle of Aus-
tralia being held up by six colored heathens with
a brass signal gun and a leaky junk.
HEIDSIECK
Charles
CHAMPAGNE*
Tommy Bent seems to be amusing them in
England with his grotesqueries. But if Tommy had that
touch of wise generosity necessary to the appreciation of
true democratic ideals, he would be as good a statesman
as he is funny man. And how easily can that touch be
acquired by well-regulated imbibements of D.O.L.—the
elixir of Wisdom. Mr. Bent drinks D.0.L.. of course, but
he is apt to mix it with less enlightening liquors.*
Make your home as comfortable as you can—that’s a
good winter rule. Don’t have a cold this winter, be
comfortable ; take Senior’s Black Currant Balsam at first
symptoms and a cold cannot develop. A bottle kept
handy is insurance against colds all winter. It will
quickly cure an obstinate cold, too. You will find it the
most pleasant and effective remedy you have ever
taken. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is. 6d. and 2s.
6d. per bottle. Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George Street,
Sydney. *
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. q 9
marVTHE varnished board


MELBOURNE CHATTER,
Melbourne, June 3, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie. — .
A quite romantic marriage is to take place in a
day or two. A your" Englishman, , fiancd to Miss
Teresita, daughter ox Mrs. Carreno (the printer
will please keep an eye on the brief worm above
the “ n”j arrived by last week’s boat in hot pur-
suit of his idol. The engagement was not for-
mally sanctioned owing to the extreme youth of
the girl, but the lone, lorn lover found life so sad
without her that he followed unexpectedly, and
with much warmth begs to be allowed to turn
Toresita’s American tour into a wedding journey,
Carrefio (mind the caterpillar over the “n”) is
so touched with the adoration that brought him
rushing over half the world, that she has
almost consented, so the impulsive young man is
rushing about looking for the most expeditious
parson to link two strangers in a strange land.
The young man’s name is Blois —one of an
English family. You will find the family in
“ Whitaker’s Peerage,” &c. —same page as Blen-
nerhassett and Blenkinsop. The two younger
sisters are greatly excited —but they are already
shut up in a St. Kilda school. They wrote their
first English letter to their mother last week —to
her great delight. Already they speak many
languages, and spell one or two.
“ Typhena ” writes from London :
I wondered for some time at the suddenly chic air of
Mrs. Deakin, the new giddiness and highly ornate finish of
Miss Lyne, and the perfectly Regent-street aspect of Mrs.
Maoriland Ward. A few subtle inquiries disclosed the
secret. All the visiting Premieresses have been supplied
with French maids by the British Government. Could
hospitality further go? You’ll see them back in the
Commonwealth soon, and then you’ll know how well
they have been treated by Fifi, and millinered up to
the fashion moment.
Rep. Hughes looked admirable speaking to the Reform
Service League here (Earl Roberts in the chair). But
what counted more than appearance was the good sense
of his speech. He served up a concise, clear, reasonable,
informing speech on National Service and National
Defence, with Australian interests bang in the front. It
was all horse-sense with a trail of wit. And the
crowd split its suede gloves in zealous approval, and
some high heels tapped the planks vigorously, and a
few male voices “ heah-heahed ” with surprising fervor.
The Field-Marshal chaired the meeting with an air of
keen alertness and good-humored interest. The Roberts
countenance is a florid edition of our Talbottle Ex.; but
when it breaks into an appreciative smile (and it did
often while Hughes spoke), it is humane, kindly, generous.
One of the cruellest spasms I’ve suffered in the cause of
dear old Wattle Land is the crass snobbishness of the
Australienne anchored in this capital. I’ve met a dozen or
two of the type, and the last has given me a fiercer
patriotic pain than the first; for the horror expressed at
the thought of residence in our big golden country, after
some seasons in this grey Fogland, has been the only
evidence of feeling shown at all. The Anglo-Australienne
snob is the worst of all. She has shed all her enthusiasms,
destroyed all individuality, sacrificed all fine feeling, and
become a toady, a crawler, and a poor thing generally.
To talk in an even, monotonous, inanimate key is the one
east-iron rule of her life. To be negative on all matters,
to deny everything Australian, to shrink at a gay laugh,
to quote always a princess or a marchioness, or “ my
friend Lady So-and-so,” is the typical female Antipodean
pose in Fogtown.
For an instant, in the crush of the Westminster Hall
rally. Marchioness Linlithgow and Mrs. Deakin, brushed
skirts. Their eyes met without recognition, and they
drifted apart again. It seemed strange that the two
shyest and tallest dames I’ve ever sighted in Melbourne
should meet after these years like that, and not flash into
one another’s memory. They didn’t. Subsequently Mr.
Deakin drew alongside, and was at once remembered by
the lengthy Countess. They found themselves cheek by
jowl, and the Deakin cheeriness brought a vermilion
streak of a smile nowand then to the haughty Marm’s
countenance. The eyes of the Linlithgow dame still stare
from their wide, expressionless lids. An air of very
chaste and cold reserve hedges her, and wards off all
vulgar attention.
All the dames of this great muster were hand-painted
vividly. I find the blue-blooded all run to neutral tones,
and paint on a blush and an animated lip in sheer despera-
tion. It’s the commoner girls—the shop girls—of the
Big Smoke who own complexions. The aristocracy has
to purchase and apply one whenever it goes forth to
Vanity Fair.
During the feast, I heard the sudden words “ The Lone
Hand ” voiced by a neighbor. The speaker was Henniker
Heaton, of Penny Post association, and he talked
magazine—Australian magazine—to a pair of brilliant
journalists, one a Yankee scribe, t’other Cockney. It
sounded good, and I felt like taking a glad pull of the
long Heaton whiskers in cordial approval of some of the
kindly sentiments anent The Lone Hand that he uttered.
The Great Smoke is really w'onderfully big and wonder-
fully little. I met Captain Kerr-Pearse on Monday, in
Sloane-street. You remember the Italian brand of Aide,
who shawl-carried for dame Northcote? He’s not return-
ing to the G.-G. fold. The War Office wants him here.
Toorak frivollers must dry their tears. The Captain has
dried his.
The Londoner winks, wrinkles his nose gleefully, and
smacks his lips gourmandishly at mention of the Empire.
So much so that I personally went, feeling I was on a sly
mission of great seeret devilment, and about to sensate
something considerable. I did. The whole affair is sen-
sational. The very approach to the circle sends a strange
current of thrills down the spinal column, and sets the
frame quivering in half fear and much tremulous joy.
Novelette men—the heavy villain and the Family
Herald Duke, and the Dives of great iniquity-
jostle in the crush-room, glare at the fashion-
plate Graces gliding up the wide marble steps,
and hang around the circle door in heavy clusters.
More of the assortment are banked like tree-guards on
the promenade route to the rear of the circle. And
always they gape with greed in their large mouths and
heavy speculation in their eyes. They’re a splendidly
groomed lot of eyes—mirthless, dull, gaping. The
commoner blades lounge among the feminine apparitions
—the tinted Venuses —the lovely promenaders of whom
you must ask nothing, know nothing, say nothing. In
fact, your London party sees them not, and it was with
hidden grief I turned my eyes away from that marvellous
conglomeration of decorative vice.
On the boards, the second best ballet in the world
danced its legs off. It’s a wonderfully-upholstered ballet,
working with clock-like precision, creating most win-
ning effects with consummate art. But every face is
old and ugly, and the leg of so much art owns no divine
feminine grace. It is as hard and well-turned as a piano
support of oak. The women of the Empire ballet are
expert faultless machines, brilliant when massed to-
gether, and little effective for all their art when facing
the music solus.
Only when Gende twirls out on her big toe does the
show grip you. She spins into sight, her small bird-head
shaking its gold at the crowd, her feet weaving quaint
patterns over the boards. Gende has the head and body
of a canary and the legs of a Hackenschmidt. They’re
marvellous limbs, muscle taut, corded, violently strong.
The little bird-head—all gold and smiles—is never still.
Gende is a golden witch, and her dancing is the most
marvellous thing in the limelight world.
The Mongolia took away quite a load of more
or less notable folk. The J. C. Williamson family
was the centre of a large farewelling group, com-
prising a few friends and a host of employees.
Mrs. J.O.W. adorned the occasion in a burgundy
frock, with a lid and veil in appropriate wine-
stained tints. The infant, in high good humor,
managed to cast her hat upon the waters. Other
voyagers were Miss “ Valqze ” Rubinstein, in a
roseate silk, a sad expression, and an impudent
hat that hinted at Viennese associations. Arthur
Geary, the new baritone, made another centre of
interest.
Mrs. Ross-Soden, of the Tyson inheritance,
has invested in another Toorak establishment,
‘ ‘ Grong-Grong. ” Whereat the interested wonder
which of her tall boys contemplates matrimony—
or if it’s the matron herself who ponders on com-
plete domesticity.
Miss Brune farewelled Melbourne on Thursday
to a very big house. She makes a strong point of
being overcome with tearful emotion. Few people
in the house —which was practically crowded with
Bruneites —realised what a calculating pose it was.
But one or two of her Melbourne auditors had
been present at the Sydney farewell (two months
ago), and had then heard the passionate emo-
tion and choked good-bye speech—the same thing,
word for word, and gesture for gesture—that she
sobbed out after curtain fall to the Mel-
bourne crowd of farewellers (with a careful re-
adjustment of the names of the cities). It
was a goodly-dressed house. A Madden group
presided in the dress circle, in serene whitenesses.
The lately-returned Dame Forrest partied with
Mrs. Frocky Raleigh. The cheerful little Forrest
lady does extract great fun out of life—it is infec-
tious to get in the circle of her good-natured
beams. Mrs. Raleigh wore her fair hair and a
glorious great-grandmother brocade of mysterious
melting blues.
Mrs. Matilda Dark (which doesn’t sound half
as theatrical as Miss Tittell Brune) journeyed to
Adelaide last week for still another long-drawn-
out Australian Farewell. Sydney and Melbourne
girls have had their lengthy moans, and have said
“ Ta-ta.” Also they have enthusiastically differed
as to which play she was best in. The Ameri-
can hubby, by the way, has leased Mel-
bourne Bijou, which is now an entirely renovated
house, with a glittering looking-glass interior,
and the new lessee busily collects a company.
There are murmurs of Lilian Myers as leading
lady. Lilian is a smart, pretty girl who appeared
with Cuyler Hastings, and subsequently toured
Maoriland with the Brune co. until she “fell
out.” She is now roaming about Queensland,
under the Andersonian eye, with a company of
her own.
The Maoriland trip was decidedly stormy ; the
Brune suffered severely from nerves, or
something, which may have been the reason why
the spirited Lilian and a man or two relinquished
their positions in the co. Miss B.’s nervous
attack was probably aggravated by sea-sickness
on her return trip. Anyhow, she felt so different
from ordinary passengers that she wanted the
captain to rail off a sacred deck space before her
cabin, because saunterers “walked too near.”
Gaston Mervale, of the wicked countenance
and the Brune co., leaves that organisation in a
few weeks. Not, however, on account of the
star’s indiscretion in that little matter of “ taking
a ‘call,’” but just ’cause he objects to out-back
train journeys in Queensland. Gaston is a some-
what unusual actor-man. Beside concerning his
intellect with stage-r6les, he dabbles tentatively
in journalism, and makes some fine photographs
of pretty women, clever men, and fine scenery.
The fact that he played in famous tragedies at the
Odeon, Paris, endears him to the local ProggV com-
munity, and helps to explain his intonation of
English words—so they say.
Wealthy and long-time bachelor A’Beckett is
back from his wedding tour with his dear little
youthful bride. Wifie gave a very swagger “ At
Home,” at Menzies’, last week, to her girl chums
and other friends. She is not so very long
“grown-up,” but she swept about—wonderful
how marriage inspires them to dignity—in most
assured manner, trailing magnifipent raiment of
blue and brown silk, and she made a charming
hostess. Quite a wedge of sh&art-'girl friends of
the one-time bachelor came to drink tea and gaze
in amazement at the bride. The engagement was
kept quite dark until just the last fortnight.
Major Appleton’s tall, sylph-like daughter with
the auburn hair is in Melbourne again. Last
week’s boat brought her from India. She greets
wide-eyed inquiries with a casual, cheerful “ Oh,
I’m dis-e ngaged now ! ” She went to India to be
married, but snapped the contract when she was
greeted with some tales concerning numer-
ous former engagements on the part of the other
half of the bargain.
Melbourne’s most expert skaters are making
ready for a rushed trip to Sydney for the opening
of that new ice-rink. They hope that their grace-
ful swings and curves and cut-figures will sow the
wildest envy in the Sydney new-chum’s breast.
The Adelaide girls (with their year-old rink) did
the same thing to Melbourne at last year’s begin-
ning. Melbourne girls have not forgotten, and
want to pass on the misery, even if it breaks up
the Commonwealth.
Mrs. Deakin has been talking to London inter-
viewers of her three daughters and her son-in-law,
“ who is as good as a son.” Said extolled young
man is Mr. Herbert Brooks, who, when he mar-
ried tall, auburn-haired Miss Deakin, was a young
widower. His first wife was the daughter of
Parson Charles Strong. The gentle Herbert
ought to be a good son-in-law. Both times when
he went wooing, those in the know declared that
he was as much attracted by the graces of the pro-
spective pa-in-law as by the charm of the daughter.
And in the selection of his mother-in-law he
showed excellent taste.
Ola Jane Humphrey returns for a season of
“ The Virginian.” Her Majesty’s certainly did
her proud with its reception on Saturday night.
Even the Madden crowd were “skyed” to the
back-of-the-circle seats by the pressure of the
multitude. How delightfully changed is the
Madden method ! No more blare, and Gor’Save,
and fussy arrival. Ruby, of the dimples,
was with Mrs. Ernest Brookes (an impos-
ing figure in black and gold and auburn
hair), and the devoted Colonel of the Camp-
bell clan was in adoring attendance. Little
Mrs. newly-wed A’Beckett was there, clad in a
jolly smile, and a crown of gold vine leaves,
and drapings of Robin Hood green. "Violinist
Marie Hall and her Lonie Basche boxed on the
left, with Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Tait and mana-
ger James Nevin. On the stage, Ola Jane wore
mostly white muslin —short and frilly—with many
changes of natty little boots on her extra-special
feet. The white muslin looked very airy-fairy in
contrast with the wool and leather cow-boy dress
of her many jealous and shooting adorers.
Marshall Hall’s orchestra made a background
on Saturday afternoon for the first Marie Hall
concert. The big Professor and his myrmidons
concerted with Marie Hall for her first item —
then left her to the Lonie Basche pianist for some
dainty numbers. The girl part of the orchestra,
headed by tall, auburn-haired Mrs. Ivy-Deakin-
Brookes, stood along the wall with hugged
violins, and simply worshipped; and the tre-
mendous shout of the Professor’s “Brava’’was
added to the thunderous applause.
Miss Hall showed a pleasing taste in her dress.
It was soft and silky and ivory white, and fell in
rich folds, with a tiny silver band for girdle and a
Grecian-key design in silver sweeping round the
hem. There were no frilly-frills on sleeves to
nod and jerk and dance madly as she played, but
something soft and simple near the shoulder that
left her arm free.
Marie Hall, violiniste, sitting over a convivial
tea-table with her sister-in-harmony, Lonie
Basche, and manager Tait, offers a unique
presentment of genius in the flesh. And the
extreme youth of the whole trio resembles a good
joke. The little star is quite pathetic in her
seeming frailty and childish contours; but the
grey-black eyes, burning under jetty brows, strike
a strident note which arrests attention and in-
terest. She prattles with the naivete and quick
laughter of a clever child. There’s nothing
“ growed-up ” about her except her art—and, re-
garding that, she has the enthusiasm and devotion
of a young mother for her infant. Listen to her:
If my violin were stolen, what would I do? I’d get
married, I believe! But while it’s in my safe keeping, I
won’t. It’s a famous instrument; before I bad it only
Paganini, and sometimes Wienawski, had used it during
the last 100 years. It’s date is 1709. I hope I’m at my
best while I’m in Australia—partly for my own satisfac-
tion, but mostly because you’re all so kindly. And I
love your Melbourne weather ; it’s like the most perfect
day of an English year.
Miss Basche and I studied together in Prague, and
we’re both great workers. I practise for eight or ten
hours when I’m studying—not, of course, when I’m
giving concerts. You* think that something like hard
labor? It isn’t. I feel I must—that I want to—so it
makes my joy.
When I gave my first two concerts in London I didn’t
expect huge success. I just looked upon them as the
usual and necessary introduction of a young player to
the public. But the very first one settled my future, and
since—well, since, I’ve worked hard and never gone back,
I think. My success did much for me ; it urged me on to
efforts I hadn’t believed myself capable of, and made me
feel dreadfully anxious never to disappoint my teacher,
nor my first flattering critics.
America’s just wonderful; but always one is a little
afraid of it. One can’t help feeling that its aflection for
an artist is fickle, and that when it grows used to its
idols, it also becomes indifferent and callous. Novelty—
novelty—novelty is the desire of America. Is Australia
anything like that ?
I’ve played all over Europe, and loved each country.
Never do I play without finding a face which says “ I’ll
understand everything,” in the audience, and to its
owner I always play. A sympathetic audience is a boon
—it’s an inspiration. Mr. Tait says that I’ll find a
splendid atmosphere here. I’m ever so eager for Satur-
day. No ! I’ll talk no more of myself, please. I’m quite
as interested in other folk!
A number of Melbourne people who have often
said that they “felt for the poor Australian
artists,” are now beginning to give some
financial expression to their feelings. Right upon
the heels of Streeton’s successful sale of pictures
comes M‘Oubbin’s show. In one week the depart-
ing M'Cubbin sold a solid £5OO worth of canvas
and paint, and his next subject, perhaps, will be
a gladsome study of a golden sunrise on a sadsome
sea. Art, both musical and brushical, is being
held up high with both hands in this city.
Mrs. Kenrick Brodribb and her bouquet of
buds have settled down in a Kensington flat for
the cold-city “ season.” There they indulge in
much gay hospitality, of which Australian chums
take advantage in large numbers. Mamma Brod-
ribb is complimented as the most genial and
decorative Australian mother of a grown-up
family who has emigrated to Babylon for quite
a while.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide:—
Ada Ward descended upon us last week, and South Oss,
which is usually a-good-little-State-that-ought-to-have-
died, got up and had two balls, a Cup day, several first
nights, a few dozen art exhibitions, and an unveiling or
two, just to show Ada how really depraved it can be
when it tries.
Only thirteen debutantes were launched upon this
manless landscape at the University ball last week, which
looks as though the girly element of the State had re-
linquished her capricious habit of “coming out ” three or
four seasons running. In these days, when the vice-regal
residence is a lone-bachelor and ball-less establishment,
the ’Varsity spree is usually much beset with buds. So
the smallness of the contingent of early roses was the
more surprising. The affair was held, in the Elder Hall,
which had been quaintly be-spattered with large sun-
flowers. Supper decorations were pink and red geraniums.
In fact, all the floral adornment was appropriately stiff
and learned-looking. His Le Hunteship helped a set of
Lancers along, other participants being various learned
professors and their spouses. The buds had a nice, little
white set of their own, with a brace of jolly under-grads,
to guide them. This ball ought to be the best manned (or
boyed) of the season, and is invariably a hilarious affair,
at which all the pretty damsels wear their most lavish
garniture and best Sunday expression.
Luck continues to follow the little Doubleday maiden.
Latest news from Vienna tells that she and her clever
mamma spend the vacation (two months) at some
place with a blotted name, so that the small
fiddleress may continue her studies undisturbed. It
seems that Professor Rosi, Leila’s instructor on the
waily instrument, tore his plentiful hair at the
thought of losing her for even two months, and insisted
that, as he was spending his.vacation at Blot, the
Doubledays should take up their residence in the same
town so that Leila might continue her lessons. He takes
no other pupils for those two months, which looks as
though the small Australian were being very particularly
favored. Also comes the programme of a concert from
Kaiser Willie’s land (and in Kaiser Willie’s simple and
musical tongue), at which all the music performed was
composed by one Courtis Stefanie Grafin Warmbrandt-
Stuppach, a pupil of L : Oi and Rubinstein, and at which
the performance was opened by Miss Leila Doubleday.
Some of the prettiest words on that programme are
“Musikalien handlung,” “ Buehdruckerei,” “Karntner-
strabe ” and “ Karntunderstarndabitofit.” lam goino* to
have some of those words framed.
“ Parsifal ” and, incidentally, Miss Tittell Brune, have
arrived in Adelaide. Miss Ada Ward has told us that
“ Parsifal ” is an exceedingly wicked play, so we are all
going. Adelaide has never yet seen an exceedingly
wicked play, and if Depravity is going to rage undis-
guised at our doors we aye assuredly going to put on our
best frock and go out and look at the animal.
The Dr. Morgan Thomas bequest of £63,000 to th * S.A.
Public Library, &e., has been apportioned so that the Art
Gallery gets £16,000 of it, and about one-seventh of that
has been spent in purchasing at Christchurch (M.L.).
The new additions are now on view. They are entirely
British, and mostly by men well up the ladder—a tiger
and python by Swan, landscapes by Ralph Peacock,
Mark Fisher, and McTaggart, and figures by Clausen,
D. Y. Cameron, and Lee Hankey. Streeton is repre-
sented by his “Green and Gold”—autumn foliage and a
lake. The small collection includes two nudes to add to
the only one Adelaide previously possessed—Adelaide
keeps pretty clear of the nude. They are : (1) A very
poor Weguelin, of three pallid and delicate undressed
ladies dancing in a meadow ; (2) a dashing H. J. Draper
(What’s in a name ?), a dolphin ridden by a nymph, who
has never heard of clothes, and has no use for them.
Some black-and-whites and a little high-class silver and
jewel work make up a good assortment. It was chosen
and bought by H. P. Gill, adviser-in-chief to S.A. on all
art matters.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
A
R
There are many
| ways of saving money
on a mine, but none so
positive, immediate or
profitable, as by using
promaoiej as Dy usinc
Dunlop
Conveyor
Belts
in place of the old fashioned
system of Trucking.
We manufacture to suit your own
requirements—in any length up to
48 inches wide —and shall be pleased
to correspond and submit Samples.
Our Packings, Mining Hoses, etc., are also
giving excellent service on many of the.
leading mines.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
108 FUNDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
And Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z,
KEEP AWAf FROM
TROUBLE
f BY RIDING
NLOPTTRD
IS.
(P>
?
17
They Ensure
Safety
Comfort and
Reliability
BEWARE Or IMITATIONS.
Non* Genuine without this!
Dl/NLOP RUBBER CO.,
JILL STATU ANO N.X.
BIH
VfH
/.V. i
l
m
m
t
o
OOfIZTrtINQ • OUITE -NE.W-
-• I ,N jmL«JMPL
WORLDS


KNOX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two massive feet
Bump down the street,
The pavement reels and rocks ;
A Fat Man fair,
Defies the air—
It’s Mister William Knox.
Great socks 1
Yea, Knox,
The all-important Knox
In English hat,
And German spat,
With lovely curly locks,
Imperial,
Majestical,
Struts 20 stone of Knox.
Earth rocks—
He shocks
The blocks
Doth Knox
The round, right-thinking Knox.
In form and dress
He doth express
The man of shares and stocks ;
His Tory style,
His frown, his smile
Are strictly orthodox.
Buys blocks,
Floats stocks,
Blasts rocks,
Owns flocks,
Stops clocks,
Great socks !
How apily named is—Knox.
vis.
AN ADMIRER.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ex-schoolmasters had a bad time at the
Queensland elections. Three of them, Airey
(Kidstonite), Reinhold (Labor), and Tolmie
(Philpite) failed to retain the seats they held in
the last Parliament.
Albert Bruntnell, who achieved a glorious
victory at Surry Hills (Sydney) last year, in the
cause of Deform and Cold Tea, has decided to
bolt from the scene of his triumph. His Salvarmy
jersey will make a bushfire radiance at Botany,
where it will flame in the Carruthers interest.
N.S.W. Workers’ Union, with a grim
sense of humor, has retained G. Reid to argue
before the Federal Arbitration Court in favor of
preference for unionists ! The Union probably
reckons that, since Reid said “No!” to prefer-
ence with such fervor in Parliament, he will say
“ Yes !” with enthusiasm in Court.
Old John Downer, who is now quite en-
veloped in the mould of Toryism, has an unpaid
engagement with the S.A. National Ass. to
deliver lectures upon the horrors of Sosh. John’s
performances are succeeded by light refreshments
and music. It is necessary to hold out promises
of free buns and coffee to keep the audience to
the end.
THE WRONGS OF THE EMPIRE.
This is a heated discussion in a London street
on the question of “ What shall we do with our
boys?” provoked by the news that Australia is to
have a navy of its own, thus diminishing the
chances of a careeah for the sons of English dooks,
Ac. Our artist, in passing several times, caught
the word “TRAITORS.”
“A brilliant young man—the most bril-
liant I have met,” is Canadian Premier Laurier’s
recent description of Australia’s Deakin. Alfred is
close on 51, but such an age is regarded as mere boy-
hood in the Parliamentary circles of the Northern
Hemisphere. If Willie Kelly started to orate
up there he would be ordered back to the nursery ;
and when one considers Willie carefully the idea
does not seem altogether a bad one.
Australia is entitled to the credit
of taking an early hand in attempts
to work aeroplanes, balloons, and other
weird substitutes for earth-travelling.
A son of Francis Forbes, Australia’s
far-back Chief Justice (the son was
also named Fi-ancis). put in his even-
ings and nights after station labor,
constructing and experimenting with
flying machines, his design being a
cross between the balloon of that time
and the aeroplane of to-day. That was
over 70 years ago. Forbes junior
skimmed about overhead for short dis-
tances near Skellater, his father’s sta-
tion, out Mnswelbrook (N.S.W.) way,
often scaring the wits out of the
blacks. Some thought him a new kind
of bunyip. Frank’s brother, the late
District Court Judge, gave sometime
also to air mechanics, but in the end
preferred solid earth with a Judge’s
salary to roaming through the atmos-
phere. There were no railways in the
days of Francis the Air Navigator, and
that person used to wager in excited
moments that he would one day fly
to Sydney. He visited California at
the opening of the goldfields, and died
there about 1850. Some of the ideas
employed in the aeroplanes of to-day
have been taken from—or at all events
existed in—the models and diagrams
constructed at Skellater.
Jens August Jansen, one of the
Labor members in Tas. Assembly, was
born at Sebastopol (Vic.), and among
other early struggles, sold rabbits and
was boots in a pub. He represents
Beaeonsfield, at the muddy end of the Tamar
river, where the Tasmania mine pounds out divi-
dends for its English shareholders.
There was a family-name re-union, one day
last week,atFootsci-ay(Vic.) police-court. M’Phee
(on the bench) heard the evidence of Policeman
M‘Phee (in the box), and thereupon fined M'Phee
(in the dock) a small amount for being drunk.
Greatness has come to Spruce Myth at
last. At a Yiddisher debating society a few
nights ago, a speaker who was addressing himself
to some phase of the Empire Day celebrations,
proudly quoted the opinions of Spruce, whom he
referred to as “my fellow Hebrew ! ”
Apropos the late Charles Rasp, the man
who pegged out the Broken Hill mine. Besides
his one-seventh share in the Mt. Gipps station
Syndicate, which owned the mine, he bought the
share of Urquhart, the overseer, when the latter
got tired of parting-up £1 a week, after a couple
of months’ prospecting. Urquhart got out of his
interest at a loss of about £lO ; Rasp gave him
£lO for it.
Rev. Wm. Law, a Congregational parson
who died a few days ago in Launceston (Tas.),
was the man who was selected in ’54 to take the
billet of Rev. John West, who had left the pulpit
of Princes’ Square chapel to occupy the editor’s
chair at the S.M. Herald office. West was a
powerful anti-transportationist, and wrote a good
history of Tasmania. Law had been in Samoa,
and was passing through Launceston on his way
to England, when he was offered West’s billet,
and took it. He stuck to it for nearly half-a-
century. The other day the old pulpit which
West used to thump was taken out from some-
where, and dusted and varnished, and put up in
the new church. Arid now a sharp Yankee
preacher hammers it weekly.
Panton, P.M., inquires fiercely from Mel-
bourne City Court Bench why the
authorities do not suppress the insolent,
irreligious, and radical Sunday after-
noon orators on the Yarra-bank. Lots of
people have wondered why Panton’s fre-
quently insolent, often overbearing,
always Tory harangues in Court have not
been suppressed by order. Panton has
less right to air his Jingoism, his conser-
vatism, and his bull-headed opinions on
social matters from the Bench, than an
ungrammatical shoemaker in a rag hat
has to say what he thinks of Panton, and
people like him, in a public park. The
most cutting criticism ever passed upon
Panton was made by a disorderly Scot-
tish female, who, after a sermon from the
P.M., wagged a forefinger at him, and
said : “ Ah, mon, mon, but ye ’re a great
gas-bag.”
Shortly after he became M.L.A.
for Bourke, Nick Willis, who then had
an idea that newspaper-ownership might
help him along, became interested in the
Central Australian ; and this was the
standing heading under which his doings
in the city were recorded :
Our Member on the Job.
But nobody ever accused him in those
days of making £30,000 a year.
A. Lynch writes :
• “ Oldest Inhabitant,” in Personal par. of a recent issue,
regarding the late Patrick Lynch, is somewhat in error.
Deceased was not a brother of Andrew Lynch, of
Carcoar, but a cousin, and was never a publican. Pat
Lynch’s brother Jim was host of the Sheet o’ Bark Inn in
the dusty old coaching days. And the story, with varia-
tions supplied by many travellers, applied to him.
Some of Simeon Lord’s property at Botany,
Sydney, after being locked up for three-quarters
of a century, is now being placed upon the market.
A century and more ago Simeon Lord was a
merchant at Sydney. Subsequently he had
woollen mills at Botany, and was the first man to
turn local wool to good account. He was also the
first hat-manufacturer ; and the first hatter, one
Reuben Uther, was in his employment. Uther,
like Lord, became very wealthy, and owned city
property. He had a hat shop where the Imperial
Arcade now stands in Bitt-street.
‘‘K.” : I met with a painful disillusion-
ment the other day. I had been accustomed for
years to regard Willie Kelly as a flower (however
wilted) of Oxford culture; in fact, it was mainly
on that, score I had been wont to excuse his
haughty loathing of all things Australian, from
socks to motors. Now I learn with startled
anguish that Willie never was at Oxford, and
only spent about 18 months of his adolescence in
the dear old Ma Land anyhow. All his knowledge
of the Hempire—the elaborate crawl, the bleat,
the trouserings—all are the products of a vulgar
educational establishment in N.S.W. And so
one by one our cherished beliefs fall to earth, and
our gods take a back seat.
THE NARROW PATH .
As set forth in the evidence of some Sydney drapers
during the recent Arbitration proceedings.
As far as is announced, all the present
members of N.S.W. Assembly will offer them-
selves for re-election except four—ex-Ministers
Ashton and O’Conor ; J. F. Smith, of Newtown,
whose health has failed him ; and a nondescript
named Reynoldson, who blew in accidentally for
Deniliquin in 1904. There were six applicants for
the seat, and out of 2902 votes cast Reynoldson
got 911 and won. It is hardly worth hoping for
another fluke like that.
“ F.C.K.” : A par has been going around
recording the death of aborigine “King Cobbler,”
allegedly aged 100, and (a rarity for an Australian
nigger) a strict teetotaller. It appears he was
hocussed once in his youth, which explains his
virtue subsequently'. It is true that. King
Cobbler is dead ; in fact, the Collarendabri paper
points out that he died 15 years back. How the
matter comes to be only publicly recorded after all
these years is a matter that is shrouded in
mystery.
Victoria’s moderately fat landlord, It. B.
Ritchie, involuntarily retired from the contest for
his just-vacated seat in the Leg. Council. He
had signed his nomination paper, and handed it,
with the necessary £lOO cheque, to a friend who
was going to Hamilton ; but the friend carelessly
forgot all about the matter. Just before closing
time, grazier White, of Hamilton, fearful lest the
district shouldn’t have a representative of some
sort, slipped in his nomination paper ; and now
Ritchie is out in the cold for the next six years.
Dr. A. Helms, who died recently, aged
55, was one of Sydney’s leading analytical
chemists. The celebrated Professor Hoffman, of
Berlin, was Ins teacher. He came to Sydney for
health reasons in 1880, and was appointed demon-
strator in practical chemistry at Sydney Uni-
versity, which position he held till 1889, when he
hung out his own shingle. He wore the spiked
helmet of Fatherland in the Franco-German
unpleasantness, and was wounded in the course of
the discussion.
Victoria’s Acting-Premier, J. M. Davies,
who sits in the House of the Rich Landlords, is
congratulating himself that his election expenses,
the other day, were less than £l. Of course, he
was returned unopposed. Fat doesn’t eat Fat —
at least not often. Last time he achieved a
record, his total election disbursements being just
one penny —the duty stamp on the cheque for his
deposit. He didn’t have to spend money telling
the electors what his views were. The Constitu-
tion practically decides candidates’ views before-
hand. They need only one qualification. They
must be Fat.
Grant Hervey writes :
Edwin Exon, whose verses, published recently by T. C.
Lothian, have attracted some little attention, deserves a
word of praise on grounds quite other than literary. Eor
nearly 40 years, if I am not mistaken, the fine old man
has been in charge of the Brighton Orphanage (Vic.).
Thousands of stray children, many of them now well off,
have passed through his hands, and been brought up to
useful trades. At the present day, there are about 300
youngsters in the Orphanage, Mrs. Mullen (the poet’s
niece) looking after the girls, while E.E. superintends the
boys. He belongs, in my opinion, to that category of
Christians whose Christianity is not put on with the Sab-
bath clobber and taken off ditto. As for his verses, they
have, of course, no distinctive Australian note. Most of
them, I think, were written and printed years ago, when
the Exonian blood ran a trifle faster; but at no
time did the spirit stir up his leisurely Pegasus.
They (the verses) are now collated, I dare sajq
simply because in the evening of life the good old man
has taken a pleasure in putting together the metred
thoughts of the past, and not with any idea of challenging
literary criticism. Whether or no, Victoria has had few
citizens more useful than Edwin Exon. Nobody having
written thus far, to my knowledge, to give him credit for
the real work of his life —which I hope lias yet many
years to run—l take the liberty of moving, on behalf of
Australia, a hearty vote of commendation, the same being
long overdue.
Dr. R. M. Sly will probably stay on
N.S. W. Supreme Court Bench this time. Pilcher
will take no seat but that of Chief, and that only
for the sake of retiring with the status of the
office. G. H. Reid hangs out for a seat on the
High Court Bench. Julian Salomons tried the
Bench for a few days, and wants no more of that
kind of glory. Armstrong hoes his own row.
These are Sly’s working seniors at the Bar, w'hile
his juniors, taking them all round, don’t reveal
many notable rivals.
Hanran, who is Bob Philp’s coadjutor for
Townsville, in Bananaland Assembly, makes one
speech a year in the House. This is on the Es-
timates, and generally lasts If minutes. An
analysis of the figures at the election shows
that if one Labor man instead of three had
gone after the seat, poor old Hanran would
probably have been given more time to attend
to his grocer’s shop in Flinders-street, and the
whirling Bob would have been the junior mem-
ber. Townsville muddled away a great chance.
Patrick Edward Fallon, the Albury
(N.S.W.) wine merchant, whose family may
be called pioneers of the Australian wine in-
dustry, left £29,950 behind him when he ceased
to toil in the vineyard. The Fallons began their
wine successes by cellaring their grape-juice till
age matured it. That, of course, meant standing
out of returns for several years; but the first
marketing of the Fallon wines created a sensation.
Unfortunately, some wine-growers in later years
desired speedier returns, and set to work to give
their wines a bogus and doddering old age by
means of chemicals ; and the chemicals struck the
wine-drinker in the stomach, to his grievous dis-
advantage.
“ Janor ” on a strenuous Judge :
Recent Bulletin reference toF. E. Maning’s “OldMaori-
land” revives memories of his great personal strength.
Maning was proud of it; and being a keen sportsman
he was always willing to wager with his friends on his
prowess. One of his feats was the jumping of a three-rail
fence with a fellow Judge of the NativeLandsCourt(Fenton)
on his back ; another the wheeling of a piano in a barrow
up Shortland Crescent, Auckland (M.L.). A master-
ful man, too. Out shooting in Tasmania, his coxupanion
was bitten by a venomous snake. The happening un-
balanced the victim, who lost his nerve and refused to
apply a ligature. Maning did not waste time in argu-
ment, but dealt his friend a knock-out blow, bomxd the
limb, scarified and sucked the wound, tucked the insen-
sible patient under one arm, the guns and “ bags ” under
the other, and so marched seven miles through very rough
country. The bite was not fatal, but the blow was a close
call. This is one of his yarns: Hokianga (M.L.), where
he l'esided many years ago, was in the early days a centre
of the whaling industry. The rivalry between the
different parties was keen. Riding along the coast one
day, Maning found a large whale almost stranded in a
shallow bay. He laid his horse alongside, and with his
sheath-knife gashed a large M in the brute’s hide as a
sign of ownership, and then rode hard to his wlialery to
bring the “hands” down to secure the bonanza of
blubber. The men arrived, but to their amazement
thei'e was no sign of the whale, which had evidently
thrashed its way out and sounded. Years subsequently
the Judge, visiting Koroi'areka (now' Russell), dined with
the skipper of a whaler in that port. Entering the cabin
his eye caught an extraordinary-looking object in a cedar
frame on the wall. “ What do you call this, skipper ?” he
queried. “ Waal,” said the sailor, “ a while back I roped
in a dolgarned fish with a brand on ; an’ as it kinder
struck xne as bein’ almighty uncommon, I jist cut it out,
cured and framed it, an’ hung it right thar, and I figure
that it’s an M. What’s your idee, Judge?” “Why,
dammit, man,” replied Maning, “you’ve stolen my
whale, and if I don’t get a ‘ lay ’ of the oil you’ll never see
Boston again.” He got the “picture ”as a settlement in
full. Maning left one son, Hauraki, who held the unique
record of winning every event but the Maiden Race at a
large Caledonian sports gathei’ing.
The principal item of manufacture in
S. Aus. lately has been Justices of the Peace.
The inevitable post-election batch has just been
published. There are about 2000 amateur magis-
trates in the State now, or, roughly speaking, one
to each 200 of the population, infants included.
“ There is no distinction in being a J.P. in South
Australia,” said one of them, “ but people ask-
awkward questions as to what you have done if
you are not one.”
HIS SPLEN DID ISOLA TION.
The land hunger, induced by the big land-
lord curse, is so intense in Victoria nowadays that
many papers, not even suspected of being other
than of the “right-thinking” persuasion, chronicle
the departures of land-seekers under the standing
headline of “The Exodus.” The fact that Victoria,
with only 14 people to the square mile, with only
one acre out of 18 cultivated, and with its nine
richest counties almost bare of population and of
agriculture, is a place from which farmers are
fleeing wholesale in search of land has become
such a commonplace circumstance that the Fat
paper has ceased to notice anything remarkable
about it. It speaks of the Exodus as it might
speak of the weather, or the devil, or the collec-
tion, or any other standing institution. And
meanwhile the amazing fat Bent talks in England
about finding a million acres for immigrants !
A. W. Hyman writes re a Jewish settle-
ment in Australia: —
In your issue of the 9th inst. inter alia you say the
Russian Jews have no fighting record. You are absolutely
wrong. Reliable authorities state 20,000 Jews, at the
leist, fought in the late Russo-Japanese war, and many
with’conspicuous bravery. They fought, too, at a time
when their wives, mothers and children were being
massacred by the score at home in Holy (?) Russia. It is
a marvel to the thinking world how they were able to
fio-ht at all; no Jew can hold a commission in the Russian
army simply because he is a Jew. Give him the oppor-
tunity and the freedom of the Australian Constitution,,
and he will make one of the best citizens ; he cannot, of
course, understand at first, for he and his ancestors have
been cramped in g-hettoes for centuries, but the Jew
quickly assimilates, and history proves it. The Aus-
tralian public need not fear the Russian Jew. If he is
allowed to settle here, he will soon appreciate Australian
o-raciousness, her greatness and her needs, and he will
Jj ( ,-ht for her as bravely as 500 of his brethren (at the least)'
did before him for England in the South African war.
Your paper is for justice, whether for Jew or Gentile,,
and I hope you will publish the foregoing.
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY*
Position Unrivalled*
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
o
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
The best remedy for warding off and curing
bronchitis is Angior’s Emulsion. Why ? because
it not only soothes the throat and lungs, and
allays inflammation, but also promotes appetite,
aids digestion, and acts as a tonic to the entire
system. It is the most palatable of all emulsions.
In three sizes, of all chemists.*
Sing- a song of Peppermint,
The cure that’s made by Woods,
For one and sixpence worth of cost
A sovereign’s worth of good.
When the bottle’s opened,
It’s praise all people sing,
’Tis certain such a sovereign Cure
Would set up any King.*
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Qout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/. If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.


CALLAGHAN
Boots Shoes.
In confirmation of our own conscientious statements about our
Boots and Shoes we submit the following
WEARERS’ OPINIONS
“ Messrs. Callaghan and Son—Dear Sirs —The hoots
came to hand safely. They fit well, and are in every
way satisfactory. My custom is not much, but I
shall not fail to recommend your boots to my
friends.—G. F., Dandaloo, Feb. 11, ’07.”
“ Messrs. Callaghan & Son—Gentlemen—l have to
acknowledge receipt of your letter of 9.Bth ult., also
parcel of boots, which give every satisfaction. A. K,
Brewarrina, March 7, 1907.”
“ Goods received by parcel post, and give every
satisfaction. —A. W. S., Fanning Island ”
“ I received the shoes, and am glad to say they are
most satisfactory.—Mrs. T. R., Gazuda, Queensland.”
“Enclosed find settlement of your account. The
boots are entirely satisfactory.—H. 11. C., Townsville,
Queensland.”
“Boots received in good condition. lam well
pleased with my purchase. They are a pair of
beauties.—L.A., Nymagee.”
“ Boots satisfactory. Enclosed find cheque.—B. C.,
Captlla.”
“The hoots are very nice indeed, and most satis-
factory If I should require a new pair in a few
months shall I only have to send the nuinbwm
book, or will you require other directions.—Miss ,
West Maitland.”
“Three years ago this month I got a pair of
slippers and two pairs of boots-. 30- each i air, which
have worn exceedingly well. I now want another
pair of slippers, but should like them Wioh deeper
leather at' heel, i. e., to come higher up the loot.—
J. J., Blandford.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and 1 am well satisfied
with them. I will recommend your firm to any ac-
quaintance.—o. D., Drink water.
“I am well pleased with the shoes. They are neat
and strong-very nice.-Mrs. M. M., kalgoorlie,
W.A.”
Post Free.
Ladies’ Stout Glace Kid Boot , pointed, and m ®<f*
toes, wide soles, a good-looking long-wearing >
13 6 - - -
Ladies’ Stuot Glace Kid Shoes, Patent Caps, solid
soles, 10/9 - - -
Men’s Black French Calf Lace Boot, box—calf legs
—Our “Economy ” Boot, 16/6
Men’s Black Dongola Calf or Glace Kid Boots, sewn
soles, 12/11 -----
14/3
11/6
17/6
13/11
Our New Catalogues sent post free to you.
We exchange Boots, or refund money.
CALLAGHAN ©. SON,
395 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Barter (Q, Rouse
Propy. Ltd.— -
Manufadurers and Importers of all
Photographic Requisites and Appliances.
Among the less Costly but equally effective KODAKS just received are
The No. 1 Folding
Pocket Kodak
for Roll Film Pictures
of 2\ x 3\ inches. 12
Exposures. Handy for
the pocket. All opera-
tions performed in
daylight. Can be
used for all sorts of
pictures, and gives
Splendid Results.
Price £2 11s. 6d.
THE No. 2 F.P.Ii.
takes pictures 3k x 3| inches, and
is a new model with rigid base
for tripod work, #?» R. Lens and
automatic focussing. Covered
with leather, and folds into
inches thick. Like all KODAKS
its use requires no dark room.
Price £3 17s. 6d.
Baker &, Rouse Propy. Ltd.
(Sole Australian Agents for Kodak Limited),
375 <sl* 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-The Block,” 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. 37 Ruadle Street, Adelaide.
■P. & B. PAPER
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
IT IS REQUISITE that a building paper, to give every satisfaction,
should possess the essentials of perfection ; consequently, TO BE US
THE FIRST RANK, it must be strong, durable, impervious to moisture,
and odorless. THIS IS WHY P. & B. PAPER SCORES.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET. POST FREE.
ft
'em
ML
(hc^f
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
IV. S. FRIEND & CO. HOLDSWORTH, MACPIIERSON & CO.
G. E.’ CRANE & SONS.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Government
Notices.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE, VACANCIES
FOR. FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be Riven as to whether experienced hands or beginners are required, and also
as to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching- New South Wales weekly from the
ao-ricultural districts of Great Britain. . ' , _ . .
agricultural U H 0 L ANDERS on, Director Intelligence Department,
Phillip and Bridoe Streets, Sydney.
2i102 -
Makes you look manly
After
Before
Bill Brown had his Moustache
burned off! At least part of it was totally
destroyed. He bought a pot of CAPILLARINE and now
it’s a full, flowing moustache better than ever it was.
CAPILLAR!NE, mousta L cheProducer.
10/6 POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE WORLD.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
i Established 25 years.
AT LAST !!
wm~k Standard Typewriter at a
KM
\
sm
m
«:>•
BRITON
Reasonable Price
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
SI EEL TYPE.
Power'iil Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other Machine.
Our “ Direct Drive" Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
(KEY?
la an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman canies.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week vnthout an instructor.
Write To-day
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature is Free.
Southern Sales Coy
O DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GREY ST. WELLINGTON, N/Z.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Presuming that the “fight” between Squires
and Tommy Burns is to be a fair go, rather than a gate-
money entertainment to oatch a Yankee crowd on the
Glorious Fourth of Ju-ly, it will satisfactorily settle the
question as to whether Bill’s victories in Australia have
been solely due to William’s alleged genius for punching
his fellow man, or whether his laurels in some cases were
practically provided by the management. It is not cer-
tain that the other man was invariably a trier. In more
than one instance, Bill’s opponent looked out ofcondi-
tion, and in every instance the public was fed with ficti-
tious advance notices of the boxer fated to lengthen
the list of Bill’s triumphs. A lot of audacious
nonsense was published in the gate-money in-
terests of manager Jack Wren. Take, for ex-
ample, a letter signed J. Marshall, which appeared
in the Age of l/9/’O5 : “ I trained and seconded Goddard
in all his important contests in Australia. I am now
preparing Kernick for his coming contest with Squires.
I have frequently asked myself in what respect, if any,
did Goddard excel Kernick. In height, weight, stamina,
the comparison does not give Goddard a point. In fact,
some of the essentials rather favor my present charge.
Kernick, as he is at present, is as good a heavyweight as
I ever had in my charge, and if he keeps on as he is going
he will not need to fear the arrival of the world’s best.”
Just at that time, too, it was stated that Flojd
MacFarland, the Yankee cyclist, then returning to
America from Melbourne, had been asked by Wren to
induce Jeffries to come over and tackle the winner of the
Squires-Kernick fight. Also Wren was said to have
cabled Jeffries to the same effect. And the result of all
this booming of Kernick was a rush of 6000 confiding
citizens to Melbourne Exhibition to see Squires knock
him all over the shop. A few months later 14,000 people
paid for the joy of witnessing Squires’ defeat of Murphy,
who, on his arrival from S’Africa, had gone into Wren’s
“stable.” Another of Bill’s easy victims was his old pal
and tutor, Smith. Thus far, the quality of the Australian
champion’s work has not been properly tested.
* * * *
Jack B.lackmore, of Sydney (1511 b. of him),
struck of Ted Nelson, of Melbourne, on Monday
night at Wren’s Pavilion (Melbourne) for £l5O, and
, Nelson hit back for the same amount. Nelson
hit the harder of the two, so he keeps the money.
Blackmore keeps a badly-damaged countenance. During
the first round the parties both showed brilliant foot-
work, and Nelson smote Blackmore’s eye. In the second
round there was wonderful footwork, and the pair hit
each other a little, but without much damage. In the
third round, while Blackmore was showing some highly-
capable footwork, Nelson hit him on the point, and he
went down for five seconds. During the remaining eight
rounds there was a great deal of first-class footwork, but
it generally resulted in Nelson hitting Blackmore, and
then getting away before he received any serious damage
in return. Finally, in round 11, Blackmore sat down too
long, through being struck three times on the jaw, and
the discussion terminated. It was a big fight, and the
audience reckoned it got value for its money.
• * * »
Eight shaped in the A.J.O. first hurdle event
(Saturday)—a novelty these times, for hurdle rac-
ing fields round about Sydney have for long been as
poor in numbers as in quality. Maorilander Lion Heart,
weightily supported at 6 to 4, was favorite, and looked a
sure winner till entering the straight, where he shot his
bolt, and 10 and (at times) 15 to 1 chance Blue Streak
came from far behind, and beat Superstition handily.
There was a falling off in second Hurdles on Monday,
when only four of the 11 on the card showed out. Super-
stition had the call in the betting, but a lot of money
went on first day’s winner, who, however, ran very dis-
appointingly, hitting almost every hurdle, till he fell at
the back of the course. Superstition and Ryde had the
finish to themselves, aiid the former won easily.
♦ * * *
Fields for leaping events at Randwick, on Satur-
day and Monday, were as depressing as they usually are
nowadays. Of six starters in the first Steeple, Reginaldo
and Unanderra fell, and Grattan ran off, but the finish
between Marjorie and Eskbank was exciting. Eskbank
looked an easy winner. Marjorie, ridden 51b. overweight
by owner H. J. Gillespie, was close on three lengths to
the bad at concluding jump, but subsequently, for over
200yds., the pair were straining neck and neck till almost
in line with the winning post, when Eskbank broke
up, and t’other, with little more in her, got the
money. Monday’s ’chase was a poor spectacle in-
deed. Five lined up, and only one, Grattan (an
outsider), finished without making a mistake, de-
spite that he ran off in Saturday’s event. Favor-
ites, Eskbank and Marjorie, racing each other 300yds.
away from the nearest of the rest, rose together at the
logs opposite the judge’s box, and fell all of a heap.
Unanderra was pulled up after going half a mile, and
Avoca ran off in the first round. Marjorie, re-mounted,
finished 20 lengths behind Grattan, and limped into the
paddock. Avoca came a cropper at the last fence, and,
despite a broken collarbone, rider Morton got into the
saddle again to win third money. O’Sullivan weighed
out to pilot Unanderra, but the animal kicked him in
the face, and Collitt was substituted.
The sweep-endowed Prince of Wales Stakes, at
A.J.C. Birthday meet on Monday, was contested by 17 of
38 in the book. Many of the scratched nags were on the
ground, apparently waiting till the last moment, in th«
hope that the coveted “ cut ” might yet come. Comely,
who would perhaps have started favorite, and possibly
won, arrived late and steaming, evidently hurried from
the stable ; still she didn’t figure among the starters.
Something went wrong somehow. Winner turned up in
Maorilander Putty—first choice of betting, at seven to
two—who proved a particularly good thing. Nearly half
a mile from home the race looked his. Putty (owned by
a Sydney bookie just returned after a long stay in Maori-
land), though verging on nine years old, shaped takingly
enough to suggest that he is very nearly as good as when
he beat Mahatonga and seven others in Auckland Cup a
year ago. Legion (20 to 1) and Fanshawe (15 to 1), as
named, filled the places.
* * * *
In the Sydney Soccer competition something
likegsensation occurred on Saturday last. TheNavyscored
another goal! The team was beaten by six to one,
but-the mere fact that it had scored another goal was
calculated to set the whole squadron on a jag. The
hitherto unbeaten Ultimo men were defeated by Pyrmont,
last year’s premier team, the figures being five goals to
two. Had the Pyrmont shooting been in the same
suburb as its dribbling the scores would have been truly
aw'ful. Fortunately for Ultimo it was not. Petersham,
the first-grade baby which started so well, came to grief
when it struck Glebe. The butchers have the capacity
to combine for sweeping rushes, and Petersham,
which was thinking only of Glebe’s goal, suddenly
found its own invaded, and four goals scored
to nil against it. Then it pulled itself together,
played a sound defensive game, and, although it failed to
make up the leeway, prevented Glebe scoring any more,
and was finally beaten by four to one. Balmain had the
bye, and Rozelle, as mentioned elsewhere, was amazed (1)
to find that it had won a match and (2) that the Navy had
scored another goal.
In the competition, Pyrmont and Glebe are now
running neck-and-neck, with eight points esaeh. Ultimo
and Balmain have seven each, and Rozelle and Petersham
five each. Edward Rex’s men are still where they were,
and that, for scoring purposes, is nowhere.
* * * *
The League (Australian Rules) first grade com-
petition resumed in Sydney on Saturday, when the star
match was the tussle between Redfern and Sydney.
Both teams had, till Saturday, been unbeaten, and there
was a lot of excitement over the issue. The manage-
ment had a force of constables to hold the bar-
rackers in check, and for once the players had
the field to themselves. The “Red-Legs,” as the
Sydneyites are called, played a beautiful game. Properly
played, the Australian game is most scientific, resembling
human chess, and the Red-Legs played it right down
to the ground. Every man was in his place, and
seemed to know instinctively when the ball was to be
kicked in his direction. The result was that the formid-
able Redfern team fell, like Dagon before the Ark, by SO
points to 28. At Hampden Oval, on a moist ground, with
a slippery, greasy ball, East Sydney downed Paddington
by 58 points to 26. Paddington held its own very well
in the first quarter, but in the second East got a lead of
18-points, and increased the gap in the two subsequent
quarters. At the Agricultural Ground, Y.M.O.A.
managed to stem the tide of disaster that has been sweep-
ing it down the last few weeks, beating Newtown by 43
points to 21.
* * * *
On Saturday next, at the Sydney Agricultural
Ground, Port Adelaide, the premier team of South Aus-
tralia, will meet a N.S.W. team in the first inter-State
League match of the season.
* * * *
Saturday was a day of debacle in Sydney.
Here are some of the combinations which met their first
defeat of the season on that fatal afternoon : University
Rugby team, Ultimo Soccer team, Redfern 11. hurling
team, and Redfern League football team. On the other
hand, it was a red letter day with Rozelle Soccer crowd,
which scored its first victory of the season. Curiously
enough it is five points in the competition, having drawn
a bye, which counts as a win, and played one drawn game.
* * * *
Of course, the Rugby interest in Sydney
centred on the struggle between the unbeaten University
team and that of Eastern Suburbs, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, where 20,000 enthusiasts gathered to howl
applause and directions. Excepting that it was a trifle
on the warm side, the weather was perfect. On paper,
there was no comparison between the teams. Not only
was University unbeaten, but never once in the season
had its goal line been even crossed; while Eastern
Suburbs had lost one game, and only saved its pork on
another occasion by scoring a draw. In the four matches
it had played, University team had accumulated 65
points, and allowed its opponents to make only 12 ;
while Eastern Suburbs, which had played five matches
(or one more than the University for scoring purposes,
the Collegian team having drawn a bye), had only made
40, and allowed the other fellows to make 27. So on
paper, as remarked last week, University was sure to win.
And the bookmakers thought so too.
But paper form is a reed which ruins the hat of
him who falleth on the sharp end of it with his head.
Eastern Suburbs won by nine to six. Both packs were
fast, and both were playing all in. They were there to
win—honestly, if possible ! Both teams usually rely on
their backs, but in this case the packs came through so
swiftly that the backs were smothered, and the teams
found themselves playing a game they were not accus-
tomed to. But the Eastern forwards were slightly the
faster, somewhat more versatile, feeding Messenger
in a marvellous manner, and he fed his wing men ; while
his kicking, though sometimes erratic, was very deadly.
So was the full-back’s, and these two found the touch-line
wherever they wanted to, usually kicking out at the
corner by Uni’s goal, and then keeping the Collegians on
the defensive. The blue and gold broke through the
ring several times, and once in the first heat crossed the
Eastern Suburbs’ line, but failed to convert. Messenger
equalised things by kicking a goal from half way. The
second spell found the Easterns still hemming in Uni on
the goal-line, and, after a great struggle, Eastern three-
quarter Rosenfeld crawled over the Uni line somehow, for
the first time this season. Messenger’s kick failed. A
series of dribbling rushes was only prevented from
resulting in scores by prompt forcing on the
part of University, which immediately afterwards
got its back machine going, but the rushes were
usually stopped in the Suburbs 25. A University kick to
centre failing, Eastern Suburbs let loose a passing charge
with Messenger on the outside, and that remarkable
player again crossed University line, and was injured in
doing it. But he had done his work,' and was heard to
exclaim “ Thank God, I have done my duty ! ” ere pass-
ing a few objurgations on his ill luck. The shot at goal
failed. After some more charges by Eastern backs, Uni-
versity got going and scored, but failed to convert. Uni-
was making a great effort when the whistle sounded its
doom—the Collegians had met their fate.
Compared to this, the other matches were small
potatoes in the public estimation. Something like a
shock was felt when it was learned that Glebe had only
just managed to beat Manly by nine to eight, despite the
fact that the Village had played with shockingly hard
luck. At University Oval a miserable couple of thousand
Newtown barraekers saw their team defeat Sydney by
nine to nil. The spectacle of South Sydney walloping
North Sydney by 17 to six drew only about 500 to Rush-
cutters’ Baj 7 Oval. Another 2000 turned up at Erskine-
ville, expecting to see Balmain destroy St. George in one
act; but they were disappointed. The dragon-killing
suburb let loose a series of ferocious charges, and won by
six to nil.
In spite of its defeat University still shares with
South Sydnej 7 the leading position in the competition—
-10 points each. Eastern Suburbs follows with nine, and
Glebe comes next with eight. This is a fearful fall.
Newtown and Western Suburbs have seven each, and
Sydney and North Sydney have six, and after them come
St. George, Balmain and Manly, in that order. Manly is
still two.
♦ ■» * *
Newtown Rugby District club has broken out
in a fresh place by electing Nellie Stewart lady patron.
Sweet Nell has accepted. She will not kick the ball per-
sonally, but if she will come out and barrack Newtown
will feel proud. Next Saturday N.S.W. will play Queens-
land at Sydney Cricket Ground.
« • * *
“Country week” commenced in Sydney last
Saturday, when the district Rugby teams met on the
various metropolitan grounds. Central Western downed
the Northerns by 11 to three ; New England defeated
Western by three to nil; and the Southern overthrew
Northern Rivers by five to nil. Public interest was
centred on .the meeting of the country district teams
with those of the metropolitan clubs on Monday. The
result was all in favor of the city, the only country team
to win being that of New England, which, to the astonish-
ment of everybody, managed to wallop Eastern Suburbs
by nine to eight. Messengerstood out of the suburban team,
which missed him sorely, and the New England forwards
are a formidable pack. The South Coast ’bailers travelled
all night, arrived in Sydney at 8 a.m., and in the after-
noon were run over by Manly, which won by 19 to nil.
Central Western made a draw with the University with
12 points each—both the Eastern Suburbs and University
were feeling done up after their contest on Satur-
day. St. George won from Northern Rivers by six to
three ; Balmain did better against Western by eight to
nil; Glebe trod on Northern by nine to three; while
South Sydney triumphed over Southern District with six
to nil.
This superiority of the city to the country teams
is characteristic of N.S.W. In Maoriland it was, in writer’s
day, very different. For years the Taranaki cow-spanking
district could run over any metropolitan team that stood
up against it; and the country teams around Dunedin
used to come into town occasionally and reduce the
swelled heads of the crack city teams in a very emphatic
manner. The explanation is that in Sydney the crack
teams become almost close corporations—professional
amateurs, so to speak—devoting all their time to the
game and practice thereof.
* * * *
With an eye to Monday’s holiday gate, the
Victorian Football league postponed half its week-end
matches, leaving only Carlton v. ’Wood, and Saints v.
Melbourne on the bill. The former ought to have pro-
vided good sport, but didn’t. The game was a
mere rough, unscientific scramble, adorned with such
irregularities as charging, slinging, and stoush, of which
the umpire took no manner of notice. At one period
fully a quarter of the players were engaged in separat-
ing two willing disputants, but the man in white
went on following the ball instead of stopping the game
—and the argument—at once. Carlton was superior in
one thing only—the “marking” of its forwards ; but the
kicking was vile, otherwise Carlton must have won
by half-a-dozen goals, instead of what it got—4
goals 17 behinds to 4 goals 6 behinds. Jinks,
a Carlton half-back, was so seriously inconveni-
enced by a kick on the ankle that he had to
be carried off the field, while at least three other players
(of both sides) were limping so badly as to be almost use-
less. Saints v. Melbourne provided a game of football,
not a rough-and-tumble ; but the unbeaten seasiders were
too strong for the “fuchsias,” and won comfortably by
108 points to 61. The Association put off its star match—
West y. Richmond—to the holiday, and none of the others
promised or gave much excitement. North, which was
invincible three years back, went down before Ports, this
being its fifth successive defeat. The powerful Williams-
town eighteen polished off Prahran at Toorak Park by 72
to 42, and Essendon played skittles with Preston, the
board showing 65 to 14 ; but Preston hardly counts in
serious football. ’Town and West, like Saints in the
League, are so far unbeaten, and though the Ass. has a
pronounced tail, its head isn’t quite so prominent as the
League’s ; wherefore its games create the interest that
draws the “ sprats.”
* * * *
The strictness of the governing bodies in Vic-
torian football, in the matter of transfers, is a quaint
joke to those who note the consummate ease with which
some players get permits to transfer their “services.”
Recently the League desired a Fitzroy player, named
Abbott, to explain what he meant by playing with his old
club after he had applied for admittance to an Association
team. Being obviously in the soup,the ’Roy man opened his
mouth and spoke freely. He said he had first applied
to Williamstown, that club having promised him 20s. a
week, then 255., and then 305., until it could get him a
job in the State workshops at Newport. Somebody, he
said, blocked that arrangement, and as the president of
the Essendon (A.) Club promised him a job on the local
electric trams, he next applied to that club ; but this time
somebody blabbed about the Williamstown application, and
Essendon would have nothing to do with him. So he
went and played for his old club, thinking it no harm.
The permit committee gazed on him amazedly, told him
he was next door to a professional, and no credit to the
game or to his clvib, and informed him that it
would make a recommendation to the said club,
which would be handed to him if he cared
to call for it. He may do so if he has time
to spare, but not otherwise, for the recommendation
is pretty certain to amount to an instruction to 'Roy to
pass him out for evermore. But the public wants to
know—why this sudden access of virtue ? Fully a dozen
ex-League players have been secured by the Association
clubs of Essendon, Prahran, and Williamstown this
season by the same inducements as were offered to
Abbott, and nary a word was said. Was it because the
Association didn’t want him that the League jumped on
him?
* * * *
The Maorilander is strenuous in many things,
but the way the M.L. Rugby Union used the axe on the
proposal to send a professional team of Maorilanders to
England was sudden even for the Plutonic islanders. It
sought out the promoter of the enterprise, and dis-
qualified him as a footballer for life, and went so far as to
forbid him entering any ground even as a spectator of
any match played under the auspices of the Union.
Whether it has the power to do this is questionable, but
it has done it, and taken the chances. The Union looked
so mad that that promoter thinks he is lucky in that it
didn’t disqualify his descendants to the fourth genera-
tion. Anyhow, he becomes the Football Leper of Maori-
land, the Accursed and Unspeakable ; and, in a football
sense, his house is razed to the ground, and its site sown
with salt. The Union then called upon all amateur
players to sign an undertaking never, in this life or the
life to come, to join any professional team—the alterna-
tive being disqualification for all Eternity. At time of
writing, the Aucklanders, who represent the flower of
Maoriland Rugby, two Otago men, two Wellingtonians,
and one Canterbury man have failed to sign the under-
taking, so presumably the axe will again be hard at
work very shortly. The Maorilanders may not be as
good as the Tasmanians at chopping down trees, but
they can chop down footballers.
» * * *
Britannia no longer rules the waves, as far as
motor boats are concerned, anyhow ; and even the all-fired
Yankee is a back number and a tortoise. At the great
Monaco meeting the English boats were routed, and the
world famous Championship of the Sea race was won
by the French Panhard-Tellier, a 394-foot boat. So
far no particulars are to hand of the horse-power of the
Panhard-Levassor motors, which drove the boat
for a distance of 125 miles at the giddy speed of 35
miles an hour. The first, second and third places were
filled by French bores, the best that England could do
being to secure fourth place witn the Flying Fish fitted
with Siddeley motors, which covered the distance in
shr. 14min. 16sec., or at an average of nearly 24 miles per
hour only—an enormous difference. The race
itself seems to have been a thrilling affair. It was
open to any sort of boat that cared to compete, and
15 boats faced the starter’s gun. Six were racers and
nine were fast cruisers, and the race took place in the
open water beyond Monaco Bay over an oval course. The
French boat Rapiere made 33J miles an hour, and looked
like coming in second ; but it ran hot and had to abandon
the race. The Italian boat, Fiat XV., also came to grief
in the 18th lap, and dropped out. The superiority of the
winner seems to have been in the design of the hull, the
magnificent lines of which were much commented upon
before the race started. It proved to be for all practical
purposes a hydroplane, and was only kept in anything
like a horizontal position by having the weight of the
engines thrown well forward.
« * * *
The British motor boat Flying Fish, which
belongs to Lionel Rothschild, and which was so thoroughly
beaten in the race for the Championship of the Sea at
Monaco, redeemed its reputation by winning the “ Pearl
of the Mediterranean,” averaging 27 miles an hour for
62J miles. In the Championship of the Sea race there
was a curious accident. One of the boats, constructed on
something like hydroplane lines, was observed, at 20 miles
an hour, to have the point right out of the water.
At 25 miles a large portion of the front of the
boat was right above the waves, and at 30 miles
the thing was walking along on its stern in a bewildering
manner. The builders had relied on the weight of the
engines, which were placed well forward, to keep the hull
in the water, and the backbone not being equal to the
weight, the front part of the boat suddenly dropped
right off. The stern, in which was the crew, somer-
saulted in record-breaking style. No one was hurt, but
it was a wet, scared crew.
* * * *
In answer to “R. 5.,” of Charlton (Vic.):
There are several makers who make their own tubing,
handles, spokes and rims, although it is to be re-
gretfully admitted that the majority of the alleged
makers are merely fitters of imported parts. With
regard to bearings, these are made in Sydney, and else-
where, and quite a number of machines which, owing
to the curious Freetrade prejudice against our own
goods, are said to be made of imported parts are really of
all-Australian manufacture. The real trouble with the Aus-
tralian bicycle makers is that the higher-priced machines
must be made largely of imported parts, owing to the fact
that Australia foolishly allows holders of patents to enforce
their rights without manufacturing in this country. If
we had the German or U.S.A. or Russian patent laws
here, every machine used in Australia would be of local
make. Men who demand the latest improvements in
their maohines compel the maker to use imported parts,
which keeps back the development of the industry. But
plain, every-day implements, without a free wheel and
other up-to-date luxuries, are very often made entirely in
this country—writer has seen them in process of con-
struction.
* * * *
The clubs which compose the N.S. W. League
of Wheelmen met in conference last week and adopted
an improved constitution, which will probably strike the
Cyclists’Association dead. N.S.W. is to be divided into
five districts, four country and one metropolitan. The
metropolitan division is to elect four councillors, and the
country districts one each, and the racing members of
the whole League will elect four representatives of their
own. Each country district will appoint a representative
in Sydney to act for it on the council. An Appeal Board
of four to be established, members of which will
be elected for one year, and are debarred from
holding positions as club stewards or referees. All
competitors at race meetings are to be admitted free to
the grounds, and each club is to appoint its own handi.
capper, but may have the services of the metropolitan
handicapper when necessary. Individual members may
communicate with the League Council only through
their own clubs. The unregistered body isto be fought to
a finish and without quarter. This will remove all the
causes of the past friction. In the interest of the sport it
might be well if the seceding clubs were given a month
to rejoin the League under the new constitution. Had it
been in existence before it would probably have pre-
vented the split, as there is little doubt that the League
Council was occasionally somewhat tyrannical in its
methods. Nevertheless it has always stood for clean and
honest sport, so much may be forgiven it.
Ex-sculling champion George Towns has re-
ceived a dirty left from the Trustees of the Sportsman
Cup, which carries with it the championship of England.
The Trustees declared the Cup forfeited by Towns, be-
cause he failed to close with the challenge of English
sculler Barry. The utensil has been won by Towns twice
in succession, and a third victory would have made it his
absolute property, and most sculling men this side of the
duck pond consider that Barry had no hope against
Towns. Possible that the Trustees will reverse their
action when they receive Towns’ explanation. He was
never formally challenged by Barry, excepting through
the press (which, according to the conditions, is insuffi-
cient notice), and as the Trustees had already
granted Towns an extension of time, and had
given him no warning that unless he promptly
accepted a newspaper challenge the Cup would be for-
feited, the Australian considers he has been the victim of
very sharp practice. He had already made arrangements
in Australia which rendered it impossible for him to visit
England till next year, and when he read of Barry’s chal-
lenge he wrote to the Foggy Place, explaining that he
would be in London next year and would then meet
Barry or anyone else. Altogether professional sculling is
on a most unsatisfactory basis: there is no governing
body, and there is no defined procedure for the making of
challenges, or anything else —except the collection of the
gate.
■* * * *
Melbourne Inman, the English billiardist,
tackled Memmott in an exhibition game at a Melbourne
Club last week—the first of a series of displays by the
same attractive performers. Inman came quite up to
expectations. His forte is hazard playing, and in one
break, where he happened to lose'the white ball at the
outset, he made about 37 successive hazards with the red,
“potting” it when he wanted to regain position for
making the “ loser.” He scored his 750 in all (biggest
break 202) whilst Memmott was making 450. Also, he
made a point of potting the white in order to leave a
double baulk, which taught some of the amateurs pre-
sent that the unwritten law- against “ putting your
opponent down ” prevails only among- ignorant players.
* * * *
Champion wrestler Clarence Weber has decided
to retire from the strenuous game for at least two years.
He will devote his time entirely to the study and teaching
of muscle culture. Meanwhile, a massive Gus Rennert
loudly announces his succession to the title. One Sydney
sporting paper is pushing the Rennert barrow with tre-
mendous vigor—but on what grounds? Gus, a mountain
of German flesh, landed somewhere up New Guinea way,
a few years back, in the capacity of prospector or some-
thing. Illness drove him south, and in this country he
became associated with Pagel, the strong man (after-
wards with Fitzgeralds’ Circus), who couldn’t ’rastle a
trotter. Rennert played a prominent part with Jack
Carkeek, the fakist, and, later, with Geo. Hacken-
schmidt. Right through the piece, Gus has played the
showman, and only on those lines can he push his truck.
With Weber out of the running, the wily old Singh is the
real pea. Gus may twist his mo. and blow out a 50in.
chest, but will he down the copper-colored individual and
show his hand ?
* * * *
According to a Sydney sporting print: “ Cours-
ing will almost die out in this State unless one of the
restrictions under the Games and Wagers Act is removed.
The coursing folk expect an amendment of the Act, after
Parliament meets, in this respect, and will have a good
deal of support in the right quarter.” It is to be hoped
that the legislator who proposes that amendment will be
hooted out of the Chamber and chased with dogs down
the street. The brutal “ sports ”of coursing and pigeon-
shooting should get short shrift from any Legislature.
A NURSE’S RECOMMENDATION.
A duly qualified nurse admittedly ranks next
to the doctor as an authority on the treatments of
general ailments and womanly weaknesses. She
is therefore able to judge and competent to speak
of the wonderful efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a remedy for all complaints origin-
ating from disorders of the stomach, liver and
kidneys, and other ailments, from whatever cause
arising. Nurse Johnstone, of Hackett Terrace,
Charters Towers, Q., writes I have much
pleasure in re-
commendingyour
splendid remedy,
Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Boot Pills,
the merits of
which are sup-
ported by my
own personal ex-
perience. For
ten years i have
used them oc-
casionally and
they have assisted
Nature in the
fulfilment of her
functions during
my advancing
years. lam now
60 years of age,
enjoy wonderful
health, and am
entirely free from
ache or pain.
During the past
ten years in my capacity ot a nurse I have always
recommended your pills, and I still do so, as they
are a gentle, but sure and effective medicine,
suitable for young and old. I am sure if the
young women would only use your remedy
occasionally and study their health there would
be far less sickly and ailing wives. They would
do well to take a course of these pills and en-
deavor to overcome their weakness, and thus, in
the years after the period of child-bearing they
might live in comfort, free from the ailments
which so many are afflicted with in their declining
years. Again, I heartily recommend your remedy
to women.”
MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
Motor, car spirits.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents; Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
’to His Excellenoy the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & 00., 18 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewert and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


KUGELMANN’S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
V
•vr
'OS'
“Beauty's
, Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic ledlow Bath, Blue Mountains,
The most Fashion”
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Buildings heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Good Cuisine, and
_4sis
mentTltor m Car 8 s e and Carriages Every Day to Jenoian Caves an:l Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone
4349-
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
- :
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms .
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
<!&•
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
£ &
I do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
BanKers
Victoria and Royal Ban Ks.
Telegraph or write for all Sporting
Information. Sufficient Address.
Barney Allen,
MELBOURNE.
MADAME CARRENO,
THE GREAT PIANIST,
HAS MARKED HER OWN INTERPRETATION ON THE
MUSIC ROLLS FOR THE
METROSTYLE PIANOLA.
Phanlasiesfuckc, Op. 12
(Aufichvvuog )
Schumann.
It is seldom a day passes but some addition is made by the list of well-known musicians
who have endorsed the Pianola. The following are a few of the many distinguished musicians
who have given their unqualified praise of this instrument.
Paderewski
Hambourg
Caruso
Richard Strauss
Chaminade
Josef Hof man
Scharwenka
Rosenthal
Harold Bauer
Rimsky-Korsakow
Joseph Joachim
Grieg
Leschetizky
Moszkowski
Ada Cross ley
Humperdinck
Alfred Hertz
Henry G. Wood
Dippel
G/azounow
It is significant that all of these eminent musicians become enthusiastic converts to
the Pianola when they arrived at a complete understanding of its possibilities. In a .
maioritv of cases the feature of the Pianola that led to a complete revolutionising of their
nrXnceiv ed opinions was the Metrostyle. No other Piano-player ever attempts to do what
the Metrostyle does. No person can be considered competent to express an opinion on the
Pianola who has not heard the delicate effects obtained by means of the Metrostyle.
A cordial invitation is extended to call and hear the instrument, whether desirous of
purchasing or not.
HENRY M. BIRGE & C 0„ 18S Coiuns-St., MELBOURNE
(JUST ABOVE THE “ AEGUS ” OFFICE.)
A Quarter Gentury Success
The Plum Razor has a 25 years’ period of success behind it, and
it is the Razor you ought to at least try before you buy any
other make. The secret of its success is in the steel.
The PLUM RAZOR
Post Free Anywhere
in the World for
10/6
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning’ Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKENt 654 George-St., Sydney*
Established
25 Years.
LONDON TO MONTE CARLO.
Continental Tyres
AGAIN BEAT THE RECORD.
Reports to hand by the last mail show that Mr. Chas. Jarrott has once
more beaten the London to Monte Carlo record by
distance of 900 odd miles in 35 hrs. 20 mins. At the conclusion of this
remarkable performance Mr. Jarrott wired : ,
“Arrived ilonte Carlo 7 .30 Eng. time. 35 hrs. 20 mins, for complete
lournev Beat my own record London to Monte Carlo of last year, and
111 Monte Carlo to London records made since. Continental Red Rubber
Steel Armoured Non-Skid Tyres (Pat. No. 5 356) wore splendidly.
ALWAYS SPECIFY.
TTY IIS


TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say atoout them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping G-uide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s Cd,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER, 20s.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 64.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
6s. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
a*
safe's
• rw*
vsitity
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD
£3.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 80s,
40s, 50s. 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-et. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals*
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-eut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
£2
SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2
£2
£3
SAUNDERS.^N
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5
£5
£lO
A.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald - Centre
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
Sk.
w _ 18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
£B/10
lilifiiliffliiwiiii
£l2/10
or Sapphires £8 10s.
Diamonds £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6d.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Keyless
Lever,
20/-.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
\ M /
A.BinjfßsM
N
IOKDON
asoKas ss bjbhk
*
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £B.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-et. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD.
£im
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 Os. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £5O
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
Sydney's Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st.,
Railway Station, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


iff®
■mmm
sgrasi
■ • ■ ■ ■■■■-■ -
)■ .
.
'
•' - -----
•• , < i.vjg
,'- . ■ c
' .. ■' ■ ,
__
mm
■
rm.
tm
■
■
■
■
MmS.
sis
1 ■"
mi
si-
•
m m
l-s
m.
; V
l
m
. -r
mm
■i
1
;;
it ,g i
■
mmm
m
± l 1
■ :
m
m i'm
■ ■'
9m, %
■ '
m 4
i .
wmmm mm
,
s'rs I H '• * .-*■ : »,s ** i
.
’
'■ S'«
■
■J- -
m
mmpm-
-
4?.
k\l H
.v,:;
'
■
y >
mm
i* l ••
■ V- * • - * *i
* *
li
• -■■■-■ 1
Ills!
IS
■
•.
,'• " '
■■
■
m
WM.
H®
■ n ! i--i'.
‘ "If . :
: /iV% v: '-a
Mil
■ ,
11!
i.
mmt
• |
!ll%l;l/ljl' l; ::l
ISI 11 ;
: ..
BS#§
Ji-i ; i
. ■
■
.
■
.
m
.
■
•• •
K
v
-
m
mm
■'
1
m
S „ •>• ■
Ulllg
g ;
ISIS
■
S""
mmM
SSB
.
.
rat
#
■ • s§S
■
II lls
(<
There’s no
no better
sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia, and
brand than the ‘THREE CASTEES.'”
“ The Virgtnians. "-—Thackeray*


Amusements.
H ER T WAJESTY-S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
RETURN OP THE FAVORITES.
THE ROYAL COMIO OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 8,
Mr. J. C. Williamson will present for the first time in
Sydney the Latest London Gaiety Success,
THE SPRING CHICKEN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Palinfi-’s.
CRITERION
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
„ . _ —- • • Mr. Frank Musorove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the Direction of CHARLES HOLLOWAY
Business Manager ALEC VERNE
TO-NIGHT, ANI) EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including- the Charming Young- Australienne,
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
Presenting the Up-to-date Mining Drama,
THE COAL KING,
Written by Ernest Martin and Fevvlass Llewellyn.
THE GREAT MINE SCENE,
THE WORKING CAGE
THE ENTOMBED MINERS,
THE RESCUE.
PRICES 3s, 2s, and Is. Early Doors 6d extra.
HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
1" O W N
HALL,
SYDNEY,
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING, SATURDAY, JUNE 15,
MARIE 11ALL~
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINISTE.
FOUR CONCERTS ONLY.
Box Plan Opens at Paling’s—MONDAY, 10th inst.
PRICES- —6s, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
Q U E E hi S L A N D.
JO U R I N (
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST if ASO X,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A HIGH-CLASS CONCERT & VAUDEVILLE CO.
T>Y oi -I THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mit. Hardy Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Splendid Success of PRANK HARTLEY, the Juvenile
Wonder. The Juggling Schoolboy.
Immense Success of MISS BIJOU RUSSELL
Great Success of TECHOW’S CATS.
Miss EILEEN LYONS, Master LESLIE HALLINAN
THE POUR ROSEBUDS, THE DRISCOLIS
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBI RN
LES WHARTON. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
OPERA H O USE, ~ MEL BOU RN E.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FANNY POWERS, Australian Mimic.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy, “The
Lady Sport.”
THE SVENGALIS in the Most Sensational, Inexplicable
Mystifying Entertainment ever shown.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plavs
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. gg- PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC 00., headed by
MR. CHARLES WALDRON and
MISS OLGA HUMPHRIES
—in—
THE VIRGINIAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
BLAND HOLT.
EVERY E\ :NING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popula Dramatic Favorites in
THE GREAT MJ LLIONAIRE.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mi John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
JOWN
HALL, MELBOURNE.
MARIE HALL,
THE YOUNG ENGLISH VIOLINIST.
REMEMBER !
TWO MORE CONCERTS ONLY!
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, JUNE 6.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JUNE 8.
PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s 2s. Plan at Allan’s.
P E A L ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
OPEN DAILY.
GRAND POSTER CARNIVAL—
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, at 8 p.rn.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an Order of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division dated the sth March 1907
made in the Matter of the Estate of William Parker de-
ceased Blundell v. Parker 1906 P. No. 1674, the following
Enquiry was directed namely whether Frederick Parker
the son of the said Testator’s son William Parker was
living or dead at the date of the death of the said Tes-
tator and if he died since the Testator who is his legal
personal representative.
Notice is hereby given that the said Frederick Parke.'
or if he died since the death of the Testator on the 26th
September 1888 his legal personal representatives and all
persons claiming to be interested under the said Enquiry
are by their Solicitors on or before the 12th day of Oc-
tober 1907 to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington and Mr. Justice
Parker at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand London or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order.
Friday the 18th day of October 1907 at 11 o’clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated this 23rd day of April 1907.
RICHD. WHITE,
Note.—The above named Frederick Parke/wenT'to
Australia in or about the year 1882 and was last heard of
at Adelaide South Australia in the year 1884
CLAUDIUS GEO.' ALGAR^
17 Abchurch Lane, London,
England, Solicitor.
tjREEXm
J&WS
W ARE SAFE
M ' and WEAR. 1
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
s ss' 317» Col. lms St., Melbourne; or
address Greener,Birmingham.'
have
YOU
Seen
our
(VS
T
LOG
A
Some Things in it would
MAKE A CAT LAUGH
Uncommon Watches, Clocks,
Optical and Scientific Goods,
Educational Apparatus, Guns,
Games, Puizles, Toys, Curi-
osities, Novelties, Perfumes,
Toilet Preparations, Medi-
cines, Kemarkable Books,
Labor-Saving Notions and
Quaint and Pretty Artioles
that oannot be got elsewhere.
Hundreds of
Illustrations
Every page contains some-
thing interesting. Send your
I Name and Address and we
' will post this Catalogue to
you free and enclose with it
(at long as the stock lasts) a
Wonderful Optical
Illusion of the Mysterious Roentgen
X-Rays free. Do not delay or you may he too late.
The Union Wlfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
t° a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,’£6.
Sale Brice £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 16s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
5 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .£ll2 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s
Sale price . £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellen t stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete!
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price’
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. , .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, i 2 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Nenry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls x“ able Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
A Marvellous Invention.
THE COLUMBIA “HOME PREMIER”
SOUND MAGNIFYING
GRAPH-o-phone
cm! odies a number of scientific improvements
that have resulted in reproducing the EXACT
human tone, quality, and volume of the
original.
A Post Card to us
will bring you Lea f-
let B. M., which
gives full de-
tails about
this wonder-
ful machine.
H
Largest and Oldest
Talking Machine
Manufacturers in the
World.
Accommodates all
Standard Size
tjlinder Records
and Special “HALF
FOOT " Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO, GENT*, 255 Clarence St, SYDNEY,
4^.
TWENTIETH CENTURY
Steam Merry-go-round
Latest Up-to-date Machine.
Tent Revolves. No Stakes or Guy
Lines,
Good Money-Making Concern.
HERSCHELL, SPILLMAN AND CO.,
North Tonowanda, N.Yi, U.S.A.
Australian Representatives:
Win. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 521-3 CoMns-St., MELBOURNE.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues.
Let Me Tell your Fortune
FREE!
Jiead the Answer in the Stars. Shake-
speare says :—“The stars above us govern
our conditions.” Let me tell you what the
future has in store for you. Do you wish to
know whether you will prosper or not in
your undertakings ? Win or lose in specula-
Why be poor when you may be rich and influential ? Do you'knowwfmrryoMstar'is guiding vou ?
If not, it is very important that you should know, and I will give you this knowledge ffleai J
to all questions of vital interest. About your love affairs, about family maTterf about
perpSe*s! y yS ’ about <* an ging your position, about what business will bring success, St
If you want to make your future successful, and know what itcontains, all vou have to Hr.
3m S tor po J .“a"2e,”ic" *"*'’■ d,te 01 w
future wm 0 be S revealed l ifo you’like aiTopenbook? 11 P “"' P% y 0"
A WORD TO THE WISE.
ts. Posta/ Note or Stamps
will cover the cost.
DON’T DELAY.
Consult me
TO-DAY.
You little know what to-morrow may have in
store for you. If you are sick or unhappy I can
fron/von " yOU are happy 1 can ward off danger
from you so you may remain happy. Delav
Your Horoscope will be sent you sealed and confidential Let"^ lB^!!* 16 ’ dlSglaCe ’ even death -
your life as the stars reveal it, and mystify' you by its tartS? ffiS- tr ° loger r6ad
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO
860 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Tenders.
Great Cobar Limited.
required for the supply of
. STORES to the properties of Great Oobar
Limited, for the twelve months ending 30th .June,
1908. Schedule of estimated Stores required may
be had on application to Works Office, Lithgow.
lenders close 14th JUNE, 1907. The lowest or
any tender not necessarily accepted.
ii^^i H^ i ßLAKEMGßE^Geneiul^&mager.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE HOGG, of Fryerstown, Deceased.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ANDREW and WILLIAM HOGG, sons
of the above deceased, is requested to esmmuai.
cate with the Sandhurst and Northern Distrust
1 rustees and AgencyComp&ny
of View-street, Bendigo.
JAMES P. B. McTUTE*
Manager.
THIS MEN’S
‘Bash Boy’ Watef
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address fn Austral Jc
FOBL
7/6
7/6
%
/
5T
M'/
mm
'THIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and- hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Oaiine
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear and
beautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts.
Oatine rermsves from the pores of the skin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve the charm of a good com-
plexion, however trying the climate. It does
not grow hair.
For men's use after shaving- it is an ideal
soothing cream. Price 1/9 per dainty jar,
or a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists
stores throughout Australia. jGet a
Jar to-day.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free of Charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A,MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Collison&Co.
\ PATENTB and TRADE MARKS
I obtained In all Countries
483 Collins St, MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE,
Write us for Inventors’ Guides BiTA’jniragEP 1877,
M
PAT
NTJ
n-TTROW AWA.Y YOPR
iiUfSTTSKw
You can cure deafness and bead noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly V Then write for booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO,, a«9 Collins St.. Melgounw.


***** CUARAN' st£ '^^
BRIARS do not
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
251 Cl arervee 5t Sydrvey
600 SONGS
WORDS and MUSIC
FOB
2/6
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
which for various reasons are denied the average 1
music and song lover. It may be that your local music-’
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we- give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous —without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,
including such world-famous favorites as “Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“Robin Adair,” “ Killarney.” “ Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “Men of Harlech,” “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,”
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
aNun,” “ Highland Mary,” “ Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer
During Batrle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
such as “ Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. 10d.); if P.N.
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Address—
THE PUBLISHING GO., 460 b George St., Sydney, N S.W.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, tfcc. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor —
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of s.mple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
105,000
The Waybactt Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay l'ever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
aclie, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Medicator. alze
3i inches long.
with 4 months
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229*231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
OSTRICH
PLUMES
From Africa.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped
with WHITE.
Length, 15,inches.
7 6
Post
Free.
The Best Feathers for the price in Aus-
tralia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Bwanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
Olention The Bulletin.] [6
“ HARNEBS THB WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN**
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St. f Sydney
acetylene lamp.
1
PRICE 27/6
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
Which have You got
IF you are afflicted with any one of these you do
not need to be urged to purchase something
that will actually relieve and positively cure
it. It is used by medical men all over the
world, and is a sure cure—a hundred times more
effective than the finest and most expensive
electric belt ever made. It can be made weak
enough for an infant, or strong enough for an
adult. The case contains the battery, and a
number of appliances to apply to the parts
affected. We will send it anywhere, post free, for
35/-, and refund money in any case of dissatis-
faction..
Price - 355.
POST FREE.
THE O.&J. MEDICAL BATTERY
was devised for those suffering from Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Nervous Troubles, Etc.
My Oplicians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Ever Ready 12-Bladed Safety Razor.
COMPLETE
7/6.
Y o« 1 '
fi
m
sr^
SAFEty<x«AZORS
THE only 12-Bladed Razor in the World selling for less
than 'ill. Marvellous mechanism, that reduces
blade-making-to a scientific exactness, has made possible
this 20/-Razor for 7/6, Exorbitant profit-making- on the
part of other razor makers .will, be a. of the past,
just as soon as you and your friends have tried the Ever-
Ready Razor. 12 Blades, as lasting as flint, as true and
keen-edged as ever identified a “ best” razor, —together
with safety frame, and stropping handle —allin a compact
little case, and posted to any address in Australasia free on receipt of 7/6. No knack—no skill required—its
impossible to cut the face. Shaves any growth of beard with pleasurable ease. Blades can be stropped, and extra
blades can always be obtained. Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties
Wholesale and Retail. Write for Price List 8.. J. R. Torrey & Co.'s “ Lion ” Brand Spring-Folding
Razor Strops, specially selected Leather, in strong compact case. Price 2/- post free anywhere.
H, L HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO., 710 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. Box 3 P. 0., Haymarket.
The Most Up-to-date Fancy Goods Store in Australasia.
FREE
FOR WRITING.
GUARANTEED Cure for
Drunkenness.
We are giving away Free Samples of the world-renowned EUCRASY.
Send for Booklet and Sample ; enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
Call on or Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
FACTS ABOUT THE
EUCRAtSY Treatment.
The Celebrated Cure for the
LIQUOR
TOBACCO
DRUG HABIT.
mo
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, in any form, and you
now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing yourself of the
EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasons :
Because
The Euorasy Cure has
been successfully used
for over 30 years
throughout the world,
and 11 years in Aus-
tralia.
Because
The Cure is positive
and permanent. It is
agreeable to take, no
injections or painful
operations of any kind.
Because
The effect of the
treatment on the
nerves is marvellous.
The Eucrasy is a life-
saver. There are no
bad after-effects.
Because
About one million
patients have already
been cured, over 10
thousand of whom
were in Australia.
Because
Each patient treats
himself, at his own
home without incon-
venience or loss to his
daily vocation.
Because
The craving for alco-
hol is entirely stopped
in a few days, and a
permanent cure is
effected in from one
to two weeks.
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testi-
monials are on file in
our offices. Many are
from Clergymen and
prominent public men.
Because
People addicted to
drinking 1 , without re-
alising their own
folly, can be cured
secretly, even against
their will, and with-
out their knowledge.
All cases are treated
Confide ntially and
with absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
Because
Physicians, Clergy-
men, Politicians, the
Press, and Business
Men of high standing
endorse tne Eucrasy
Treatment.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, in powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge.
For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUCRASY GO.,
62 Hunter-st.,Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Mgr.
Si Britisb-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCAMTI-EIURY.
L~L L*L L-L LL bS; €&>
2. L".
iu^m
[ Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE"
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
A WISH
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And He.'.th on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
ylsk your Storekeeper for it.
Cueranteed free from Preservatives.
GLOSS
s lends the charm of :
brilliant polish to well-
dressed feet in every corner of
life’s stage. \
It puts a permanent, waterproof shine on \
boots and shoes a bright, clear shine that %
will resist dampness and can only be effaced'o
by continuous daily wear. i
Unequaled for ladies’ and children’s shoes.
Contains no acid. Applied in a moment.
Shines at once. Used by millions of people.
Made only l>y
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for "United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd., London, Eng.
/
><
X
m
MEN
suffering; from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any addt'ess. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug* C0.,,88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “ Medical Re.vie/ty” Dondon, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Xeneris tb Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years. Oure Guaranteed.


Suffered Tremendous Itching Over
Whole Body—Scratched Until
Bled Worse at Night, With
Soreness and Excruciating Pains
A Western Lady’s
WONDERFUL CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
/‘Last year at this time I suffered
with a tremendous itching on my
back, which grew worse and worse, un-
til it spread over the whole body, and
only my face and hands were free.
For four months or so I suffered tor-
ments, and I had to scratch, scratch,
scratch, until I bled. At night when
I went to bed things got worse, and I
had at times to get up and scratch my
body all over, until I was as sore as
could be, and until I suffered excruciat-
ing pains. I did not know what it was,
and resorted to a number of blood
purifiers, using at times also Cuticura
Soap. They told me then that I was suf-
fering from eczema. Then I made up
my mind that I would also use Cuticura
Ointment and Cuticura Resolvent. I
used them according to instructions, and
very soon indeed I was greatly relieved.
I continued until well, and now I am
ready to recommend the Cuticura Rem-
edies to any one. Mrs. Mary Metzger
Sweetwater, Okla., June 28, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is oh file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
.Reference i It. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Humours, Eczemas, and Itchin£s
Cured by Cuticura.
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head—all demand a remedy of almost
superhuman virtues to successfully
cope with them. That Cuticura Soap,
Ointment, and Pills are such stands
proven beyond all doubt.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60)’
i? a Z b ® had of all druggists A single set often cures*
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
®ST" Mailed Free, “ Howto Cure Baby Humours.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
fumigo
This is an exquisite aromatic for burning
in sick rooms, imparting thereto a delight-
lm odor. It is very economical in use, for
a Is. Bottle will last for months.
PRICE, Is. PER BOTTLE.
Double Size, Is. 9d.
If unobtainable locally send price, together with
the name and address of your chemist, to
BLOGG BROTHERS,
24-38 Spencer-St., MELBOURNE,
who will see that you are supplied'.
N.B.— Free sample sent for Id. stamp, any State.
d
The‘Weight’ Question
i&sr ah * »
Every ounce beyond that point is super
Huous and means wasted enerav P
oance ,°f that superfluous weiaht
cutoff, means increased ease of propulsion
In a cycle built of
EADIE FITTINGS
of the finest materia? procurable 1 the
ssss^ssag; ,h '
sfREMQTM^uaHTME^—RJQ’nfIfv
Ert Booklet on request. Hept. A
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
WORKS :
REDDITOH, ENGLAND.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
IHSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Bold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
! An\; St r ikin " feature in the “Children’s Pane” of one
Australian paper is the editress’s new babv. Mvrtle
( 4 (aged 9).and Sarah Ethelwynne Pipkins
'a E s* nalda ’ a H about the calves,
M eir cli ?’ and , babv brothers, and snakes on
: ® lr . ® elecfclo . n ’ and ln return Auntie imparts thrill-
lof su,?i r i nat M n f a , bout , the , in which her little
forth wLn h h thumb, admires his toes, and so
toith. When he can’t think of anything else to fill up
Wlth ,’ V y ,l j le Walter Jones ( 7 f) wakes inquiry
wonde r kid, and learns with awe that it said
btoo last week, in a surprisingly original wav Just
S e r‘ d ;.^ Oreof A he reptile cont emporaries 'in that
“Ornin L d “ ll e ! r fang ' s at their particular
Cousin Popsy and Aunt Gerania,” and indignantly
v^ u nt Reginalda shouid have it all her own
I Aunt f'eranil fc S n move ’ Ic 18 cur rently asserted that
~“"t Cerama, who wears reminiscences of the three-
penny bar about his whiskers, is to be retired. Aunt
Gerania tried hard to become a gushing mother in print
but his efforts were declared by his proprietor to lack
j the puff-box? howl,and t 0 be insufficiently redolent of
*' * * *
The blossoming out of J. C. Williamson’slate secretary,
m thJ k Mplhn° a theatric al manager has caused changes
editnrshw, ri ne -JfT' Parbyshire relinquishes the
editorship of David Syme s weekly Every Saturday
to become secretary to George Tallis, at Her Majesty’s
Melbourne ; while McLeod shifts up from the
mt-o the editorship of the weekly.
Darbys in re has always been theatrically inclined, and, in
addition to editing Every Saturday, has for the: past
two years done all the principal criticisms for the Age..
natlve ’ but £ ot bis flrst P ress experience
* * * •
Spring : A bright, fresh specimen of Sydney journ-
alistic enterprise is called Grit. It is an organ of the
Lemon-squash Alliance. It announces itself as “a
E °fv h «iv e ° ple ’’’ a P d evidently thinks that the
ri nl, i i are simply craving to hear all about the
dear old nobility of Hingland, for its main features are
trivial and lamentable accounts of the way those for-
tunate drones go through life. In one issue, I learned
how people dine and sleep at Windsor Castle.” It was
mentioned that Edward VII., “during the after-dinner
smoke, throws off all reserve, and jokes and chats with
his guests as an ordinary individual.” Then there was an
account of the death of a poor old English worhan,
who lived through five reigns, and saw three
Coronations! It was not stated whether she died
m the poorhouse, or where. Following that came
a dead-serious story illustrating Edward’s generosity
A German governess used to take the Duke of Fife’s
youngsters out for ozone of a day at Brighton. The
youngsters were dressed simply, and “couldn’t be-
distinguished from children of less exalted parent
a p- V ne day a school inspector, struggling with
the burden of his duty, and not able to distinguish
them from any other kids, and not knowing that the
governess was a governess and not merely a nurse asked
whose children they were, and why they weren’t at
school. She said their father was named “Fife ” and
lived at Ohichester-terrace, butdidn’t condescend’to ex-
plain that they were being educated at home. The next
day “Mr. Fife” got a polite letter requesting an ex-
planation. Fife passed the document on to Edward
“ wdio enjoyed the joke immensely, and then deputed
Lord Knollys to let the officious officer down
lightly.” He should have ordered the base wretch to
be hanged, drawn, and halved. How' dare he do
his duty! But the funniest of all Was an article
on the “ Beds of Royalty.” Here the common herd was
supplied with information about the sacred, soulful bed-
room of the beautiful and gracious Duchess of Saxe-
Coburg. This,tremendous being is fastidious as to the
way her bunk is made. “ She has the sheets pulled with
scrupu ous tightness over the specially-made mattresses
and the slightest shade of a crease is the signal for a repri-
mand in her household, as the servants well know ”
Imagine the noble personage, clothed in a beauti-
ful nightie, turning down the bed-clothes be-
fore lying wearily down to rest. Consider an
awful scream ! Picture the startled and terrified servants
rushing up, thinking that their mistress has found a
duke under the bed, only to discover that she has
come across a crease in a sheet ! Grit is good fun but
evidently it has not much sand, for the same issue’that
explains all about the bed announces that the treasury
of the Alliance is empty. J
* ’* * *
The Sydney Morning Herald, in a recent issue com-
plains that “ noxious weeds of various kinds have been
in the past looked upon with a lenient hand in the State
of New South Wales.” It might have added that NS
Wales has also for many years smelt public finance
scandals with a tolerant eve.
**‘ * •
“The Hack”: In reply to “Stony’s” attack upon the
veracity of m3 7 statement that I received a guinea from
the Arena for a poem rejected by Tiie Bulletin (“Inky
Way,” B. 18/4/’O7), I repeat my assertion with emphasis
and (in the dignified words of Mr. Blotton, of Aldgatej
“repel the hon. gent.’s false and scurrilous accusation
with profound contempt.” I understand that it is con-
sidered the correct thing for a literary aspirant to have
his first cheque mounted and framed, and to hang it over
his library mantelpiece as a memento of Ins early
struggles. But this wasn’t my first payment for literary
\vork, and I didn t have a library mantelpiece to hansr
cheques over at the time, and I didn’t have anv
early struggles” worth remembering; otherwise I
would be pleased to confound “Stony” bv waving the
cheque alluded to before his astonished gaze.
Also, the Arena is dead, and can’t be called upon to
prove my statement. As to the Arena’s general rate of
payment, I know nothing, having only had the one deal-
ing with it, but, because “Stony’s” “pome” was only
thought worth 6s. 3d., it does not necessarily follow that
other contributions were regarded as of equally little
value. Judging* from “ Stony’s ” own account of his
pome, ’ I should say he was lucky to get what he did
font. However, to appease “Stony’s” wounded vanity
somewhat, I am quite willing to suppose that I may have
received somebody else’s guinea by mistake ; but receive
a guinea I certainly did. Editors appear to be shock-
ingly careless. One (who shall be nameless) once sent me
a signed, but otherwise blank, cheque in payment of a
small contribution ; two others have returned somebody
else’s rejected verses to me ; while a par. of mine
describing how Miss Toorak chooses a library book was
returned to me nearly a year after its submission
with a footnote requesting me to expand it into aii
article on “ What Melbourne Girls Read.” Wondering at
the delay in returning, I looked up the wrapper and
found it had been vaguely addressed “John Jones
Maonland.” Apparently all the Joneses in Maoriland bad
been tried with it before it reached me, and I had lift
there some 16 years previously.
MY POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We find in this little book nothing of the somewhat
elsewhere "and ” style of verse we hav e met with
better of’it d^ a y 7 10V6 / 01 - P? etl 'N will think all the
Booklover t- ~ Sample of criticism from the Melbourne
I want to sing a slender song
Of tender little things,
To help my pretty life along
On gently-restless wings.
I do not tell how heroes die,
Nor sing of crimson stars
Set splendid in a midnight sky ;
Nor rhyme of prison bars.
I write of little Willie Boy,
Of Mary Jane’s pet lamb,
And how Poor Jimmy smiled with joy
To get his bread and jam.
For me no roaring billows crash
Upon Che shifting sand,
No bush fires, red and raging, dash
Wild through the stricken land.
This is a nice neat sort of verse,
Writ plain for any girls
Who love to hear how dear old nurse
Fnpapered Cyril’s curls.
It is a burbling rhyme for you
Who love a listless strain ;
And may I never, never do
Such sorry work again.
vio.
FRANR HKNTY.
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES’
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE.
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE.Mn
Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that illus.
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
LEEMING 5 BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at I & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
The Most Comfortable and Best Appointed Hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere,
Proprietress.
MRS. MACLURCAN
THE “BEST“NATURAL APERIENT WATe”
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
( Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water .
CAUTION.-
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
RUBBER 1
HEELS. I
“ Flite ” Rubber Heels
are manufactured by Barnei Tp
Glass & Co., founders of the 'll
Rubber Industry in Australia. They
five unusual comfort to the feet, are
made of finest Para Rubber, and are
lighter and more springy than the
ordinary rubber heel.
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR THE ....
“Special FLITE” Quality.
It is distinguished by a label on
the outside of the Box marked
‘•SPECIAL” and a RED DISC
on the back of the heel itself.
And when you ask for
“ SPECIAL FLITE ”
see that you get
Special “FLITE."
i
BARNET CLASS AND CO.,
85 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, and
226 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
npHE BULLETIN POST CAP DS- New
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is :
Packet of Ton, lOd.
Don’t
mu;. Hi ivmmm
“DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or Younrf. —.
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dangerous things for you to “doctor”
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent.
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
j case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
'
Write ix s the
History of
Your Case and
We will ad-
vise you Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
young 1 , whether you have
the
electric;;
BRINGS BACK
■lost
been deaf long- or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
I the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE WILE
| you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly' were deaf, and who
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon’s Eleetricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because if
we can't Cure your case we will
say so at once.
That costs you nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-dav.
THE L. R. VERNON CO.
60-64 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH*
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.


Somewhere about the time Iceberg Irvine
was Premier—so long ago as to be almost forgotten
—a butcher’s cart collided with one of the lamp-
posts that adorned the entrance to Melbourne Law
Courts, and broke it off short. The butcher’s boy
drove on hastily. Presently the Public Works
Department, having “had its attention drawn,”
sent an inspector to view the disaster. Subse-
quently the broken post was removed, and given
«Way, or lost, or filed for reference, or something.
Then another inspector happened by, and, per- !
ceiving that some over-mellow lawyer or judge
might stumble against the stump and break his
leg or his conscience, ordered an old cement barrel
to be adjusted about the stump and whitewashed,
so that the unwary should not capsize themselves,'
The Works Department next tried to get the
City Council to replace the broken pillar, but the
Council said it didn’t use gas nowadays, and,
anyhow, the post was a mere private ornament
belonging to the Law Courts. The Works De-
partment pondered over the matter further, the
barrel getting no newer meanwhile; but, appa-
rently, it hasn’t the money for a new post, and it
doesn’t like to cut the stump right off and leave
the other part standing, lest the Halls of Justice
should look lopsided. All these' two years the
casual drunk has, therefore, humped against the
barrel, and the eternal small boy has given it a
casual kick to go on with, till the other day it fell to
pieces. Then the Department over which Ancient
Farmer Cameron presides girded up its loins, and
sent a man with a yard or two of wire to bind
together the staves of the barrel, in the hope that
they will last another year or so. It is no good
practising thrift unless you carry it out
thoroughly, and as that dilapidated barrel stands
for part of the permanent and reproductive assets
of the State, in a manner of speaking, it has got
to be taken care of.
| bpies’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
NEW COLORINGS Jl/ST LANDED.
Our Cutter, Mr. MurpHT, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style* cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
Ladies' Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
YOUR DOCTOR
f/
-r
\
’
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
rrnHE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
H plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us ill. TheiP prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS ! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doetor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life ; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength'to every organ, and
dr. molaughlin s electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It works while you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
SiuSdTn a mSSand nfade as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders
head or any other part of your bodv. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its'price is as low as m many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE McLAUQHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castiereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name -
Address
books you cant get elsewhere
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Aola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Oomic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics
Workshop Handybqok, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. AllTiießulletin series. Dr. Carver s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of P ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is bd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Goins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
a
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are ansAVered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youn<jand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information enibraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, Zs.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
r>ost How to Play Billiards, illustrated, is oa.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. lloyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australi an Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ui -
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts Puelic
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d, Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of; Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pF“ Established %5 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR'
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. ClOg Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SAPnio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and. Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
!■ posted. Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ANTI-
BILIOUS
. . it _ ma A P D iii in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
•• I do not hesitate to say it is the nest mauc p
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
0
#
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Wenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a A r aluable medicine, called Froo-
toids, lias been discovered, wliicb is
now completely curing each of tl!e
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, wliat is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
Permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid.y on the liver,
dyicklf cure bilious attacks that
antibilions pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids liave been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/0, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and z- whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
Illlliiiuiiiiiiiil
PURE, WHOLESOME
INVIGORATING-
“ 0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
■natural, wholesome, invig-
f orating, delicious —a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a winter
beverage.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Sydney :
Orme, Keigwin & Co.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Cray& Co.
Adelaide : Tolley & Co.
Fremantle : Tolley Ltd.
nor i wn '» K J
PUNCH
4
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. (id.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of Australian
books.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established is 49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City or Suburban Properties, or on
rcehold and C.P. (Combined),'Pastoral and Agricultural'Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent- of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
'h rectors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcoriibe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
EAT) OFFICE. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL addtd to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c>,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
m TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
i/eak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
■Will Cure the Nerves, Debility', Dost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and 14Tex>ves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
F3S nnn niIRE pill Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
ui-U&JKJ UUnt Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Ml no If Ufnmpn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WVCScIK HUIIICIi Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2. mans pstsm
Vo inlander's
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade. . .
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used b.v the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney,
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
RHEUMATIS
a
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY^
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
HOLLOWAY’S PIUS
©
©
©
<v
©
&
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ’’ or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords mo-«* welcome relief
in a very short time.
v
<s■
md OINTMENT
W ITL
CO u g
y 7
lx C
Take
ma**
A
POWELL; $
BALSAM OF ANISEED
Thu wonderful Remedy has stood the test for 80 years as the one Safe and Reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
and all THROAT AND LUNG TROUBLES.
It affords immediate relief and a speedy cure. Read the following proof of its efficacy—
The Revd. W.m. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle“ For the past twelve years I have
been iu the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your Balsam. I should not be
exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it iu preference to
auytuing else, and again and again it has cured me.”
Powells Balsam of Aniseed has proved itself to be the most effectual remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, etc., etc. A cold nipped in the bud has often saved a life, and there is no surer or safer
preventive from the serious consequences of a neglected cold than a few doses of this excellent prepare*
tion. It should be one of the first aids kept in the house.”— The Gentleman’s Journal.
Of all Chemists and Stores. Observe the Trade Mark on the outer wrapper.
Proprietors:—THOS. POWELL, Ltd., BLACKFRIARS, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland—
ELLIOT BROS., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, & Eagle Street, Brisbane.


iniKiiiirtiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiifiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriniiiiiiniiiiiuiiiiiiiniiiiiimiMiiiniimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiM
’***lB*®
2
U
v'-imm hi in i hi n i 1111:11
u .ii M I
1
J 5
II'US
ii
&
9
a
V-; =
5
it!
HI!!!
M'ff| : (( !!
!!"l;l! I!i
a
The Createst of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME.
THE ARTISTS’ MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow— not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim’s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer’s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Do not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
ME LB OURNE
ALLAN SfC? P^- P L°
2,76- 8 COL.L.IIMS ST
SYDNEY
W.H.PALING#C®H“
GEORGE S T
BILIOUSNESS.
If you recognise that the Liver is the sewage
farm of the body, you will see the
importance of its free action,
The blood is easily poisoned by morbid pro-
ducts formed within the body, and
delayed in excretion.
A lazy lively, is responsible for constipation,
the greatest disease —breeding disorder
of the body.
The retention of septic matter in the bowels
is a constant source of danger, affecting
blood and nerves.
The question is—How can we keep the liver
in order ?
According to the most distinguished medical
evidence, the Liver is amenable to
Kutnow’s Powder.
The Liver is responsive to the action of
Kutnow’s Powder, without the patient
being hardly aware of it.
Kutnow’s Powder is delightfully gentle, pain-
less, and soothing, but its beneficial
effect does not finish with the Liver.
It flushes the kidneys, cleanses the bladder,
regulates the bowels, clears and purifies
the whole alimentary canal.
No artificial remedy can supersede the
natural efficiency of Kutnow’s Powder,
it has an immediate effect.
It makes you feel relieved and gay ; you can
then put your heart into your work and
do your best.
It gives you vigor, and vigor is contagious,
furnishing untiring strength and vital
force.
An inactive Liver has a most depressing
effect on the temperament, but Kutnow’s
Powder quickly relieves the tension.
Kutnow’s Powder keeps every organ in the
body fit, free, and in thorough working
order, hence health follows as matter of
course.
THE LIVER
ITS USE AND ABUSE.
The Liver, like the Kidneys and other organs, is liable to
various acute and chronic diseases. It is the great wheel of
life’s machine ; it regulates the whole mechanism of man ;
when it works well—then every other gland and factor in the
system works well, and there is general good health. That is
the use of the Liver. The abuse is brought about by our
mode of living ; the consumption of rich food and alcoholic
stimulants is a conscious abuse ; we know it, but neglect to
arrest the damage by neutralising and correcting the mischief
until the liver becomes sluggish. The first sign of oncoming
disorder is headache, then a disagreeable taste in the mouth,
loss of appetite, biliousness, and constipation. The remedy
for this state of affairs is a dose of that famous Liver regulator,
Kutnow’s Powder. A desert spoonful in a glass of water,
before breakfast, acts like a refreshing bath on the whole
system ; it cleanses the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels,
and gets rid of the poisonous debris so injurious to health.
TO KEEP THE LIVER ACTIVE.
Perhaps you are not aware that the enjoyment of life
depends to a large extent on the healthy activity of the Liver.
If you wish to enjoy your food, to be able to digest almost
anything, take a few doses of Kutnow’s Powder, which rouses
the liver, flushes the food passages, clears away the sour
fermented debris, expels the surplus uric acid, and invigorates
the system.
A FAMOUS ROYAL ACADEMICIAN
WRITES :
“ 1 Abbey B.oad, St. John’s Wood, N.W.
“ I have used Kutnow’s Powder for the last five years, and it has
added to the pleasure of my life. I take a tablespoonful every morn-
ing when I rise, and find it a most refreshing drink. I have never
needed to increase the dose, and is has acted perfectly in assisting
Nature all this time. I am now strong and healthy, and give you
my experience, which may be useful,
“JOHN MacWHIRTER, ft. A.”
THE REMEDY.
Are you anxious to maintain the healthy
action of the liver and kidneys and to per-
manently eradicate constipation ? Then send
to the nearest chemist for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. This will set you right.
Dr. H. FORESTIER
WRITES :
“ Aix-les-Bains, Oct. 2nd, 1905.
“I have frequently prescribed Kutnow sPowder
for my patients, and always found it most useful
in uric aid troubles, Rheumatism and Oout. it
has also proved itself very beneficial in cases of
Constipation and Hemorrhoids. My experience,
both in hospital and private practice, shows that
Kutnow’s Powder greatly helps to correct faulty
tissue metabolism.
H. FORESTIER, M.D.”
(Physician to the Evangelical Hospital and the
Thermal Hospital of Aix-lex-Bains).
UNIVERSITY GRA DU A TE
WRITES :
“ 9 Belvidere Place, Dublin.
“ I feel bound to add my grateful testimony to
the merits of Kutnow’s Powder. Although
having no faith in any medicine for the habitual
and severe constipation I have suffered trom tor
nearly 20 years, I procured a bottle, its effect
was all that I could desire, bringing about a
gentle, natural action, almost unfelt, and leaving
the bowels in a healthy, natural state.
“F. W. BUTLER (8.A.).' 5
How to detect Fraudulent
Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which are
sometimes sold for a few pence less. T|'e purchawr,
through a misdirected spirit of economy, little thinks
that he is the mfrans of a direct incentive to fraud, ine
genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly
recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kubows,
which you can obtain at all conscientious chemi t
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature
“S. Kutnow and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Deep, are on t
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations
and know
How to get genuine Kutnow’s
Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.lL_ <w


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
•LONDON .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST,. WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & OO. 1
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30bh June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 6 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) ~ 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P. >
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts..
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
DDAUT6 |ID A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
UnHN I O Uliftr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
QOVERNriENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WAEES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged. ,
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, 1
P. E. WILLIAMS, VCommissioners.
W. H. O’M WOODJ
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,130,000 0 0
Reserve Liability . ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, 11. H. Massie,
Wl 11. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Col ni.y of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout Lne worM.
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. Tn.: Bulletin Office, Sydney
Sbipplng.
UNT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt/, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal j|ank of Queensland
LiniJTKl). “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
CUFIC (Cargo only) to sail about 15th
JUNE.
PERSIC , to sail about 12th JULY.
RUNIC , to sail about 9th AUGUST.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetow nor Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. IMI.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS ..
DAMASCUS
♦MILTIADES
R. B. Y. McKilliam I Noon, June 21
H. A. Schletnan .. I Noon, July 19
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 16
♦Twin Screw'.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable w'ith
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
3 HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
’
:*
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
i - ■
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Oeraldton, Albany, Carnarvon, Roeburne and Port
Credland.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, 'Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow',
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
THE
1111 IT Ell insurance
U N I I Cl m 3 CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000,
Fire Insurances effected on aii classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marins RisXs . • on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J.‘ Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide : L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OCEAN
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUNT) (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Direel ora: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., G.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IIED ROUTE.
The most attractive and
interesting route to Europe
is via Canada.
*Twin Screw.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS,
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
£? "Write for Particulars..^
UNlOw STEAM SHIP CO VIPA 'IY OF N.Z. LTD.
Miiiiiisriiiji Agents, George-sweet, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY T£RMS, y
WE
C#»
$
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
UNJ-.5.-W.
jljontdepieteO.«|i|.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Rabbit sKins.
We are CASH BUYERS for Export.
. Top Prices Guaranteed.—-No-Commission.
james fav, McDonald & co.
(Established 1589.)
C 4 Dalgroty Street, Miller's Point, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Riverina, Wednesday,
June 12.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, June 8.
S.S. Yongala, June 15.
Best and Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows i
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F|| Q FEDERAL-HOULDER—SHIRE CU C
aflada LINES r.lliOi
For LONDON and LIVERPOOL
(via Melbourne and Adelaide), calling at Durban to land
passengers.
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer—
ESSEX ,
11,400 Tons. T. Young:, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 12th JUNE, 1907
~ „ „ Melbourne ~ 17th „ „
~ „ „ Adelaide ~ 22nd „ „
Excellent Accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
Passengers.
The Saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The Third Class Accommodation comprises 2,4, and
8 berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main deck,
with dining saloon on the upper deck.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried.
FARES— SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
Durban .. .. £2O £10; £11; £l2
Capetown .. .. £22 10s £lO 10s ; £lllls ; £1212s
London & Liverpool £45 £l2 12s ; £l3 13s ; £l4 14s
To be followed at an interval of 28 days
by the Twin-screw Steamer—
DORSET,
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon ifield Parada
ST. KILDA.
rpllji Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
'■EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St,, Melbourne •
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel In Melbourne
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.


VICTORIA Kg
Collins & SwansfonSt! Melbourne^* -
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395&397 HaySK Perm
QUEENSLAND
Queen & Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
W6&143 Queen St. Auckland
18-3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
2365-233 H igh S* Christchurch^
Princes 8- DowlincjS*? Dunednrj
e
9
i
/
CORKER,GEORGE
tf*IVND
SYOH^j
ST
1
0000000000000
[fit’s from
[Stewart Dawsons
j its good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
You can order anything on this page with every confidence—if it
does not pfease you in every way, return it and get your money.
Your request for return of money is just like a cheque on a bank,
We pay postages and guarantee safe delivery. Catalogues Free,
No. H825—150t. Gold and Pine Pearl Scroll
Brooch, £llos
No. G446l—Strongly made Diamond and Ruby
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £3
No. G9oo3—Secret Photo.
Pendant, 9ct. Gold, £l l7s 8d
15ct. Gold and Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
No. G 6367 —15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond
Set Brooch, £2los
No. G7657—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Set Photo. Pendant, £2
Plain Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
No. G 9789 —15ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Set Brooch, £5 10s
15ct. Gold Single Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
Swan Fountain Fen.
All Solid Silver—Plain, 35s ; Chased, 455. .
18ct. Gold-Filled—Plain, £2 ; Chased, £2 10s each, in Case.
No. G 6006. —15ct. Gold Two-bar and Filigree
Brooch, £1 ss.
No. G9395.—15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Brooch, £2.
No. G9922.—501id Silver Full Size Penholder, 10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6d.
No. G733l.—Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold and Greenstone Heart,
£1 7s 6d ; Plain Greenstone
Hearts, 11/6, 13/6,16/6, 17/6.
IiIMMIM!
tfl
mwßiiMßjiMMg
No. G7913.—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, New Style, £4.
Gold King’, Half-
Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s.
No. G 9755. —15ct. Gold and
Pearl Safety Pin, 30s.
No. F 5419 —2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires,
ISct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold and Dia-
mond Engagement
Bing, £l2 10s.
No. G92Bo—Faceted Link and Chased
No. F3 —15ct. Gold Rope Bar and Ball Muff Chain, £9 10s.
9ct., £5.
No. G9IS3 —Set. Gold Faceted Secret Link Muff Chain, £4 4s
No. G2s2o—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, £2 17s 6d.
No. H6l3 —18cfc Gold,
Diamond & Sapphire
Bing, £2 10s.
NO.FB7JB—lBcfc.Gold,
Gem Set, 5 Row
Bing, £7 7s.
Special Value Solid Silver
Match Box, 7s 6d.
Initials or Name, Is extra.
w\
/
*
Sr
X eWA«T DfiWSß(*4
\
\
The Waterbury Watch for Men, Keyless,
Nickel Short Wind, 10s 6d.
No. G67s6—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Heart, £2 ss.
No. G6996—Lovely
Sapphire Sec 15ct. Gold
Locket, £3 10s.
Keyless Steel Lever Watch, Durable and
Accurate, £1 ss.
®fo. G6742—9ct. Gold, Pearl and
Amethyst New Style Necklet,
Hi ; others, 455, 90s, 105 s.
No. F4B37—Pearl and Turquoise Studded 9ct.
Hold Heart and Necklet, £4 10s.
No. G67s4.—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, £1 103.
No. G3B76—Fine Pearl
and Amethyst Pendant,
set in 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
No H2o72— Nursery Rhyme Child’s Silver-plated
Oup. Sensible Style ; Substantial, and not
easily upset, 9s 6d.
The Grecian Key Gold Mounted Back Comb,
255. Other Styles, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s.
No. llls7l—Solid
Silver Vase. s£in.,
129 6d ; 6iin., 14/6.
Case of Solid Silver Hair Brush and Comb,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
No. G942B—The Thistle Sugar and Cream Stand
Best Silver-plate, £2 10s.
Ml
wamm
* *
Silver-Mounted Shaving
Tidy, 10s 6d.
When You Visit London!
Meet Your Friends and
Fellow Australasians at
ONE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART *J?®’
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any budding, anywhere devoted to tn y
hnsinoss Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of a le
„ , S"f a S g they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
Ofnxirnni C! thp least a Bureau where YOU can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at tlm Australian and blew Zealan P a P •
016 W3PI UdWlSUll Of Sds convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
19, 20
& 21 Hatton Garden, E.C. will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


(226)
A Chance of a
Lifetime !!
You ought to have a Land Roller!
You ought to have a Good One!
You ought to get it NOW when you can
secure it at a bargain !
THE “ I INTERNATIONAL”
Is the one that has had by far the largest
sale. Contains all the latest improve-
ments Pressed steel heads enclosing
drums Removable bushings Com-
bination pole and shafts, etc.
EVERYONE SOLD has given the HIGHEST SATISFACTION.
Holds such a high place In the trade that one of our com-
petitors has complimented us by “originating** a roller
VERY like It.
Sizes—2 section, 26 In. diameter, width 8 ft.
3 ~ ~ „ ~ „ If „ •
SPECIAL PRICES for June, ’O7, orders only
S ft. —£9 5 O lift. £l3 lO O
EXTRAORDINARY TERMS: —£2 10 O cash with order and
balance of price by p/n due February 1, *OB, no interest. Or
for cash with order 8 ft., £8 lO O; 11 ft., £l2 10 O.
DELIVERY F. 0.8. trucks at any of the cities printed below.
UNUSUAL GUARANTEE : If roller isn’t entirely satisfactory
you can return to us, in good order, within one week of de-
livery, you pay one freight and we the other, we refunding all
cash paid by you and returning your p/n’s.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
Agents throughout Australasia*
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide.
Launceston, and
Christchurch.
Homoeopathy
HOMOEOPATHY
MEANS health
V tf™ 081 : ILL-HEALTH!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY?
For a number of ye airs we Have expert-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts Have met witH unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to s tate that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, <Sito:inacH
and Diver Troubles,
Rheumatism, (£b Allied
Complaints, Pro static
Secret
0f...
Health
Affedions, Etc., are completely and permanently cored by
Patients living at a di stance, who wish
to give the HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMCEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner,; in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated :—“ Homoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS OF
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunea
SINGLETON' S EYE OINTMENT:
In use since 1596.
mm
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weal; Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth ltoad, London, Eng.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Oserine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
and 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OP ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
Id he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TUEIVt, Tc.
PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
JSotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
PEARS
aah&iwod _
aooorn
[i
DO YOU PREFER
GRAND OPERA
OR RAG-TIME MUSIC?
Some people think it is a waste of time to listen to any-
thing but Grand Opera; others consider rag-time the one
supreme proof of a Phonograph's ability to entertain, while
others again have an ear only for sentimental songs.
That is why the range of the genuine
Edison
Gold-Moulded
Records
extends all the way from the sublime to the ridiculous, and
back again. Whatever your individual taste may be there
are Edison Records to exactly suit it. Let us prove this to you.
Just fill in and mail this Coupon, and we will send you our
List of Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OP AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please send the Complete Catalogue of Genuine Edison Phono-
graps and Gold-Moulded Records to
O course, to get the best re-
sults, you must be sure to
secure the genuine Edison. Mr.
Edison thinks so much of their
high quality, that he has his
name printed on each, like this
TRADE
Ct £dv&on~
MARK.
That is how you can tell the Genuine.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
'I
sapl
%
egaai
%
jag*
'S
'Ol
s@s


Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Num ” : In a recent Bulletin, reference was
made to the dugong as an edible commodity, as if it
were something new. I tasted dugong at* the time
of the big Melbourne Exhibition of ’BB. Among the
exhibits of the Queensland Court were some from a meat-
preserving co., which made a specialty of indigenous pro-
ducts. I had three tins from that court—turtle,
b6che-de-mer, and dugong—and the dugong was by far
the best of the lot. I believe the company went bung
later on, but it deserved to live long and prosper. The
meats were potted in splendid style, and, with sufficient
capital behind it, that concern should have worked up a
big export trade. In London, Paris, New York, and other
epicurean centres, there ought to be an immense sale for
potted products of this description, provided they are
well turned out and attractively presented.
* * * *
The possibilities of “ the Universal Provider ” !
Mr. Sam Hordern told N.S. VV. Arbitration Court that a
bonus of Id. in the £ on gross takings, paid to his em-
ployees, cost him between £6OOO and £BOOO a year.
Seeing that the employees must sell £240 worth of goods
before earning £1 bonus, it follows (240 x 7000 —the happy
medium) that Hordern’s have an approximate yearly
turnover of £1,680,000! Assuming nett profits are
5 per cent, (a pretty low estimate), there shows £84,000 a
year. Let us all be universal providers.
* * * *
Phil Goatcher has put some fine art into the
decoration of Singer and Co.’s new show-room, in Mel-
bourne, at the corner of the Block Arcade. The ceiling
has some capital work in the drawing and arrangement
of allegorical figures, single and grouped, and the deli-
cate color scheme. This is Melbourne’s first experience
of business show-rooms made beautiful to the upturned
eye, and it promises to create a demand for more.
Goatcher, by the way, has accepted a commission to
paint an advertisement curtain for Melbourne Royal,
when Meynell and Gunn take possession, the advertisers
contracting with agent Fred B. Norton, to leave the
decorative design to the artist’s discretion.
A Melbourne bank sustained a serious shock,
the other day. Away back in 1853 a committee raised
£llO to furnish a public school at Pentridge. Not being
wanted just then, the money was deposited in the bank ;
and when the State took over the school, everybody
seems to have forgotten all about the £llO. The hank
also made no loud remarks about it. But, the other day,
one of the original committee recalled the circumstance,
and incited the Education Department to demand the
deposit, with interest. The bank nearly collapsed. The
idea of demanding interest on what was obviously a
current account was preposterous. (Besides, the com-
pound interest on £llO for 54 years would amount to a
surprising sum.) After very slight argument, the depart-
ment accepted its principal, leaving the interest to the
bank. No doubt, nominally the bank was right; looked
at that way, it never knew what moment the money
might be asked for, and therefore couldn’t invest it.
Still the circumstance suggests that banks might be re-
quired to supply a list of current accounts that haven’t
been operated on for, say, 10 years, and hand the balances
over to a public trustee. It is cruel to keep a bank
in suspense for more than 10 years.
* * *
Private enterprise in the dairying industry has
been running a little swindle of its own on the North
Ooast (N.S. YV.). Several dairymen, profiting by the
Queensland demand for stock, have been selling their
culls and mongrels to the northern buyers, and supply-
ing pedigrees as long as a bull’s tail. ' It almost serves
the purchasers right. They mostly belong' to the species
who will not combine in their own interests, and pay
something towards a herd book. At the same time,
another gaol ceil or two ought to be occupied by the
swindlers.
* * * *
There is a spud Trust in Sydney, robust and
aggressive. It is composed of the large dealers and the
agents, who have combined to squeeze the little green-
grocer and the customer. The small retailer may, of
course, buy on the wharves, but he must bid for a ton—
and a ton of spuds to him is an impossibility. So he buys
through the Trust—good old Trust.
* * « *
“Quidam”: Have just, here in Victoria, pur-
chased a pound of butter, on which is a label stating that
“ this butter contains 17£ grains of boraeic acid to the
pound.” If this is a result of Socialism, more power to it!
The more the habit spreads of telling the consumer what
he is dropping into his innards the better. When the
practice extends to beer and temperance drinks the public
will get some surprises. “ This is lemonade, made from
sulphuric acid and water,” is a label that would bring
joy to many a heart and save many a stomach a pain.
Lemonade is a personal matter with me, as my veracity
has been severely questioned by several teetotallers to
whom I have mentioned that I always, when skipping
from one auriferous sand-heap to another, dispose of
any sulphuric acid left over from cyaniding operations by
selling it to the nearest aerated water factory for
“ lemonade.” A label to vindicate me is badly wanted.
• s- •
“ J.Gr.” : I was once bitten by the shares-system
curse. I read a glowing advt. of an orchard and vineyard
to be let on shares, and I nibbled at the bait. Wrote to
the agent, and received an armful of type-written docu-
ments containing the terms and conditions. These set
out that the orchard, house, vineyard, etc., would be let
for three years, on shares. The lessee had to pay to the
owner for the first year one-third of the net proceeds,
while for the second and third years the owner had to get
one-half. With a glad heart I interviewed the owner,
who was a big potentate in a Vic. inland city, and an ex-
mayor, and an unsuccessful aspirant for Parliament. He
greeted me as a long-lost brother, and said that he was
glad I was taking the place, and he didn’t care a damn
whether it paid him or not, so long as I made a good
thing out of it. Asked him about the agreement. “ Oh!”
he said, “ you know my terms. Just you shift into the
place as soon as you like, and come in the day after, and
we’ll sign the paper.” I promptly shifted in with my
furniture and the missus and the kids. Then I went to
the owner’s place to sign the agreement. I was then
informed that the tremendous personage was away in
Melbourne, and would not be home for about a month. Sol
commenced work in the orchard, ploughing and pruning,
etc. It was June when I took the place, just as all the
work was to be done, and no income to be obtained for
some months. Tried to catch the owner at home to sign
agreement, but repeatedly failed to do so, he flitting be-
tween Melbourne, Bendigo, Sydney, and other places.
Was told by his agent to go on working, as it would be all
right when the mammoth capitalist came back. Kept
working for several months, until just as the earliest fruit
began to be saleable. Then got a note from the owner
saying he was home, and I was to go in and sign the
agreement;. Went in, and his lawyer read over the
document to me. One of the clauses stated that if I
wished to terminate the agreement, I had to give six
months’ notice, but that the owner could terminate it by
giving me 24 hours’ solemn warning. I said that the owner
could go to blazes before I would sign such a lop-sided
deed, and pointed out that I might put in nine months’
work for no return, and just as the fruit harvest was
commencing be turned out at 24 hours’ notice. The up-
shot was a row and a law case. I stuck to the place (un-
der legal advice) for a month or two longer. Then the
owner got an ejectment order against me, and next day
a cop. pitched my goods and chattels into''the atmos-
phere.
* * * *
“Eungella” : In a certain Sydney suburb,
such trifles as blue metal, stray sleepers, scrap iron and
fence rails require chaining down for safety. Quite re-
cently, Mr. Blash Bank, observing part of the tram-line
railing to be in disrepair, made a mental note of the fact,
and called again about 8 p.m. with the intention of carry-
ing it home and giving it a coat of paint or something,
but—it was gone 1 Some other benevolent bloke had
been too dashed previous. Next evening some more
fence needed repairs, and Dank, promptly shouldering a
section, turned to discover Blink, a neighoor, eyeing him
with malevolence. He had bad designs on that fence
himself, and was quite impolite about it. While the
argument was proceeding, Oddson strolled tip and
remarked with painful astonishment that the other
two were not gentlemen. “ Here’s me,’’ said he, “been
readyin’ up that blistered fence for weeks, and now youa
dashed cows have the dashed front to steal it /*'
* * * *
“ Agricola ”: lam living away back from Syd-
ney 347 miles, and 30 miles from the railway. Coveting
some lemons, I left an order with pur nearest store-
keeper, 15 miles away, for a couple of dozen. A month
later, the lemons, the bill, and an apology for undue
delay arrived all together. The bill said 2s. a dozen.
Each of the precious articles was neatly wrapped in
tissue paper, with a frill like Joseph’s coat at one end.
Each wrapper bore the following gibberish : “ Placido
Costa, Messina, Italy.” It hurts me to think I must con-
sume Dago lemons, but lemons I must consume, and the
local product will not eventuate. • Now I am Parramatta
bred, and know a lemon from a cauliflower, and I am
willing to oath my hardest that these Dago lemons would
not bring 6d. a dozen in competition with good Parra-
mattas, for they are small and dry. But then they are
imported, and that makes up for the delay, the dearness,
the dryness, the frill, the gibberish—everything.
* * » *
For incongruous pathos this advt. scores :
“ Remember well, and bear in mind—
A faithful friend is hard to find ;
When one has proven staunch and true,
Change not the old one for the new.
As with friends, so with Manures ! ”
Then follows an exhortation of deep earnestness, never
to forsake Ooosthis’s Odoriferous Offal, a farmers’ friend
than stinketh closer than a brother.
* • » *
In London the swell pawnbroker does not issue
a “ ticket.” It is a “ contract note,” stating the amount
lent, and the date of payment, and the interest charg-
able. When Mrs. Sykes, of Seven Dials, pops the flat-
iron for the price of a pint, she gets a “ ticket.” When
Lord Muck spouts the family jewels, he gets a “contract
note.”
* * * *
“ Cecil P.” : Re the output of salt from the
lagoons on Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.) and the chance of
their giving out (B. 25/4/’O7). The central State possesses
other sources of supply of immense magnitude. “Lakes ”
Gairdner, Torrens, and the many other ancient sea beds
are covered with an enormous saline deposit from the
water they once held. And considering that several
stretch far beyond the horizon—even if seen from
30ft. or 40ft. above their level—the size of the
possible supply may be imagined. The southern end
of Lake Torrens is not far from a railway. Why doesn’t
some local poet hymn the grandeur of these “lakes”?
Bursting on them through the scrub, and seeingtthem
stretch, in blinding white, beneath the blazing sun, one
gets an impression of a sea—majestically frozen to silence
in mid-summer. And in moonlight their weird beauty is
even more bewitching. By the way, they must strongly
resemble the lunar plains under immediate observation.
THE POETICAL LINENDRAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Apollo Byron Dimity
Deplored the cruel destiny
Which had decreed that he should be
Condemned to measure laces,
To sell soft goods of every hue—
Of pink and yellow, green and blue—
When in his soul he longed to woo
The Muses and the Graces.
But, every hour when trade was slack,
To Olympian heights his soul flew back,
Stretching its wings along the track
That leads from Earth to Heaven.
Yet, as his soul flew heavenwards
To seek the muses and the bards,
Some wretch would want “ A dozen yards
Of silk, at one-and-seven.”
Yet still Apollo’s soul would be
Declaiming with Calliope,
Or frowning with Melpomene
In ancient Macedonia ;
Floating on foam-tipped waves with Venus,
Fleeing in dread from Polyphemus,
Roaming with Romulus and Remus
In primitive Latonia.
“ Alas !” he said, “ for Tully’s voice
Or Virgil’s lay (the first for choice)
To make my panting soul rejoice
With classic story thrilling.
To roam with Gray near shady pool,
Where willows cast their shadows cool—
Yes, Miss. It’s guaranteed all wool.
The re.nnant is a shilling.
“ ’Tis pure as was the Golden Fleece
That Jason bore to ancient Greece.
I’ve trimmings, too, to match the piece,
In all the late devices.
I’ve fabrics from Athena’s loom,
Like those which wrought Arachne’s doom.
They must be sold, to make more room,
At lowest bedrock prices.
“ See ! Here are ribbons, flowers and lace
That Juno’s stately form would grace.
The flowers that crowned Ophelia’s face
Were not more chaste and fine, Miss.
The lat.-st style of velveteen,
In heliotrope and mauve and green,
A raiment fit for Egypt’s Queen ;
Marked down to one and nine, Miss.”
The lady’s face was fair to view,
Her cheeks were pink, her eyes were blue,
Her hair was of a golden hue;
Her smile was sweet and tender.
Apollo Byron Dimity
Had nothing seen so fair as she.
He tried to find a simile
For one so young and slender.
He thought of, “ Brides of Ancient Song.”
Of how, “ the throstle whistled strong,”
And how, “ the sparhawk wheeled along,”
When Guinevere was riding.
He marked her rosy blushes rise,
When, with a glance of sweet surprise,
She praised his hooks, and then—his eyes,
In manner quite confiding.
He tried to please that maiden fair
With ribbons, silks and laces rare,
With dainty frills and underwear,
And many things not stated.
“ Behold ! Sweet maid,” said Dimity,
“ I’ll sell thee silks of Araby,
And cut them down to one and three 1 ”
Yet still she hesitated.
“ ’Twas sweetly good of you,” said she,
“ To take all these things down for me.”
“ I’d gladly do much more,” said he,
“ To win that smile of pleasure.
I knew, I knew, it could nob last.
’Twas bright, ’twas heavenly, bub ’tis past.
The color in these prints is fast.
And all are extra measure.”
“ If you can change this note,” said she,
“ I think I’ll take some—Dimity.
Three yards at five, is one and three.
(A five-pound note she tended)
He counts the change. Four—eighteen—nine,
Their fingers meet. Her bright eyes shine.
“ Ah ! me,” he sighed, “ what hopes were mine !
But now, the vision’s ended.”
Into her hand the change he pressed,
Her taper fingers he caressed,
He rolled his eyes. Then smote his chest.
“Ye Gods ! What pangs I suffer ! ”
She went. With grief his boson: swelled,
He kissed the note her hand had held.
Then, rushing from the shop—he yelled, •
“ Stop thief!!! The note’s a duffer.”
N.s. w.
THOS. E. SPENCKK.
LEADING
Hotel Australia,
Sydney.
Gentlemen,
Permit me to say_ that I find
Peps exceedingly valuable for the
th oat and voice. I have used
them before and after my con-
certs, and I know of nothing
better to relieve huskiness and
prevent sore throat I have much
pleasure in recommending Peps
as a safe, p'easant and convenient
remedy to all who, like myself,
value a clear voice.
Yours sincerely,
Marie Narelle.
There is Nothing
so safe and sure a household
remedy for Coughs and Colds
as Peps, which bring the great
virtues of the Pine to every
home. As they dissolve pleas-
antly in the mouth the fumes
strengthen every weak part.
Peps are obtainable from chem-
ists or stores at t/6 per box, or post
free for same price direct from The
Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
• •
• •
PRAISE PEPS
The Pine-Air Cure for Coughs, Colds, Sore or
Relaxed Throat, Huskiness, Bronchitis,
and all Chest and Lung* Affections.
ITIHE great value of Peps for the throat and voice is once more
emphasised by the praise bestowed upon them by two of
our favorite vocalists, viz.: Miss Florence Young, of the Royal
Comic Opera Co., and Miss Marie Narelle, Australia’s gifted
soprano. In addition, Peps received the highest commendation
from all parts of the world as to their sterling and genuine
merits in the prevention of huskiness, sore throat or chill, con-
sequent upon over-strain of the vocal chords, and the cure of
Coughs, Colds, Throat Troubles, Bronchitis, Asthma, Influenza,
and ailments of the chest and lungs. Peps bring the pure
healing breath of the pine forest to the rescue, enabling the
sufferer to inhale the balsamic pine essences direct into the fine
air passages of the throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs
when dissolved on the tongue or crushed in
the mouth. They never fail
to bring relief.
&
A
Wvmf'
in
Grand Hotel.
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,
I have very much pleasure in
informing you that X use Peps
regularly and find them exceed-
ingly valuable for the throat and
voice. They certainly have been
of great benefit to me in prevent-
ing huskiness and strengthening
the throat and voice. I have
pleasure in recommending them
to singers and speakers as a
pleasant remedy for such affec-
tions.—Yours faithfully,
Florence Young.
FREE TO YOU.
Test the great value of
Peps by sending id stamp
to the Peps Pastille Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
when a FREE Sample
will be sent you by return
mail.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
JShe LEADING
HOUSE
FOR
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
front our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental” D.B.B.L. Ejector Gur
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
of 12-gauge, 6f to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6£lb. Post Free, 1Q«?
CO
llnHlmil ll illMil
Ud
Famous Remedy for*
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never, been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc ,lly.
NOTICE.
—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act.
the youngest child and the most aged person.
It is equally beneficial for
FOK
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT ..
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
«d REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES-*
WHEN YOU
are about to buy a new bicycle
it is time to learn all about
B.S.A
FITTINGS
Send at once for the ‘B.S.A.
HANDBOOK. It is Free
and is most interesting, . . .
Apply to H. E. Wootton, 46, Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, representing
SCHOLEFIELD, GOODMAN & SONS.
POLIO if tor the OOIVtMON WEALTH
Price, fld.
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’ worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILE BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you 50 of our Better Class picture post cards. Everybody wants
picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 50 cards for your own use, you have plenty of
friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of. Send
your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed envelope. In writing, state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., 5 Angel Place, Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
dinneforW
MAGNESIA
The
MISSES
I Q /\ A (Bate with . . .
I V# Miss Van Brakkel;,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - IAI HINfl ST SYnWW
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.~3KI TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
MmrKr’ salable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES. TAILS, TOILET
REQU 10l 1 IIS , and iin stock. Ladies* Homes visited. Combings made up.
r , . °*°£ RS BY POST PROMPTLY a TTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Pergonal attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
THE BEST AND
Purest Medicik"
EVER MADE.
Don’t be without a bottle. Too
will not regret it. Tr.y it to-day.
What makes you tremble so?
Tour Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses havq caused.
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
preparations which stimulate only to
DESTROY. If you have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Doh’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction
one in favour of the bearer, so advertis-
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success —therefore
—T give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasingany; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, ana I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Fits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy— approved by tne
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT#
45, Museum St, Bloomsbury* tonrfoff* :
England.
Send !/• for parcel postage to t.h»CpfanjCT»^


The Joy of Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE starved my day, and have known
bad luck; I have drudged as the
meanest drudge ;
But I set my face to the Forward Path, and
from it I did not budge !
I have spilt my sweat in the rolling-mill; I have
toiled at the flaming forge ;
And my axe has made the great gums thrill ere
they crashed in the mountain-gorge.
In the red-screened shade of the fever-ward I
have fought my fights with Death,
But I cried “Good luck to the rolling world!”
with my faintest, dearest breath.
I knew that the man with a steadfast heart need
not go down in the race,
So I fought my fight with a constant smile and
never a sullen face.
Aye, I did not whine in my poverty, and I did
not quit the strife ;
For my heart vibrated with the chords of the Song
of the Joy of Life !
In the toil and sweat of my younger days I knew
that a time would come
When I’d press the throat of the thing called Fate
with a master’s despot thumb.
And to-day I say, in a ringing line of proud,
exultant truth,
That success is sure for the heart that throbs with
the spirit of living youth !
Ha ! the Joy of Life is a splendid thing, and blest
is the heart that beats
With the rolling lilt of its melody in the bush or
the city’s streets.
I have hewn my way as a man must hew, and my
gaze goes forward still,
And I want all the world to march with me and
to work with a rigid will !
Aye, I want to march with a standard fresh, and
the music of drum and fife,
And to lead a legion whose battle-hymn is the
Song of the Joy of Life !
For the girls are good to a man, I find, if a
genuine Man he be,
And I kiss now the hands of womankind as a
pledge of my fealty.
For no man lives but a woman’s love may better
his talents yet —
Aye, may help him on to the distant star where
his heart’s desire is set.
They may sneer at Love in the smoking-rooms
where the sapless cynics dwell,
But the man who knows not the sweets of Love
is a monk in a dead man’s cell.
The weft of dreams is the golden hair that shines
on a woman’s head,
And I know no joy like a girl’s glad kiss when the
sun is sinking red.
By that mother of mine who gave me birth, by my
sister and someone’s wife,
I say that a woman’s far-reaching love makes
much of the Joy of Life !
And this is the message I bring to you—you may
heed it or leave it alone—
Lo, the man with a steadfast goal in view, that
man is a king on a throne !
If the gods have given him health and strength—
let the sails of Ambition fill !
He is bound to drive to success at last by the
force of his own strong will !
If he does not sink in the ditch of Drink —if he
scorns to complain at Fate,
He will win his way to the top, I say—and will
earn each failure’s hate.
They will sneer and jeer as he passes by—as I
trust they will sneer at me—
There was never a sneer I cared for yet, and
contempt is gratis and free.
So disdain the tribe, young painter or scribe, and
push on while your brain is rife ;
You will reach success in the eim, I guess—so
have faith in the Joy of Life !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Seance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEING new at the game, I join the
“circle” with some awe.
There is a sprinking of girls present,
stifling hysterical giggles. They have come to
hear, if possible, of a “boy.” Madame Lotta,
the Medium, according to report, is in touch with
a kind of Spiritual Matrimonial Agency, which
supplies all prizes—no blanks —and all the
prizes are “boys.” Several grey-beards, bor-
dering on senility, are also here. While
awaiting communication with the spirit plane
they chaffer together of politics and dodder
faintly around on decayed legs. The majority of
us, however, are reserved-looking matrons, to
whom “the Seance” is the only dissipation left.
It is stimulating, and we are after stimulation as
men are after liquor. Yet we faded Eves all
lead, in the eyes of our neighbors, a decorous and
orthodox and utterly dreary existence. So we
shrink further into our wraps at each opening of
the door. 'We may be known to the new arrivals
—old Mrs. Perkins, perchance, who occupies the
opposite pew in church. True, it is hardly pos-
sible for one faded matron to inform on another
if both are at the same business, but we do not
want to meet Mrs. Perkins, all the same.
The circle being now enlarged to payable dimen-
sions, a girl sidles round with a plate, collects our
sixpences and disappears. Again we wait. Pre-
sumably Madame is counting the takings.
Presently she enters —a bulky, prosaic person-
age. We salute respectfully. The greybeards
put palsied fingers behind their ears and prepare
to catch every golden syllable.
Turning the gas low (either for the better woo-
ing of coy spirits or for economy), she asks us to
join in singing “Nearer my God to Thee,” and
starts off with gusto. We obey, though sheepishly,
being ashamed of the sound of our own voices.’
One old. woman, for no apparent reason, weeps
noisily into her shawl. After a sycophantic
prayer, in which our “sympathy and love” are
called. for, we sing another dirge and bow to an
“Invisible Presence,” one “ Tommy-ok,” who is
introduced to us as the Medium’s “ Guide,”
and an Indian gentleman of rank and education.
He is supposed to be dead.
These preliminaries over, the Medium goes
into convulsions, thence into a trance, and the
spirit of Tommy-ok enters into possession.
He rises to her or his or both their feet, and
addresses us in a voice of infantile sweetness and
the mixture of market-garden Chinese, black-
fellow, Italian fish-vendor, and Collingwood slang
which one naturally expects from a highly edu-
cated Indian gentleman of rank. “ Gooda-night,
frens,” he says, “ I hass bin gladda see you looka
so O.K.—so ’appy—you feeler all li, eh ? ”
None say him nay, so he gets to work.
“Gimme ’and,” he says, and grabs the paws of
an old lady suffering from cold in the head.
“Brigbta spirit ’ere ; name James. You know
James, eh?”
“Jabes—dough, I cad’t rebeb-ber Jabes.
You’re sure, Guide, it’s dot Jade. By daughter
Jade is od the spirit piaffe these bady years.
She passed out with spasabs.”
There is silence awhile, the inference being
that the Guide is subjecting the bright visitant to
a searching examination. This is evidently the
case, for in infantile and charming surprise he
presently exclaims : “W’y, ’ow stupit of me—it
is a female spirit, but so bright-a, so —so shiny
dat she dazzle —she confuse me. You unnetstan’,
eh ? ”
“Perfectly,” answers the lady with the cold in
the head. “Ad has Jade got rid a’ those spasabs
id the kid-deys ? ”
“Ah, yes,” says Tommy-ok, in shocked sur-
prise. “Don’t 1 tell-a you she shine —she ’appy ! ”
“ Well, I’b glad to hear id. Ad would Jade
advise me to take thad work thad’s offered me?
I’ve a feelig id’s bedder left alode.”
She pauses, the better to sneeze, and Tommy-ok
confers professionally and in silence with the
glistening Presence.
Jane does not think well of the job. “She
say don’ touch-a de work. She say evil come—
plenty —she”
“Just whad I expected,” interrupts Jane’s
mother. “ Nod but whad I could give satisfac-
tiod, ” she adds, with dignity. “ Id’s the fabily I
dod’t care to bix with.”
She shows signs of holding the floor at length,
but Tommy-ok cuts her short. “ Good-a night,
fren’,” he says. “Lot fren’ spile—must get a
move on—Gor bless-a you.”
He passes on, leaving the radiant Jane’s mother
sniffing.
“You got-a pain’ere ? ” inquires the Indian of
rank of the next lady. He indicates his kidneys
(or rather the medium’s).
“N-no.”
“Then who in your’ouse has pain? Ve-ery
bad pain—plenty worry —mak-a ’eem scratch de
’ead an’ tink ? ”
“ Would it be his mother ? ” inquires the elderly
matron timidly. “ She complains incessantly ;
she always has a grievance.”
“Dat’er. Dereseemsold gentleman’ere —spirit.”
(“Father-in-law,” interjects the elderly one.)
“’E give cure for pain. ’E say, ' Let ’er eat
plenty callot an’ leek ; let ’er swaller mustard an’
oil, an’ let ’er smell de raspberry leaf—plenty.’
You can get them for 6d. a box better than the
imported, by mentioning my name at Brown and
Co.’s. At least-a (suddenly) de medium’s name,
an’ de patient she soon well now —all li.”
Guide now changes the subject by asking,
“You know John ? ”
“John? N-no.”
“It seem old spirit—’e stroke your’air. Now
’e kiss you.”
The lady considers, and has an inspiration.
“I knew an old person of the name of John-
son,” she murmurs. “He supplied me with fish
at one time, but he wouldn’t kiss me twice if I
knew it; he seldom washed.”
“Dat ’im,” says Tommy-ok, triumphantly.
“No class-a distinctions on de plane—he send
you blessing. Good-a night.”
Keeping a friendly interest in the medium’s
welfare, he recollects that her last tram goes at
10 o’clock, and starts to hustle warily. He is
vagueness itself, for to be definite means danger.
Flitting here and there, it seems, are very brilliant
spirits. Among them Tommy-ok gathers bright
futures for us all. He inundates us with most
inartistic falsehoods. He “seems” to see journeys
by rail and ocean, “seems” to see work for our
numerous unemployed, husbands for the lonely,
and widowhood for the weary and disillusioned.
He introduces shadows to the girls—all “boys,”
and yearning to propose. If these “boys ”do not
tally with any “boys” at present in hand,
they change till they do. Three “boys” are
identified in seven minutes.
No detail concerning the shadowy swains is too
commonplace to mention. “ Some,” to quote the
Indian gentleman of education, are “on their
own ” ; others work, as yet, for employers. Some
are “quite de gentleman,” others are wearing
blue ovor-alls. Tommy-ok seems to see in these
either butchers or boiler-makers. This amazingly
transparent roguery is mostly taken seriously.
Any sceptical inquiries are rapidly passed over or
lost in the rush of new spirits.
“ Ham I a-doin’ right,” inquires a grey-beard,
“by settin’ a-studyin’ my Bible and refusin’ my
vittles like I do ? ”
“Yes—you man of brain —you tink,” answers
Tommy.
“Would I becor.. a meejum?” he inquires
further. “By persooin’ my hideas, would I
develop power?” Here his asthma seizes him
violently and gets him down, and he appears to
be at the last gasp. %
“You’ave ’ealing power in de finger tips,’
Tommy-ok assures him, “ an’ if you join the
developing class I am form —a,t least-a de medium
is forming a class-a—you fall in trance sharp.”
“Would I, now?” says the heap of old de-
bility and asthma, deeply gratified.
“You try-a—l spik in Indian tongue.”
“You do me proud, sir, and thank yer,” says
the greybeard, in important tones.
Then the medium (or Tommy-ok) seizes his
gnarled hands, claps them together, and works
them violently up and down, to the accompani-
ment of an unintelligible sing-song, like unto the
din of a Chinese New Year. This continues for
some minutes, after which the grey-beard is found
to be, if not in a trance, at least in a state of
collapse. He looks as if he were dead.
The night grows late. Haunted by the vision
of a stout medium running for the last tram, and
missing it, Tommy-ok becomes incoherent and
slangy. ’Mid laughter, he advises a widow to
“ ’ave no truck ” with a fat admirer, makes giddy
remarks about “best boys,” and counsels the
avoidance, ns consorts, of “dirty foreigners.
This, from an Indian of rank and education, seems
inconsistent, but it passes. ,
He now brings forward a ruck of lost and un-
claimed spirits. They are mere commonplace
persons—Toms, Marys, and little Jimmies. One
spirit called Sarah is offered and rejected all along
the line We would be unreasonable, indeed, did
we not find one , at least, of the motley crew with
whom we were related, or whom we had at least
met in a ’bus. , ■,
A spirit in plaid trousers is said to hover round
me Also, with a rush, lam visited by the
daughter I never had and the husband who isn t
'is only one woman who has, as yet,
received nothing. She has been overlooked, and
she clamors. The medium has only five minutes
to spare. The clamorous one is hurriedly pre-
sented with a tall spirit in a white night-gown
and while she is in the act of rejecting the
property, a loud sniff and a start and cry
explains that Tommy-ok is gone and that the
Medium is her stout self again.
WEEROONA,
Absolutely Free
To “Bulletin” Readers.
s§i
OU,;
J.%
»t$ W
Si U 3d 'u
THE GREAT
Australian Game, “Trapping Rabbits”
SEND us a twopenny stamp for postage, and we will send you by return mail, securely
packed, the great Australian game “ Trapping Rabbits.” This unique game
affords great amusement to young and old, and will help to enliven many ft dull
evening. .Size of package, 3§ x x lj. When sending for this kindly
Bulletin and state whether you have ever used any of SHELDON S REMEDIito.
NOTE.— Our Victorian friends when writing us will kindly bear in mind that
the postage to Sydney is twopence.
Sheldon Post Cards (Gratis).
Collectors of Post Cards will be interested to learn that we have prepared a
beautiful assortment of pictorial Post Cards, consisting of Australian and oouth
Sea Island Views. Send a penny stamp for postage and designate whether Aus-
tralian or South Sea Island views are preferred, and we will send by return mail
eight beautiful Post Cards, absolutely free. SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 0 Conne
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
An Advertising Novelty.
The two-bladed Knife pictured here is made of the best steel procurable, and
both blades are magnetic. The handle is of the best quality of aluminium, and our
advertisement appears in neat raised letters on each side. For advertising purposes
we are selling this knife at less than cost of production. If you
shilling in stamps and we will send you one post free by return mail. SHELDUJN
DRUG COMPANY, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs,
Colds and Consumption.
1/6 and 3/- Bottle. Hospital Size, 6/-.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment
“ Banishes All Pain.” 1 / 0 a,ld 3 /‘ Bott,e -
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
“ Digest what you Eat.” 2 / 6 P er Tln -
How to Obtain our Remedies.
SHELDON’S REMEDIES are universally sold by all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors throughout the Commonwealth of Australia, New Zealand, South Africa,
and the South Sea Islands- In all country towns are agents, who carry a full and
complete stock of these remedies, which they will supply at the advertised pr' ce -
Should you live in a remote place where these remedies cannot be procured, they
will be sent post free upon receipt of the price by the
Sheldon Drug Company,
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PAIN.
Death is hastened by ignorance. Nature has endowed us with the sense of pain solely in ofdei
that, by seeking relief, we may avoid playing into the hands of Death. When we feel pain we are out
of health. Pain long endured is a strain upon the system which Nature cannot withstand. Many or
us, however, go on suffering certain kinds of pain, just as if Science could not come to the help of her
sister Nature. There is, for instance, no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Ancemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
The pains caused by this long list of disorders are but Nature’s means of letting us know that the
kidnevs or liver are for some reason unable to perform their work efficiently, tor all of these
disorders are produced by the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons, which would be
thrown off naturally if the kidneys and liver were doing their duty. Few people realise how import-
ant in the scheme of life is the healthy action of the kidneys and liver, therefore the following
description of the functions of those vital organs will be of the deepest interest to many.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight ot uric aeid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly Mm,
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proporaoM
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from one
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition ot
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let; it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
jllness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, w,.ich is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia” Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it w£ts necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments the medicine
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these vital
organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary poisons,
the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia., Lumbago,
Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache,
Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders
simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe
Cure are permanent cures. [7]


Daylight Lovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Daylight lovers i Have you
seen them
When the dawn was breaking grey,
With a single hope between them,
As the dancers filed away ?
Still the joyful mem’ries linger
Of the gallant things we said,
’Ere the daylight’s cheerless finger
Pointed out the track to bed.
O, the whisp’ring in the Lancers !
(Just the same old words again !)
O, the thrill of smiling dancers
Squeezing fingers in the chain !
O, the shoulders, white and rounded,
In the waltz’s dreamy whirl—
When a strong man’s world was bounded
By the raiment of a girl!
O, the gladsome salutations
In the lighted supper-room !
O, the crimson-lip oblations,
Close behind the curtain’s gloom !
But, alack, the joy has ended,
And it’s time to say Good-bye ;
For the planets white and splendid,
Long have faded from the sky.
Daylight lovers ! Have you seen them ?
Speak, ye lonely ones and lorn.
Daylight lovers ! —We have been them,
Many a golden summer morn !
What though hopeless songsters sing us
Bitter songs of woe and pain ?
For another night will bring us
All the same old joys again !
N.s.w.
GILROONEY.
Whales.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
whaling station at Kiah lay half hid
in clumps of ti-tree and sprawling white
gum. The half-caste crew, seven in num-
ber, loafed in the shadows or fished from an oil-
soaked dinghy moored to a sun-bleached whale
skull under the shed.
A white man with a golden beard and knife-
like eyes was keening the barbed edge of a toggle
iron on a whet-stone. Around him were rows of
empty oil-tanks and casks. The furnaces in the
“trying-out” were black and unlit. Grass was
growing under the cutting-boards; an air of
emptiness and desolation hung about the sheds.
For weeks the whaling crew had waited and
idled along the shores of Twofold Bay, hoping for
a sign from the killers, or a smoke signal where
the look-out men were camped on the South Head.
Half-a-dozen weather-worn sheds slanted over the
little bay. There were fruit trees in the captain’s
garden smeared with whale oil to keep away the
bark-destroying rabbits. Here and there among
the apple gums and mulberry trees, one came
upon deserted huts and homesteads. The ancient
bullock-proof fences had a sou’-westerly slant.
Everything had a slant —the trees, the storm-
shaken sheds, and the fisherman who slouched
against the eternal Pacific blasts.
Beyond a mulberry thicket stood a four-roomed
hutch, shuttered, wind-racked and desolate. An
acre of weed-haunted garden completed the
picture. On a sandbar below, the ribs of a yawl
and rotting whaleboat floated above the rising
tide. On the door of the deserted hutch was the
legend—burnt in with a hot harpoon—
Ben Boyd’s Cottage—left for God Knows Where in the
whaling forties.
The hand of Ben is everywhere around the
shores of Twofold Bay. He combined the busi-
ness of cattle-rearing and whaling. Also, he ran
a bank. A remarkable man in many ways, plan-
ning vast schemes for the peopling of the moun-
tainous regions beyond Cape Dromedary and
Twofold Bay.
As a cattle-breeder Ben Boyd missed a colossal
fortune during the gold outbreak in Victoria.
He disappeared in a schooner only a year or two
before. No one knows what became of the herds
of scrub bulls that wintered in the forests of
spotted gum under Mount Imlay. Some say they
helped to feed the goldfields when beef was as
scarce as champagne. Heigho for the rounders-
up !
I was interested mainly in the killer whales
that frequent Twofold Bay. In appearance and
shape they are miniature whales, with the in-
telligence of sheep dogs and the jaws of bullhead
sharks. In pagan times the killer would have
been held sacred. At present it is regarded as a
public benefactor and expert whaler’s assistant,
for without it the business would perish for want
of deep-sea scouts.
The black or right whale that goes north to the
calving grounds lingers near Twofold Bay to graze
on the shoals of britt which gather like weed on
the surface of the sea. In fair seasons a full-
grown black whale pans out in oil and bone any-
thing up to £3OO, or even more.
The killers around Eden are mischievous sea
devils, even when a trapped whale is fighting for
its life within their midst. Quite recently, during
a kill, one leaped from the water and tore off with
the harpoon-line in its jaws. The whale escaped
with three spear wounds in its head and back.
Also, the killers have a habit of sulking if they
are not allowed a fair portion of the carcase.
And when the killers sulk no earthly power will
induce them to round up a passing cetacean.
Waiting for whales on that lonely, surf-thrashed
beach would have tried the patience of a blind
man. We fished and laid snares for the blue
pointer shark that roots among the whale offal
under the cutting-up shed.
The most expert harpooner jibs when asked to
drive his iron into the pointer’s vicious snout
when it bruises itself against the dinghy’s side.
In September last one of the whaling crew
plunged a spear casually into the grey back of a
prowling shark. The pain-maddened brute leaped
from the water, tearing away the top planks of
the boat and capsizing the occupants.
But the shark is no match for the killer, as wit-
ness the last moments of a whale when the blubber
and beef are hanging from its sides. The bullhead
or pointer dare not join the feast over which the
killer presides.
One morning I heard the harpooner’s dog
barking savagely along the cliffs. The thud, thud
of feet in the adjoining hut told me that the half-
caste were tumbling from their bunks.
A sheen of silver was on the skyline ; then came
an aurora of fiery, wind-blown streaks across the
horizon. Mollie hawks and gulls swarmed in and
out the little bay. A great commotion was going
on below. Seven men were hanging desperately
to the side of the whaleboat as it shot from the
skid to the water.
The harpooner’s dog yelped and leaped in the
air as the men reached for their oars.
“ Keep the brute out of the boat! ” roared the
captain. “Always stickin’ his blamed nose in
here.”
“ He’s pointin’ the whale, anyway,” growled
the harpooner. “ He’s as good as a man some-
times. Remember how he hauled on to the line
larst year, when the humpy broke through the
killers. Ye”——-
“Hell! ” The captain sprang aboard and took
his place for’ard, where his fighting irons lay
unsheathed, ready for use.
From bay to sky-line there was nothing visible
on the water. The half-castes grunted as they
bent to their work. Greig, at the steering oar,
cocked his hat over his ear and whistled through
his teeth. The dog whimpered at his feet, the
tip of its nose scenting the air.
I was vastly interested in the work of the
killers. They are about 16 in number, and each
one is known by name to the whaling crews of
Twofold Bay. Fluko and Long Dick are captains
of the scouting squad, while Big Ben and Little
Mary do good droving work the moment a humpy
or black whale is sighted along the coast.
The dog began to snarl and cry as we swept
across the bay. About a mile from the North
Head the water seemed to boil and heave as
though a submarine were rolling to the surface.
A shoal of porpoise-like backs were leaping in and
out of the sea, and as each killer leaped the
water churned into flogging heaps of foam be-
neath.
“Got him all right!” The steerer approached
cunningly and swung into line with the racing
pack of killers that worked and scouted ahead of
the thrashing fluke and giant fins.
“Full-grown black whale ! ” The captain eyed
the mass of heaving flesh inside the ring of
killers complacently. “ A 60-tonner and a bull
for certain. Easy lads. Give him sea room.
We’ll be climbing up the golden stairs if that
fluke sweeps under our keel. Steady. ’
The fear-driven whale heaved and shouldered
its way through the onrushing killers. One
moment its great bulk was out of the water as it
trudgeoned and clouted the worrying pack in
front.
But the real fight had not yet begun. The
killers knew better than rush 60-tons of live flesh
in 80 fathoms of water, where it could sink at
leisure and thrash them to pieces in its descent.
To beach a whale and fight in the shallows is
the killer’s business, and one saw in a flash how
they shepherded and harassed the leviathan in
couples. Once inside the bay four killers with-
drew and remained on guard at the heads. And
their line of watch was as straight as a German
field outpost. They had cut off the whale's re-
treat But many a desperate bull had raised the
killer’b blockade and escaped.
The boat swung nearer, and the harpooner’s
dog sat up and howled at sight of the blood-
lashed water in front. The captain touched my
shoulder suddenly. “Look at Big Ben now,” he
said, huskily. “ How’d he do for a battering
ram ? ”
A torpedo-shaped object drew away from the
whale’s fin and stood twenty yards in the rear;
then it flashed in again with the velocity of a 12-
inch shell, striking the huge black head full under
the jaw. Blood and grease swam to the surface
as the bewildered monster squirmed under the '
impact, filling the air with a peculiar bellowing
noise.
The killers shot under the giant head, tearing
and slashing at the quivering flesh, working like
dingoes towards the coveted tongue and heart.
Nearer and nearer they drove their quarry towards
the little half-moon bay, attacking in couples, or 1
standing off at times to rest while the rearguard
darted in to relieve them.
The boat edged in warily, the steerer keeping
clear of the mighty fluke that rose and pounded;
the sea with thunderbolt force. And as the
killers snapped and skirmished the great head
sank until the flinching belly heaved target-like
beside us.
“ Now, skipper ; into him !”
“ Hurry up ! Last one broke away through us :
sparrin’ around with the iron.”
The crew yelled as the pulsing whale breathed
and sank near the boat. The captain stood up,
and passed his thumb over the harpoon point re-
flectively. The smell of live whale flesh reached
me, deathlike and sickly. I stooped as the har-
poon whizzed past—the impact sounded like a j
stick being driven into a skin of lard.
There was no immediate flight on the part-:
of the whale, no racing of the line after a vanish-
ing harpoon. The monster seemed numbed and
bewildered, being unable to sink in the shallow v.
bay or retreat through the watchful lines of killers/
G-reig, best two-handed whaler south of the'
line, flashed a long toggle iron into the heart-
space as the black fin lifted for a moment, ex-
posing the white flesh. A deadly hiccup, followed i
by an inward gulping noise, shook the sprawling-
brute. The thrashing fluke ceased like a broken
propeller.
“He’s ours!” shouted the captain. “Look
out for the killers! as one by one the crew
stabbed with hook and spear at the half submerged
whale.
The killers drew away, gorged and satisfied.
A great hole in the cetacean’s shoulder was
visible where the merciless snouts had bored and
tunnelled for the heart.
A three-pronged iron with buoy and anchor
attached was driven into the back. The head
sank lower and lower. A swarm of yellow tails
and bream surrounded the carcase as we pulled
away from the safely-anchored leviathan.
The harpooner’s dog fretted and whined as we
slewed round the buoy. “ Give the his
whack !” shouted Greig. “He was the first to
sight the whale.”
A half-caste with a knife nicked a piece of flesh
from the whale’s shoulder as we passed, and tossed
it in the air.
The dog leaped up and caught it as though it
were a rat. “No wonder he’s sick half his time,”
growled the captain. “I’d sooner feed a dog on
dead snake.”
We returned to the trying-out, at East Boyd,
and the half-castes started to guess the weight of
the dead whale. The harpooner’s 58 tons 7cwt.
was nearest the mark. Most of the guesses
hovered within 3cwt. of the absolute beam-tip.
A ton per foot from tail to head is regarded by
old whalers as a fair estimate.
Night saw the fires lit under the pans and
boilers. The moon was at full when we towed
the dead whale to the skid at the trying-out.
And the dawn heralded a smell of fried sea
animal that stayed in my memory like the grief
of Job.
ALBERT DORRINCTON.
KIDNEY DISEASE makes you MISERABLE.
You Cannot be Cheerful if Your Kidneys are 111.
When you think of the great
work the kidneys have to do—how
for 24 hours every day they are fil-
tering the impurities and waste
from the blood—can you wonder
that they so readily break down,
and retain the liquid poisons that
cause backache, rheumatism,
gravel, urinary disorders, heart
trouble, nervousness, sleeplessness,
etc. ? Before you can be perman-
ently cured, these poisons must be
driven out, and the kidneys must
be made well again, so that they
can keep up with their work.
If you have any form of kidney
trouble —backache, rheumatism,
gravel, dizzy spells, urinary dis-
orders —if you are easily upset and
worried —if you never feel rested,
don’t enjoy your food, and can’t
sleep —if your skin is yellow and
your eyes puffy —don’t hesitate
any longer, but begin at once with
the genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for every day that
kidney complaint is neglected it
becomes more dangerous.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
FostfU’-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“Every Picture
Tolls a, Story H
MI Hi
11
mm
i
/ / j.
Q»
Are You Impatient and Irritable ?
Are You Weak and Nervous ?
Do You Have Headaches ?
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth
Street, Sydney, says :—“ I used Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills for aches and pains
in the limbs, which I fancied were caused by
kidney trouble. The pains had troubled me
for years, defying all treatment. I found it
very difficult to get up and down stairs, and
fits of giddiness which often came over me,
made it more distressing. In fact the
giddiness made me afraid of the stairs.
Sometimes I would be laid up. Soon after
I started using Doan’s Pills relief came, and
when I had taken six boxes the aches and
pains and giddiness bad disappeared. You
can make what use you like of this, for I
want all sufferers to know of this excellent
remedy.”
Three years later, when asked about her
cure, Mrs. Davis says : —“ Yes, lam still
quite well, none of the distressing symptoms
mentioned above have ever returned.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did theii
work well in my case.”
life
iSSiWiliSn*#
ii'.'UV
llcKftCij!
»:■
m


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
“I used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep*, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health. 1
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Aver’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. Sn glass bottles.
And
Artistic
CARDS
MO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing G
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of iewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Cham. Remember, we
want to do business with vou again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection - ,
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or e v '
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
Sr
A PRESENT
FOR A MAN.
When you go to buy a present for a man
you should select something that he will
find useful.
We have found this set to be very
popular.
It consists of two ebony military brushes
and comb in a strong pigskin case.
Price 12/6,
Or in better quality 17/6 FREE
m
I
A silver shield can be attached to the
oase, with initials engraved for 2s. 6d.
That is, the best set complete with silver
plate and initials. Post Free for
ONE POUND.
For full details of other articles suitable
for presentation purposes see the large
“A. & 0.” catalogue, sent post free on
request.
ANGUS & COOTE,
“ The Store where Quality Counts.’*
CEORCE ST., Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE<SHILtINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
ON l—3oo of “Hop’s” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin ©ffice.
•aJih, Strength and Vigor Restored ii
Four Weeks by the use of
O?: ftl CORO#
r sS£^ ce °? U * £ ‘.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
ls6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauidingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
®f persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Gastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Cun 6e obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
V/je "World’s jVfediciqe
for Weak Sto mac I], Jrepaired j)/gestion,
Jciver, arid all Jfilious arjd
ffervous disorders.
BE EC M AM’S
A few doses of BEECHAM'S PILLS act thoroughly upon
the vital organs. Theycleanse t strengthen and restore
the system to a healthy condition. They drive all im-
purities from the blood and rid the stomach and bowels
of poisonous gases. They give tone to the digestive
organs and enable the food properly to assimilate.
Appetite returns and sleep is sound and refreshing.
BEECHAM'S PILLS do all this without the aid of any
other medicine. They have a great sale because they
make great cures. They cure because they are a great
medicine. They recommend themselves. You will
recommend them after use.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price IJlh (56 pills) A 2/9 (168 pills).
If Yota wisti to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your • • •
Rabbit SKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS'" PRODUCE
—————TO
HILL, CLARK CO.,
SYDNEY.
»i
yM-
m
FPE£ TRIAL / /
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your natpe
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s unproved high grade EIvhC.TR.IC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Vanco-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
nev Live , and St nnach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free spn writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delav no longer, but write to-day splen
did Book and Belt Write to day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
BALLET
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 18.
The Life, Adventures
and Cordassions of a
SYDNEY .
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp far Illustrated Lists of Books and A ovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY .
\\7ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
” BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
GRIMAUIT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
JBTTES. Soid by all Chemists .
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name nr
men
an o
WOMEN
OR. MARTEN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in aii Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo.' Robertson ahd Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 ((lustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. Tlie most interesting’, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-Called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has eve* been published.
ppep A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
rCEB giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical Works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). A tote Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “nnuey Houser 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PaRK, SYDNEY.


HOT
WATER
BAGS
Complete
with
Wool or
The Very BesK
Quality, with |_
Patent Stopper!
and Handle. '
Perdriau Rubber Co. ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
Our List ot Winter Requirements Fr»e on Request.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to SIMPSON BROS., cu ' r lyd , Ly7 reet ’
Price 6d.
Posted 8d
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
JTfM
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
ami affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free i f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, aa Pitt St., Sydney
it
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above exit illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181 b-. Operated by com uessed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE ACENTS: yy
J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD,, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
V
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. Sl6O 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle - //-
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - Ij6
m
|GO
wa
■v.V
' ■
■
■m
l ■
■rrSaßSi
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mining Machinery, engines and boilers,
BLOWING and EXHAI JST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
.
; j '
§
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
I I
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES arid FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts ivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Shee s, Plates
Mining Steel.
GOLF
SILVERTOWN No. 9
'll .HU ,1 i 111 I 1 ' I lIIIIMII I ■■■■■lll
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD far the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
or THE
Silvertoßß Rubber gt.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
w
Is carrying all before it.
After long Competitive Tests the Gold
Prince Co., Colorado, adopted the “Card,”
and installed 76 in their New Mill.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Manufacturers,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 486 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
