

IS »
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
v
—FOR-
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Columbus Portable Oil Engine.
aacoßjikiiT,
PIONEER
LEATHER
WELTI.riG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., U 7 York St., Sydney
.
n\ . .
V V- ■■
ryfhgjghjhjhj
STATION, FARM and DAIRY.
Sent/ for Illustrated Descriptive
Lists to SOLE AGENTS
CO., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY, N S-W.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
IMI
HAMS ®
ryfhgjghjhjhj
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital
£2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring* St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w% j. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted, “a®
tL
a
ryfhgjghjhjhj
E.J.E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent -
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS .
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
A
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FO\
i Arom^StrmjthfrPurity:
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS” Whisky.
ACC CEADING HOTECS.
Tho MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkei,),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists, s
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
Parisian to be worn on all occasions.
IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
TOUPETS, FRINGES. TAILS, TOILET
REQI
SITES, and all accessories in stock.
ORDERS BY POST
Combings made up.
Telephone 2138;
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
m
■
-f
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— ' V ’ SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
*
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry,
• , v,., \ \ i V.,, . ' ■■ ' /■. : •
Also largest makers in Australia o/ Refrigerating' and lce*Making Machinery.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
DO
co >
D d
O -R
EE hi
ox
o
m
x
h
co
co
UJ
J
X
tl <
UJ Q.
X CO
3.
“■5
(0 X
< H-
GOBLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1431.]
[Thursday, July 18, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co- Prop-
71 CASTLEREAGH ST.
SYDNEY.
Sewell, Dog-’ s Medical Dictionary.
Trine, R. Waldo, In the Fire of the Heart, 5s 6d, post 6d.
Adams, Reid Anthony ; a Novel, 3s 6d,post 6d.
The Modern Plumber and Sanitan’ Engineer, by 16
Specialists, fully illus., colored plates, 6 vols., 425;
vole. 1 and 2 now ready.
Bell, Trades Unionism, Is 3rl, postage 3d.
Rossegeo, My Kingdom of Heaven, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Oravath and Lansingh, Practical Illuminants, 15s, p. Od.
Pollard, Factors in Modern History, 9s, post Bd.
Kaufmann, The Working Classes, Is 3d, post 3d.
Boldrewood, The Miner’s Right, new issue, Bd. posted.
SCAPEGOATS OF THE EMPIRE.
The story of the Bushveldt Carbineers, by Lieutenant George R. Witton,
photographs, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Illustrated from
THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For tub Cork of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
w
The Larynx, or organ of voice.
The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected Inns'.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AT
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
“Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
pr HUDSON’S EUMEIMTHOL JUJUBES^W
Unlike Oough Medicines, do not cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
“ Thb PfcAOTrriONBR ” says :—“ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
Salt/ by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. *
ryfhgjghjhjhj
THE TROUBLE IN' OUR BACK YARD
THE glamor of the Japanese apparition
is fading : the critics are beginning to
investigate, to explain and predict.
- A series of notable books, dealing
with Asia, has just appeared, and from them
we may understand a little clearer the extra-
ordinary and menacing position upon our
Northern threshold. The point emphasised
again and again in these works* is
that there are two Japans. Hitherto
we have been too preoccupied by the
almost perfect Japanese military machine ;
but out of sight, behind that machine, we
can divine-the uncivilised Asiatic. Watson’s
The Future in Japan does not deal with the
old Japan of Hearn, all color and iridescence,
“ the Japan of cherry-groves transplanted
from Paradise.” He shows us that Japan is
not exceptional, that she, like all other
States, lies within the range and operation
of the laws that govern the action of the
human mind in every age. He finds that
Japan has to offer us no new conception of
religion, no new philosophy, no new prin-
ciple in politics, no new theory of progress,
no new interpretation of life. But he makes
clear to us an extraordinary achievement—
the creation of a modern State, not by a
nation, but by a group of national leaders,
who continue, to this day, in defiance of the
constitution bestowed, by them, to control
this movement. The revolution that made
modern Japan is unique in that it began
from the top.
The Japan of to-day is but an inchoate experi-
ment —a new structure in process of erection upon
the site of an old which has not been wholly
removed.
So we have the two Japans—the official and
modern Japan, the Japan of the Japanese
leaders; and the unofficial and traditional
Japan, the Japan of the Japanese people.
The one produced the Japanese fighting
machine, the other inherited from their
ancestors the utterly anachronistic industrial
and manufacturing machine. And between
the precocious leaders and the reactionary
led there is a remarkable abyss. The leaders
are honest diplomats ; the led, “in their
commercial methods, remain wedded to. the
tradition of concealment, device, art and
manoeuvre.”
Watson doubts whether such a top-heavy
revolution can inspire a nation of forty-eight
millions to continue in the path of this
effort.
In joining the “march of progress” Japan is
moving towards an era of perplexity which must
conduct her into the very dilemmas that consti-
tute the crisis of our own .disjointed time . . .
Japan, in fact, to Europe is but a note in the
great diapason of history; she is not that diapason,
nor is she even a chord. ... If she offers Europe
a lesson, it is a lesson which, in the very act of
adopting European civilisation, she is herself
unlearning—the lesson of simplicity, psychical,
intellectual, political.
Yet the remarkable docility, almost ser-
vility, of the Japanese people may, for a
time, span the abyss that yawns between the
twentieth-century leaders and the fifteenth-
century led. No people in any civilised
State is further in the rear of its leaders ;
none is more easily controlled by them. In
no other State is there this enormous gulf
in education, thought, practice, and effici-
ency. The Japanese General Staff has its
own Arisaka field-gun and its own Shimose
powder. Yet Japanese agriculture is served
by ox-ploughs with wooden coulters ; the
grain is threshed by the hand-flail, and win-
nowed by throwing it up in the air. Despite
the brilliant success of the Japanese fighting
machine,
It is certain that the Japanese, as a nation, are
as yet relatively inefficient in European indus-
tries, and that even in the purely indigenous
manufactures there are defects of organisation, of
morale, and of method which, were industrial
competence or manufacturing capacity the sole
measure of national power, would condemn Japan
to quite a humble place among contemporary
States.
/ Thus we see that the Japanese navy is
only in a limited sense typical of Japanese
achievement. Compare that navy, for in-
stance, with the shockingly mismanaged
Japanese national railways. And Japan is
one of the poorest of the States of the
world. /
The materiel of her industries—buildings,
machinery, equipment—is almost always meagre,
their organisation and general economy defective,
and the methods of employers and employed often
primitive and wasteful.
And only one-tenth of the area of Japan
is cultivable, and the poorest classes cannot,
afford to eat the “ best quality ” rice that
they grow. They export it here and else-
where, and buy inferior qualities from China,
Korea, and India.
First, let us look at the war-machine.
In his eminently readable Truce in the
East, Putnam Weale discloses the enorm-
ous expansion of her war strength that
Japan, sheltered by the truce afforded her
by the Anglo-Japanese alliance, has had the
opportunity to carry out. That Japan
recognises—as Russia recognises—that the
peace is merely a truce is apparent by her
creation, irt a time of peace, of what is prac-
tically a rtew army. During the term of the
Alliance, the Japanese army will reach a
mobilisation strength of one million men,
with reserves equalling a second million. In
ten years’ time her war-strength will be
exceeded only by Russia, Germany and
France. (Recent cables indicate that Japan’s
orders to Krupps for 12in. guns are so
enormous that work will be given at
Krupps to thirty thousand additional
men.) As to her navy, probably only the
Britisii navy could dispatch a superior battle-
fleet to meet it. France, Germany, or the
United States would have to employ their
entire naval strength to meet Japan during
the next few years. America, however, is
going to “look-see.”
Meantime, what is Japan’s inveterate
antagonist doing ? Weale tells us that at the
conclusion of the war Russia was still an
unbeaten power—and the Japanese generals
knew it. Russia had in the field at that
moment 12,500 officers, 917,000 men, 270,000
horses and 1600 guns ; her forces, strongly
entrenched, exceeded by a few thousands
the massed Japanese armies. The White Man
is difficult to convince. The loss of Port
Arthur and Lower Manchuria has strength-
ened Russia enormously. She can never be
surprised again. She is now practically im-
pregnable in Central Manchuria, and, with-
out any dangerous coast-line to protect, all
her energies, enormously aided by the
doubling of the Siberian line, can be devoted
to taking up the positions held by Linie-
vitch at the time of the truce. Russia still
holds three-quarters of Manchuria. And
the great system of railways which she
is projecting is completely isolated from
the life of the country through which the
lines pass; these are simply war-channels for
the quick conveyance of armies. And
enormous forces have been distributed
in the Pacific and Amur provinces, and in
the Baikal territories, while colonisation by
ex-Russian soldiers is being strenuously
promoted.
Thus Russia will possess permanently in the
Far East twice as many armed men as she ever
had before the war; and if her colonising plans
are given effect to quickly, that strength may be
quadrupled in less than ten years.
But enough of the obvious mailed fist; let
us examine the muscles behind it, the life-
blood that sustains its menace. Japan,
though it possesses a somewhat noisy parlia-
ment, has hardly a vestige of a popular
constitution. The voters number less than
a million in forty-eight millions. Japan is
governed by its informal council of
Elder Statesmen, responsible not to the
people, but to their Emperor, who pro-
ceed on their way quite unmoved by
the fact that the parliament is against
them. The Japanese M.P., who, since the
Alliance, is apt to ask rude questions about
the efficiency of the British army—about
which, of course, he has every treaty right
to be concerned—has little importance as a
party man, because party government is not
in force, and he has little dignity as a repre-
sentative of public opinion, because there is
no educated public opinion in the country.
The House of Representatives in 1903 carried
a unanimous vote of censure against the
Government in its policy with Russia—and
was promptly dissolved ; and Weale details
the ugly riots of the mob that demoralised
Tokyo for two days at the announcement of
the peace terms. Count Okuina admits that
Japan’s “mental and moral education has
nob kept pace with her material progress ” ;
and Baron Iwasald apologises
It must, unfortunately, be admitted that the
good moral tone of old Japan has altogether dis-
appeared, and what we have lost in the process of
transition we have not yet succeeded in replacing
by the moral tone of European countries.
And Watson cites one of the various
public scandals as a proof “that Japan is
almost in a class by herself in point of
administrative venality.” From the pub-
lished utterances of Japanese, Watson is
confirmed in his opinion :
That subordinate sections of the administrative
class are often venal, the political class unusually
corrupt, and the commercial class commonly given
to indirect and evasive methods arid practices.
Japan’s efficiency in war has been pur-
chased at the cost of chaos in her moral
ideas and disorder in her political system.
Douglas Story, whose book is rather a jour-
nalist’s impressions than an historian’s
analysis, aptly remarks with reference to
the truism that Japanese commercial m’o-
rality is lax, that the Japanese Government
is itself a partner in every great concern in
the country.
It is impossible to discover where the Govern-
ment interest begins and where the private con-
trol ends in such great enterprises as those of the
Mitsuis, the Nippon Yusen Kaisha, the railway
companies, and the mining ventures in Manchuria
and Korea.
If Japan must go/the way of Empire, she
must conquer or find colonial territories.
So far we have two colonising or administer-
ing experiments, Formosa and Korea. The
case of the Formosans, a seini-barbarous
people, is claimed as a good example of
Japan’s administrative power. We will give
Japan credit for Formosa. But Korea must
be placed on the other side of, the ledger.
The Koreans have a hatred six hundred years
old for the Japanese; and the manner in
which the bayonet was pointed in order to
extort the signing away of Korea’s inde-
pendence—the preservation of which was the
sole reason given to the world by Japan for
entering the lists with Russia —cannot help
to diminish that hatred. The Koreans and
the Japanese do not intermarry ; and the
country—a poor State—is being exploited
by the conquerors in a way that will not
conduce to friendly relations between the
Koreans and their military masters. Putnam
Weale shows that Japan has nut the smallest
intention of “colonising” Korea. His ac-
count of the post helium happenings in that
distressful country is well worth attention.
In Korea the limitations of the machine are
startlingly manifested —limitations which are the
result of the national characteristics rather than
of any inherent defects in the machine itself.
Douglas Story, too, devotes much attention
to “the case of Korea.” He publishes an
autograph letter from the Emperor, obtained
with exceeding difficulty, owing to Japanese
espionage, in which that unhappy individual
exposes the tactics by which that “treaty”
was obtained. Watson inquires what capacity
Japan lias .shown that she could govern an
empire ? “ Her methods in Korea,” he
concludes, “ do not seem promising.”
■
There are three questions of the future in
the answer of which Australia is vitally in-
terested. These are: Which of the two
Japans is to hold the balance of power within
that country ? What is to happen to. the
Anglo-Japanese Alliance ? What is the logi-
cal end of the strangely stirring nationalism
of Asia ?
As to the two Japans, Watson sees every
indication of the old Japan, the uneducated
mediaeval populace, taking charge. In pre-
modern times government was a universal
despotism slavishly accepted ; and the disso-
lution of this terribly rigid authority will be
followed by a rebound equal to the tremend-
ous strain. In the day of its discredit,
authority will be scorned and repudiated in
proportion as. it is accepted in the fast-
closirig day of its infallibility. To-day the
House of Representatives is, to an excessive
degreej turbulent and truculent, and Japanese
leaders, whose names are daily dragged
in the mire by their own press; in
every grave crisis may expect at
least a threat of assassination. The
Japanese people bear their leaders a
grudge for having kept them iA the dark for
a millennium or so. It is only the inherited
fiction of the sacro-sanctity of their Em-
peror which, according to Watson, prevents
them from hanging their Emperor’s states-
men. It is a dangerous thing, as Russia has
found, to turn up the soil of rninds that are
still mediaeval. And the Japanese are des-
tined some day to discover that their god-
emperor is merely mortal. And what
then ?
Meantime Japan is valiantly making the
attempt to supply her industrial deficiencies.
The import of a hundred European manu-
factures, ranging from matches to umbrellas,
has been changed into a flourishing export.
And there is actually talk of Factories Acts.
The extent and strenuousness of that effort
is indicated by Putman Weale.
With a powerful government gathering every-
thing into its hands and assuming control of all
the productive works ; with a policy of entrench-
ing being carried on night and day in Korea and
Southern Manchuria; with a great army and a
powerful navy rising as if by magic ; with ship-
ping subsidised and organised, and every industry
and bank closely overseen ; with every incentive
being given to the Japanese people to fall in with
this grand idea—Japan marches on her way, per-
fectly secure for nine years, thanks to the Anglo-
Japanese Alliance.
Which brings us to our second interroga-
tion. First, we must notice that the Alliance
has been of almost incalculable value to
Japan. Nay, it saved her from extinction.
If England, Weale asserts, had refused to
renew the, Alliance on its present terms,
Japan would have been forced to continue
the war, or would have laid down arms only
to be, exposed to the danger of having to
take them up again at a moment’s notice.
England has stepped in with a ten years’
truce, and Japan is not wasting a moment of
her lucky breathing-space. The Portsmouth
peace was really made in London. Each of
these volumes under review brings an array
of facts to support Weale’s assertion that the
progress of the war Was arrested in a manner
dangerous to the future welfare of the
British Empire. Story’s conclusions are :
A doubt of the wisdom of alliance with an
Oriental Power, an anticipation of racial ani-
mosities, consequent upon the growth of a national
spirit in the hitherto moribund nations of the
East, and a belief that the commerce of Great
Britain will suffer in competition with rivals she
has herself fostered.
The nation that is Britain’s ally is, owing
to that Alliance, fast becoming a. commercial
Power that is Britain’s strongest antagonist.
Col. Murray states that Japan will un-
doubtedly secure the carrying trade of the
whole Asiatic Pacific. Murray’s book, Im-
perial Outposts, furnishes, in itself, a striking
sidelight upon the Alliance. The excellent
maps and photographs add interest to a
readable account of the strategic aspects of
the long chain of Imperial outposts on the
road between England and... Australia ? No:
Japan. Murray’s primary purpose was to
examine the conditions under which com-
munication along the main highway round
the Empire can be maintained with Japan
in the event of a maritime war. The Alli-
ance has made it necessary to keep the road
clear between the two parties. Australia
does not lie on that highway. Col. Murray
does not mention Australia.
The Alliance must cease some day. And
then? Putnam Weale is explicit:—
The moment is fast arriving when either a com-
plete Russian entente will have, to be arranged, or
permanent barm will be done to the British
Empire.
And the White Man in Asia—the en-
trenched White Man with the military rail-
ways—does not seem somehow quite con-
vinced that he is not going to stay there,
This fact Japan, harassed with internal
chaos and poverty, will have to learn—that
the White Man takes a lot of convincing.
But all these analyses of the Asiatic
situation end with the same conclusion.
There is a wonderfdl and alarming stirring
of the Asiatic hive. The new spirit of
nationalism is abroad. China for the Chinese,
Japan for herself and as much of Siam,
Korea, and Manchuria as she can get, Egypt
for the Egyptians, Siam for the Siamese,
Arabia for the Arabians —passive resister,
or hostile trade antagonist, the aim is the
same. Asia is growing self-conscious. It is
time to look to our defences.
Ample evidence is afforded by our writers
of the growth of a modern China, a China
with a modern army and a new navy, a
China that will be ablfe to look after herself.
At Shanghai the foreigner lives only on
sufferance the yellow peril” is a living
force of dangerous possibilities, Hong Kong
the Chinese intend to take by a flank
attack; they will sap the trade of the
greatest port in the world by establishing
a rival Chinese free port between it
and Canton, the terminus, of an immense
system of railways netting the whole of
China. At the termination of the Anglo-
Japanese Alliance, China will be no longer a
negligible factor ; she will be possessed of
the power, not only of passive resistance,
but of hostile action. The problem of China
can only be solved by China ; and indications
point to its solution by the matter-of-fact
means of an army and a navy.
Meantime, we have eight years to get
ready—a short eight seconds, before the
referee calls “ Time 1 ”
With a “private view ’’ Arthur StrCeton’s long-
expected exhibition opens to-day in rooms next
the Lending Library, Victoria Market-chambers,
George-street, Sydney, Strejston is exhibiting
sixty oil pictures, and almost the same number
of water-colors and studies. The duration of the
show will be limited to ten days, as the artist has
to execute a number of commissions from
Melbourne, and also has much work to do for
the London and Baris exhibitions. Melbourne
thought so highly of Streetou’s recent show there
that pictures to the value of £1213 were sold on
the opening day.
The Native Companion (T. C. Lothian, Melb.)
announces an increase in size and price and the
addition of illustrations. The present number
contains interesting essays upon A. E. House-
man, Yeats, and G. K. Chesterton,
A critic can’t be too careful. Thos. W.
Lawson, the millionaire author of Frenzied
Finance, now offers £lOOO for the best review of
his botch of a novel, Friday the _ Thirteenth, of
which we spoke plain words in this page. If we
had only known !
* Imperial Outposts, by Col. C. M. Murray (Murray, per
Roycroft Library, Sydney).
To-morrow in the East, by Douglas Story (Bell’s Colonial
Library, per Sydney Book Club).
The Truce in the East, and its Aftermath, by B. L. Put-
nam Weale (Macmillan).
The Future of Japan, by >W. Petrie Watson (Duck-
worth, per Dymock’s, Sydney).


Lassetter’s Noted-Good-Values in Agricultural Machinery
Daisy Clipper Ploug'H.
7 inch Cut ... £3 3 Sm
9 inch Cut ... £3 /Os.
10 inch Cut ... £4 7s. 6d.
12 inch Out ... £4 17s . 6d.
14 inch Out ... £3
Improved Chaff Cutter
SYD 3.
With Rising Mouth, x 4in. Cuts three lengths, viz., 7-16, f.
Price f £lO lOs. Extra Knives, 4s. per pair .
Enterprise Bone, Shell, and
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Com Mill
No. 750
It is a well-known fact that bone meal, ground
shells, cracked corn, etc., are excellent for poultry.
This mill is especially adapted to grinding bones
(when dry only), shells, corn, roots, bark, grain,
chicken feed, etc. When it is considered that bone
meal is one of the best fertilisers, it will soon pay for
itself for that purpose alone. It is a good general
mill for farmers, poultrymen, etc., and for compact-
ness, strength, and durability, we regard it as
unexcelled. This mill is not intended for grinding
green bone.
Capacity—lJ bushel of corn per hour.
Price, £1 10s.
The Geared Self-Regulating Pumping
Iron Turbine Windmill.
THE MAST FOOS.
Manufactured specially for us.
■i
Prices
84- ft. ... £lB
10 ft. ... £l9 10s.
12 ft. ... £27
Tower and Pump extra.
The Des Moines Co.’s No. 0
Little Crescent Hot Water Incubator.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Every Article necessary for the
operation of this hatcher goes with
it. In construction it is highly
ornamental.
It has a capacity of 54 hen eggs
or 45 duck or turkey eggs.
It is made of high-grade white
pine, varnished. Double doors and
casings throughout furnish the
greatest amount of protection from
cold.
Copper tubular tanks and heaters,
made of the same high-grade
quality as our other hot-water
heaters, are furnished with each
machine, and nursery under egg
tray.
Our direction book, which is
furnished with each machine, tells
just what to do from start to finish
Shipping weight, 85 lb. 64 Eggs.
Price ... £2 17s. 6d
A Page from our General Catalogue, The Buyers* Encyclopaedia, posted free on application.
F. LASSETTER CO., LTD., The Universal Providers,
Cheapside, in the Heart of SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1907.


MAKE MONEY
BY SELLINC
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Affents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
raMMCiasi
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Solid
Gold.
In order to introduce the Dr. SIMS’ LAXATIVE PILLS into every home,
and as a huge advertisement, we are
GIVING AWAY £5,000 IN PRIZES.
We-Make You. a Present of either a
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch or a Gent/s
Solid Reliable Nickel Silver WATCH
and Handsome DOUBLE ALBERT
FREE
For Selling for ns only ONE DOZEN BOXES of our PILLS st !/• per BOX*
SEND NO MONEY
Simply send a post card with Full Name
and Address, and say you will either
sell our Pills or return them to us if
not sold On receivin'' vour post card or letter we will post you the Pills. When sold, send us the
2, received L samTind we will at once send you Absolutely Free the Watch and Chain,
or Solid Gold Rrooehor any other Prize you may choose from our Premium Lists we will send with the
Pills No 'Trick or Catcb about tbis. We do exactly what we say, our object being
to and Advertise the Or. Sims’ Laxative Pills all over Australia and New Zea-
land) a piTl that is safe and a certain cure for a deranged Stomach and an inactive Liver It is an
invaluable HOUSEHOLD remedy.
These Pills are purely VEGETABLE in composition, and we GUARANTEE them as such. They
are active and cure diseases and conditions such as are caused by over-eating, sluggish liver, and by
deficient intestinal secretions. One or two Pills at bed-time are positively certain to relieve and cure
BHliousness Constipation Jaundice, Sick Headache, Wind, Heartburn, Dizziness, Sallow Skin, Pimples,
LoJ£ ofTppetite!^ Pain 'in the Stomach after eating, Heart Palpitation, and all Kindred Ailments.
Thev act on th* Bowels gently, without any gripe, and it will be found that their Tonic action so
strengthens the Stomach, Liver & Bowels that these Organs will soon perform their dnty without assistance.
WRITE TO-DAY,
If you are unable to sell the whole 12 boxes we will send you a Gold Shell
’ Ring for selling 6 boxes, but you will have no difficulty to sell our Pills, as
’ their medicinal high quality recommends them wherever introduced.
THE SIMS REMEDY CO. (Reg.) 4 Martin Lane, Sydney. N.S.W.
C-B- ™ EO "-"* DE C-B
W U CORSETS. v
Art the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write -for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
, Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES ne B “ l °" ly ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is (id
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
PLEASE MENTION THIS
zer Sonata, la ; post Is 3d. Slattery's Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Lover's
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
CONICAL BALL
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are makinar
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send'us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
&ioo
a WeeK
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
SALT.’
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALTs’ Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpvad only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. UNO.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
ARTERS
gmtfEGTg P°w™ IPOlULS-
pirn
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
K R R ?h E *compl'exion.
„ should know that Liver Disorders
4SW& >p<»sif s a a T s uvis
Remove the «by irfW CARTER:S UT a ,
PILLS, and above all PITXS, Liver
Complaints nm eT have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ara
Carter’s Little
cautioned to observe that genuine
Liver Pills Must De»r Signature oi
ryfhgjghjhjhj


Not every
woman
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many
wo u 1 dI
want one
around, any-
way. But you
certainly can
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
bo greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy
ryfhgjghjhjhj
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
filler’s
Mair Vigor *
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
;
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
highest 0 grad O e n ME n AD ayS ’ ap P roval - our
Coventry Flyers
than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3mlQ to £B
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
, ACTIVE AGENTS S! ed
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient
for free Art Catalogues and our ~
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 LIVERPOOL.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
C©
THE
EVIDENCE
“While teething my little
Thomas suffered greatly,
and became very thin and
ill. Scott’s Emulsion proved
to be .just what was needed
to build him up. His
flesh is now firm and solid,
he sleeps and eats well,
and this wonderful change
is due entirely to Scott’s
Emulsion. I shall always
keep a bottle in the
house.”
(Mrs.) J. FEEEEW.
from 33, Harris St.,' Pyrmont, N.S.W. ,
July 19, 1906.
Teething-
a wonderful change
The Reason WHY
he grew Bonny
Cod liver oil is extraordinarily full of
nourishment, but the oil must be of
the best quality and it must be made
digestible, or it can do but little good.
None but the finest Lofoten (Nor-
wegian) oil is ever used in Scott’s,
and this is broken up so finely by the
TRADE MARK
original Scott process
that the stomach, how-
ever fatigued, can easily
absorb it. The lime in
Scott’s provides the
material so often lack-
ing in the baby system
for strong, straight,
white teeth.
See “ the fishman with the fish’' on the
package and be sure you are getting
Scott’s. From all chemists and dealers
in medicines.
Scott’s
EMULSION
Vy
D
BONNINGTOM’S
IRISH MOSS
■taafrJssM
george"bonnington
IRISH
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
rfft BEST .
Hnnyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ ? U^ y T adi JanoS has invariabl y shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Beautiful Home Decorations
ryfhgjghjhjhj
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” COLD ENAMEL (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and (las
®*' c ; class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied. '
F< ? deoorarin K the brilliant white and
any otherarticle. f “ ! “ a SIOSS surface lor Furniture, Metal Beds and
TIJB ENAMEL. In White, Rose Ivory
Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which win
not come oil. For sale at all up-to-date dealers- Avoid imitations-
Successfully used in fhis climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN - FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
By
Royal Ware an
Purveyors to
ryfhgjghjhjhj
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIB. AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
CROZINE
BLACKING
the cleanly liquid blacking now so much the
fashion to use. It is the hitherto unattained
fast Black for Boots, a “Crozine
shine is a deep, brilliant and lasting black. It
• .17 iaotixig UiaCK. JLI
is not affected by dampness, and does not smut
nor rub off on the clothing. The blacking and
the shine remain on the boots. Free from acids:
excellent for softening and preserving leather. ’
bold where good boots are sold the world over.
Get the Genuine— Hautkaway’s*
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
John S. Deed & Sons, Ltd.
London, England.
Crozine did it.
CROZIN
m.
DID IT
55
> When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other '
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
yV NATURE’S
f PERFECT FOOD
Plasmoß
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc-Mange
DELICIOUS & DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
AsR your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pagan.
By three fantastic trellised hoops
My chancel dome is wrought, in loops
Of thorncraft, rose-tiled quaintly ;
Full-bloomed and budding bell-ropes swing,
To rippling peal the lilies ring
In rhythm dulcet, saintly.
My pew’s the quaint old garden seat,
Well curtained from the parson’s beat
With soft Virginian greenery ;
Its carpet’s just the velvet lawn,
Where countless daisies wake at dawn
And decorate the scenery.
And all is peace—and mignonette,
Save where Pomona’s petals fret
Each pearl cup to a cherry ;
The rosebuds to their priest, the sun,
In sweet confession one by one
Their little souls unbury.
A sermonette rich-versed in sense
Is tongued by woodbine eloquence
And honey clan’s soft babel;
The bishops of my shrine admit
No pictured crater, demon-lit—
With landlord horned and sable.
For e’en the pagan’s rough soul clay
Ihe sunbeams’ darts have pierced to-day
To psalming, willy-nilly,
Until to yonder vestal white
I kneel in half-abashed delight,
Ahd supplicate—the lily.
Will not their service gratis wile
Some phantom deacon up the aisle,
Obsequious and willing ?
Will no one glide through yonder gate
Up rose-lined path, with silver plate,
To claim the pagan’s shilling ?
TAS.
M. LEGRAND.
love is Dead.
Hush ! move slowly, very slowly ;
Speak your grief in accents lowly,
Softly fall your tread.
In a grave of crimson clover,
With the summer that is over,
Now young Love lies dead.j |
Low she lies, all movement vanished,
Dear, wide eyes whence light is banished,
Sleep has now endowed.
Crowned her brows with mem’ries tender,
On her body sweet and slender
Past hopes form a shroud.
Oh, how joyfully she thrilled us,
When she came, while summer filled us
With an ecstasy.
Hope beat high, for Love deceived it,
And we vowed (and we believed it)
Love should deathless be.
Far we roamed, but she came after,
Through the day her lips and laughter
Filled us with their charms.
Ah, but when the night had found us,
Rapturously then around us,
Closed her circling arms.
For a summer Love stayed near us,
Gave her lips and hands to cheer us,
Taught each word and kiss.
Now that summer’s reign is over
In a revel of red clover
Love has come to this.
Each year brings a summer ever,
But a buried Love can never
Leave its shallow grave.
Let no word she spoke be spoken,
Give no lass, then, as a token
Of the ones she gave.
Grief with Love is only sleeping
Where the shadows light are creeping
On the clover bed.
Lest some word exchanged remind us,
It were best to part, behind us
Leaving Young Love dead.
VIC.
NEVILLE MARGARET GOYDER.
The Children.
Like to feebly, fluttering fledglings cast into
the sightless night,
So the souls of unborn children to the Great
Unknown take flight,
When the hand of vandal Murder tears from out
lire s book their parts,
Do you hear them, mothers, knocking,
Knocking, knocking at your hearts?
Gorgeous temple, spacious dance room, vast
emporium for corn,
But no manger where the children of the Love-
god may be born.
In the intervals of silence ’tween the revel and
the roar
I)o you hear them, Civis, knocking,
Knocking, knocking at your door ?
Do you hear them, oh my brothers, do you hear
her dying moan
As she follows to the dreamland that on earth
she dared not own ?
When we bow like foolish cravens to the lie that
love depraves,
I can hear them, brothers, turning,
Turning, turning in their graves.
VIC.
JEACH.


8
iP
lStandsFor
WUNDERLICH
//\
_ METAL
Cei lings
. o <a
Your Home and Your Business Premises should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting. May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and buildings.
Send for Catalogue “ D.”
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co., Ltd.,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 FITT STREET.
Vkktfaa Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Postal Address:
BOX 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
sorts and conditions of* f^eojola
jDvinfa:
.JL
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable,
|j it is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
for all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
of the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. BY HAND LABOR.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF.
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trust or Combine.
Manufacturers—
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
w.
....
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal
Warrant to
ryfhgjghjhjhj
His Majestj
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade. . _
Evervyard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Yel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
m
SS
*
Gianmuildj]#
Paper
This is tine time of the year when
GIANT PAPERS are appreciated.
COLD cannot penetrate them—they are
absolutely air-tight.
WATER cannot soaK into them—they are
absolutely water-proof.
If rain comes on while GIANT PAPER is
being laid—don’t bother, the rain will
simply run off.
The house that is lined with GIANT
BUILDING PAPER is damp, dust,
wind and insecft proof.
ALL STOREKEEPERS
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
E. RICH & CO.
Ltd.
SYDNEY
AND
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0, 1431,
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1907.
Prick 6d,
THE DOG AND THE BIT OF MEAT: A FABLE.
There was once a Small Boy who offered a Large Dog a Bit of Meat. It wasn’t his Dog Either. There was a String attached to the Meat and
when the Dog reached for the Meat the Small Boy snatched it Away and Laughed. He did this to show his Importance and to assert his State
Frights, for the Small Boy didn’t require the Meat and he had no Business with the Large Dog. in the end the Large Dog chased the Small Boy
over the Horizon, and he is Running Yet.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the Austral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 on) to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
hut to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
S/>ecinl Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A iiniteurs in. Hlnp.lt. amt White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, IF. C.
South Auric a. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— lF. E. Anting, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sjieriul Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
The Bulletin.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, 1907.
A DOG AND A BIT OF MEAT AT THE
END OF A STRING.
The amazing conduct of Federal Labor-leader
Watson in endeavoring to upset the decision of
the Australian Parliament re the site of the
capital, has surprised and disgusted quite a num-
ber of people who had regarded him as a states-
man with a large Australian outlook. Watson,
in this matter, has joined the parochialists, and
earned the cordial approval of Carruthers and
George Reid and other bad company. He seems
possessed with an idea that any old site is good
enough to be this country’s capital so long as the
Sydney Anti-Federal party gets the satisfaction
of ruling out the one which the Australian Par-
liament selected. Therefore he is an advocate of
a location beside Lake George (which is some-
times a lake, and sometimes just slush, and
sometimes not even slush), or at Canberra,
or Yass, or Tumut, or at the place with the new
name that'nobody can spell—the place which
was discovered last year, and inspected amid the
dissatisfaction of all parties concerned. Just
now he has a crazy and unsettled yearning for
Canberra as a capital, and Canberra seems to
have not one striking feature to recommend it
save that it isn’t the place which the Australian
Parliament regards as the best. And in order to
wobble in this fashion he goes back on his solemn
assurance that he would stand by the selection
which Parliament had made. George Reid gave
a similar assurance, and also goes back on it, so
the pair break their pledges in company, and each
cordially approves of the other’s unreliability,
and there are two yes-noes instead of one.
* * * *
Now that the question of a capital seems likely
to be once more haggled over in all its aspects it
is worth while to again state, as briefly as possible,
the reasons why Dalgety was chosen as the
political centre of Australia :
(1) It is one of the sites that were reserved by the State
Government of N.S.YV. as possible locations for a capital.
That is to say, it was formally offered so far as the N.S. W.
State Government could be persuaded to formally offer
anyplace.
(2) It is in the locality which was declared, by an officer
appointed by the State Government of N.S.W. to report
on possible sites, to be the very best of all those which he
had discovered.
(3) It is in a splendidly healthy climate, if the local
death-rate is any criterion.
(4) It is a fairly fertile region, if Joseph Carruthers can
be relied upon. Joseph has promised to extend the rail-
way from Ooorna to Bombala, because the richness of the
country calls aloud for better means of communication,
and Joseph has heard the call in his ear.
(5) It is alongside the one river in N.S.W. which has
never been even suspected of running dry—the Snowy.
A city planted there will not only have abundance of the l
purest drinking water at its door, but sufficient water
power to supply light, heat and the driving force for all
kinds of machinery. With this cheap force available, a
Federal city by the Snowy River is capable of becoming
not only a great manufacturing centre, but a centre that
can manufacture at small cost.
(6) If a fair-sized area is taken, the Federal city will
have its ovvn port. The sources of its water supply will
be within its own territory and under its own control, so
that no disgruntled State Government like that of
Joey Carruthers can cut off that water supply, or care-
lessly allow it to become contaminated. It will also have
a land outlet into two States, so that it won’t be wholly
dependent on any Joey Carruthers for railway and road
communication with the outer world.
(7) The proposed site lies in a very empty region.
Therefore all the people who have been calling out for
decentralisation and the settlement of our empty spaces,
and urging folk to go on the land, and complaining that
far too large a proportion of Australia’s population is
congested into two bloated cities, must recognise that
the building of a city on Monaro, and the drawing of
population thither, will exactly fill the bill—their bill.
(8) Furthermore, Monaro is a strongly defensible site.
It is absolutely essential that Australia should not have
its Parliament, Cabinet, official and military headquarters,
Treasury, chief arsenal, and all the machinery of govern-
ment in a coastal city where the first attack might scatter
the whole governmental machine into the bush. A great
deal too much of this country’s wealth is already dumped
down on the seashore waiting for the first enemy to take it.
(9) The proposed capital will be, if State Premier Car-
RUthkrs keeps his promise about the Bombala railway, in
direct rail communication with Sydney and Brisbane
by next year. And by the building of a capital there
a very unprofitable N.S.W. railway will be certainly
turned into a payable undertaking. Later on Dalgety
will be in direct communication with Melbourne and
Adelaide. The creation’ of a city on Monaro will be a
strong incentive to the completion of the Gippsland
railway.
(10) A Federal city on the Snowy River will answer all
the requirements of the Constitution, and observe abso-
lutely the letter and spirit of the Federal compact.
That compact is to the effect that the Federal capital
must not be within 100 miles of Sydney, though it
may be any greater distance away so long as it
isn’t outside N.S.W. ; and that the Federal ter-
ritory must consist of not less than 100 square miles,
though it may include any larger area. A Federal terri-
tory of 900 (or, better still, 5000) square miles on Monaro
would fulfil this agreement with scrupulous accuracy.
(11) Incidentally, it may be mentioned that the pro-
posed site is nearer to Sydney than to Melbourne ; that of
all the proposed sites it is the one the cession of which
will deprive N.S.W. of the least population ; and that it
comprises a region which has, in recent years at least,
cost N.S.W. more than it yielded in taxation, therefore
the monetary loss to N.S.W. will be nil.
* * * *
These things did Prime Minister Watson, now
only Watson the Parochialist, presumably
recognise when, as Prime Minister, he
pushed the Dalgety selection through. But
the new Watson has different views. His
idea now seems to be the establishment of a Fede-
ral territory whioh will have no sea-outlet of its
own, and which will be wholly surrounded by
N.S.W. territory, so that it will depend entirely
on the goodwill of one State Government—and
that a Government which has gone out of its way,
at every possible occasion, to be abusive, insulting,
and disagreeable—for its road and railway com-
munication. And his ambition is also, apparently,
for a Federal capital which may have to depend
even for its water supply on the goodwill and
charity of the cantankerous State Government of
N.S. W., and be driven to go round with its jug to
Joseph Carruthers’ back door for a little dubi-
ously-clean drinking fluid. At Dalgety the Com-
monwealth could have its own inexhaustible
reservoir—the watershed of the Snowy River and
the perennial snow-fields of the mountains behind
it. At Canberra, Mr. Watson points out, it
could fall back on the State reservoir at
Barren Jack, and get from it just whatever water
the State authorities thought they could spare,
or felt inclined to spare, after providing for irriga-
tion and other purposes. It is true that the State
authority might allow cattle and hogs to wander
on the catchment area, and the water to become a
source of typhoid —the State proposes to use the
water for irrigation, and no extra cleanliness is
required for mere irrigation purposes, and if the
Federal city insisted on drinking out of the
State’s irrigation channel, that would be the
Federal city’s own affair. In that case the
Commonwealth might, presumably, ask the local
Carruthers, with great respect, to keep the
water a little cleaner; and he might do so, or,
again, he might not. In addition to this, the
Federal city, if planted at Mr. Watson’s new
pet site, would, it seems, have a little river of its
own—a tributary of the Murrumbidgee—to de-
pend upon, but as the Murrumbidgee itself has
ceased running before now, a mere baby tributary
doesn’t look very much for a city to depend upon.
* -X * ■*
J. C. Watson —always hitherto the honest, up-
standing, straightforward Watson —made a poor
figure as he struggled along in the parochial cause.
He stated, as the only reason why the capital on
the Snowy River should be abandoned, that “there
existed in N.S.W. a strong opinion that the ques-
tion should be settled, and Dalgety was not a
satisfactory selection to the State.” How does
he know ? About ten men have persistently
written letters to the Sydney press saying that
Dalgety is not satisfactory, and have backed up
their statements with most extraordinary lies;
and three or four city papers have declared that
Dalgety is unsuitable, but as they have also said
that Watson and his party are scheming to break
up the home, and destroy the marriage tie, and
inaugurate a policy of confiscation, they can surely
not be regarded as reliable authorities. Not a
single meeting of any importance has complained
about the proposed selection. The people of
N.S.W. had a chance to object at the recent
Federal election by returning a solid body of
State Frights, and instead they threw out the
more prominent of those public nuisances and put
good Australians in their place. Even in Sydney,
where J. C. Watson now has his electorate, there
is no proof that more than one person in 20 sees
any gain in having the Federal city so placed
that it will depend on any local Carruthers for
the thing it boils its tea with, and have to go
round respectfully to his back door with its
jug. State Premier Carruthers himself has so
completely failed to find the dissatisfaction which
he alleges to exist, that after talking most vali-
antly about taking a referendum to show how
utterly hostile N.S.W. is to the proposed capital
on the Snowy River he has closed up Parliament
in a whisper, and crept away without having the
courage to even mention the subject to the
House. Then Watson pleaded for Canberra,
on the ground that there were mountains near
it—as if Dalgety had not Kosciusko, the boss
mountain of Australia, for its background. He
explained that the railway from Bairnsdale to
Cooma, on which Dalgety must depend for its
direct connection with Melbourne and Adelaide,
was not yet built, quite ignoring the fact that the
same argument holds good against Canberra,
which depends for its direct communication with
Melbourne and Adelaide on the same unbuilt
railway. And these poor weak things were about
all he said. In fact J. C. Watson, as the new
member for a Sydney constituency, voicing a
narrow parish sentiment which exists widely in
the Sydney press, but to a very small extent, so
far as the evidence goes, among the Sydney
people—J. C. Watson as the ally of Reid and
the approved henchman of Carruthers was a
regrettable spectacle in every way.
* * * *
The squalid row over the Australian capital has
been promoted mainly by two parties. The first
of these is the Congested Population Party. It
holds that the Australian capital should be located
as near to Sydney as possible. It is of opinion that
the new city should be so located that all its trade
will go to Sydney, and that the increase of popu-
lation which it will create will be, as far as
possible, an increase of Sydney’s population. Its
view is, that though Sydney already holds one-
third of the people of the State; though it is far
larger, in proportion to the size of the community
behind it, than London, Glasgow, Paris, Berlin,
Vienna, ISlew York, or even bloated Buenos
Ayres; though, in fact, it (with one or two other
Australian cities) puts up a world’s record for
congestion—yet it isn’t congested enough. This
party believes that the prospect of creating
a new Australian port is reprehensible to the
verge of being damnable. It considers that
because the fertile, well-watered tableland of
Monaro isempty, therefore it should be left empty.
Ithasa ready jeer about the “bush capital ” as if it
were sinful to subdue the wilderness, and as if
Sydney had not been a bush capital 120 years ago,
and Melbourne the same less than 70 years ago.
It prates about the alleged loss that will be in-
curred in creating a new city, as if a city was a
bad debt, instead of an asset. Also it works on
the old anti-Victorian prejudice of the last rem-
nant of the Cabbage-Tree Mob ; and tells incredi-
ble lies about the breakage of imaginary clauses
in the Constitution. But all the time it is the
Congested Population party pure and simple.
The creation of a Federal city on Monaro, with
a port adjacent thereto, and a railway leading to
the port, might put new life into the lingering
Cornstalk towns thereabouts —Cooma, Gundagai,
Queanbeyan, Nimity belle and many more. But
the Congested Population party holds firmly to its
creed that no Cornstalk town should have new
life put into it save Sydney.
* * * *
The other disturbing element—though the two
elements overlap a great deal and are really much
the same element—is the old Anti-Federal party.
It was against union from the first. Failing to
carry its point it set itself to make the Common-
wealth as weak and ineffective as possible,
and to that end it became the State Rights party.
It considers that a triumph has been achieved and
the way opened for further aggression if it can
compel the Commonwealth to back down on any
point in obedience to State clamor, and so it selects
its ground of quarrel and manufactures the clamor
in the newspapers. It ranks with the coarse school
bully, with the pushite lurking round the corner for
a chance to stoush some passer-by, and with
everything else that is quarrelsome, disagreeable,
and gratuitously insolent. The offer of the
Dalgety site, and then the withdrawal ot the
offer as soon as the site was accepted, were all
parts of its scheme to discredit the Australian
Government, and to exalt the State—just as the
pushite exalts himself and shows his superiority
by jumping suddenly on a respectable citizen.
The truculent attempt to make the Common-
wealth change its selection of a capital at the
bidding of a small but noisy faction is in keeping
with the rest of the party’s character ar.d the rest
of its policy. Its definition of the kin lof place
the Federal territory should be is also in
keeping; its ideal capital site is a bare 100
square miles, with no port, wholly sur-
rounded by N.S.W. territory, dependent on the
forbearance and charity of the State Government
for its railway and road communication, for its
outlet for drainage, and for its water supply, the
same being scarce or plentiful, clean or otherwise,
just as the State authority happened to attend
to things or to let things slide. And, in
assuming this attitude, the Anti-Federal party
takes no account of the fact that N.S.W. is the
principal member of the Commonwealth, and
that it is impossible to degrade the Common-
wealth without degrading its own State. In the
matter of the capital, therefore, it is not merely a
question whether the city shall be here or there ;
there is at issue the larger question whether the
Commonwealth shall be merely Joseph Car-
ruthers’ performing monkey, cutting quaint
antics at his bidding and to excite the
mirth of his friends, or whether it shall
preserve its rights and its dignity as a ruling
authority should do. The Monaro site was
selected on the recommendation of a specially
appointed and allegedly capable N.S.W. State
officer. It was offered by the State Government
of the day. It was accepted, and then it was
snatched away amid loud lausrhter, just as a bit
of meat with a string attached is offered to a dog
by an ill-manneredsmallboy, andthen jerked away
when the animal reaches for it. Unless the
Commonwealth proposes to establish a very un-
wholesome precedent, it is up to it to set forth
clearly that it isn’t anybody’s dog.
THE YELLOW ASIA POLICY.
The Bulletin begs to hold up to White Australia
a patriot whose example the diminutive infant
from Manly might toddle after. The name of
that patriot is John, and, in the intervals of his
patriotic fervor, he is usually growing cabbages.
Somewhat tardily, The Bulletin takes off its
hat to John the strenuous believer in
the Yellow Asia Policy. For John begins
to prove himself something more than a
bland purveyor of the much-manured cabbage.
He is building an army and a navy of his own, and
losing little time about it. And it sounds quite a
respectable army, and at least a better navy than
anything the White Australian has to show as yet.
In pursuance of his policy of “ China for the
Chinese,” a saffron viceroy named Yuan Shi Kai
is steadily at work compiling a military organisa-
tion that, in ten years’ time, will be sufficient even
for offensive purposes. Yuan Shi Kai, who has
recently made himself Commander-in-Chief of
the new Chinese armies, begins to looks like a
golden Napoleon. There is really no reason
why the name of the next Napoleon should not
be Yuan Shi Kai. It is just as loud-sounding a
name as Bonaparte or Carrutheks. Yuan is a
patriot who believes in working patriotism upon
a business basis. He began his military career,
which will probably lead him to the throne, by
the revolutionary method of paying his soldiers
well and punctually. Gordon found this method
remarkably satisfactory; and it is difficult to
limit the possibilities of such a reform in Yuan’s
masterful hands. In 1905 his new army of 50,000
trained Chinese held some manoeuvres at
Hochienfu, and astounded the military attaches
of European powers. It is not stated whether
the Australian Commander-in-Chief was present.
At this parade a military observer said that “the
handling of the guns was a sight for the gods.” The
only recorded instance, however, in which the gods
were interested in artillery was in the case of
Satan’s cannon with which, as Milton reports, he
“put Michael and his Angels to some disorder.”
* • * *
But the Chinese parade was but a preliminary.
Yuan intends to have an overwhelming mass of
artillery of the most modern make. The blaud and
inoffensive John—probably Yuan’s name is just
John is designing a giant gun factory on the
-Kkupp model, while he already has at the Hang-
yang arsenal a factory engaged in turning out 50
Mauser rifles a day. Even this is not enough for
the gentleman who makes two lettuces grow
where even a gum tree couldn’t grow before; and
soon the daily output of his arsenal will be
doubled. It is evident that, even to keep up with
John, our arsenal at Lithgow must work over-
time. And keeping pace with this manufac-
ture of arms, the gentle Yuan is adding to
his army at the rate of 20,000 to 25,000 men a
year. By 1915 the gentleman who has a grocer’s
shop with a broken verandah just opposite The
Bulletin office can hope to be backed by an army
of half a million good fighters. Probably by 1915
that hole will still let the rain through his veran-
dah, but in addition to his half-million, the
grocer may have behind him trained reserves
numbering a million more. And even in six
years’ time from now, while the rain is dropping
down the neck of the White Australian leaning
against the post of that verandah, King Hing
and Co. will be cheered by the thought that the
forces of their compatriots are ready for service
overseas. Incidentally, it may be mentioned that
John Shi Kai has placed his troops strategically
to command the whole of the approaches to —and
exits from—Peking, so that when the Dowagor-
Empress dies, he will be in a position to place his
nominee upon the throne, and say something
forcible to the foreign legations.
* * * *
Also, the patient producer of the lavishly-
manured lettuce expects, by 1910, to have a few
nice modern battleships of his own upon the
Pacific. The übiquitous John Shi Kai has
placed himself in charge of this scheme, too.
An Englishman, Captain Tyler, of the Royal'
Navy Reserve, has been appointed Naval Secre-
tary ; an Admiralty House has been established
in Shanghai; and the organisation and training
of a naval staff are under way. Next vear the
shipbuilding programme will be in full and
complete blast; and as each battleship arrives
Captain Tyler will have a trained staff to man it.
Among the 15,000 Chinese students now studying
in Japan, there are a number of naval students,
while Putnam Weale tells us that “Chinese
midshipmen have been placed on board British
cruisers of the China squadron!” The Bulletin
hasn’t, so far, noticed any middies with pigtails on
the Pah’f’l, but they may come. With the Anglo-
Japanese alliance compelling the Japanese and
British admirals and commanders-in-chief to con-
sult “ from time to time fully and freely upon all
questions of mutual interest,” and with saffron
middies upon British warships, The Bulletin has
a hazy doubt about the boasted pre-eminence of
the White, unless the WTiite gets a hustle on him.
• « * «
Under these circumstances, The Bulletin in-
tends to raise its hat to John every time it passes
him with his baskets, as a patriot of the deepest
yellow dye ; and it begins to see how, with these
weighty matters on his mind, John hasn’t time to
attend to a leaking verandah. For, as aforesaid,
the rain only falls upon the White Australian lean-
ing against the post, outside the faded premises of
King Hing.
P LAI IN ENGLISH.
The Price the Country is to Pay for
Carruthers.
In 1895, when G. Reid, the bulky Anti-Sosh
leader, was content to be Premier by the grace of
the most Socialistic Labor party that N.S. Wales
has ever known, his Lands Minister, whose name
was J. Carruthers, brought in a Lands Bill into
which he professed to put his inmost democratic
soul. As this Minister pointed out at the time,
the accumulation of great estates was almost the
greatest curse of the country, and he was going to
stop it and at the same time create just what the
country needed—a body of settlers who would
make the land their home, and who could only
hold it on condition that they did make it their
home. Therefore the principal feature of this
Bill of his was the'homestead selection. That a
man had no capital was not to bar him from
becoming part of the backbone of the country
under Carruthers’ scheme. For six years he
had only to pay per cent, on the unimproved
capital value of the land, and thereafter only a
fraction more. So if a man got a block of 640
acres valued at £1 per acre—the valuations were
made very low throughout—the annual rent of
the whole farm was £8 a year, payable half-
yearly; and if there were any improvements on
the land, the State bought them for the settler
and gave him four years in which to pay the price.
The conditions were extraordinarily liberal—so
liberal that, naturally, there was a rush for such
holdings; at June 30, 1906, they embraced 984,426
acres, and there were also homestead grants (which
are issued five years after the original application,
but which carried the same general provisions as
the homestead selection)covering another 1,087,065
acres. Still, the more land that was applied for
under this tenure, the greater the success it was
alleged to be. Revenue, the department said,
was only a very insignificant consideration. What
the country wanted was bona-fide settlers. The
Official Guide to the land laws of the State put it
this way :
A condition of perpetual residence attaches to the
holding, the object of which is to secure that the land
shall be used for its intended purpose, and as a salutary
check against what has hitherto been a prevailing
tendency to take advantage of the [land] law for merely
speculative purposes.
It was all so true that, instead of complaining of
the liberal terms, all parties agreed that it paid
the country to get bona-fide settlers even at the
price of these concessions. But a general election
is in view, and now note what happens. Premier
Carruthers, the man who passed this Act in
1895, attended the Farmers and Settlers’ Con-
ference last week, and tu.d these homestead selec-
tors, who had got the extraordinarily liberal
terms on certain specific conditions, that if they
would give him a majority at the elections he
would, in return, make them a present of the
freehold of their selections. As a piece of political
bribery there has been hardly a more infamous case
in recent history. It is not merely a promise in
a general way that more liberal conditions will be
given to future selectors. To every present home-
stead selector the definite assurance is held out
that the return of a Carruthers majority will be
paid for with a freehold. And Premier Car-
ruthers leaves no doubt as to what he expects in
return for this grant out of the public estate.
Here is the iS.M. Herald report of his speech :
If those who wanted these things done expected that
those who had no interest in it were to do all the fighting
to carry it through, they could not expect to arouse very


much enthusiasm. He expected that those who, at any
rate, were interested, would don the uniform, stand
shoulder to shoulder, and fight behind the Government
that had made this promise-
Mr. Higgins : You will not be disappointed.
The Premier : And fight those who were against it. it
could not be expected that they were to come here
slobber him, and praise him for proposing what the
Government was doing, and then scuttle away and nght
against the Government which proposed these things.
Those who were in favor of it must fight under the flag.
It is surely a most scandalous thing that a Pre-
mier should hold out a definite promise of large
personal gain to each of some thousands of men,
and, in return for the undertaking, call upon
them to “fight under the flag”—which means, ot
course, fight for the continuance of official place
and pay for Carruthers and his Ministers.
Beside that the principle involved in the
repudiation by Carruthers of Carruthers
own land policy is a comparatively small
matter. Yet, only comparatively small. Car-
ruthers saw well enough when he introduced
the system, and the Official Guide has seen well
enough ever since, that residence is an effective
bar to all that is worst in the land-owning system
of N.S. Wales. Once hand over the freehold and
the residence condition is no longer necessary ;
and that opens the way for absentee landlordism,
the sweating of the tenant farmer, the accumula-
tion of large estates, and the other well-known
curses.
*.
Carruthers the Kepudiationist.
One of the side issues of Joseph Carruthers’
squalid little row about the Federal capital is the
question whether one Government can, with any
show of decency, repudiate the debts of its prede-
cessor. Carruthers has laid it down that a
Government can repudiate the pledges, acts, and
bargains of its predecessor, and the repudiation
of its predecessor’s debts is exactly the same kind
of breach of faith, and the same variety of sharp
practice. The See Government offered certain
possible sites for a Federal capital by agreeing to
reserve from sale all State lands around these
sites till the capital was selected. The only pos-
sible reason for the reservation, and also the
avowed reason for it, was that these sites were
on offer as possible capitals, and that to sell
public lands thereabouts would make a difficulty
should one of them be finally chosen. The Aus-
tralian Parliament selected one of the sites thus
offered, and straightway Joseph Carruthers re-
pudiated the act of his predecessor, and annulled
the reservation of State lands. He did this just as
honorably as he might have repudiated the bonds
issued by his predecessor when the money was
raised to pay for the new Sydney railway station.
He established a new principle—that the things
which happened before Joseph don’t count. The
honor of N.S.W. is now divided into three
sections—before Joseph, during Joseph, and
after Joseph. Before Joseph has ceased to have
any significance ; any pledge or promise or bond
given then doesn’t matter. During Joseph
doesn’t amount to much, considering the way the
lamentable local Premier is dragging political
decency in the mud. And it can only be hoped
that after Joseph will be as unlike during Joseph
as it can be. For Carruthers has laid down the
theory that the State, as a whole, has no honor ;
that it can free itself from any pledge or agree-
ment by a mere change of Boss Insects;
and when that theory is carried to its
logical conclusion, Joseph will repudiate all
past debts on the simple ground that he
—the individual Joseph— didn’t incur them any
more than he incurred the pledge to the Common-
wealth to reserve the Dalgety site as a possible
situation for an Australian capital. The only
security that the public creditor has under the
present N.S.W. regime is that he is mostly a non-
Australian creditor ; and while it is Joseph’s
general habit to be cantankerous and hostile to
Australia, he is a rather friendly public worm to
places outside Australia, Moreover, he has only
started on his career as a repudiationist. He may
do larger things when the habit of repudiating
grows on him.
Gray on Australia.
Senator Gray of N.S.W. used to have something
to do with soap, though it is commonly under-
stood that he has lost even that moderate and
limited virtue, and that he no longer has anything
to do with soap. Gray was returned to the
Senate because he promised to vote steadily in
favor of importation and against Australian
industry. On the strength ofthat promise the
importers’ machine nominated him, and the
people of N.S.W., hardly one of whom knew
Gray from a kookaburra, elected him. As a pro-
duct of machine politics, Gray is about what
might be expected. Here is a sample of the
wisdom of the person who used to be connected
with soap:—
As to the Northern Territory transfer proposal, he said
it would be most unjust to ask the people of Australia to
take over the Territory without a single shred of know-
ledge as to how they were going to develop it in its
present uninhabited and isolated condition. He thought
the Northern Territory was an excellent buffer between
our possible enemies and the populated parts of the con-
tinent. As to the building of a line of railway from Port
Darwin to the eastern coasts, he could only see in it the
means of communication for the invaders with the
populous centres.
N.S.W. gets its reward for electing the
kind of man whose one qualification and re-
commendation is that he is opposed to Aus-
tralian manufactures, in the disgrace of being
represented by such as Gray. Gray thinks
it would be an injustice to the people
of Australia if they were asked to take over a
portion of their own country, just as he might
think it an injustice to his stomach when his feet
wanted boots. He doesn’t know what on earth
we will do with the Territory—the idea of culti-
vating it, and growing animals On it, and digging
minerals out of it, and settling a population on it,
never having occurred to Gray. He is so far—so
pitiably far—from realising that Australia, one
and indivisible —is our country, and that to us
every inch of its soil is as sacred as that of Eng-
land is to an Englishman, or of France to a
Frenchman, that he deliberately proposes to aban
don one-sixth of this continent. He proposes to
treat it as a buffer State between Australia,
which to Gray is merely the little patch in the
south-east where he has some business, and
any foreign enemy. Gray, it appears, would draw
the defence line south of the Territory, and let
the enemy have that great area without a kick.
The idea that our country is just as much worth
preserving intact as any other couutry hasn’t
reached Gray. The disgrace of proposing to give
up one-sixth of our heritage as a bad job doesn’t
occur to this man who used to be connected with
soap. If the North is left to the enemy it may
keep him busy long enough to prevent him arriv-
ing in Gray’s lifetime within sight of Gray’s
house in Sydney, and what more could Australia
ask ? But the North can’t be abandoned to a
foreign enemy without making it fairly certain
that the rest of the country will go the same way
in time —still, it probably won t be in Gray’s
time. To Gray a transcontinental railway doesn’t
look like a means whereby we may pour popula-
tion into the North, and make ready to hold
it against all-comers, but merely as a means
whereby an enemy may come south and annoy
Gray. The idea of a successful defence of the
.Territory isn’t on Gkay’s horizon. The idea that
it is our solemn duty, if we are worth our salt as
a people, to stake our last man and our last
shilling on the preservation of every inch of our
native land, isn’t on Gray’s horizon either.
True, the occupation of the Territory by a power-
ful enemy (and no other kind of enemy would
attempt such a task) would make North Queens-
land and the northern section of Westralia practi-
cally indefensible, but these things apparently
don’t trouble Gray, the ex-soap man. He is not
an Australian, and the knowledge that there is an
Australian sentiment and an Australian unity,
and that there exists an Australian people to
whom even its deserts are holy ground, has
never come to him. In the old days of disunion a
very miserable kind of Victorian or New South
Welshman might have reckoned that the fate of
the Territory didn’t concern him, just as a
Mercian of the Heptarchy days might have
failed to see that it was any of his business
if the Danes were burning Kent or ravaging
Wessex ; but those days are past. They have
passed without Gray’s knowledge. Possibly,
if it was the abandonment of India or Scotland
that was proposed, Gray would wake up and
talk energetically about “the integrity of the
empire.” He might even babble that way about
the Territory if he remembered that it is part of
the empire, but thinking of it for the moment as
merely a part of Australia it doesn’t seem to
matter. Australia, simply regarded as our
country and our home, doesn’t signify to Gray.
He feels no inclination to shoulder the white
man’s burden. It is a lamentable thing that
N.S.W. should be disgraced by such a represent-
ative; but when the importers’ machine is allowed
to manage Senate elections, and it demands as
the one essential qualification that its candidate
shall be consistently hostile to Australian manu-
factures, a State is liable to find itself blessed
with strange representatives.
♦
The Drudge.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
I sing the Drudge,
Weak-jawed and leaden-eyed—
The human smudge,
To whom has been denied
The attributes of dignity and pride.
No flash of fire,
Struck forth by purpose high
Or keen desire,
E’er kindles in his eye.
At birth ordained a Drudge—a Drudge he’ll die.
Through all his span
Of toil and of distress,
He is a man
Who never seeks redress
For wrongs offensive to all manliness.
He has no brains;
His labors call for none.
He dons the chains
Of toil at rise of sun,
To sweat until the weary day is done.
Not without grudge
His meagre keep we dole ;
He is a Drudge,
And, if he has a soul,
It boots him not—without it he were whole.
Whole for such tasks
As he is called to do,
And no one asks
(So unto toil lie’s true),
If to his sinew, soul be wedded too.
Unwept, at last,
In an unhonored grave
The Drudge is cast,
And Christ, who came to save,
In him is mocked, howe’er the Preachers rave.
MAORILAND. SINC. S. CLARK.
♦
Can We Beat the All Yellows?
A letter to the people of Australia :
Dear Bulletin. —A nauseating discussion went on for
some weeks in the Sydney press as to “How to beat
the All Blacks.” Morning- and evening the dailies vied
with one another in giving their best columns to heart-
breaking stuff of this kind. And a 3 in the days of the
Roman decadence, when the people of the Imperial City
lived only for panern et circense-s what time the barbarian
hosts lay crouching on the Rhine and the Danube for
their final spring, so, too, the Australians, plunged in the
idolatry of sport, reck not of things that shall come
speedily to pass. These are the idolators told of by Paul,
the Apostle—a people who sat down to eat and drink,
and rose up to play. Fill our bellies, and give us sport.
Let us see the contending sides on the playing ground
while the assembled spectators yell themselves hoarse;
leave us to the worship of the horse, and the coursing
hound, and the deified pugilist, and we will scorn all
tjiought of the destiny of Australia. The cloud of
menace, a few years back no larger than a man’s hand,
looms bigger and bigger each day in the North. But why
scan the horizon when the Maorilanders are with us, and
the English cricketers will be here anon, and the Mel-
bourne Cup approaches ?
There shall come a day not in the far distant future,
when the only question that will absorb Australia will
be—how to beat the All Yellows. In that day men’s
hearts will fail them for fear, and torn with despair, and
mad with the unavailing regret of impotence, the Aus-
tralian people will awake to realise that they have thrown
away the most glorious heritage a nation ever held in
trust for those who come after. This community of ours,
for which some of us have dreamed a high and abiding
destiny on the Pacific, will pass as Babylon and Carthage,
Constantinople and Rome.
This ultimate of fate seems as inevitable as the action
in the tragedies of .Eschylus. Though a William the
Silent, a Frederick the Great, a Bismarck, or a Juarez
should arise in this land, of what avail would it be when
he would have such pitiful material to work upon !
Clothe him with the passion of an Isaiaii, the fire of a
Danton, the eloquence of a Burke, and the listless and
flippant crowd would drift past him to their racecourse or
their playing ground.
Can a miracle happen ? Can a nation be born again ?
Can a people turn from mirth and folly, and the
ostrich policy of the hidden eyes, and become of a
sudden grave and foreseeing, sagacious and self-sacrificing
in life and death ? One thinks perhaps of the Jews who
hurled back again and again the legions of Titus from
the walls of Jerusalem, of the light-hearted Parisians
who died on the battlefield and by famine in that
terrible winter of ’7O. But their heroism in the end
counted as naught, since they had of choice ignored the
hand-writing on the wall. The writing is there in letters
of fire for us in Australia to read. Arm, and again arm,
discipline your hosts, build your navy, fill up with fight-
ing races your empty wastes.
There are ten or twenty, it may be thirty years to do
it, but the years are rolling away, and the task is the
most gigantic a nation was ever set to face. If it be not
begun at once, no agonising efforts when the deadly peril
looms so near as to compel the heed of the dullest wiL
save a people that, in the hour of grace, cared for none of
the things which go to build up and establish nation-
hood, but wasted their substance in the trivialities and
banalities of childhood.—Yours,
Richard Arthur.
Sweating as an aid to Virtue.
In a recent address to the Sydney Young
Women’s Christian Association, Mr. Arthur
Renwick observed with tears in his voice that the
trend of recent legislation in limiting the work-
ing girl’s hours of labor had opened fresh avenues
of immorality. The implication was clearly that
if the sweater were allowed to work his girls from
early morning till far into the night, either the
prowling person who was waiting at the corner
would have given her up as a bad job and gone
home before his intended prey tottered past, or
else the girl w’ould be so fagged-out that vice
would present no alluring features to her, and she
couldn’t keep awake to listen to the voice of the
betrayer, but would fall asleep with two gaunt arms
wrapped round the lamp-post. Probably a whole
lot of new vigor will be infused into the struggle
against Arbitration laws and Wages Boardsby the
revival of the blessed theory that, by making a
girl work extra long hours for extra low wages, her
master may not only acquire great profit for him-
self, but also save the girl’s soul. Por low wages
are as essential to the girl’s salvation as long
hours. With high wages she buys dress which
attracts the tempter; she is able to take
an occasional holiday from the long hours,
and then she goes to amusements where
she meets beings in the outward shape of
Arthur Renwick (but larger and brighter), by
whom she may be beguiled ; and she purchases
and consumes meat; and meat, as anyone can tell
by a comparison of the flesh-consuming races of
the world with the mild, vegetable-eating com-
munities, leads to vigor and energy and pas-
sion. The question that doesn t strike the
dreary Renwick is that morality isn’t worth
buying at the price, even if it can be
bought at the price. It might be possible to make
conventional morality almost compulsory in a
class by working its members to such a degree
that they would have neither the time nor the
physical energy for sin, but it is very doubtful ;
and, in any case, compulsory morality isn’t worth
much; and even if it were worth a whole lot,
it isn’t worth purchasing with the physical
and mental ruin of the working class. Any-
how, why should the working class have
all the morality? Why not abolish rents, or
reduce them 80 per cent., so that landlords
who are now rich will have to work hard instead
of having time op their hands which they may
spend in immoral pursuits—it is possible to quote
some landlords whose immorality is notorious?
And what’s the matter with reducing the interest
on Mr. Renwick’s investments so that he may
have to hustle so hard for a crust that he won’t
have leisure to fall away from his lofty moral
eminence? Other cases might be quoted, but
those are two to go on with.
The 20-Knot Fetish.
The question of what the millions get or don’t
get out of marvellously accelerated mail services
in palatial liners is kept carefully in the back-
ground. Yet does it really matter very much to
99 per cent, of the people whether the mails are
carried in thirty or five-and-thirty days ? Has
the same big proportion any concern as to
whether the grand saloons are finished in
satin-wood or maple? Or if the cuisine is
French or German or English ? It is full
time to remind the affluent one per cent, of the
population who may enjoy these things that it is
up to them to pay the full cost. And as to the
mails, who really is in such a tremendous hurry ?
“ The Lane” and the wholesale houses of Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane pretty well make the
total; and if they are really in a hurry, and the
matter is of importance, the cable is handy. The
cable will be handier, too, with every year; and
it is hardly likely that this decade, will close
on a still incomplete wireless system. Before
any Commonwealth mail contract is signed
and sealed, such facts as these need to be
gripped and understood. What does Australia
get out of the extra velocity of the half-
dozen services now racing across the ocean ?
Certainly their boats carry away the chronic
or temporary absentee, and afterwards they
carry remittances of good Australian money
to keep him going, but 16 knots is quite fast
enough to carry the absentee and his remittance.
Australia is drained by those outward-bounders of
money that should go to make its home life rich,
glad, and enjoyable. And yet it is assumed to be
proper Government business to spend money for
their still more expeditious transit and still more
luxurious accommodation. The racing mail boat is
indeed a bit of a fetish with us. The floating palace
for the wealthy and well-to-do, if only "001 of its cost
comes out of the public funds, is a fraud. As to the
carrying of commodities, reasonable expedition
is desirable ; but it is a very grave question if any-
thing over, say,, 16 knots, is worth paying for. Wool
is mainly purchased in our own markets, and will
be wholly so within a few years, and the buyers
can very well be trusted to get it to Europe.
Wheat will not pay for rapid carriage ; and the
butter carried gradually round the Cape seems to
have yielded just as good returns as that carried
in breathless haste through the Canal. It is time
we gave at least an odd glance at the reason and
sense of our Speed Joss.
+.
Mysteries of the Foreign Factory.
An enthusiastic young slummer, named Olive
Christian Malvery, has published her experi-
ences of the British “Jungle”—“The Soul
Market,” published by Hutchinson and Co.
As Lady Bountiful to a poor girls’ club, she sent
along some jams, and was astonished to find them
refused bv the ill-fed young women, though they
were the best brands. Then she inquired, and
discovered that these girls knew how British jam
is made, while the Lady Bountiful didn’t. She
says:—
It may be some little compensation to the miserable
toilers to think that a fine lady, with all the dainty
tastes fostered by great wealth and elegant surround-
ings, may, perhaps, partake of some preserved delicacy
which has been made in filthy and insanitary workshops
by suffering and dirty people.
Olive Christian Malvery found that the most
wretched class of workers, those who have no
homes, toil in fruit-preserving factories. Ihe
wretched creatures get no chance to wash or tidy
themselves, for sanitary arrangements are nil—-
just plain nil. Slightly “off” fruit, which is scorned
by fruiterers and costermongers, makes very good
jam. Owing to heat and pressure the fruit often
arrives in a half-fermented mass. “ All we can
do,” explained the human skeleton behind the
scenes, “ is to take up the mess by handfuls, pick
out any leaves or stems that are prominent, and
throw it into the next basket in a sort of pulp.
“One of the women had some nasty skin
disease.” The wages paid amounted to 7s. per
week. Hours were from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., with
ten minutes for food at noon, and ten minutes at
four. In a marmalade factory tho amusing
rumor was in constant circulation that the firm
purchased orange skins swept' off the streets.
Miss Malvery saw oranges that were broken and
mildewed used for marmalade. “The curious
part of the food-pfeserving trade seems to me the
marvellous way in which these factories can turn
out quite nice-looking stuffs from half-decayed
and diseased material.” Then the lady left the
Jam Horror and struck the Meat Horror. Eng-
lish farmers and others find a ready market
for diseased stock. It is killed and sold as
“ foreign meat.” In the meat-preserving trade
Servian sheep, owing to their poor quality, are
known as “Bulgarian atrocities.” “On one
occasion there came into the factory where I
worked four enormous wooden cases containing
tongues and sheeps’ hearts, which were mildewed
over, and smelt fearfully. Every scrap of that
diseased offal was used for potted tongues and
savories I did not notice any definite disease
among the workers, but their bodily condition
was extremely unsavory and disagreeable.” The
Egg Horror was a mere side line. The baking
trade has a quaint and pleasing practice of buying
eggs from Holland. To save trouble the Dutch-
men break the dubious eggs into casks. The
better grade eggsappear to be sent over in their own
shells for household use, but the old historical eggs
that smell are sent as a mash in a barrel. These
hen-ruins are beaten up, flavored, and baked. It is
remarkable what good pastry and cakes they make.
There are also Grease Horrors, but the subject
grows too revolting. Behind all these lies this
lesson: The country which is resolved by a pro-
cess of High Protection to manufacture for itself
has its industries under its own eye. It can make
sure, with adequate factory laws, that its new suit
isn’t made of leper’s rags ; that its jam isn’t made
of decayed fruit by an unclean, starved human
skeleton with a skin disease; and that the basis
of its marmalade wasn’t swept up in the gutter.
And the importing country can’t. The foreign
factory is too remote for inspection. The import-
ing country has to take its Horror as the Horror
comes. It is something over which to rejoice and
be glad that Federation has done a little—though
as yet far too little —to shutout from N.S.W. the
imported Horror.
♦
The Cow Tracks of Sydney.
N.S. Wales Minister of Works Lee, after a row
had been made about it, decided in February last
to have George-street North widened to 90ft.
Since then, however, his advisers have discovered
the usual engineering difficulties; so instructions
have now been issued that the width of the street
shall not be more than 80ft. This means either
that Sydney is for all time to have the entrance to
its principal avenue no wider than the main street
of a way-out village, or that later on a great sum
will have to be spent to make an improvement
which could now be carried out at small expense.
The Bocks area was resumed seven years ago on
account of its insanitary condition. Ihe resump-
tion cost four millions of the State’s good borrowed
money, and a Board of Experts was appointed to
draw up a scheme for remodelling the area. In
due time this scheme was submitted to the Govern-
ment, and received Cabinet approval. Then, as
is usual in Sydney, everybody concerned went
to sleep again until a year or so ago, when
another Board was appointed—of tractable
Government officials this time—and this Board,
which is quite tame and will feed out of the hand,
discovered that it really isn’t necessary to remodel
the area at all; Sydney had managed to get along
with the Bocks rubbish heap at its front
door for a hundred years and more, and there was
no reason why it should not struggle on a little
longer. Had matters stopped there, little harm
would have been done. But the new Board, in
order to justify its existence, strove to make the
impracticable practicable, and set the crooked
straight, by regrading and “improving” the
curious network of tortuous lanes and alleys that
twine about the Bocks, and it has managed to
squander many thousands in this way. _ This,
again, might have been overlooked as simply a
blundering departmental effort at economy ; but
the Government has now the effrontery to brand
as impracticable the attempt to give George-
street the breadth its importance demands,
because the necessary regrading of the side streets
would diminish the much-vaunted surplus. All the
land on the western side of this street, from Dawes
Point to Grosvenor-street, and back to Observa-
tory Hill, is in the State’s hands ; and if the
Government can, it will sell every foot of it, with-
out any further attempt; at improvement, and lose
to the citizens of Sydney, probably for ever, the
opportunity of dealing systematically, on modern
lines, with the laying out of a large and extremely
valuable area—which was the main object of the
resumption. Premier Carruthers, in this atti-
tude, covers himself behind the City Surveyor,
who, he says, has assured him that it would be
impossible to get the 90ft. width, and use the side
streets.” This is perfectly true, if the area is to be
allowed to remain as it was laid out—by the cows
—in the days of Hunter, King, and Bligh ; but
there is no apparent reason why the original cow-
tracks should be preserved.
The Little Australian Who Dies.
Among the measures to be introduced this session
in Victoria is a Government Bill to amend the
Infant Life Protection Act. Whether such a
hopeless affair can be mended is doubtful; judging
by results, it wants making anew. Becently Dr.
Norris, of the Board of Health, looked into the
matter with which the Act is supposed to deal,
and found things that staggered even him. He
learned that, though the average mortality of all
infants under one year between 1902 and IJOb
was 9.0 per cent.—which is high enough m all
conscience—for illegitimate infants the moitality
was 24.1 per cent.! “These appalling figures,
he reports, “ do not fully measure the harvest of
ills which result from the evil conditions causing
the mortality, it being estimated that for every
infant who dies two more are permanently in-
jured. Thus, over 700 out of each 1000 such infants
born either died or bore marks of injury to body
or mind.” Further, Dr. Norris plainly indicated
improper food as the chief cause of this awful waste
of life, and advocated the establishment of a found-
ling hospital and mothers’refuge, undf/r the control
of specially trained medical women and nurses,
with cottage homes in the country as subsidiary
refuges. That is the expert remedy suggested;
and now what is Chief Secretary Peacock going
to do about it in his new Bill ? Apart from the
mostly-hypocritical snuffle about “ encouraging
v i ce ” —as if “ vice ” considered the consequences
in a matter of this sort —the only argument against
the Foundling Hospital system is that of cost
Well, consider : Of every thousand “naturals,
140 more die than among the same number of
legitimates. Besides the 140 who die,,, 400 P®£
thousand are “permanently injured. is it
cheaper to maintain foundling homes and hos-
pitals, or to bury the 140 infants and maintain that
large proportion of the other 400, “ permanently
injured,” who will presently become a drain upon


the public s purse ? That is looking at the matter
irom the coldly commercial point of view—the
view that is supposed to appeal to A. J. Peacock,
L/hiet Secretary and company manager. There is
another point of view, though. Hundreds of
these unfortunate little fellow-Australians of ours
are killed ; and even the snufflebuster may agree
that it isn’t a good thing to start any young
woman off in life with a murdered baby on her
conscience.
4 .
Tasmania and Victoria threaten to bring in
.Bills this session for the compulsory resumption
of great estates to make room for closer settle-
ment. There are two fatal holes, however, in
each measure—the same old big holes. In each
case the Government proposes to get power to
forcibly take over the big estate, and, if no agree-
ment can be arrived at, the price will be fixed by
arbitration. Australia has done an immensity of
arbitration when resuming land for railways and
other purposes, and has paid, as a steady average,
twice_ what the land was worth. By the most
atrocious perjury on the part of the seller, the
btate has been swindled almost every time,
lliere has even been seen the spectacle of a land
valuer, said to be a reputable person, valuing a
property at so much for Probate purposes,
and swearing, a few weeks later, that
it was worth about twice as much when
he was called as a seller’s witness in a
tetate resumption case. And so little conscience
had he in the matter that, when he was asked to
explain the discrepancy, he said blandly, “Oh,
tlieother was a valuation for Probate purposes ! ”
this want of any provision for getting the re-
sumed land at a fair price is one hole. The other
great rent in the two schemes is the fact that, for
want of a graduated land-tax, or a law limiting
the amount of land one person can hold, the big
estates are liable to accumulate just about as fast
as they are cut up. It is a case of starting to pour
water into the cask without first making sure that
there is any bottom to the vessel.
♦
The N.S.W. Parliament which has just died left
at least one memory behind it. After making
Getting unlawful at coursing matches it legalised
it again, lest the entertainment of tearing small
animals to pieces while yet alive should die
out. Coursing and pigeon - shooting are two
disgusting sports. They are the joy of many
hogs and numerous ruffians, and the delight of
ou? ie i vilest elements in the community.
Ihe late Parliament didn’t try to directly abolish
coursing, but it did try to abolish betting, which
it declared to be a sin. Then it was told that
unless thesin was legalised the brutality might die
out, and it was so broken up at the prospective
loss of the brutality that, at the invitation of
Attorney-Ceneral Wade, it hurriedly legalised the
sin. borne day the same sort of Parliament will
perhaps find out a way to abolish immorality, and
then some one will come to it in alarm to report
that unless immorality is legalised, drunkenness is
liable to die out; and it will be so alarmed at the
prospect of losing its drunkenness that it will fall
again 1D ltS asfce to ma ke immorality lawful
♦
One of the most important of the measures to be
dealt with by the Victorian Parliament this
session is an amending Shops and Factories Act.
it Ihe Bulletin s memory is to be depended on,
this will be the eleventh Act dealing with the
question; in fact, a session now without an
amending Factories Act would seem deficient
anc lopsided. The chief purpose of the amend-
ing Act is to cut out of the old measure what is
known as the “ reputable employer ” clause. This
or bids a W ages Board to fix the minimum wag-e
at a rate higher than that paid by “repu-
table empioyers” in the trade. The absurdity
of this provision was made apparent a short
time ago when a Board sat to fix a minimum
wage in the starch trade. After inquiring into
the wages paid by various manufacturers, the pre-
siding Judge said that, amongst them all,' he
could not find what he would call a reputable
employer. So, m the end, a compromise was
come to, and what might be termed a half-living
wage was agreed to. It is, of course, reasonably
certain that the starch trade does not stand alone
in this respect; so that, unless the hands of the
Wages Boards are to be tied, the abolition of the
reputable employer” clause is badly needed.
As usual, the Employers’ Federation is on the
war-path against the alteration, and the notorious
Walpole is writing letters at a great rate on the
subject. Fortunately for the employees, however,
the present Chief Secretary is Peacock of the
Baugh, whom vented the Factories Act —the No. 1
Act—and Peacock has made a good start by
£ in &Tt LPOLI SbT ho , was going t 0 deputationise
him, that it would be sheer waste of time to do so.
Also, added Peacock, he was busy; and, further,
he wouldn t listen to the deputation. So there is
every probability of the eleventh Act becoming
law; and, wnen it does, Victoria will have a
fairly good Factories Act, taking it all round.
S.M. Herald (28/6/’O7), in an “On the Land”
article, put into figures the difference between
men and sheep
(TamwnTo! 1 ’ ® 27 ’ sbo aCreS of Peel River la nd
N.S.W.jcame under the hammer, and bidding
by local *?? n , that onl J' four or five outsider!
managed to secure a block. Mr. C. J. Britten, jun., got
a traction engine on the ground, working 16 furrows.
eovprp7” ih 400 aer ? s ’ which a few months ago was
covered with green timber, yielded 2500 bags of barlev
worth £1960. Another block of 220 acres was
a c ? sfc of 225. 6d. per acre, and off this
return°of b^sn° f I whea K?;'? d were secured, for a
i f £3Ba , In addition to the wheat land, this
owner also secured 175 acres of Peel River frontage for
£lO per acre, which cost £6 to clear. Forty acres have
been ploughed three times, cultivated twice, and seeded
• • • t,l ™ : ‘T ent season, therefore, the owner should
realise £l2OO from his harvest, etc., which clears off all
expenses, and gives him some £2OO to the good, and
improvements worth £2OOO. All this in two seasons!
" lr ; ± THIBAL,LT seeured one or two blocks, and last year
got 900 acres under wheat and barley, which yielded him
three or four bags per acre. . . . These returns are in
striking contrast to those obtained from the land before
subdivision. Then it produced Bs. per acre in wool and
mutton. This forms a small section of the estate. Yet
there are still thousands of acres fit for cultivation still
growing grass for stock, when five times the wealth can
be obtained from the same fertile areas.
But when a stiff, graduated land-tax is proposed
which would compel owners to make the best
use of their Lind, the S.M. Herald still has the
old habit of calling it robbery. And all the time,
on the paper’s own showing, the country is
robbed of £4 out of the £5 which it ought to
produce. Apparently the S.M. Herald isn’t
prepared to stop robbery when the big land-
owner is the robber, and the country is the victim
-4.
The Democratic Government of Maoriland is
apparently not what it was in the Ballance and
early Seddon days. The feeling is persistent
that some of the grit has departed, and a great
deal of the youthfulness. Sixteen years ago there
was a young, Democratic Government, full of
enthusiasm to do its best for a people whom a
long course of Tory domination had made thankful
for small mercies. To-day a much older and
more tired Democratic Government is doing its
best for a community which isn’t especially
“ernes. The fact that.
S lster McNab has gone back on the
leading principles of his proposed Lands Bill is
an evidence either that Jeshurun, having become
fat (largely on borrowed money), has become
S er v to . d v nve ’ or rp, at t^ie driver of Jeshurun
ivJi t -R-n at he WB i S ' The most stri king features of
the Bill were the proposal that every existing
I Ju ry f P i° pr ] let ? r folding more than £50,000
worth of land should be compelled to sell the
excess, and that no new proprietor who was
starting to pile up an estate should be allowed to
pile it up beyond a value of £15,000. These pro-
posals were novel and refreshing. As a concomi-
tant to a graduated land-tax they were most
commendable. For the first time a chalk line was
to be drawn beyond which the landowner was not
to go. Now the new proposals have been aban-
,d°r\e<? in fa Y? r °i an increase in the graduated
land-tax. This, of course, if the increase is large
enough, may produce the same results, but the
change suggests that the Government which was
young and daring in 1891 has become cautious and
middle-aged m 1907, and has begun to look
askance at new Democratic ideas, and to prefer
, j ® Democratic rut. The Ward Government
had an idea worth sticking to in that hard and
last limitation of big estates, and it is a pitv it
didn’t stick. J
♦
Barren joey Carruthkrs may now for a while
qmt grizzling over the Commonwealth’s treat-
ment of the Ma State, and concentrate his in-
tellect on the “ Victorian wolves.” On July Ist
.bent s new Fruit Act came into operation. This
Act says that all fruit brought into Victoria
must be in two, one, or one-half bushel cases, if
the cases are new ; but growers may use up their
old cases during the next two years, if they legibly
mark thereon their names and the quantity of the
contents. Both Queensland and Ma were notified
ol the advent of these regulations, and Bananaland
duly complied therewith, but Ma ignored
them Consequently, out of 3900 cases of
fruit brought from Sydney to Melbourne by the
Bombala on July Ist, no less than 2500 were put
aside, and the agents were ordered to have them
marked as per regulation. Then it was ascer-
tamed that, though these cases are supposed to
contain one bushel, and are sold as such, nearly
all of them contained only about three-quarters of
a bushel, while not one blessed case was over the
measure. In future, all fruit exported from
.Kent s State has got to be in standard-sized
cases; while fruit for local consumption must
either be m such cases, or, if it isn’t, the cases
must specify the size of the contents. This
determination to see that there is a bushel of
fruit in an alleged bushel case is entirely out of
accord with the true spirit of Federation.
As to Danysz and his virus, the difference between
the I rench Government medical officers and the
Fchuca ( Vic. farmers’ conference is that the former
have had the doctor and his poison under their
eye all the time, while the latter only know of
them as something foreign, and therefore, pre-
sumably, all that, the label on the bottle savs they
are. Danysz’s specialty is the destruction of
things. He came here, and the Echuca farmers
want him to be let loose here, as the man who had
introduced a virus to rats, with frightful conse-
quences to the rats. But the French Minister of
the Colonies, transmitting the latest facts
re disease-prevention to colonial Governors
furnishes the remarks of Dr. Kermorgant’
Inspector-General of the French Hygienic Service
ot the Colonies, on the Danysz rat-killing experi-
ments. Says he F
In the sewers of Paris the Danysz virus has been tried
It communicates a disease that is deadly to rats. This
virus has succeeded in some circumstances, but has been
ineffective in others. It has been tested in New Cale-
donia and Tahiti -.only once has it given a good result
no further mortality having been observed amongst rats
when the poison was renewed.
In other words, if a rat happened to take a large
dose it killed him ; but if he took only a small
dose it vaccinated” him, and a subsequent
big dose didn’t affect him. That is the official
verdict of the Government medical officers in
Danysz s own country, concerning that alleged
triumph on the strength of which the Echuca
farmers conference wants Danysz and his virus
turned loose in Australia.
+
The half-dozen or so jetties which are necessary
to the great coal, coke, brick, and smelting in-
dustries of the N.S.YV. South Coast are either
company-owned or are Government property
leased to Private Enterprise. Only one is ade-
quately maintained. One of them recently dis-
appeared in two sections, and the wreckage is
still floating about the ocean; and another, through
persistent neglect, is now howling so bitterly for
extensive repairs that all other business must
be hung up for several weeks—a very serious
thing for the district concerned. Regular main-
tenance would have rendered this delay un-
necessary. The Owe’Sullivan, when in enjoy-
ment of all the whoop and glory of office, visited
one of these jetties with an officer of his Depart-
ment. There was something more than a zephyr
blowing at the time, and the structure swayed
and groaned so aggressively that the Minister
rushed lor land as though it were another loan.
He then determined that these jetties—for there
were others just as rickety—should be taken over
by the State, in the interests of public safety • but
before anything was done retribution fell upon a
spendthrift Government, and the jetties still
escape even a pretence of official inspection
although they are often down past the Plimsol’l
mark of safety. In Queensland all harbor works
are under the Local Authorities Act; and though
local authority hasn’t much of a record where
Propputy comes into conflict with mere human
Life and health, even that system would be
better than the present utter indifference. It
might not be much better, but the local mayor
might be on the wharf inspecting and reporting
the concern as quite sound when it fell in, and
the corporation might be drowned; and’ that
would be something,
Dear Bulletin, —A large number of Pastoral-
ists met father last week to see a demonstration of the
Tyree Spray for killing Prickly Pear and Lantana. A
patch growing at the Paddington Tip was sprayed with
Tyree No. 14 Weed Exterminating Mixture. * My word '
the result fairly paralysed them. The Prickly Pear was
dead in less than 8 days, and the Lantana in less than 5
days. Father showed those present that land can easily
be cleared of any pest, such as Prickly Pear, Lantana,
Blackberry, Gorse, Blackthorn, Poison Plant, etc at a
cost of about ss. per acre. The Pastoralists reckoned
that the demonstration would do them a great deal more
good than the Sheep Show. They reckon that the Gov-
ernment and every newspaper should publish the informa-
tion broadcast, free of charge, as it was a matter of
national importance. One gentleman wanted to know if
the stuff would poison stock. Father said that if the
directions were followed, there would not be enough
poison on any one plant to do much harm ; but, it would
Pu i « k® e P the stock away from the ground until
the stuff was burnt off. Father says the Factory is still
going night and day, and if you want any information
write to Tyree Limited, 314 George-street, Svdnev •
Tyree Automatic Spray Offices, Block-place Mel-
bourne ; Tyree Automatic Spray Offices, 26 Adelaide
street, Brisbane ; Tyree Automatic Spray Offices Wav
mouth-street, Adelaide.—Yours, Bill Williams *’
SUNDRY SHOWS-
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty's “Dorothy.”
P “ The Beautif ul Fiend."
7, AT,ACB Empire Pictures Co.
Uitbekn “ The Squatter’s Daughter."
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
■ riVOLI Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Blue Moon.”
Her Majesty’s “ Arrah-na-Pogue."
“The Cotton King."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium ice Skating.
:
i grand-opera season in Sydney con-
cluded on Monday when “The Valkyrie” was
played to a huge house. Musgrove’s co. came
with a late run. If it had opened as well as it
mushed, and had stuck to German opera, and let
alone Carmen and such-like pieces, the co
might have had a very successful season, barring
internal rows and an undue tendency to send
in medical certificates. As things are, the co.
leaves Sydney with a wealth of experience. Some
cynics are betting that when it strikes Maoriland
and the ver y sick People
will feel that the public eye isn’t on them, there
will be interesting doings, and the co. will end
by forming itself into a union and taking Mus-
grove to the Arbitration Court.
*.* * *
The unbeautiful German god, with the
wrapping-paper whiskers and the lager-beer
figure, having abandoned Sydney Royal, “The
beautiful Fiend” takes up the running next
Saturday The Beautiful Fiend is a lady
and doesn t wear a tail unless it be on her sable
muff.
*# * *
“ The Spring Chicken ” comes down from
off its perch at the end of this week, and
Dorothy follows the immature fowl at Her
Majesty s (Sydney). “ Dorothy’s ” resurrection-
after six or seven years—will be brief ; for there’s
newer stuff to come before the season ends, and
Andrew Muck arrives with his hreezy ways.
** * *
Fi%-fiv e times now has Miss Duggan, of
Ihe Squatter s Daughter ” co., been seized and
outrageously mishandled at Sydney Criterion by
the Ben Hal! clique, and for the 55th time last
night did she outwit her assailants. The score
of outwittings will shortly be interrupted to
allow Miss Grace Palotta and Hugh Ward and
Wllloughby to cast a smile over the city.
MRS. BLANCHE ARRAL AS “ MIGNON”
Photo, by He[?]us Sarony, Maoriland.
At Sydney Lyceum Saturday’s football
match, is being over again. A thousand
teet of nlins were used in photographing the
match, l'he various stages of the game as well
as the rush for the trams by 51,000 people after
* he are in clear evidence. Why go to a
football match and have to stand on your own
feet, or somebody else’s, or have everybody
stand on your feet, and then see nothing but
the serried backs of your fellow humans, when
you can view the whole combat from kick-off to
home-tram (with humorous incidents included) in
a fiickergraph ?
* # *- *
Untravelled Sydney, bavins as good as
toured through Ireland and Scotland just by
paying a coin or two and sitting in the Palace o’
nights is now running through Canada in the
Same theatre. The naval review at Portsmouth
in nonor of the extraneous Premiers gives a tingle
or two of excitement. The smell of powder is
almost perceptible. Some humorous subjects are
thrown in to relieve the monotony of things.
-I here is a lot of solid information about the travel
views, but even the most solid information may
pall unless some variety is thrown in, just as the
hardest-boiled egg may cause indigestion.
** * *
It is a long and full-flavored bill at the
Sydney Tivoli these bitter-cold days and nights
with no principal dish, but a host of kickshaws ;
and if there isn’t one in the remarkable variety
that appeals to the palate, then probably the
dentist’s gold-plate has got in the way of the
tasting apparatus. The Svengalis continue their
frilly turn of interesting trickery j a new dancer,
La Belle Domino, makes but a poor impression ;
and the gallery learns with grief that its latest
goddess, Gracie Grahame, is wrapping her Won-
derland crown in tissue-paper ready for an early
start back to the Fog.
A great and verdant house crowded Her
Majesty s (the Melbourne one) on Saturday
night for “The Way to Kenrnare,” and tot
its moneys worth in noise and “Whirroo°”
The Kenmare Road scarcely appeals as thp
most peaceful of country j/arts PP From cur
tam-nse onwards the rattle, bang and crash
cease until Andre w-Mack-Maguire pulls
up breathless in the last act, clutching the ragged
and inevitable “ doc-u-ments.” Even the love
making is done among waving of shillalahs and to
the accompaniment of much “ hurroo ” ■ and rh2
rich brogue of Miss Berlein as Miss HonoraMalonev
provokes numerous outbreaks of Hibernian iov
from the front of the house. Miss Jane Kelton
as Rose Donald lacks effect in stage manner but
e , nou gh todeserve all the sweet blarnev
of the Andrew Mack songs, which punctuate the
only lucid intervals in this most excitable play
Kenrnare” wi 1 whirl its tempestuous way
through this week, to be followed on Saturday bv
Hie ancient, but still more verdant, “Arrah-na-
** X *
Saturday night brought an eventful hap-
pening in the career of “ The Blue Moon ” The
management added three or four yards of girlto
the original tail of the “ Crocodile.” The “ Mn™ ’>
ng arrived at its fourth week, a large section
of Melbourne was interested in this elongation of
a popular item, and for those who had not pre-
viously beheld a string of young women hanging
on to a small comedian, the spectacle an
impressive novelty suggestive of a toy engine
hauling a heavy goods train along a zis-zns rail
way. Thanks to the Crocodile, and various"other
features of the second act, the “Moon ” will croon '
shining at the Princess’s until further notice
I here are two opinions about the latest William
somam production one of them being very un-
favorable. But the “Noes” are in a distinct
minority, and some of their remarks upon the new
company smack of unreasonable Tory reverence
for old institutions. y reverence
** * *
The Drought will go on Breaking until
Friday at Melbourne Royal. The fact th,r
Bal / e a ] laS le / fc the co -> and that Mrs
de P arted . for a foreign shore, t’other week
with holiday intentions, are not matters of any
consequence to Bland’s drama of Drought and
Walter. Mrs. Holt never had a part in itfneither
was Ba.cer a very commanding identity in this
instance. Maxwell is Baker’s successor as the
weak-minded husband of Miss Ireland, and the
young man who takes Maxwell’s old place is
Leslie Woods. In the character of a prodigal
Sue" 8 ’ Ue A T° 0d , S -¥f a P ai tly-redeemmg
virtue He looks highly capable of being
led astray, and quite worthy of being de-
rz d ln Vl °lent language by Father Styan.
* le other hand, he fails to account for the
sisterly devotion of Miss Ross. Seeing that he
represents one of the feeblest erring brothers in
the whole collection of Blandolt dramas, it is
amazing Jo find that Miss Ross drops her early
piety and simple innocence in order to masque?
ade as a G.ddy Creature-with an accent on the
eatyer —for the mere purpose of bringing him
back to mother. The foregoing reflections mi the
Drought drama are merely intended to introduce
an announcement of “The Cotton King.” Owing
f?IW ■ UI p°l A™ enca ’ s cotton crop and the
falling off in Britain s output of the manufactured
ar rp,f e ’ f ? land ldolt h, as decided that a revival of
Ihe Cotton King on Saturday will probably
catch a subject of topical importance on the hop.
* * * -*
At Melbourne Athenseum Hall a steady
demand for West spictures, with the intervening
Brescians, is supplied eight times a week, and the
At T SHaSo lV seemingly been postponed.
At the town Hall there is a loud note of pre-
paration for the Besses o’ th’ Barn Band that
sturdy body of brassy instrumentalists being due
on July 27. Meanwhile, Ada th’ Barnstonner
whose other name is Ward, will make one last
Melbourne appearance at the Hall aforesaid, in
conjunction with a cinematograph On this
‘ S w“^ ht ’i he 18 th), the stormy
lady will deliver what she describes as a magnifi-
cent and celebrated lecture. How these Kerris-
tians admire themselves!
*. * * *
Techow and his cats continue to fill the
central space of the Melbourne Opera House pro-
gramme. the cats give a neat and silent per-
formance-sdent save for the pleading meow of
the tabby that has to climb to a lofty elevation
and make its descent through space—and Techow
takes the applause, with the air of a man who has
never raised his hand to a dumb creature in the
way.of unkindness. A change in the rest of the
bill is the reappearance of Graham and Dent in
one of their own farces—“ Packing Up.” Here
they are happily placed. As the singing princi-
Rf ?°j My Yokohama Queen,” they carried out
heir dutrns like a pair of conscientious comedians
who felt sorry for the music.
** * *
T things theatricai are quiet in Adelaide.
John F Sheridan and Miss Heba Barlow have
been introducing fresh diversions into the stereo-
typed old Bristol, and have now passed on to
The Lady Slavey.” Carden Wilson has been
doing a bvengal. death-fall nightly at the Tivoli,
where is also Fanny Powers, who is getting to be
a big girl now. 6
The Showman’s Moneymaker.— The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
Westralia has not, it appears, quite extri-
cated itself from the toils of the Crown colony sys-
f , Governor there has been instructed by
the British Government to “impress on the State
Government, ’ etc. The trouble is the chaining
of aborigines by the neck, and since no other
authority intervened, the British Government has
* r 'ght to do so. But why should not an Aus-
tralian Government be given power to curb such
State brutalities?
A Good Razor.—Can you tell a good razor
from a bad one? Very few men can. We had the privi-
lege of watchmg a clever hairdresser at Messrs. Craig &
Aitken s business premises in George Street, Svdnev It
appears that each of the celebrated “Plum" razors is
tested in the following fashion before leaving the shop.
mm IU Th SP u a h ? lr r l f ntrt, - hvvays - rfc niust r ‘ng like a.
bell. The silver steel of which it is made must be well
tempered. It must stand being steeped in boiling water
and then immediately immersed in icy cold water without
turning blue, and so on. There is one thing certain
to the man who orders the Plum razor—he is getting as
perfect a shaving tool as human ingenuity can provide
and at a cost of only 10s. 6d., post free.* ’
Attention is drawn to the notification else-
where of the subdivision of the Allambee Estate,
Pnrohn«B°R S f °n m Wlll be reeeiv ed by the Lands
Purchase Board, Melbourne, up to July 23rd. Through
B,i!,v.l take lC was . announ ced in the page advertisement,
on July P loth* d “ °“ r laSt ISSUe ’ that applications closed


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Zfr INSURANCE SOCIETY,
V PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Broken Hill at present supports two hippodromes, as
'well as two theatres and a Gaiety Hall. At one hippo-
■drome.man hits his brother man for a cash consideration ;
■at the other, Skuchorpe gives exhibitions of buckjumping.
This new hippodrome, bearing the title of “The Golden
Gate,” commenced under difficulties, for on the opening
might the bailiff had the horses and stock-in-trade under
restraint for two judgments. The bailiff was charitable,
Ihowever, and allowed the show to proceed, but the
ihorses jumped in bond, so to speak.
Dear Bulletin.—l am with Sara Anderson in that
'operatic dispute at Sydney Royal. From her point of
'view it was an affair of refreshers. As a lawyer, I know
'the invigorating effects of refreshers. Have I not often
'seen ■eminent seniors in silk coming vigorously to the
■light so long as clients’ funds held out to pay their re-
freshers ; and have, with alarm, seen the same men fall
•exhausted by the wayside and refuse to go on with the
•case when funds ran out and refreshers were not pro-
'vided. So with Madam Sara. “Itis an exhausting part,”
sshe said, “ and if I sing it I may ruin my voice. Never-
theless if you give me 20 guineas I will chance it.” Here
is the true inwardness of the refresher ; and I am glad
that at last other professions besides that of the law have
appreciated the blessed vigor which a refresher imparts.
Yours, Lex Loci Contractus.
“ Alba ” : Fred Lindsay, the mysterious Australian
stockwhip man, appearing at London Hippodrome, is
making a hit. Lindsay exhibits a number of stale tricks
to his excited audiences—cutting a bottle in halves, and
picking up a cigarette with the whip lash are the prin-
cipal items. I have seen much better whip-work at way-
back pubs for drinks. Yet he is credited with a £5O-a-
-week salary. He certainly dresses like a millionaire or an
Agent-General. Don’t know what London would think
if it saw a couple of cookies’ wives splitting seven-feet
rails.
“ The Christian people of Geelong are cold and dead,”
says Ada Ward, who has been running a week’s mission
thereabouts. And Ada Ward herself is angry, hot, and
dead. A month ago she was the most paragraphed
woman in Australia. Then she flopped, and great was
ithe flop thereof. Now hardly a paper mentions her, and
she paws the air as one who distractedly reaches down
foandfuls of atmosphere and casts them before swine.
“dim”: The nearest way to the stage door of the
Broken Hill Crystal Theatre is through the passage of a
■hotel in Argent- treet. One Sunday morning lately
Mrs. Brough was going to rehearsal, and, forgetful of the
vigorous Liquor Act, sought the usual short cut. She
was standing forlornly outside the hotel door, having
'knocked several times without result, when a solicitous
■miner passed. He didn’t know Mrs. Brough from any
other thirsty soul. Looking kindly over his shoulder at
the patient lady, he remarked, “ I don’t think yer got
any ’ope, missus. They don’t serve on Sunday now.”
And then the suspected Sunday drinker retired in con-
fusion.
“ Alba ” (from London): White rage didn’t express
Melba’s indignation when forced, through a sudden in-
disposition, to surrender the part of Mimi in “La
Boheme,” to Miss Donalda, at Oovent Garden. Donalda
is a young Canadian soprano, whose top notes have
struck the tired cockney in the region of the heart.
Also, Donalda possesses the figure of a wood nymph in
comparison with that of the hefty and somewhat rotund
Melba. As Mimi, the Canadian’s acting and singing
seemed to float from the author’s imagination. Un-
able to stay in bed while “ La Boheme ” was in progress,
Melba tramped behind the scenes and stormed at the
management, threatening to cancel all engagements if
Donalda appeared again in one of her parts. The Aus-
tralian singer has been ailing of late, and her sudden
outbursts of temper have earned for her the nickname of
“ Bully” Melba among members of the co. One evil-
minded actor-man asked me if she were really related to
Thomas Bent of Victoria.
“ Ruru ” (Auckland, M.L.): Julius Knight and Co.
Ihave been holding the boards here. In Auckland we go
to the theatre in this wise. The stalls and gallery patrons
'collect in a pack outside the doors, and a free fight
.ensues when the doors open. Those who haven’t
ihad all their clothes torn off in the scrum go in
and see the play; the rest flee home in cabs. Of
■course, the municipal arrangements are bad and the
ipolice neglectful; and the managements do nothing, in
spite of complaints. The crowd itself instituted the
■queue system for a time, but, lacking someone in charge,
it didn’t work. At “Robin Hood,” a cheery multitude
that had been waiting for an hour or so was amazed and
wrathful when, three minutes before opening time,
Bert Royle and a satellite appeared and demanded
that they should unravel themselves and get into a queue.
There was scoff-ful refusal. The satellite tried to lead one
especially rebellious girl to her place, or what he con-
sidered her place. Girl differed, declined to budge, and
was sarcastic and indignant. “ Why don’t you look after
the queue in time?” demanded one angry voice.
“Ladies,” protested Manager Bert, in tones of pained
protest, “we have to have our tea.” The crowd’s
sympathy didn’t seem to comfort him. “ The door will
not open till a queue is formed.” “ Isn’t there going to
be any performance then?” he was asked, as the crowd
squeezed closer. At this point the door shot open, and
the scramble began. Don’t know what became of Bert
in the rush. I saw him one moment heaved up on top of
a mass of people. I saw him dancing like a bubble on
the summit of the howling multitude. Then he sank
after the manner of a wrecked ship, and was engulfed,
even as the cove who went down into the maelstrom.
“An Auckland Girl”: Doesn’t managerial dignity sit
heavily on Julius Knight, and doesn’t he love the lime-
light, and take care to get it all, too? In “Raffles” it
was funny to watch the gleam following him round,
while the leading lady sat in semi-gloom, like Moses when
the light went out and forgot to close the door after it.
Even when their heads were close together, the noble
features of Julius, the well-beloved, were aglow in the
limelight, the lady’s in shade. She never got a glint. I
never would have suspected it of Julius! Then his
posing—has the man no saving sense of humor? And in
“ Raffles” (I grieve to record it of Julius), he looked a
sight, in a hideous grey suit, with a waist, and a yellow
waistcoat, and a pink shirt, and a purple tie—couldn’t
swear to the exact shades, but the effect was dire ! Oh,
Marcus Superfluous, how are the mighty fallen !
At a Gaiety frivol at Bendigo an asbestos fire curtain,
weighing about a ton, fell with a dull thud. Two
weights, half-a-ton apiece, which were supposed to
balance it, also crashed through the stage. The audience
was surprised. People are easily moved at Bendigo. In
Melbourne nobody would have even winked. They’d
have thought it was only Bijou Russell, the soprano
soubrette, speaking out of her turn.
“ J.A.C.”: After much perseverance, necessitated by
the ructionary nature of the Musgrove Co., 1 succeeded
in hearing “ The Valkyrie.” Following on the two out-
rages on Gounod at which I had assisted, it came, if not
as an absolute relief, at least as a respite. The perform-
ance was not a bad one. This may be accounted for by
the fact that there is little or no cantabile work in the
opera. The singing is mostly declamatory, or explana-
tory if you like, for the singers tell the story, and the
orchestra does the embellishment and frill and passe-
menterie. The orchestra was good, augmented for the
occasion, and Slapoffski is a good conductor. But does
it never strike the apostles of the Taller Culture that
descriptive music is fudge ? Music never described any-
thing. We are told that the prelude to the first act of
“ The Valkyrie ” indicates a fierce rain storm, and we say,
“ How wonderfully expressed ! ” Yet if we had been
told that it represented a runaway horse and dray, we
should have been equally impressed. The tenor Stude-
mund has a voice of not unpleasing quality : it lacks
ring, is somewhat reminiscent of soapy flannel, and sug-
gestive of deep-seated melancholy, but it is not disagree-
able. In any case, he does not “ wobble ” like the
Oeser fellow. (This joke is cryptic, but it is a
good joke.) Hunger, as his deified nibs, Wotan,
was vigorous and effective. Johanna Heinze was
the tin-plated demi-goddess Briinnhilde, and considering
that she was announced as just recovering from a severe
bereavement did not do badly. But what most struck
me in connection with the performances I attended was
the vast enthusiasm evoked from large audiences by a
series of very ordinary representations.
“ 8.P.” : How quickly a profitable idea is copied ! An
evangelistic gentleman has been lecturing around the
Barrier districts ala Ada Ward. Like her, he was once
on the stage (at least he says he was), but he was con-
verted, arid is now’ engaged in denouncing theatrical life
and all pertaining thereto. His conversion was due, he
alleges, to a vision that appeared to him and showed him
the sinfulness of the life he was leading. There is a great
lack of detail about the vision. He hints at hideous
doings behind the scenes, but doesn’t go into details. No
one seems to know what size he took in salaries in the
days when the wages of sin were coming his way.
“La Milo’’had the ancient town of Coventry pretty
thoroughly broken up at latest advices. She had pro-
mised to do the legendary Godiva ride without pay, in
the sacred cause of Charity (and of Advertisement), and
would leave the costume to the local,committee. The
committee selected all-over pink tights, a trifle of floating
muslin, and her own hair ; and the Mayor of Coventry at
once resigned, and said he would help the already
shrieking clergy to stop any such exhibition. The local
Police Commissioner, being appealed to, said he should
stop anything that was legally indecent, but matters of
taste were not in his department, and the highly-
respectable committee protested that it was just as high-
minded as the mayor or the clergy. Why, it had chosen
Milo from among 15 applicants, one of whom had offered,
for the mere trifle of £5OO, to be historically accurate,
and dispense with the tights and the muslin ! Meanwhile,
Milo’s music-hall turns boom hugely.
AGRICULTURAL ITEM.
“ Try some guano on your land ; I'm sure you'd get a crop then."
“ Carn't ye see the blessed place is alive with them, and they never do me no good."
“Melb.”: This week’s obituary includes the name of
Mrs. Edwin Bryer, aged 66. She first came prominently
before the public at Coppin’s little wooden theatre, the
Pantheon, Cremorne Gardens, Melbourne. She was then
Miss Lizzie Naylor, a dashing blonde soubrette, and made
a mark in the fashionable burlesques of the time, such as
H. J. Byron’s “ Esmeralda, or the Sensation Goat.” She
married Charles Edouin, the eldest member of the Edouin
family, which consisted of Charles, John, Eliza, Rose,
Willie, and Julia. Their right name was Bryer, and
Mrs. B. fell back upon it, her three children being
known on the stage as George, Willie, and Lillie
Bryer. Her husband died during a tour of the Edouins
in India. John Edouin was Tilly Earl’s husband.
Eliza Edouin, said to be the most talented of all, died
very young. Rose is Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis. Willie is the
London comedian and manager. Julia married in India.
The only survivors are Rose and Willie. Mrs. Bryer
altered wonderfully as she advanced in life. The airy,
fairy kind of girl of the Pantheon developed into the
stalwart representative of the ferocious stage mother-in-
law type, and in that line nobody surpassed her. Yet
she could do the gracious, kindly woman well, too, as
witness her Mrs. Stofel in “ Struck Oil,” when Mr. Wil-
liamson and Miss Moore first presented it in Australia.
The obituary advertisement, inserted by the family, states
that “ After life’s fitful fever she sleeps well.” So doubt-
less she had her worries. But she wa3 a fine, brave
stamp of woman.
“ J.G.”: “ Blister’s ” yarn about W. Anderson being left
behind at Bendigo by a company 10 years ago, and going
into partnership with Frank Reis, and producing a fearful
drama called “ In the Coils of the Serpent,” is a snake yarn*
Anderson was neverleft behind. Ten years ago hewas asue-
cessful manager, and at the time “ The Serpent ” wriggled
in Bendigo (twenty years ago) he was an advertising
agent, and the only thing he recalls of the creepy drama
is that it got him in its coils fora few pounds for advertise-
ments. The serpent wriggled out of the town somehow,
and he’s been looking for it ever since.
A. E. Greenaway, playing in “ The Merchant of
Venice,” at Capetown lately, got particular praise for his
“ poetic drama ” method, which he learned in Australia
of yore in the rough schools of Bill Holloway and Geo.
Miln. The company seemingly had only one qualified
“ Shakspearian ” actor in it, and Greenaway was unani-
mously accepted as that shining example, although he
was cast for the very secondary part of Bassanio. Green-
away’s weakness is his voice—a naturally weak voice,
which, having acquired strength at the expense of its
original capacity for inflection, has settled down into a
foggy monotone.
“ J.*’: Mr. Musgrovb has unbosomed himself on the
subject Of his operatic venture. He says that the Sydney
season “ has been disappointing.” It has been eminently
so to a large section of the public ; but if, as he says, it
has been “ fairly profitable,” why disappointing to Mr.
Musgrove ? He had very large audiences —crowded, one
might say—on some evenings when the weather was not
fit for a dog to be out in, unless the animal took a-oab, and
had something hot when it got home. What more could
he expect'? Altogether the company has been accorded
more consideration than it was reasonably entitled to.
Not only were the singers, taken in the bulk, of no con-
spicuous merit, but some of them displayed a caprice
amounting to disrespect for the public on whose support
they depend. This captiousness would not have been
tolerated in their own country. As singers, they were
mostly unsatisfactory—in lyric opera, distinctly so—with
voices either flabby or harsh, phrasing generally defec-
tive, and intonation not always what it should be. It is
true that Wagnerian operas are trying to the voice, but
the orchestral pitch was very low —much lower than we
have been accustomed to—so low that there was fre-
quently a lack of brilliancy in the orchestra. Sydney
dailies have gushed over this company, and have told
us that “grand” opera is educational. “Grand”
opera! There was nothing grand about the com-
pany but its pretensions. Mr. Musgrove announces
his intention of again proceeding to Berlin, and
of bringing here more German material in about
two years time. If so, he will be wise to confine
his operations to purely German compositions, and leave
such works as “ Faust,” “ Romeo and Juliet,” “ Barber of
Seville,” and “Carmen,” for which German singers are
manifestly unsuited, out of the question. It must, how-
ever, be admitted that Mr. Musgrove’s audiences were
enthusiastic enough. This may, possibly, be set down
to an opera-hunger which made them ready to devour
anything ; otherwise it seriously discounts the statement
made by Miss Elizabeth Parkina, a vocalist who visited
us a year or two back : “ Australians are the most truly
musical people on the earth ! ”
“ S.S.” : Within a fortnight I have been assured by dif-
ferent people that three fairly well-known actors are
quite mad. The three are pretty good actors—above
average, in fact. A fourth actor, who has pleased the
public for a great many years, has eccentricities suffi-
cient to cut Up among six ordinary citizens, and guaran-
tee each of them a berth at Yam Bend. F*or instance,
in the middle of a meal he Will suddenly slidfe under the
table and give a lifelike imitation of a cat-and-dog fight
over a bone. His intention is hot humorous, but it tends
to display the variety of his splendid talents. With the
same object, he has given a marvellous imitation of a man
choking at table. This nearly led to a law case, as he
positively refused to pay the fee of the doctor who was
hastily called in to remove the imagined obstruction from
his windpipe. At midnight on a-re Cent blastiferous and
frosty night he was discovered clinging to the vines under
the front balcony, reciting a lot of Romeo’s amatory
address to Juliet. He is always jabbering fragments of
plays, and occasionally stops in the street to have an
undress rehearsal on his own. One evening, a week or
two back, he caused quite a crowd to collect at the top
end of Bourke-street by his antics and language. The
crowd thought he was a dangerous lunatic, but he was
only going through the “ fattest ” scrap in his new part.
Ordinarily he speaks to nobody, but he has a way of
soliloquising on stair landings and in dark corners that
the other boarders find very disconcerting ; and he makes
a nuisance of himself by his persistence in rearranging
rooms in which people are seated to make them accord
with stage laws and dramatic conventions.
Since the Imperial Conference an Australian coon song
has been heard at the London ’alls. It speaks of “ massa,”
and the frivolous gin is implored to come out “ under de
big white moon,’’ a juicy water melon being the principal
lure. The Australian coon female isn’t celebrated for her
love of water melon. Now, if there were such a thing as
a beer melon it would serve very well, or even a paddy-
melon might do.
Our old friend Charles Cartwright is going to produce
“ The Bishop’s Carriage ”at a London theatre. This will
inevitably lead to a newspaper controversy as to whether
“The Bishop’s Carriage” was taken from “Leah
Klesehna,” or vice versa, or is just another adaptation of
a novel that accounted for the better-known play. If the
similarity between the two is due to “ the long arm of
coincidence,” the limb must be longer than the carriage
and the horses put together.
Frohman, the London theatrical 'manager, is said to be
providing motor cars to bring patrons to his theatre.
“ In Australia, if they don’t want to come you can’t
fetch them with a bullock team,” comments a local
manager. But that is one of the rash statements that
some men make on quite insufficient evidence. He never
sent a bullock dray for his patrons to see if they would
come in it. The Bulletin fancies that a whole lot of
them would.
The invoice-faking Foreign-trader has a
lot to answer for. • He and his unpatriotic repre-
sentatives in Parliament worried Kingston into a
collapse. At the same time they spoiled that
patriot’s work, and the result of their interference
was so disastrous that the whole thing has to be
done over again. Now A. W. Smart, the Customs
collector, who has been chief adviser of the
Government in doing over again this work that
it should never have been necessary to do more
than once, has broken down and is ordered
complete rest.
“ G. Elb ” about a dancing statesman: —
The vice-regal set at the Adelaide Mayoral ball was the
prize comic event of ti e season, and Premier Tom Price
the star performer. Thomas knows much more about
legislation than dancing, else he would be the worst
Premier on record instead of S.A.’s best to date. During
the first figure the M.C., a beautiful official armed with
a ribbon-bedecked broomstick, watched the fearful evo-
lutions of Thomas with an anguished countenance. When
the music sounded for the second, he seized the Premier
by the sleeve, and dragged and pushed him over the floor.
With Thomas Price in one hand and his broomstick in the
other, the gallant “ Professor of Dancing ” surged among
the mighty until the bitter end. Then he breathed
“ Thank Gahd! I’ve done me dooty,” and leaned heavily
upon his wand.
John Martin, of Sydney Vice-Admiralty
Court, who was buried last week, was namesake
of the old John Martin, of Middleton, County
Cork (Ireland), whose family gave N.S.W. a
Chief Justice and several other Irish-Australian
representatives. John always gave way to
brother James, though in the early years when
they practised police-court law together John's
name was a tower of strength to the pushite ahd
the person who “ tore me uniform.” James was,
however, the outdoor battler of the firm, and
When he Went to the Bar, Johh sat down like the
last rose of Pitt-street and bloomed alohe till a
Government billet came his way. After that lie
led a contented and uneventful life, and didn’t
hunt for the bubble reputation very hard.
Nothing could be more fallacious than Jim
Gannon’s argument, in the N.S.W. Upper House,
on Wade’s Bill to foster the brutish sport
of coursing by permitting people to bet on the
results. Said Mr. Gannon :
It is no more inhuman to kill hares by coursing than
rabbits by the poison-cart.
But where is the comparison ? If rabbits were
poisoned to amuse spectators, who paid from Is.
to ss. to see their death agonies, and the Govern-
ment proposed to abrogate the anti-gambling law
so as to allow the watching hoodlums to bet as to
which rabbit would die first, the analogy would
be good. But there is no comparison between
cruelty which is necessary, or thought to be neces-
sary, and needless brutality which is indulged in
for “sport” and for the joy of a dreadful class
of alleged sportsmen.
Sudden Solomon, member for the Terri-
tory in S.A. Parliament—he managed to hold
the Premiership for seven days’ in 1899 by the
simple process of keeping Parliament adjourned
so that it couldn’t get at him to throw him out —'
and his colleague Mitchell, announce that they
“ strongly oppose ” the transfer of the Territory
to the Commonwealth unless S.A. can make
better terms. S. A. has made fairly good terms,
but Premier Price forgot one thing. There is
nothing in the agreement to prevent Mitchell
and Sudden Rehoboam being thrown out of a job.
The Territory won’t require any members in the
S.A. Parliament when it is transferred to the
Commonwealth.
Sarah Francisco, who is the champion
drinky identity of Port Adelaide, has been sent
to gaol for the several hundredth time for looking
into the glass that is loaded. Sarah is a large and
powerful woman, with a fine gift of opprobrium ;
and age does not seem to sap her strength of body
and language, or quench her thirst. There are
half-a-dozen regular female inebriates in Adelaide
who are unlovely refutations of Jud’s theory of
the fatal effects of alcohol; in fact, the accursed
liquid seems to render them proof against the
onslaught of time. But the preservative qualities
of spirits have been recognised for a long while—
particularly by museum curators.
Mr. Richard Kenna, of the Grand Hotel,
Bathurst (N.S.W.), has written to the local press
applauding the present liquor legislation, and
denouncing his own luck for being in the trade.
His father, Richard Kenna, of Bathurst, was a
publican; his uncle, Patrick Kenna, of Orange,
was a publican; and his uncle Dan was a wine
and spirit merchant, so there has been a good deal
of liquor in the Kenna family. The Kennas built
the Grand Hotel. Mr. Richard Kenna and his
brother Pat (otherwise “Pat Bathurst”) have
been largely interested in theatres and concerts,
and the gentleman who writes to the papers is
generally supposed to be quite affluent enough to
be able to live without selling liquor if he dislikes
the blue ruin very much.
The cheerful manner in which Abo. writers
hand round the statement “ Your’e Another ” is,
no doubt, because they observe their contra-
dictory snakes and enchanted frogs under different,
if not indifferent, conditions. They should re-
member that the ideal condition for all mental
effort is acquired by the aid of the right allowance
of D.O.L. Whisky, the beverage of the brainy,
and an infallible cure for snakebite.*
“ Growler”: St. Kilda (Vic.) runs a Shore
Trust, and a deputation from this sea-margin
body proposes to erect a statue of Nelson some-
where near the place where the thing owned by
the landlord ends and the thing the sailor is
drowned in begins. And the Trust of the Edge
of the Sea asks permission to cadge the pennies of
the school children wherewith to raise the desired
image. Now Nelson was a great slayer before
the Lord, but what’s the matter with a statue of
George Lansell of Bendigo ? He killed an
abundance of miners in the process of making his
pile, and the fact that his corpses are newer and
nearer than Nelson’s should count for something
when statues are being served out.
A pathetic case of going from bad to worse
is that of Charlotte Kenny, of Williamstown
(Vic.). First she got into debt in a small way,
and was afraid to tell her husband. Secondly,
she is said to have tried to raise the wind by
passing bogus cheques. And being bowled out
on the valueless cheques, she seems to have decided
to get away from the trouble and disgrace, and
to take her infant with her into the next world.
It was the last item in the tragedy that the infant
died and the mother survived. Now the law
calls the charge against Charlotte Kenny “wilful
murder,” but apparently, on the evidence, there
may be reason to change it to “ lunacy aggra-
vated by the worry of small debts.”
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on, each box. is. l|d.
SUCCESS !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The damsel had rich Titian hair,
And eyes of deepest brown.
Her face was bold, but very fair,
Her figure was unequalled there,
And yet around about her were
The finest limbs in town.
Her seedy singing voice was such
As in the slums you’d seek.
Her Irish father drank too much,
•As did her mother, fat and Dutch.
®he wore of heliotrope a touch
iPor twelve-and-six a week.
{But now five nimble years have sped,
And she a carriage owns.
{Her costly gems would turn your head ;
Nought's done by her, and nothing said —
She simply wears a touch of red.
She asked society for bread,
It gave her precious stones !
'VIC.
S. SSELL.
WOE OF A PROVINCIAL PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The actor man, with frown and curse,
His heavy villain did rehearse.
’Twas in the field, and none seemed near
His thundered eloquence to hear.
He heeded not the maiden’s pray’r,
But stormed, and tore his raven hair,
And whirled his arms, and pawed the mud,
And raved of infamy and “ blud.”
Then with a stick, upon the green,
He fought his famous duel scene,
And, dying in the final act,
His conscience by old murders racked,
Besought the shadows grim and grey
To “ take, oh take them eyes away 1"
Then Dick, and Ned, and Bill and Jim,
They rushed the pro. and fell on him.
To them the artist’s ecstasies
Were symptoms only of D.T.’s.
Vic.
S.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CUBED AT YOUB OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long- standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes“ For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J- SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes : —“ I cheerfully
endorse the ‘ EAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address: —
•< EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (0. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINSS
The Age has been giving a bad time to the
Victorian citizeness who wants to be aLady Bounti-
ful without cost to herself. It tells the yarn of one
“Ladies’ Benevolent Society” which allegedly
relieved one whole case in a year. The Govern-
ment grant to this body was £lO a year, and the
Inspector of Charities, becoming inquisitive for
once, wrote to the secretary asking particulars of
the society’s work. The secretary’s husband
wrote that his wife had gone for a three months’
holiday, and he knew nothing about the organisa-
tion. He was asked to hand the request to the
president. “My wife, the secretary,”he replied,
“is also the president.” He was then desired to
get a committee member to attend to the matter.
He was a patient man, and again answered
pleasantly, “My wife is the committee.” The
Government grant stopped with a jerk then.
Truly “charity” covers a multitude of sins—
mean, miserable little sins, many of them.
A PUSH PICTURE.
THE MAN BEHIND THE CAMERA : “ Now, ladies and gents, keep quite still, and I think I can
promise you a beautiful group! ”
The tragic death of Alfred Ernest
Burns, which took place recently in Sydney,
throws reflections. The inspector of lifts “ had
recommended that it should be compulsory for
someone to be in charge.” But it takes some-
thing more than a scratch or two on a bit of paper
to create a movement against Fat. Even a
coroner’s verdict is not always effective. If Burns
had been killed in Queensland his employer would
be liable for an insurance payment to the bereaved
family of £3OO under the Workers’ Compensation
Act. Something of the sort would do a great deal to
shake up the Stout Person in other places than
Queensland. The Stout Persons of all lands are
alike in one respect—they just hate to part with
£3OO.
The disaster to the warship Pyramus has
been duly inquired into, and the result has
caused the disrespectful Australian to cast the
brick of derision at the British navy, its customs
and its precedents. The commander, the navi-
gating officer, and the officer in charge at the
time when the vessel climbed on the reef, were all
court-martialled, and the following facts were
sorted out
(1) The ship was going- at full speed through a sea
known to bristle with dangers.
(2) The ship was in charge of a gunner, who swore on
oath that he was ignorant of the rudiments of navigation,
and couldn’t even take a bearing.
(3) The incompetent gunner, even with his inexperi-
enced eye, saw that the warship was bound for probable
destruction, and sent three wailing messages for some
competent officer to come on the bridge and save the
ship. No one appeared, so the gunner gave a desperate
order and went on the reef.
(4) Wnen the vessel struck, the navigating lieutenant
skipped on the bridge attired in a towel.
The Court found everybody in fault in a
moderate sort of way—the gunner for altering the
course, the navigating lieutenant for leaving the
gunner in charge, and the commander for not
telling the lieutenant not to leave the gunner in
charge—and they were all “reprimanded.” But
no one reprimanded the British Government for
insufficiency of competent officers. The navigat-
ing lieutenant had been on duty all night, and
When he went off in a tired state to have a harm-
less necessary wash it seemed that the gunner
was the only man available to take his place. Yet
even a navigating lieutenant must wash.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant basks
in the sun and states in a quavering voice :
One of the oldest houses in Oastlereagh-street is being
demolished to make way for a lofty suite of chambers, to
be built to the order of Captain Thilip Charley, of Bel-
mont, Richmond. The land was a lease, in and before the
time of Governor Bligh, to John Driver, grandfather of
the late Richard Driver, solicitor, legislator, Crown
Minister, and all-round sportsman. In Macquarie’s early
days John Driver was licensed to sell spirits, presumably on
this spot. In the early ’thirtiesMr. Henry Marr, a merchant,
occupied the house, and his widow died there of scarlet
fever in the mid-’forties. Mr. George Kenyon Holden, of
the firm of Holden, Chambers, and McCarthy, solicitors
(with offices corner King and Pitt streets), came next,
and Mrs. Holden also died there of scarlet fever. Mr.
George Holden of to-day was born there; the
firm then became McCarthy, Son and Donovan (the
present. Dr. Donovan, K.C.). Later on artist Myra Felton
dwelt in the venerable tenement. For a while Surgeon
Arthur Martin a’Beckett occupied it. In the early ’eighties
it was the Brunswick Club—Charles Momberg, manager.
Shortly after that it became the Sydney Club ; later on
it was known as the Southern Club ; then it became the
Castlereagh Club. As a club house it ceased to exist in
1894. Then Mr. Russell Jones, solicitor, moved in, and
thereafter it was let in offices until its demolition.
* * * *
The Maoriland policeman is developing a
fine ear for grog under the spur of the prohibition
law in no-license districts. One of him, in a sly-
grog case the other day—a sergeant he was, too —
swore that he heard defendant take something
out of a box in his office, and it sounded like a
bottle containing whisky. What a bottle con-
taining whisky sounds like, and how many tones
lower a bottle sounds when it has gin in it, wasn’t
explained. Beer is often flat, no doubt; but even
that knowledge doesn’t help the problem along
much.
* * * *
This ambiguous apology appeared lately in
a Sydney paper :
I THE undersigned, do hereby APOLOGISE for
the way I scandalised Mrs. E. W. ’s good
name, the same being entirely without foundatin.
, Rosselle.
The man who artfully gets in a statement that the
lady’s good name is “entirely without founda-
tion ” has a genius for apology.
There is still such a thing as an appeal to
the gods. From Melbourne Age (2/7/’O7)
T)EAR EMlLY.—Forgiven. Come home to-night
and reason together. It will bring you happi-
ness.—J.R.
The appeal to Reason failed. So four days later
there came this :
TJMILY R.—-Reply or return at once, or I will sell
everything seven days.—J.R.
That was the appeal to the gods —the household
gods. But, alas, history as it is written in the
agony column doesn’t record the result.
* • * m
“S.S.”: I heard a south suburban Mel-
bourne municipal magnate give the loyal toast at
a recent function. Unfortunately he had “got
on ’.’ early. He arose, steadied himself with his
left hand resting on the bald head of the grave
and reverend alderman next him, raised a pepper-
caster aloft in his right, and said : “ Gen’lemen,
tli’ King, Gorblesh her ! ”
* * * *
A Broken Hill citizen publishes an emi-
nently unsatisfactory apology:—
T HEREBY APOLOGISE to Mr. M‘EVOY for any
injury I may have done to his son ; and should he
ever come on my premises and annoy the pony again
I will hand him over to the police. F. H. Benokh.
* * * -*
The best remedy for warding off and
and curing bronchitis is Angier’s Emulsion.
Why? Because it not only soothes the throat
and lungs and allays inflammation, but also
promotes appetite, aids digestion, and acts as a
tonic to the entire system. It is the most
palatable of all emulsions. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
ANOTHER ALARMING INSTANCE.
DOMAIN DAN : “I tried to borrer a bob off him, an’ he fair bolted."
BLOATRAS : “ Fact is, Capital’s scared off all kinds uv investments by this ’ere dashed
Socialistic legislation.”
Up Croydon way, in the Gulf country of
Queensland, the recent political fight was the
most willing affair imaginable, and eventually a
newcomer ended for the time the political career
of the old member, Kidstonite Murphy. But
Murphy, who owns the local newspaper, did not
have to wait long for a chance to show Croydon
that it had made a mistake. One of the first acts
of the new member was to get married, and he had
his wedding-cake constructed by a Chinese baker.
So Murphv, in this centre of White Australian
feeling, announces the incident in each issue of
his paper, spiced with some new aspect of the
situation; and the just-elected member will pro-
bably have to face this as the chief issue at the
next election. To be wrecked on a wedding-
cake —well, stranger things than that have hap-
pened at Croydon.
» * * *
“ Lucifer ” writes :
The other evening- I became aware, as a politician
would say, of an outbreak of beauteous music in Bourke-
street, Melb. Methought the angel Gabriel was conduct-
ing some divine march. Gradually, it grew into a mighty
outburst of triumphant joy, till the atmosphere was rent
into fragments.
Marching into Swanston-street came a vast procession
of Booth’s mercenaries, burning the red fires of hell. It
was the nearest approach to a material hell that I had as
yet experienced—all fire and anguish.
The writhing collection of Cheap Jacks was divided
into sections, each section ticketed alphabetically.
There were also two or three living pictures of an
allegorical nature (I presume) freezing upon lorries.
On the first lorry a wretched-looking creature, pre-
sumably an officer on account of his eminence, was sup-
porting a large piece of board.
The board mystified me entirely. It bore a painted
representation of a gaol door, and some rather personal
remarks anent a liquid called “ Drink.”
It appeared to me that this liquid labelled—ah yes 1
“ Drink,” was obtainable at gaols for a consideration.
It was rather a cheap advertisement of gaols, I thought.
The next lorry supported a lifeboat, with several stout
maidens laboring womanfully at the oars.
At first I thought it was an advertisement for some-
body’s toilet soap, but of course it was an allegorical
illustration of Booth’s famous text : “ I am the Life and
the Sweat.”
The next and last was a caricature of the cross, painted
white, with a shivering female clasping it about the
abdomen, so to speak.
This was the simplest of-enigmas, to put it somewhat
paradoxically. I knew at once that it had been inspired
by “Parsifal.”
Altogether a strange spectacle, specially remarkable
for the prevalence of red nose, like unto a bent pick,
among the Barmy. Why is religion so apt to redden
noses, irrespective of their shapes or creeds ?
* * * *
Whoop from “ J.P.” (Maoriland)
There are running in the streets of Christchurch
(M.L.) the finest electric cars in the world. Visitors from
all parts of the globe admit their superiority over any-
thing seen elsewhere. Those cars should he a lesson to
Australia and M.L., in so much as they give the lie
direct to the importing lunacy, and the idea that nothing
good can be made locally. They w'ere designed and built
in Christchurch by Maoriland workmen, and, as far as
possible, constructed from local material. They are
finished entirely with M.L. woods of beautiful grain, and
are the most sumptuous and comfortable cars imaginable.
They are absolutely original in design—there being
nothing like them elsewhere on this planet—and on
every point they make the jim-crack, imported Yankee
cars, that run alongside them, look like seventeen cents.
-* • * *
‘ ‘ Chronic ” : Saw a lecture advertised at
a Mechanics’lnstitute t’other night, on “Flatu-
lence, etc., etc.” The brace of etceteras struck
me as promising, so I joined about forty of the
flatulent, etc., etc. (half-a-dozen of them females),
and surged in. Instructor proved to be a foreign
youth of romantic and greasy aspect. His
language was almost unintelligible, but he had a
set of horrible colored pictures, vividly illustrat-
ing the human innards, which, alas, were but
too intelligible. Lecture was free, but there was
a collection, so the ladies could pay for their
blushes if they chose. But he didn’t rely wholly
on the collection. Scattered about were little red
printed slips, advocating his miraculous system of
healing by electrical lozenges. Before the dog’s
holiday was sung he asked for questions, and one
aged sportsman, with an aggressively Domain
boarding-house look about him, responded so
cheerfully to the call, and entered with such
simple, honest candor into details of his com-
plaints, that even the ladies began to retire.
Sydney has some strange amusements.
* * * *
A microbe bo n of a chill and cold
In a man’s lung did reside,
And fast multiplying, grew so bold
It triumphantly defied
Each deadly drug and remedy sure
Till one day it was plied
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
When it collapsed and died.*
The recent Ultimo (Sydney) shooting case
provides another argument against the uncon-
trolled sale of revolvers. The average decent man.
with a loaded shooter in his pocket and four beers
in his stomach, will draw and use the weapon
under conditions that would lead him, unarmed,
to be satisfied with telling the other man to go to
Sheol, or, at most, with swinging an uncertain
fist at his jaw. It is the habit of going “heeled,”
rather than any inherent contempt for human
life, which leads to the multitudinous shooting
cases in the United States. Turn a dozen fairly
good-natured men into a bar, each with a revolver
on his hip, and before the tenth round of drinks is
served there is liable to be a corpse on the floor.
The N.S. W. law prohibits a citizen carrying arms
without a permit; but, at the same time, it allows
practically one shop in every city block to sell
alleged revolvers for a few shillings to people who
show no permit at all. According to a report in
the Herald last week, one firm alone sold no
fewer than 200 “guns’’during the early part of
the coal lumpers’ strike. The marvel of it is
that the whole of the north end of Sydney was
not carpeted with cadavers. The chief redeeming
feature of the case is that the cheap Belgian gas-
pipes seldom hit the solar system, except by
accident. And the unredeeming feature of the
case is that men aim at other things and plug the
solar system.
“ 0.K.” writes :—•
The St. Kilda (Melb.) Foreshore Trust seems to be the
most remarkable achievement of log-rolling tactics that
Bent’s State can boast of. The high-toned St. Kilda
Yacht Club set the log in motion some two years ago,
when it erected a club house, or “pub” house, on the
foreshore, and got a license to sell whisky on the pre-
mises. Owners of house property on the St. Kilda
Esplanade protested to the Minister of Lands against the
club’s building as an obstruction to the seascape. Hotel-
keepers and purists objected to the liquor license. But
the club was allowed to boss the situation pro tem., on the
understanding that the Lands Department would shortly
transfer its authority to a Foreshore Trust. In June last
year the Trust was created, and the Yacht Club got to
work again on the log. Several hundred pounds a year are
draw’n in rental by the paternal Trust from the various
places of amusement—Dreamland, “The Pierrots.” re-
serves, etc. —located within its kingdom. The Yacht
Club paid at the outset a nominal £1 per annum to the
Trust, and in return for this annual “ quid ” the Trust
has already spent about £loooin beautifying the environ-
ment of the club house, although the neighborhood of
the places that pay the heavy rentals has been left in its
original barren sandy state. In only one thing has the
Trust run counter to the feelings of the deah old club.
For appearance’s sake, it cancelled the liquor license. As
regards the obstruction of the seascape, in which all
Melbourne is interested, the Trust might as well be
openly controlled by the club, for at the present time the
autocratic “ yotting” johnnies are fixing up a two-storey
building, which is an eyesore to the district, and a mon-
strous injustice to the occupants of the houses standing
in its line of obstruction.
* * * *
The trustees of Melbourne’s two new
cemeteries have had almost a pitched battle over
the city’s “pauper” corpses. It isn’t that these
gentlemen have an abiding love for dead
“paupers” any more than for live ones, but it
seems that the Railway Department allows a
rebate if a certain number of cadavers are carted
to Fawkner and Spring Vale annually. And each
Trust, therefore, fought for the pauper corpse to
make up weight, so to speak. The struggle for
the departed derelict got so fierce that the
Cabinet had finally to intervene, lest thecityshould
witness the unseemly spectacle of half-a-dozen
elderly gentlemen fighting over a human remains
in the main street. Now, the Yarra is made the
dividing line—the poor who die on the north side
go to Fawkner, those on the south to Spring Vale.
But even now Fawkner nurses a grievance, for its
competitor has been given the right to all
“remains” found in the Yarra itself, and they
are considerable.
* * ■* *
Old people and those who have weak lungs
cannot be too careful in guarding against
pneumonia. It always results from a cold or from
an attack of influenza, and can be prevented by
the timely use of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
A great many who have had every reason to fear
pneumonia have warded it off by the prompt use
of this remedy. Pneumonia usually begins with
a heavy chill, followed with high fever, pain in
the lungs and difficult breathing, and great pros-
tration. Take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy at'
once, in order to check these symptoms. We do
not claim that it will cure pneumonia, but do claim
that it will prevent it if taken in time.*
THE MAIDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet Seventeen complains that she has to endure the
callow attentions of youths of twenty, and that the real
hardened sinners of thirty-five treat her as if she Were a
child, — A Lady’s Letter in Tins Bulletin.
If a maiden of seventeen, slender,
Have a heart in advance of her years }
If she find youths of twenty too tender
To nibble her little pink ears ;
If she yearn for the kiss of a sinner;
If she long to be sure she’s alive ;
What’s the matter with me ? No beginner,
But a bad man of thirty-and-five !
There’s the room at the Cate Vienna ;
There’s the ride on the Brighton trslm ;
And, dodging the dubious duenna,
The drive down to Sandringham.
I should teach her the doctrine of chances.
She should learn how to take ’em with glee,
As, deleting the dismaller dances,
She sits out in the hothouse with me.
Oh ! maiden of seventeen tender,
If you tire of the nursery tea,
If you really must go on a bender,
Why not drop a letter to me ?
Shall we say six-thirty—Fasoli’s ;
Or in front of Allan’s at one ;
Or the lovers’ Holy of Holies—
Mentone, when day is done?
Sweet maiden, whose eyes are of heaven,
Leave the cab and the supper for two
To the hack who is twenty-and-seven,
To the grass widow deep and untrue.
We spare you the smoking-room story,
And ignore you in making the pace,
Because we would leave you your glory
Of girlhood, your sweetness and grace !
vie.
BRONSON ELLIOTT.


■
/r^
J:
i * -
4U
EDUCATION-MAIL
LEA PM BY POST,
in your spare time,
Money- Earning
Subjects.
Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing-, Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and
Civil Engineering-,
Drawing, &c.
‘Home Study,” post free
STOTT & HOHRE'S
Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.
There is a good old saying to the effect
that “ the proof of the pudding is in the eating.”
In other words “ you cannot tell till you try.” If
you have a cough or any form of lung trouble you
really ought to try Angler's Emulsion. Send 4d.
postage for a free sample bottle, and mention
The Bulletin. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.*
The Jone Hand
The Lone Hand for August will be an “ Art
number.” Our three-color plant will be used for
the first time in the production of a most attractive
cover, and the frontispiece will be a specimen of
book illustration on fine plate paper by that
astonishing artist, Norman Lindsay. It is black-
and-white in perfection. B. E. Minns and Henri
Verne write brightly of the year’s pictures in
London and Paris, and a magnificent series of
illustrations will reproduce the latest work of
Longstaff, Mackennal, Lambert, Minns, and
other notable Australians.
Among the story-writers “ Milton MacGregor,”
in “The Fake that Wasn’t,” gives another of his
brilliant impressions of journalistic life, treating
of the wooing of Maisie McMorrah, artists’
model (illustrations by Sass). Roderic Quinn,'
writer of smooth and musical prose, contributes a
bushranging story which Norman Lindsay illus-
trates. Miss Grace Palotta appears as a short-story
writer, with “ A Woman’s Way,” a clever study of
feminine character. Of course there are others.
Edward Dyson’s continuation of the Bear series
is exceptionally bright and humorous. “The
Secrets of a Prime Minister ” is closed with far
the best tale of the series.
Next week it will be time to talk of the articles.
Remember that if you wish to get the best lot of
pictures ever published in a single number of an
Australian publication, now is the time to order.
DlE^Ctl AND
214 George Street, Sydney.
As a rule, suburban streets are named
after local councillors and politicians, but at Mur*
rumbeena(Vic.), on theMelbourne-Oakleigh subur-
ban line. Smith-street and Jones-street are not to
be found. Instead there are a few aboriginal
names : Narbethong, Kangaroo, Dandenong,
Neerim, Weerdong, and Koornang roads. Also
Hobart, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth,
and Adelaide streets. Then we come to the tree
variety : Poplar, Walnut, Chestnut, Blackwood,
and Oakwood streets. Some new streets have
been mapped out, and their names have a New
York flavor: Ist avenue, 2nd avenue, and so on
till 11th avenue. But the avenues are yet in
their infancy, and are occupied by gum trees,
mushrooms, and wandering cattle. Intending
residents of this promising suburb will please take
note that there are no hotels at Murrumbeena.
The place is as dry as Pharaoh’s boots!
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
/
V
A Popular Dinner Suit
WE have sold a great number of these to
Bulletin readers, and every one of them has
made us another satisfied patron.
These Dinner Jacket Suits are made in a style that is equal
to any cheap bespoke Dinner Suit—the material is finest dres s
cashmere coat has handsome silk facings and roll collar
It is an elegant suit —ready for service, and
we can tit every ordinary sized figure perfectly.
Coat only 42- / With Vest 50/-;
FULL SUIT 68/6,
PEAPES & CO. LTD Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bendigo (Vic.) is a very angry city just
now. Lately it thought it would like a captured
Boer cannon to put in a prominent place, just to
remind it what a fool it was once ; so it asked the
Defence Department for a gun. The Department
had no captured Boer relics, army contractors and
other unpleasant persons having grabbed most of
them ; but it did the best it could, and sent up an
old weapon that had been lying on the scrap heap
for years. Bendigo viewed the utensil, and
decided that it was an eyesore and a disgrace, and
declined to put it even in the Mayor’s back yard ;
but it had hardly got over expressing its feelings
before the Vic. Railway Department demanded
freight on the blessed thing at 265. 6d. a ton, that
being the figure for ornamental statuary. The
Department, however, remarked that if Bendigo
considered that the old machine was scrap iron
the freight would be only Bs. sd. a ton. Bendigo,
on hearing these figures, instantly made up its
mind that its gun isn’t statuary; and just at
present it is trying to find out whether there’s any
cheaper old epithet than scrap iron that it can call
the precious relic.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
Young Wipe (to sales-
man): "'Can you let
me have a good cookery hook! ”
YOUNG HUSBAND : "And will you let me have a
good book on indigestion?”
The need of sobriety should be inculcated
in murderers in their youth., If the man who
lately battered an aged woman to death in a
Sydney suburb had not been arrested as a
“ drunk and disorderly ” the next day he might
have got clean away. But even the police draw
conclusions when, a few hours after a murder, a
bloodstained raver, with the loot as well as the
stains of his deed upon him, comes and bites a
policeman. Murderers as a class should sit at the
feet of Judkins.
THAT'S COURT SHIP ,
HE : “ What do you think is the greatest trial of a woman's patience?”
SHE : “ Waiting long months, while the man she has overcome is overcoming her."
The mostly-Labor municipal council at
Broken Hill lately appointed an advanced
Socialist as one of its valuers; and when he had
finished his job he wrote a summary of his experi-
ences. “ I have seen shanties ” —local name for
any poor sort of dwelling—“the beds in which
are seldom cold, the night shift men sleeping
therein whilst the day shift worked, and vice
versa. I have seen disorderly houses owned by a
woman of the streets, who is being financed to
build and own these brothels by a “respectable’
bank.” In another case he found that the rent
had been doubled when premises, owned by a
“ good ” man and formerly occupied by a hard-
working family, had been taken by a giddy
sisterhood. The “good” man who takes a direct
profit from “ the wages of shame” will probably
have to be left to settle the matter with his con-
science ; but if there is truth in the report about
the beds that never get cold in the miners’ board-
ing house, the Board of Health ought to have a
foot heavy enough to stamp out the iniquity.
* * * *
The Shepherd Kings of N.S.W. were not
brought up in the same school as those of old
Canterbury (M.L.), whose tastes and homes were
of the highest refinement. Last
week, when the wool kings were
in Sydney buying valuable stud
sheep at £3OO and £5OO apiece,
the various auctioneers laid on
free dinners, and caterer Mcln-
tosh was driven nearly crazy by
the vagaries of his guests. There
were 15,000 feeds served free
that week to sheep buyers—
what sort of profit must there
be in the stud sheep trade to
stand 15,000 feeds? One old
Hairyface raised Sheol over the
quality of the jam, and insisted
on seeing Mclntosh personally
to tell him what he thought
of his “rotten jam.” He had
wasted the best part of an hour
trying to spread it on top of
the butter, which lay an inch
thick on his bread, and the in-
fernal stuff would not spread at
all. Mclntosh, sorely puzzled,
investigated, and found Hairy-
face had been trying to spread
a prime wine jelly over a sub-
stratum of cowgrease and
crumb. Another whiskered
territorial monarch howled for
sugar. A waitress placed a
| bowl of loaf sugar in front of
him. “ Sugar, you idiot, sugar
for me tea. Where’s yer boss ? ”
be bellowed, rising angrily and
charging to where Mac
struggled at the helm of
things. Mac was sure there
was sugar on the table,
and said so, but the sheep
buyer persisted he couldn’t
get any. Mac came to the
table and pointed to the bowl of
loaf. The squatter eyed him con-
temptuously : “ Look here, young
man, the sooner you get that idea
that country people, are fools out of
your head, the better for you. You try
and fry us fer fools and you’ll lose yer fat.
I ax’d ye fer sugar, and yer wench brings
me lollies. Now, what’s yer game?”
Fitzroy (Melb.) Council is worried over
the prevalence of Flossie, and hardly a meeting
E asses now without the city fathers discussing
er increasing frequency. One of the last official
acts of ex-P.M. Panton was tosool the Melbourne
city police on to hustle Madame Venus out of Lons-
dale-street—to the great joy of parson Tregear,
who babbled fatuously, ‘’We have driven this
curse out of the city at last.” Of course, Madame
Venus merely shifted her household goods a few
streets further away; and Fitzroy, being handy
to town, was naturally favored with her patron-
age. One councillor snuffled unctuously about
his agent letting one of his houses—at an in-
creased rent —to “ an exceptionally modest-look-
ing lady who said her three daughters worked at
a local shirt-factory, but when he saw them he
knew what they were, and out they went.” He
didn’t explain how he came to know what they
were _ w hich was a pity, as one of the inexplic-
able mysteries of life is how Virtue comes to
recognise Vice directly it sees it. Anyhow,
Fitzroy Council reckons it has got more than its
share of Flossie, and has set the local police-
inspector on to find out the names of the owners
and agents of the houses she lives in. One
councillor wanted the police to supply the names
of Flossie’s visitors ; but that idea was squelched
hastily.
N.S.W. Education Department carries a
microscopic eye for the detection of small sums.
The interest on children’s pennies in school
savings-banks has been, according to the Pre-
mier’s statement, in one instance devoted to buy-
ing diagrams to hang on the school walls. Other
instances given are like that. But a case not
mentioned by the Premier shows the microscopic
eye still more conspicuously. It is said that
before the abolition of school fees the children of
the cooking classes in Bathurst school were
allowed free lunch—that is, they were allowed to
eat the victuals they had brought as raw material
for the cookery lesson. Now, however, it is
alleged that they are charged 3d., and in some
cases (big appetites, probably) 6d. each for the
meal. This should cover fuel and wear-and-tear
of the public stove.
* * « *
Stanmore-road (Sydney) is the nightly
rendezvous of a “push.” Its constituents are
not ordinary “blokes”—they are young “gentle-
men ” in nice clothes, sky-scraper collars, and
pill-box straw hats—but for facility in the art of
insulting unprotected women they can give points
to a raving multitude of “blokes.” The police
know of the doings of these well-clobbered hood-
lums, but it seems there is a difficulty in dealing
with them. Sub-Inspector Brooks puts it this
way: “ It is hard to deal with these well-dressed
youths, whose parents think they can do no harm.
They are not like the plebeian larrikin.” Now,
why aren’t they like the plebeian larrikin ?
* m * ■*
Dear Bulletin. —You give me the pip,
joining the provincialist crowd and yapping over
the success of your Sydney police in capturing the
Newtown murderer. We’ve got a better class of
murderer in Melbourne. The Newtown homicide
is, probably, the most incompetent taker of human
life on record. We’d be ashamed to own a mur-
derer like that. Thank goodness, our murderers
in Melbourne know their business. That’s up
against your duckhouse.— Num.
According to Federal Statist Kmbbs
reckoning, every Australian State had more than
one Jack for every Jill last New Year’s Day.
For a start they are born that way ; practically
in every country in the world where they take
account of these little things, about 105 Jacks ar-
rive to every 100 Jills; and (though the figures
on this point are not too convincing), the dispro-
portion of little Jacks who arrive without the
wedding-ring formality seems to be still larger.
But to level matters to some extent, Jack is a
more difficult bird to rear than Jill. Since
the Commonwealth was founded, the most
healthy year for the boy baby was 1904; yet
even in that year 134 more boys died out of every
10,000 born than was the case with girls. Still,
even that doesn’t bring the sexes even; and
only in one Commonwealth year, and then
only in one State (Victoria), did the females
get' ahead. The most awful unevenness still
exists in Westralia ; according to the local Wes-
tralian count there is less than a third of a female
per male in wild Cossack. The local Statist owns
up, however, that no figures have been made up
for Cossack since the census was taken in 1901,
and Heaven only knows how many males the
willy-willies and “cock-eyed bobs” may have
blown off the sand of Cossack in six years.
• "\ « •.. . *
“K.”: A few days ago I had a meal,
consisting chiefly of schnapper, at a Melbourne
fishshop. The same evening I read the following
from the Field of Jan. 26, in an article entitled,
“ Two Nights’ Jew-Fishing in Australia ”
They (the Hebrew-fish) are often caught of a great size
and weight . . . which may run up to 1201 b. These big
fellows, however, although they give grand sport—either
fishing from a boat or the shore—are never eaten by the
initiated, on account of the greater portion of their
bodies being permeated with long, white and unpleasant-
looking flesh worms. This fact does not interfere with
them being largely consumed in Sydney and Melbourne,
where the Greek and Italian fried-fish shop proprietors fillet
and fry the great fish in a very tasty manner, and sell it
as sea-mullet or schnapper—the worms not showing after
being well cooked.
As I paid eighteen pence for my piece of
schnapper, I felt very depressed ; and it didn t
comfort me much to know that, when well cooked,
the worms don’t show. Where I live I can get
plenty of worms for nothing—when I want them.
I voted for one at a recent municipal election.
He (alas !) was not cooked, and he did show.
THOMAS SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Thomas Bent has gone to Paris for a week. — Cable.
Mr. Bent is likely to give a lecture on his travels when
he returns. — News Item.
Thomas (log.) :
“ Monday I went to the Louver,
It’s what they call a sherdouver,
Buildin’s an’ places,
Are chock-full o’ graces ;
No better from ’ere to Vancouver.
(“That’s what the guide-book says. I seen the
statchers ! My word ! Venuses, an’ Venuses, an’ Venuses
—past countin’!)
“ Tuesday ! the Moolin Rooge !
At midnight a terrible scrooge—
I left it early—
Bein’ weary and surly—
An’ too moral for dancin’ or booge.
(“ When I say ‘ booge ’ I mean booze —but all the songs
I make up are wrote like that. I was told this place
means a Red Mill, an’ they’ve got a red wind-mill over
the buildin’. I didn’t look up. I was lookin’ down at
the dancers’ feet. My word —them girls could dance !)
“ We’n’sday—a frightfuller scrooge
Again at the Moolin Rooge.
(My word ! Them dancers ! —Well!)
Thursday ! Me, an’ them dancers,
Made pardners up for the lancers !
(My word —them girls ! Dance ! Well 1!)
“ Friday ! Down to Montmartyr—
Which the same’is a terrible tartar—
And later —the tarts
At the place called Quartz Arts !
Where there’s pitchers for sale or for barter.
(“ It’s quite a respectable place, an’ I only went there
because I’m interested in art, an’ pitchers, and the Public
Libery in Melbourne. An’ you don’t pronounce it that
way at all.”)
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER
PULPIT PRUDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now that women in New York have taken to wearing
lighter clothing, numerous complaints are coming from
pastors of churches about the “ unseemly display” made
by ladies in their congregations. In one instance a
Roman Catholic priest has refused Communion to women
who come to service in “peek-a-boo” or open-work
bodices. He has forbidden them from the pulpit to enter
“ God’s house ” in these garments.— News item.
There is no place, the preacher tells,
That from the Master’s eye is free ;
No day His watchfulness dispels,
No night’s so black He cannot see.
He knows us clothed from top to toe,
As well as very far from so.
And, being thus omniscient,
If all His ministers are right,
No draped effect we may present
Can change our bodies in His sight.
All bodices are latticed strings
To Him, the Origin of Things.
He framed the “ human form divine,”
And it found favor in His eyes.
He did not clothe it. I opine
Its mould He would not so disguise.
Man craved for garments, as we know,
About the time Eve wrought his woe.
And hence 1 do not comprehend
The two-voiced priestcrafts which aver
That women’s “ open-works ” offend
The God they say has fashioned her.
One Gospel Truth, at least, is sure,
That “ to the pure all things are pure.”
N.S.W.
TALAFEEAU.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S En s'!® h Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
— Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
B run ton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Jiayward|s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything.
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
Steel Rails.
Fuel Economisers.
Locomotives. Tramway
The WILD CATT
COLUMN
.die Australian Government has a bill iil hand
to provide for a CoMtiiOhweaith ttote issile, arid already
there is the usual babble about “ tinkering with the cur-
rency.” It is silently assumed that “ the currency ” is
something sacred ; and the S.M. Herald says, in pained
surprise at the proposed sacrilege—“ We know of no case
m which a bank-note has been dishonored, or has proved
to be worth less than its face value in gold.” Bud the
world isn’t necessarily to stop still while the Herald finds
out things which the small boy at the street corner knew
quite well 14 years ago. Of course, It will be said that
the bank-notes which were worth at that time just as
much as wild-cat scrip is after the boom has burst,
Were not real bank-notes. That Is an easy way
of dodging a difficulty. A steamship-owrtef, anXioiis to
promote steamship travel, might just as well say that ho
ship that ever foundered vvds.a real ship. The boom
smash proved that this sacred thing; the currency, might
be established on nothing more Substantial than colossal
impudence. In soiiie States any adventurer Whatever
May still call himself a bank arid issile rioteS.
fiut td that it will be answered tliat nobody
peed take thosfe notes, and; ally way; whete it is loose the
ldw could be brought into conformity with that in force
whete it iS stricter. Yet even whete the law is stiiote-t
it gives hb adequate proteetioti to the public. It is said
that iu somfe States already—N.S. Wales, for instance—
notes are a first charge on the assets. That, if true, is no
protection. We are tojd, to “prove” the security of the note,
that the Australian banks have coin and bullion valued at
oyer £27,000,000, and a-note issue only a little in excess
of £3.500,000. In putting forward that comparison they
forget to mention that on the same date, in N.S.W.
alone, there were over £19,000,000 of deposits not bear-
ing interest money which in practically everv case the
r.ooT.™.® under taken to pay at call, aiid another
£22,000,000 of deposits which, thoug’h not payable at call,
?®®d not be renewed. The current-account money
(£19,000,000) is in a great many cases more strictly
money at call than even the bank note is, for the latter
is only'payable at the head-office, while the bank under-
takes to pay the current-account money at Boggabri or
wherever the current account is kept. All these figures,
then, showing the vast amount of cash and bullion in
proportion to notes, are mere tricky nonsense. One
might expect to find them in the patter of a three-card
shark, but certainly not in an argument to support the
sacredness ’ of the present currency system.
The glittering hoards of coin and bullion are not kept,
then, merely to safeguard the note issue. So the safety
of that issue must depend upon the general solvency of
the concern which issues the note. And who knows for
certain which concerns are solvent ? There are some as
to which most people would he prepared to swear ; but
there are others. Their published balance-sheets mav
give no inkling of the truth. Before the great smash of
14 years ago, there was no bank which whispered of a
deficit. The most helplessly insolvent shouted the
loudest about their alleged prosperity. The wholfe
balance-sheet depends, in 999 cases out of 1000,
upon the item “ advances,” and there is no way of
c “ ec kmg the real value of the advances. An advance
of £lO,OOO, upon security which may have shrunk
to, £lOOO, may still be included as an advance of £lO,OOO ;
and the bank may go on showing the interest supposed
to be earned by that £lO,OOO as profit, though the bor-
rower may never actually pay a cent; all it has to do to
keep its books in order is to add the unpaid interest to
le “ as set,” which originally stood at
£lO,OOO, mounts up at compound interest to £20,000.
—kere is, however, only the depreciated security for
£lOOO against it no matter how it mounts. Thus a bank
may be absolutely rotten, and the public need know
nothing about it. The shareholders are not likely to
know either. Then three or four good seasons may
come, and the bank may make large recoveries. The
balance sheet will show no great change, however. Yet
the two or three men behind the scenes will know that
the whole situation has been changed. So much for the
value of bank balance-sheets as a guide to the real value
of the bank s notes and its other liabilities.
Then there is the question of profit. At present
the State gets a “ composition,” as the tax is called, of
-per cent. In view of that, the banks, as a rule, sav
they get no profit to speak of out of their notes. At the
least, however, they make U per cent., and probably as
a rule, they clear 2 per cent. The number of bank notes
used in the city in comparison to those used in the
country is very small. Where the city man doesn’t use
cheques he uses gold. In many country towns, on the
other hand, the sovereign is very rarely seen ; bank notes
are universal. The reason is that in the country no
reserve of com need be kept against the note, which is
payable only at the head office in the State. The note
ng , ln th , e count «y (and it often circulates until
the filthy thing has to he stuck together with stamp-
paper) is thus a perpetual loan at 2 per cent.; and if it
gets lost or destroyed it is still a perpetual loan at 2 per
cent., on which the bank is getting perhaps 6A per cent.
Taking the average profit from the Australian bank-note
circulation at only H per cent., it amounts, on the basis
of the present issue, to about £54,000 a year.
With greater security the profit might amount
*o very much more ; and the proposals of the conference
of bankers held in 1901 show where that greater security
may be got. That conference was, of course, strongly
opposed to handing over the good profits of the
note-issue, along with the dignity and high standing
and that sort of thing which the issue of notes is sup-
posed to give. Yet it was proposed to George Turner—
In periods of crisis the Governor-in-Council to have
power to declare notes legal tender for not more than
six months. In other words, while everything was
smooth sailing, the banks were to be allowed the dignity
and the profats ; when trouble arose, the higher power—
the State—was to come in and back the bills of the hanks.
Wnat is this but “ tinkering with the -currency ” ? We
want the currency to be backed by the highest authority
all the time; and, on the frank admission of this con-
ference, the highest authority—the authority to he
appealed to in “periods of crisis ”—is the Common-
wealth.
* • * •
Queensland’s Public Debt Reduction Fund Act
used to provide that every surplus must be vested in
trustees for one of three purposes : (1) To purchase and
retire Treasury bills; (2) to take up Treasury bills
authorised, but not issued ; (3) to purchase inscribed
stock in London. But as it was contended that, accord-
ing to the wording of the Act, it was not competent to
adopt the second course until the whole of the Treasury
Bills in circulation had been retired, an Act was passed
taking out the words “firstly,” “secondly,” and
“thirdly,” in order that the trustees might adopt
whichever of the three courses they liked best This
means, in plain language, that the money can now
be used for public works. Of course, it could be used for
public works in any case; but previously it could only
have been used by paying for the public works as ordinary
expenditure before the end of the financial year, and in
that case the money would not show up as a surplus Ic
is understood that the balance of £92,000, available from
1905-6, and the whole surplus from 1906-7 (£396 000) will
be utilised for works. Even with this confine in as
Queensland has several railways under construction
Others authorised and several contemplated, the Treasurer
will need to keep the rein tight ii,otoet. id pay the bills
without increasing the loan debt. Certainly, there arfe
the repayments from the Q. N. Bank coming in—the re-
payment of lot) . money that was locked up in the Q. N.
Bank when ic struck trouble ; but the right thing for a
non-borrowing Government to do with that 'money is to
pay off debt with it.
Last week, a £lOO,OOO company was formed,
mostly in Sydney, to work a timber concession granted
by the Russian Government f r an area in Siberia, some-
where under the snow and ice that lie about Vladivos-
tok. (According to all accounts, there was no difficulty
at all in getting the money : just at present there proba-
bly wouldn’t be much difficulty in getting capital for a
company to carry on the South Sea bubble industry of
importing mules from Spain, provided the “ right
people ” asked for it. It is simply another illustration of
the fact that Australia —and N.S. W. especially—has
money which) under present conditions, it doesn’t
lthow what to do with at home. It has had a run
Of fefilarkably good seasons, and its products have
beeh selling at phenomenal prices, so that some
of the banks have got their dividends up to 12
and 14 per cent, again. The Chief immediate result of
this apparent glut of money has been a rush for invest-
ments, and the price has been driven up so high that for
many of them the investment can only show a yield of
under 4 per .cent. The average return from even
moderately gilt-edged stocks is well under 4J per cent.
Wherever there seems a likelihood of increased profits or
disbursements, the future is heavily discounted out of
the apparent superabundance of money in hand. Sydney
Ferries have been bought at a price which returns only
3 per cent, ; Port Jackson Steamship at a price which
returns even less ; Bank of New Zealand at a price which
showed little more than 2 per cent. ; Perpetual Trustee
and various Gas stocks at rates giving less than 4 per
bfent.
Meantime Australia is iihnetting goods from
foreign countries at the rate of £50,000,000 a year. Last
year the total wits <£45,000,000; it will be ffiore ih 1907,
A great proportion of these goods could easily be hiade iff
Australia; they are; however, b'eihg made in foreign
countries, in foteign factories; and so Australia, which
so baldly wants outlets for its capital that it is accepting
2J per cent, irivestniehts, and is promoting companies to’
exploit the timber in Siberia, is employing foreign Capital
to supply its own wants, in N.S. Wales', while the
imports have increased from £20,561,510 to £84,605,383 in
lOyears, the hands employed in the factories
only from 49,840 to 77,758. Thus the imports have increased
69 per cent., and the hands employed in the factories by
barely 56 per cent. And even those figures put the posi-
tion too favorably; for no continuous increase in the
factories can be expected under present conditions.
During these 10 years numerous industries were started
in the expectation that, along with Federation, substan-
tial Protection would arrive. Men, therefore, put capital
into businesses; but they reckoned without theN.S.W.
foreign-trade crowd. That crowd whittled away the
duties which Kingston had already made comparatively
low so as to turn aside their criticism ; and heavy losses of
capital have resulted. The woollen industry has been
almost strahgled. Take the Castlemaine Co. as an
example. Under the Victorian tariff it paid 6 p.c. in
1897, but even the Victorian tariff was hardly high enough
to maintain that fair return. Still in 1902 the co. was
able to pay 5 per cent. Last year it paid only 3 per
cent., and apparently only did that by neglecting to pro-
vide anything for wear and tear of plant. The Parra,
matta Woollen Mills, which were started In the full
expectation of a substantial Federal tariff, paid 6 p.c. in
1902 ; there is no record of even the skeleton of a dividend
since then. Yet an American visitor called at The
Bulletin office the other day to show himself id
a suit of Parramatta tweeds, and to express his
amazement that Australia wasn’t as proud of its goods
as he—this casual American visitor—was, And for a
final case the Queensland Woollen Mills Co. paid 2J per
cent, in 19Q1 ; since then it hasn’t paid a cent. Other
industries give much the same results. It isn’t sur-
prising theh that, though Australia has so much capital
that it is prepared to risk some of it nosing under
Siberian ice-fields after timber-logs, it isn’t prepared to
put any of it in Australian industries Udder the present
tariff, or a tariff that is anything like the present one,
* * * *
“ Genung ” gets close Up to the truth : “ I donT
know anything about finance or money. Still I’ve beeh
reading about the fall ih Khglish Consols to 84, find the
reasons for it. Otte authority says it’s Socialism, another
says it’s Imperial unrest (whatever that is), and a third
(secretary of our local Political Labor League) sayS it’s
because Deakin says the Labor party is in deep waters.
To my ignorant mind, the fact that Consols are at 84
simply means that 2% or 3 per cent, is below the fair in-
terest even in gilt-edged securities. Investors can get
5 or 6 per cent, in municipal and such like almost un-
breakable concerns ; there is no demand for a 2j- per
cent, investment, and so the price drops. But when bad
times come, and an Uneasy feeling is abroad as to the
safety of railway and such stock, investors make sure of
their money by putting it in Consols, and the demand
causes a rise. I don’t know anything about finance, but
this seems to me to be as plain as the girl who sells me
beer at the back bar. The pretty ones are in the front
bar, and the‘finance ’ people pay something extra for
beauty’s smiles to light upon the froth.”
* * * *
W. J. Loring, Australian head of Bewick,
Moreing and Co., has a contribution in the American
Minins and Scientific Press on “Mining Labor in Aus-
tralia.” Loring, an American, likes the Australian work-
man. “The average,” he says, “is a brainy fellow.”
Physically, “the Australian will compare with any in
the world. He is a big, clean-limbed individual ... of
cheerful temperament, and brimful of life and energy . . .
scholastic abilities miles ahead of those of any other
country. While he is an independent fellow, incapable
of being driven, and deeply resentful of anything
approaching overbearance, with fair and square' treat-
ment the Australian working-man is one who can be most
easily led and governed.” His eight-hour system “ works
admirably." “It has been thoroughly demonstrated
that the worker, under such conditions, shows relatively
far superior results to those prevailing under the
10-hour and longer shifts.” As for cheap labor;
“ That cheap colored labor is emblematic of low working-
costs is utterly fallacious. Comparison of the big-mines
of Australia and America, working white labor, with
those of the Rand, employing either Kaffir or Chinese,
will show footage and tonnage per man in favor of white
labor in the ratio of at least four to one.” Finally he has
something to Say about the “White Australia” policy,
and he says it sympathetically.
* * * *
Groom’s Federal Bill to enforce the Australian
registration of all foreign cos. Carrying on business
within the Commonwealth, arid making provlsiori for
trying all legal issues with such concerns in Australian
courts, is viewed with apprehension in the West. It is
feared over there that Westralian cos. may register
only in Melbourne, and compel litigants to appear against
them in that city. It is suggested that registration and
litigation should be confined to the State where the co.
has its principal business.
» * * *
The Electric Light Department of the Mel-
bourne City Council
Paid Contri- Writ-
Gross as In- bution ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. terest. Io Cit y • Off. serves, serves
1901 £11,786 £5,179 £6,607 £2-,939
1902 10,566 17,866 - _ _ 2 1 639
1903 23,568 11,791 n 777 33 ’4l«
1904 30,877 12,750 18 127 51543
1905 36,636 13,395 £lOOO £12,608 22 241 61 176
1906 40,986 13,456 1000 5,650 26 530 82 056
1907 48,722 14,386 1500 5,039 27,797 109’853
The gross profit was made up in this way
Balance from working account .. .. £45 529
Sinking Fund interest 1’717
Renewals Fund interest .. .. \\ 1’446
Profit on sales of old plant .. ’3O
T ° tal £48,722
In more detail this total was appropriated as follows
(the figures for the previous year are added for compari-
■ j . A . , , 1906. 1907.
Interest and charges on debt .. £13,456 £14,386
Sinking fu'na at 1 p.e. .. .. 3,753 4,400
I Depreciation and f eriewals, % p,c,.. 7,507 8,303
I Ditto, special appropriation . . 7,500 12,000
costs written Off . . 5,000 4,339
Aid to city revenue .. .. .. 1,000 1,500
Written off loan discounts.. .. -= 700
Balance for reserves 2,120 3,094
Totals £40,336 £48,722
Included in the “balance for. reserves” above are the
interest earnings on the reserve funds ; that is to say, the
total addition to the sinking fund, for instance, for last
year vyas the £4400 shown plus the £1716 which the
fund’s investments earned. To what extent the Depreci-
ation and Renewals Fund is a true reserve it is impossible
to say ; if it merely represents the wear and tear which
has actually occurred, it is not a genuine reserve at all-
in other words, in that case, though the City Council has
got this amount in money, it no long'd' has the value in
goods. Still, so far, repairs, maintenance, and renewals
have been charged direct to working account. As, how-
ever, this Depreciation and Renewals Fund is a doubtful
reserve, the reserves had better be shown separately :
Sinking Fund £50,720
Depreciation and Renewals Fund 59,002
Profit and Loss Balance ~ ~ 131
Total ~ £109,853
Strictly, there ought to be deducted from this an amount,
apparently £14,225, which represents loan discounts and
expenses of flotations ; this is to be gradually written off.-
These discounts are scattered through the accounts as
expenditure on capital account ; the 1906 loan cost
£6069 in this way. A first writing off, of £7OO, is shown
above.
Originally the amount provided for deprecia-
tion, etc., was 1 j per cent. This, having been found
insufficient, was put up to 2 per cent. In 1906, in addition
to that, 51 per cent.- Was written off the capital value of
the' plant; and this year these special appropriations
a'niount tb a shade under 6 per cent., or a total of 8 per
bent, for the year'. The loans (capital) reach £440,000 ;
ott that and the reserves at the beginning of the year the
profits Show! a return of £9 6sv Bd. p. c. That, however, in-
cludes the Contribution 1 to the Depreciation- and Renewals
Fund; and that, or part of that, is probably Wot true
profit—it is a set-off agaifisf actual- wear and tear.
In the' appropriation of the' Me'lboti'rfiC Kleetrie
Light profits sfet ont above,- £4339 is shown as written off
on account of change-over costs. Chiefly this relates to
the substitution of the Underground for the overhead
system, the cost of which was originally charged to
capital account, and is now being extinguished. The
cost of the principal change-over operations was £25,822,
of which, so far as can be traced, £14,500 has item been
written off.
The Melbourne municipal lighting and electric
power-supply business is increasing very fast. At Feb.
28, 1904, there were altogether 57,791 connections;
there are now 107,454 ; so that the three years’ increase
has been 86 per cent. Of course, the Metropolitan Gas
Co. doesn’t view this with overwhelming satisfaction ;
and the Privy Council has yet to say (leave to appeal has
been granted) whether the City Council Can legally supply
power at the low rates now charged for “maximum
supply ” ; that is to say, the Council charges 2£d. per
unit for the quantity of energy consumed equal to a
monthly 75 h -urs’ use of the consumers’ maximum
capacity, and |d, per unit for all over that. Originally
the lowest charge, was 3d. (that rate existed down to
1904), In 1897 the lowest charge for lighting was 6d.
per unit ; the minimum is now 2d. On the question of
waste or current leakage, the figures show that 14 ‘2B per
cent,, or almost exactly one-seventh, of the units gener-
ated were unaccounted for,
* * # *
The Queensland National Bank, which made
a further re-arrangement with its creditors in 1897, from
Which year the present reserves date :
Repaid Repaid Total
Gross Written Govern- Private Re-
Profits, Off. ment. Depos’rs. serves.
June, 1901., £28,350 £16,350 £3OOO £6,000 £21,000
Dec., 1901., 28,745 16,745 3000 6,000 24,000
JUne, 1902;, 25,605 13,605 3000 6,000 27,000
Dec., 1902., 22,329 10,329 3000 6,000 30,000
June, 1903.. 21,660 9,660 3000 6,000 33,000
Dec., 1903.. 21,777 9,777 3000 6,000 36,000
June, 1904.. 21,822 9,822 3000 6,000 39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 9,000 42,000
June, 1905.. 22,009 10,009 9,000 45,000
Dec., 1905.. 22,307 10,307 9,000 48,000
June, 1906.. 23,421 11,421 9,000 51,000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12,000 55,000
June, 1907.. 34,783 18,783 12,000 59,000
In 1904 a new arrangement was come to between
Treasurer Kidston and the bank. Up to that time the
position stood like this : When the bank arranged with
its creditors it gave the private depositors 15s, in the £
in stock, and the other ss. in the £ (carrying no interest)
was to be paid out of profits. Of those net profits, 25 per
cent, were to go to repay the Government, 25 per cent,
to reserves, and 50 per cent, to wipe out the ss, in the £
just mentioned. The Kidston re-arrangement provided
for the repayment of the Government deposits by 16
annual instalments, the unpaid balance bearing interest
at £2 12s. 6d. per cent. ; and 75 per cent, of the net pro-
fits were to be available to repay the private depositors
their ss. in the £. The private depositors thus score by
the earlier repayment of money for which they get no
interest. In return, it is provided that the bank may
pay a dividend limited to 3£ per cent, when eight of the
16 p.n.’s given to the Government are paid off.
This shows, generally, the progress made
Re-
-1897 1907 duction.
Government deposits
(re-constructed) .. £1,833,327 £1,119,270 £714,057
Interminable stock
(debt to old de-
positors) .. ~ 3,116,621 3,116,621
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,974 900,974 138,000
Due to bank (debts in
suspense) ~ -. . 742,835 414,322 328,513
Of the 16 p.n.’s four have been paid, or rather prepaid ;
the next one does not legally fall due till 1909. Suppos-
ing the same progress goes on, then in about two years
the bank will be at liberty to pay per cent, dividend.
But that dividend must come out of 25 per cent, of the
net profits till the ss. in the £ is paid off ; as shown
above, there still remains £900,974 of that debt to be got
rid of. If the bank went on paying off £24,000 a year, as it
has done during the past 12 months, it would take
to wipe out the balance of the debt ; and for 37£ years
the shareholders Would only own one-quarter of the
profits. But the second column in the first table above
has to be kept in mind. Of the £65,203 which the bank
declares its profits to have been in the past 12 months,
£33,203 has been written off ; and how long that writing-
down process is to continue there is no telling. The pro-
gress so far made in cleaning up the old mess has much to
do with it; probably the future of Queensland has more.
Three or four years of prosperity like that of the last
three or four might so improve values in Queensland as
to render further writings down on this scale quite
unnecessary. But nobody can guarantee the next three
or four seasons. The present capital of the Q.N. is
£413,289. To pay 2 per cent, on that would call for
£4133 per half-year ; which means that the bank must
make £16,532 net per half-year before it can pay a divi-
dend of 2 per cent. Practically that is what, after
writing off £18,783, it disclosed in the past half-year. In
other words, supposing the bank were foolish enough to
disburse all its profits and add nothing to reserves, the
available 25 per cent, of the present net profits would
almost allow of a 2 per cent, dividend on capital ; but
four more Government p.n.’s must be paid before any
dividend can arrive. There is no doubt that a good many
people expect a dividend of some sort just about as soon
as the Act will allow. Two years ago Q.N. shares, £3
paid, were sold at 3s. 3d. They are now worth about
20s. 6d. They carry a liability of £2.
One never quite knows how much of the Q.N.
published balance-sheets to take seriously : the bank had
so much leeway to make up that it always had plenty of
use for any profits which it didn’t feel the necessity of
disclosing. The amounts shown as formally written off
have apparently been directed largely to the old “ pri-
vate ledger” item—“debts in suspense pending realisa-
tion' of securities.” But the real value of the remaining
securities is a dark mystery. In 1896, however, the Com-
mittee appointed by the Queensland Parliament to in-
vestigaftA affairs reported that the amount lost in addi-
tion to capital and reserves was £1,252,810; and of that
loss £1,038,974' was provided for by the ss. in the £ writ-
ten off old deposits.- Considering- the amounts since
written off, there cannot be any old losses unprovided for
now if the 1896 investigation- was complete. Ast& new
business, this shows the recent movement:—•
June, ’OO. June, 'O7.
£ £> £
New private deposits .. 1,631,796 2,135,261 Inc. 503,465
New Govt, denosits .. 607,585 586,917 Dee. 20,668-
Dills in circulation, etc. 807,684 887,932 Ine. 80,248-
Liquid assets .. .. 2,180,397 2,306,515 1ne.T26.118-
Acivanees 5,032,087 5,330,636 Inc. 298,549-
Premises ~ .. 278,457 278,818 Inc. 36L
The advances are not, of course, all new. In addition- to-
the deposits, shown above, there is £4,235,891 in stock,
and old Government deposits, which is costing, as an>
average, £2 19s. per sent. It is sufficiently obvious that,
if prosperity could restore, or has restored, the securities
to anything like their written-down value, the use of so
much fixed money at that rate would be very profitable.
But even £2 19s. per cent, is » burden if it is represented
by nothing more substantial than the bitter memories of
a bygone financial jag.
The real worth of the Q.N. Bank’s securities is
therefore still unknown. But it seems tolerably certain)
that the bank is preparing to get into the dividend way
again on a small scale. It has liquid assets amounting t0£2,396,515,
£2,396,515, while its new deposits and other new liabilii-
ties to the public amount to The liquid
assets, therefore, amount to 64 per cent, of the liabilities
and that looks as though the bank were ready to prepay-
more p.n.’s. But the extent of the dividend (up to the-
S’i per cent, maximum) depends wholly upon the neecU
for further writing down—which is the unknown quantity.-
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd.,
druggists, etc, (Sydney)
Added to Nominal
ProfiCa Dividends. Reserves.
Aug., 1904 10 p.c. = £6OOO £1912
Feb., 1905 £6143 10 „ „ 6000 £143 2055
Aug., 1905 5959 10 ~ „ 6000 2014-
Feb., 1906 7124 10 ~ ~ 6000 1124 313&.
Aug., 1906 6338 10 „ „ 6000 338 3476 S
Feb., 1907 6390 10 „ „ 6000 390 38661-
No profit and loss account is published, and the profit;
and loss balance is set out “after making provision for’
depreciation, and writing down patent rights, etc.” How
rn-uch the paper asset “ patent rights ” amounts to is not-
specified ; it is lumped with stock on hand and plant-
and fixtures. This composite item has moved as follows;—-
Atog,, 1904 £95,178 Feb., 1906 .. £85,841
Feb., 1905 .. 93,757 Aug., 1906 .. 80,227/
Aug,, 1905 89,540 Feb., 1907 .. 73,882
In two and a half years, therefore, this item has been*
reduced by £24, 90 ; hut whether it has been reduced by
writing down the book value of patent rights and other-
goodwill items, or by writing down or reducing stocks,
cannot he said. Anyhow, a £15,000 mortgage has been
Wiped out and £7500 lias been added to freeholds. The
only debts now are ordinary trade creditors, £4490 : and
liquid assets (including book debts) amounted to £17,974
before paying the dividend. The book debts are £5231 :
as at August, 1904, they were £5628, so they are being
kept well in hand, either by writing off or otherwise.
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1903.. £355 41- per cent. = £4lO £654
Apr., 1904., 429 4| „ „ 414 £l5 669-
Oct., 1904.. 401 4i „ „ 367 34 703
Apr., 1905.. 349 4* „ „ 331 18 721
Oct., 1905.. 285 4J „ „ 309 - 697
Apr., 1906.. 300 4J „ „ 317 680-
Oct., 1906.. 318 4| „ . „ 333 665
Apr., 1907.. 333 4J ~ ~ 352 646
The society is too small ; it would cost hardly any more-
to manage one about twice the size. Then, on the other-
side, the operations of the State Bank in S. Australia
help to make anything like stiff rates of interest for
building-society advances impossible. The result is that,,
in order to pay the 41 per cent., reserves are persistently-
drawn upon ; and, considering that there is £15,757 out-
in advances, the reserves are not big enough to stand!
much reduction. Certainly capital has been increasing
lately, and advances also, so that the other figures should;
show a change for the better soon.
* » * *
Broken Hill dividends for the June quarter
alreadv announced amount to £220,250 : B.H. Prop., 35..
(£144,000); South, 4s. (£40,000) ; Block 14, £20,000 ; ands
North, 2s. 6d. (£16,250). Block 14 pays 2s. 6d. on pref. v .
and, as far as can be ascertained at time of writing, Is. 6d..
on ordinaries. But, as to this co., it has to he kept
steadily in mind that most of present profits are coming
from carbonates, which are a surface ore, and cannot last
much longer.
* * * *
Experience seems to be teaching all those who
tackle the zinc extraction problem in Broken Hill that
oil is a good thing to throw on the troubled waters. In
the beginning, acid processes smiled indulgently on the
tailings dumps which were so easily to be robbed" of their
zinc, never dreaming that the ill-conditioned waste
material would offer a stubborn resistance. Then- the oil
process stepped in, and by its persuasive influence
achieved results unattainable by the acid alone. At- the-
present time there is probably not a single zinc process in-
use in Broken Hill which has not—surreptitiously or
otherwise—added oil to its acid. It is said that
one large and conservative co., still ostensibly using
an acid process, has found a means of adding
oil to the mixture in such a way as to avoid in-
fringing patent rights, and is getting a better ex-
traction in consequence. The Elmore process, which
uses oil to some extent, is making remarkably high
recoveries in experimental tests on Broken Hill tailings ;
but when it gets to work on a large, practical scale, it
will probably be found advantageous to depend more on
the oil, and less on the muoh-talked-of but expensive
vacuum. The Zinc Corporation’s experimental granula-
tion plant on the British mine has lately been turning
out a zinc concentrate of about 46 per cent., which i's
good, and reads well. But the percentage of extraction-
isa matterabout which the management preserves silence.
The main principle of these oil and acid pro-
cesses of zinc treatment is that both oil and acid have ail-
affinity for the metallic, as distinguished from the earthy,
particles in the finely crushed tailings. The tailings
having been reduced to a pulp, or sludge, the oil and acid
are thoroughly mixed with them. The acid biting into
the metal forms a small gas-bubble which brings the
metal particle to the surface, and the oil helps in the
flotation process. Once landed at the surface of the
water they are floated off. The vacuum is applied in the
separating vessel for the purpose of further aiding in the
flotation, a smaller gas-bubble being then necessary to
bring the particle to the surface, and so the quantity of
gas used may be reduced.
* * • •
British Broken Hill mine is getting a little
more wind into its sails. Marsh’s development at the
600 ft. doesn’t amount to much, and won’t keep the pot
boiling for any length of time. In the levels above, how-
ever, imjrroveinents have taken place, and Marsh sec-
tion is now sending a liberal supply of fair-grade ore to
the mill. Carbonates averaging about 30 per cent, lead
and 20oz. silver are still being mined at the 200 ft. of
Blackwood section, in the main workings, and it looks as
though other good bodies of carbonates will be developed
in the same region. A little trouble is being caused by
the carbonates going underfoot, necessitating underhand
stoping-. With regard to the development in Thompson
shaft, nothing of any size or value has yet been found
under the big mass of ironstone which outcrops on the
slope of the hill. The ore body worked at the 2Qoft. and
300 ft. levels is small and rather poor.
-»-**•
The Sulphide Corporation’s Central Broken
Hill mine is beginning to hold up its head again, and is
now making an output of 2400 tons of zinc and leady con-
centrates per week. The big mill is doing better work,
and should shortly be running up to full capacity. The
new slime-treatment plant, just finished, is at work on
Block 10 slimes. These contain about 46 percent, of lead
and silver, and, if the granulation process acts up to
anticipations, should turn out nearly 500 tons of concen-
trates for every 1000 tons of slimes treated. The product
will be put over tables and separated.
• * * *
Wattle Flat, on top of a steep range 25 miles
from Bathurst (N.S. W.), has renewed its spark of life, and
some of the reefs thereabouts are giving good returns
from the battery. Big Oake.v has a new make of stone
12ft. wide ; 260 tons yielded 3620 z., and since then even


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
for Trust Management
can only be obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys tinder Power
Agents, CSLc.
2,4, &. G Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
better results have been obtained. Big- Oakey has blos-
somed several times during the last 30 years ; but good
stone in the deepest level is a promising sign. The shows
are all in the hands of working parties.
m « * *
The half-year’s record of the Harden (N.S.W.)
gold mine
Tons Total
Mined. Revenue. Costs. Profit.
January .. 1053 £3735 ■ £1049 £2686
February .. 1014 2975 999 1976
March .. 972 2951 1164 1787
April .. 902 2578 1366 1212
May .. 936 2612 1140 1472
June .. 918 2444 1231 1213
Total 5795 £17,295 £6949 £10,346
For the previous half-year 2880 tons were mined for
£10,587, which gave a profit of £6028, or £2 Is. lOd. per
ton (exclusive of depreciation) ; for the past half-year the
profit on the same basis works out at £1 15s. 9d. per ton.
Working costs have been got down to £1 6s. 10d., includ-
ing mining, milling, and cyaniding. The co.’s half-year
ended on June 30, and the accounts are due early next
month. Foregoing figures have been taken from the
excellent monthly sheets issued by the co. *
Lloyd’s Co., Burraga (N.S.W.), produced for
June 133 tons copper, worth (at £95) £12,635, from 5500
tons of ore. The yield works out at £2 ss. lid. per ton ;
and the working cost (£7300) ran to £1 6s. 6d. per ton of
ore. The gross profit was thus 19s. sd. per ton, with
copper at £95. This result is a credit to the manage-
ment ; for the ore is somewhat silicious, and firewood
round the works is getting cut out, and becomes expen-
sive. Lloyd’s is one of the few mines that have been able
to stand large and continuous production, soitisallthe
more remarkable to find trouble over the firewood ques-
tion. The works are surrounded by well-timbered country,
and a tramway, which ought to have been laid down
long ago, will improve matters. Costs are fairly low, the
copper market is high, and the grade of ore handled has
improved; yet all these advantages are to be made
nothing of for want of a bit of wood. The co. has had
uphill work ; £200,000 worth of copper was produced in
three years—l9o3-1906—for no return to shareholders.
The ore for part of this time did not, however, average
quite 2 per cent., and copper was much lower than it is
now.
* « * »
The Valentine mine, on Red Hill, Tambaroora
(N.S.W.), is keeping about 20 men employed, and is the
one star of hope in the Tambaroora sky. It wants a lot
of improvement before the Valentine will warrant as
much expenditure as the Red Hill G.M. Co. (including
Frank Gardner) lavished on its neighbors, but its pro-
spects now are so very much more cheerful than they
were two years ago that there is no saying what may
happen. Between the reef on which the big co. was
located, and the reef which was worked so long ago that
even the oldest inhabitants don’t know any details—
besides the various tiny leaders rooted out by that
sturdy old prospector, Joe Martindale —the Red Hill has
turned out a good deal of gold. And a district in which
the most energetic fossicking produces about 2s. a day is
not going to mourn if the Valentine end of the Hill turns
out a bonanza.
* * * *
The Bulletin said it couldn’t understand how
8., M. and Co. ever brought themselves to appoint Ralph
Nichols as manager of the Zinc Corporation’s works,
which are under their superintendence. Now W. J.
Loring (8., M. and Co.’s Australian head) says they never
did bring themselves to it, and that there isn’t a word of
truth in the report about the appointment.
» * * *
Kalgoorlie wages question, which threatened
serious trouble a month or so ago, is likely to be settled
without a blow being struck. Representatives of the
Chamber of Mines and Miners’ Union met the other day,
when the various bones of contention were haggled over.
Ultimately, the union delegates hinted that an increase
to 11s. per shift in the minimum rate of wages for under-
ground truckers and mullockere -• onld just about settle
the dispute. The “ other side ” thereupon asked for a
fortnight’s grace in order to consult “ London,” and that
is how the matter stands at present. Locally the dispute
is regarded as being as good as settled, and business
people are breathing more freely than they have done for
months past.
* * * *
Dividends paid by Westralian gold-mining cos.
to the end of June amounted to £16,584,623. The chief
contributors to this total have been: —Great Boulder,
£2,513,050; Horseshoe, £2,355,000 ; Oroya-Brown Hill,
£1,954,991; Ivanhoe, £1,768,750; Great Fingall, £1,475,000;
Perseverance. £1,251,250 ; Kalgurli, £495,000; Associated
Northern, £490,000 ;'Sons of Gwalia, £425,675. Dividends
already declared payable during July aggregate £218,750.
The prospectus of the Birrigrin Gold Mines,
Ltd. (W.A.), lately issued, shows that promoter H. J.
Saunders likes a lot. His proposition is to form a limited
co. with a nominal capital of £lOO,OOO in 100,000 shares of
£1 each to work a.property of the surface-show variety in
the neighborhood of Black Range. His “ cut ” has been
fixed at £65,000, payable £6OOO in cash, £50,000 in paid
shares, and the balance in cash or paid shares at ttie
option of the directors. . Naturally, as controlling share-
holder, and consequently boss of the Board, Mr. Saunders
is likely to take the balance in whichever suits him best.
The prospectus does not set out very clearly what is to be
done with the remaining 35,000 shares. One paragraph
says that 10,000 are to be offered to the public, and
25,000 held in reserve ; while another states that 25,000
are to be let loose. Evidently the promoter had not
decided how much space to set apart on the ground
floor for foundation shareholders. If, however, 25,000
shares are put off on to the public, the position
will simply boil itself down to this : There will be £25,000
available, of which the promoter will have a first cut of
£6OOO, leaving £19,000. If a payable mine is opened i-p
promptly, well and good—the promoters may then take
the unpaid £9OOO purchase money in shares. If not, the
£9OOO may be wanted in cash. All, therefore, that the
co. can rely upon for development, etc., is £19,000 less
£9OOO, or £lO,OOO. The promoter’s position is all right.
The public’s is all wrong.
* * ■* *
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, has still got its
shutters up, and does not seem in a hurry to take them
down. As the mine is a rank duffer in depth, and as
directors’fees, etc., no doubt run on whether the mine
works or not, this silence is rather distressing. Alto-
gether £172,000, taken out of subscribed capital, and
£170,000 won from ore treatment, has been spent by the
co. to date, yet no dividend has been paid ; and, although
there is still £30,000 cash in hand, shares are unsaleable.
Australian holders (mostly cover-system dupes) would
like to know where all the money has gone, but can’t find
out. The danger now threatening them is that the co.’s
present bank balance may melt away without any substan-
tial results. Ore reserves are given as 100,000 tons, worth
235. per ton, but as cost of production would run out at
more than this, the reserves might just as well be so
much foul air for all the good they are to the share-
holders.
Brown Hill Extended (W. A.) has been offered to
the Orova-Brown Hill Co. as a going concern. Six months
ago ore reserves were said to comprise 6000 tons of
12dwt. stuff on the surface, and between four and five
years' supplies, computed on the basis of 1200 tons per
month, underground. Since then, however, mill returns
have barely averaged 7dwt. per ton, so there is a big
discrepancy somewhere.
* * ■* •
A patch of payable ore which previously escaped
notice has been struck 100 ft. from the Lake View Consols
boundary at the No. 9 level of the Perseverance (W.A.).
The shoot is a downward continuation of that worked in
the levels above, and dips into the Consols at about
1000 ft. from the surface. Consequently the story which
has already found its way into print about its discovery
being “the best development recorded in the mine for
a long time past ” is pure fiction.
■6 * * *
Since its mill started, six years ago, Ida H.
(W.A.) has paid shareholders an average of 26 per cent,
per annum in dividends. This has now been cut down to
per cent., as the mine won’t stand any more at present.
Past year’s mining operations did not quite keep pace
with the mill, the ore crushed being 2500 tons in excess
of that developed. Costs worked out at 325. sd. per ton,
as compared with 275. Bd. for the previous year, the
explanation being heavy, damp ground and narrowness
of reef in the southern end of the mine. The manage-
ment is thinking seriously of leaving this part of the
workings to its fate, and concentrating attention on the
north end, where the shoot has a payable length of 400 ft.
and is more easily and more cheaply worked. The co. had
£ll,OOO in hand when accounts were made up. Ore
reserves figured at 25,000 tons, but only 9000 tons were
considered to be actually blocked out.
* * * *
Bayley’s Mines, Ltd., was compulsorily wound
up by the Westrnlian Supreme Court the other day. The
petitioning creditor obtained a judgment against the
respondent co. ; but a few weeks previously the bank iiad
stepped in and sold the co.’s belongings under a bill of
sale. The amount realised was more than enough to
satisfy the bank’s claim, whereupon another pressing
creditor, with a judgment up his sleeve, promptly ob-
tained a garnishee order attaching the surplus. The
money so attached, however, has not yet been paid over,
so the winding-up order just secured means that the
money in the bank’s hands will be held for the benefit of
the general body of the respondent co.’s creditors, and
will not be collared by the man who went on the “ early
bird ” lay.
* * * *
Oroya-Black Range will reach the productive
stage this month. The expenditure of £lOO,OOO or there-
abouts has transformed this property into one of the
best equipped and developed mines that could be seen
anywhere. Three levels have been opened up, and, judg-
ing bv the systematic way in which the reserves have
been blocked out and sampled, the management ought
to be able to tell within a pound or two Of the mine’s
proved value. It is understood that the first six months’
profits from ore treatment are to be set aside to form the
nucleus of a reserve fund, after which handsome dividends
(in relation to capital invested) are to be paid. The
property, which is said to be the apple of 8., M. & Co.’s
eye, certainlv looks an attractive speculation.
* * * *
Telegraphing from Black Range (W.A.), a man
who can generally be relied on makes the depressing
announcement that Barrambie Ranges is looking as though
it might expire at any time. He states that the shoot
has died out in the south end of the bottom level, and
also in the underlay shaft and winze a little below that
point. The wire also mentions, among other things, that
the slopes are nearly depleted, and that no development
work to speak of is being carried on.
*■ * * ■*
From another man, who put in four months
working in the mine to find out the strength of it:—
“The Barrambie Ranges mine is opened up for about
250 ft., but there is only one sboot in that distance, and it
is little more than 20ft. long. Undoubtedly, it goes to
the surface from the 100 ft. level ; but they have worked
it up to within 15ft. of the surface. When this shoot is
worked out, the rest won’t average 15dwt. to the ton ;
and the reef is very small. Further, it cuts right
out 20ft. below the 100 ft. level. They have put
crosscuts in every few feet to see if it has gone into
either wall, but cannot find it.” Barrambie Ranges, by
the way, is the mine at which wholesale gold-stealing
was alleged when the battery results didn’t come up to
the extravagant estimates upon which the market had
been boomed sky-high. It was a mean way of sneaking
out.
* * * -*
Ravensthorpe (W.A.) is in the throes of a
heavy slump, and business is at a standstill. The place
is fuil of stra .ded people who flocked there in search of
work, and ca.’-'ot find it. Boom pars in the coastal and
goldfields daily press w 7 ere mainly responsible for
dragging these persons from elsewhere, and the Govern-
ment may have to charter a steamer to get them back to
Perth. Very little money is in circulation, and the fact
that most of the miners’ earnings are sent away to keep
wives and families living in other parts makes matters
worse than they otherwise would be. Several trades-
people have put up their shutters, and more are tipped
to follow suit. The district may support the present or
a bi- ger population later on, but for the time being it is
no good for either workmen or “ business, robbery, etc.”
* * * *
8., M. & Co. have taken a sampling option over
the Desdemona lease, about half way between Kookynie
and Leonora (W.A.). This property was formerly owned
by the Octagon Syndicate, which put a few pot-holes
down and then cleared out. Later on a party of
prospectors repegged the ground, and since then 500
tons have been raised and treated for an average of 2oz.
over the plates. The reef ranges from 3£ft. to Bft. in
width, and looks like lasting. The owners estimate the
gross value of the ore in sight at £35,000, and they want
£25,000 cash.
* » • *
Fifty head of the Cosmopolitan stamps (W.A.)
will resume crushing about the middle of July. It is
estimated that there is sufficient ore in sight to keep
them going for at least twelve months. Most of the
payable stuff is between the Bth and 12th levels in the
south end of the mine, but there is one nice patch just
inside the boundary of the co.’s Cumberland lease at the
11th level which will come in handy to sweeten the rest.
* * * *
Whilst on the subject of gold stealing, in his
recent policy speech at Bunbury, Premier Moore (W.A.)
admitted that Scantlebury’s indictment had a substantial
foundation, and said that the recommendations made by
the Commissioner were receiving attention with a view to
embodying them in bills to be submitted to Parliament.
It is high time something was done. The gold dealers’
books kept by the banks prove that the evil is un-
abated.
Fremantle Smelting Co. may go into voluntary
liquidation shortly. In that case a new co., with larger
capital, will be formed to make extensive additions, and
go in for base-metal smelting.
* * * 41
Gippsland dredging costs have now been got
down to a point so fine that you are liable to miss them
if you look at them sideways. The Tewksbury Freehold
Co. has two dredges at work ; No. 1 in the half-year to
the end of 1 .st month showed total costs amounting to
1’363d. per cubic yard ; No. 2 showed l‘4sd. The latter
dredge handled an average of SO cubic yards per hour, as
against 70Jyds. with No. 1; the larger turnover meant
higher costs for power (firewood js the item that represents
that in the accounts). This penny and one-third per yard
includes cost of repairs and renewals, which run to about
one-tenth of the total expenses on the Tewksbury dredges.
Wear and tear is very heavy, and efficiency seems to
depend largely upon a liberal policy with regard to mainten-
ance. This particular co., the Tewksbury Freehold, with
its two dredges, working stuff averaging in ,the one case
just under 2sd. per yard and in the other just over
3Jd., made a profit of £3371 in the six months on a paid
capital of £11,390. It is really a remarkable achieve-
ment, and could only be possible with ground specially
adapted for dredging.
•* * * *
Bendigo this week is furnishing an object-
lesson that ouiht to knock some old theories hard on the
head. If the ordinary Bendigonian is asked, “ Why
don’t you treat more stone?” he looks supercilious, and
replies, “ We-don’t want to work the place out.” Then,
curiously enough, he will proceed to talk of “ illimitable
Bendigo" till the milkman comes. But now the New
Moon has come along to knock out the old Go Slow shib-
boleth. In the first six. months of 1906 stone treated was
14,412 tons, averaginglOfdwt., and the divs were £16,800 ;
in the first half of 1907 20,000 tons were crushed for
6£dwt. per ton, and £9600 was paid in divs. In
the latter term, 'when the tonnage was increased,
costs panned out at only 14s. 2fd. per ton, of
which wages took Bsv 2 d.\ and battery 2s. 3Jd. per ton.
The talk now is that the co. intends td-'handle 1000 tons
a week. Why doesn’t it go the whole*'hog, and put
through 2500 tons ? No actuary is needed to show that it
would pay to do this ; and it could do it because of its
large bodies of low-grade dirt available at the south shaft.
The co. can exhibit one of the best records in Bendigo,
as for 31 consecutive terms it has paid divs. Just think
of what compound interest would have amounted to
if that money had been made available in five years !
* * * ★
The kernel of A. Babington’s complaint
against Chief Secretary Peacock and George Buchanan,
respectively legal manager and director of the Welsh and
Slater’s G.M. Co., Rocky Lead (Vic,), is that they made
an undue grab over the float, that money has been spent
extravagantly, that the closing down of the mine pend-
ing the collection of calls played into the hands of the
market, and that not only should the purchase of
machinery have been delayed until the mine was proved,
but that plant from a firm in which Buchanan was in-
terested ought not to have been bought. To the last
statement perfect endorsement can be given. If direc-
tors, no matter what the rigidity of the inspection,
get into the position of vendors of plant to their
own cos., they cannot growl if critics carp. Such
a system is inherently bad and dangerous, and in
many cases is illegal. To buy a battery when a mine is only
opened up to 50ft. was indefensible too. So was it to stop
work when a shilling call had been made, and when the
proving of the reef in the 100 ft. crosscut should have been
within a short distance. Such a step was sure to affect the
market. If the real reason of the stoppage was a fear on
the part of the directors (who had guaranteed an over-
draft) that the call would not be paid, then the same con-
fidence was not shown in the mine as was evidently there
when the management decided on the purchase of the
battery. As to the flotation grab, it was an ordinary
Ballarat float, made easy for the promoters by a foolish
rush of the public because rich surface stone had been
proved. Here sympathy is not deserved. In other
directions it is.
* * * *
“The total dividends paid in Ballarat since
January Ist by Ballarat mines, and those in which
Ballarat investors hold the bulk of the shares, such as
Ajax, Port Arthur, Birthday Tunnel, etc., is £42,850,
the last month’s addition to the total being £5650.”
This local par is really very pretty. Only, unfortunately,
Ballarat itself contributes about 3d. a quarter from
possibly two shows. Berringa, miles distant; Dayles-
ford, still miles distant; and Linton, near Berringa, are
the fields that provide the dividend prop that Ballarat is
resting on. Even then the said prop is suffering from
dry rot, for with Ajax divs. down to a shilling, there
isn’t much chance of £40,000 being paid in the next half-
year.
«■ * • *
Last week, at the Spring Hill Leads mine,
Creswick (Vic.), two directors, Bunce and Wykes, went
nosing round the rise that the co. is putting up in the
tribute ground held on five years’ lease from the Berry
Extended. Bunce noticed some wash on a piece of staging
in the rise, examined it, and thought he would like to
have it tested. So Wykes filled up Bunce’s pockets, and
when the top was reached, half a dish of the dirt
gave over lfdwt. gold. There are all sorts of
nice little speculations to be indulged in about
that discovery. Was the wash so unlike wash that it
took an amateur to find it out, or was Bunce more of a
workman than those who had dumped the dirt where he
spotted it ? No one but Bunce would dare to answer such
a question, because Bunce is known to be as pushing
a director as ever a Creswick co. paid fees to. Or
did anyone else call Bunce’s attention to the dirt,
and, if so, was it Wykes or one of the staff? What, too,
will the Berry Extended people say if this is the long
sought after lead, that seems to have been missed by
everyone but Bunce ? The wash is deeper than the Berry
lead, though this may be due to a crabhole. Anyway,
whatever inspiration led Bunce to go for the dirt, the
Spring Hill Leads shareholders deserve the best that may
come their way. Theirs is a mine into which over
£220,000 has gone in calls and proceeds from gold, and
never a dividend has come from it. The persistence of
the men who have paid calls all through deserves reward.
Jackson and Hughes are the lucky party at the
Poseidon rush, Tarnagulla (Vic.). They have taken out
from 60ft. x 60ft. just about IOOOoz. gold. This, too, from
an average depth of 4ft. The div. is, roughly, £2OOO per
man.
* m * *
A recent Bulletin par, referring to the old
Toombon mine, north of Walhalla (Vic.), seems to have
revived interest in that ancient property ; and after 10
years of repose, it has been partially awakened by a Mel-
bourne syndicate, which contemplates a float when the
market is propitious. The old Toombon co. was formed
in 1882, and won, in all, 38,8050 z. gold, valued at £146,406
odd. The reason it closed down about 1897 was the pro-
hibitive cost of haulage, etc. The main shaft was
put down 600 ft., and from a crosscut at this
level another shaft (underlay) was sunk 430 ft., and,
later on, a winze was sunk 57ft., from a point
150 ft. south of the 430 ft. drop. At the bottom of
the winze the reef, 18in. wide, showed gold. But the
quartz had to be pulled up the winze, hauled along the
level, loaded into a bin, passed into a skip, pulled up
430 ft., and then trucked to the main shaft for the final
haul of 600 ft. After that there were two handlings on
the surface. The pumping arrangements were as bad.
The great expense incidental to working the skip shaft
naturally knocked the dividends out, and an attempt to
raise more capital failed in 1899. The present proposi-
tion is to sink the main shaft a further 600 ft. or 700 ft.,
and prospect the country. And it is worth it. In the
last half-year of the old co.’s operations there was an
average yield of £3 3s. sd. per ton from 1695 tons—a
yield that should pay well with proper method.
• ■* * •
The Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), is in more trouble:
some of the interested property-holders object to the
water-race, over a mile long, trespassing on their land ;
and while legal proceedings are talked of, shareholders
shiver in the atmosphere of uncertainty which has fallen
upon the market like a shroud.
*'* * *
The graveyard boom in Ballarat continues.
The cemetery trustees were persuaded to let a 12ft. hole
go down beside the grave which disclosed gold a few
weeks ago, and a body of stone carrying gold, extra-
vagantly estimated to be worth 9oz. per ton, has been
struck. Prospecting north and south is now a cer-
tainty, and a resurrection day is looming ahead.
Daylesford (Vic.) continues to tempt the in-
vestors. The Rising Star, an English co., which was
feeling seriously indisposed, has struck a lode showing
gold, and the suspension has been indefinitely postponed.
The Rising Star operates south of the Cornish line.
#*.*■*
The Gladstone (Tas.) sends Out one of its best
reports ; as the result of a 90-hours’ run, it has got 27cwt.
tin. It isn’t much, considering the quantity of frills
which were hung about the fashionable enterprise ; but
it looks as though at last the dredge is out of the clay.
Now the question is—How long will it stay out? Up to
now no dredging proposition, and especially no tin-
dredging proposition, that has clay to struggle with has
any hope worth mentioning; and the sooner Gladstone
finds out by boring what there is ahead of it in that way
the better.
* * * *
Some weeks ago the need of a mining inspector
at Cloncurry (Q.) was pointed out, and it was said that
many of the local operations were being carried on in a
slovenly way. Now, two miners have been killed at the
Great Australian, one of the Queensland Exploration
Co.’s shows that were first worked many years ago. It
seems that there was a rush of water from old workings.
If the law had compelled owners to make and file plans,
the accident could hardly have happened. It is stated
that some of the miners several weeks back pointed out
the possibility of a rush of water from old workings, but
the co. doesn’t appear to have even taken the precaution
of keeping drill holes well ahead, so as to obtain timely
notice of such death-traps. ./
* * * *
The chairman of the Chillagoe co. anticipates
that the net revenue from the railway for 1907 will be
£BO,OOO, and his optimism, is sustained by the report of
Superintendent Black, who estimates the gross receipts
at £llO,OOO. Public traffic amounts to 63 per cent, of
this total. The line cost £381(902 ;so if the co. is going
to make a profit of £BO,OOO in 1907, even the shareholders
have cause to take a brighter view- of things. Interest
on debentures will, however, absorb £24,915. And the
increased traffic will only last as long as the metal
markets are favorable.
Allis’ reverberatory, which was going to make
things good for the Gorge section of Cloncurry (Q.), is
striking a heap of trouble, and, up to now, nobody has
happened along who can make a“do ” of it. At latest,
the bottom had been smelted out of the furnace.
* * * »
The late return from Mt. Cannindah (Q.) con-
centrating mill was better—loo tons concentrates (17 tons
copper) from 608 tons ore. That, if the stuff hasn’t been
picked, is ahead of the 16 tons copper from 1097 tons ore
got in May, and 23 tons copper from 1280 tons crudes won
in April. Both working costs and the extraction of
copper are, however, still problematical.
* * * *
The Mt. Morgan co. agreed, on the formation
of the new Electrolytic Copper Refining Co., to hand
over all its blister copper for treatment for the next 10
years. The extra work thrown on general manager
Richard led lately to a rearrangement of offices; mine
manager Seale became assistant general manager, J. B.
Wilson became mine manager, and N. F. White, late con-
struction engineer, took charge of the entire engineering
staff.
+ m * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lainpriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * *> *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilflev type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged with mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them —the lower ones —carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.*
* * • *
The Irish Investor (London) writes regarding
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited in
its September, 1906 issue as follows An intending
assurant who realises that the stability of a company
depends, to an exceedingly great extent, on its care in
only accepting risks that come under the heading of good
lives should feel every confidence in the Colonial Mutual
on this score.”*
* * * *•
Maps showing the Orange Plains Mineral
Leases are obtainable from H. B. Pinnington, Authorised
Draftsman, Box 60, Dubbo, at 5/- per copy.*
* * • *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.— For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * »
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. Cn the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * ■*
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan's Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* » * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said:—“lt wa3 only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras.”*
* * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six laree Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. 1 Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
CoiiLisoN & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’" Guide.*
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


WATSON’S WHISKY
Rescks Limited, Agents.
>Storer (%L Sons’
Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors :
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
(Eh STOREKEEPERS.
IS THK ONLY ABSOLUTELY
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING ob
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Mr. Bulletin.— l doubt, ma frien’, ye’ll
j.hink mysel’ a muckle offecious body in writing
this. I’m nae unco gude mysel’, but I wudna
print lees. Ae mon writes (B. 13/6/’07): “He
climbed a trunk and then pulled the tree up after
him.” I dinna see how a body’s sel’ cud climb a
tree and then pull’t up after him. I dinna see
’t. As a matter o’ course, I think it’s a lee. Lord
forgive me if I wrang ye, but I canna help
thinkin’ it’s a lee ! “ Climbed —up —a —tree —and
—then—pulled—it—up—after—him.” It’s a lee !
—Jock McPherson.
P.S.—No ! I canna see’t !
* * * ♦
“A. 0.8.” can be allowed to wind up a
controversy :
Re number of gates between Broken Hill and Wom-
pah, “ G.S.K.” (B. 15/6/’O7) says there are four. Here’s
the number (I’ve counted between stages): Broken Hill
taYanco Glen, 4 ; Yanco Glen to Euriowie, 9; Euriowie
to Sandy Creek, 6 ; Sandy Creek to Packsaddle, 4; Pack-
saddle to Cobham Lake, 5 ; Cobham Lake to Milparinka,
5; Milparinka to Tibooburra, 4 ; Tibooburra to Wompah,
6 ; total, 43.
That makes nearly as many as there are ways
of spelling and pronouncing the place that
straggles at the end of the journey—Wompah,
Wumpah, Onepar, Onepah, etc. The station
calls itself Onepar.
“J. Scraggs”: There is a cocky on the
Dingo (Upper ? Manning, N.S.W.)
who possesses a six-foot carpet
snake that’s an institution
in itself. Its duty is to
keep rats and mice out
of the barn. Don’t
know if it swal-
lows each rodent,
but they vam-
oose imm e-
diat.ely it
moves in.
Other cook-
ies in the
vicinity
borro w
the snake
w h e■ n
rod e n t s
get' bad.
Thought
it, was . a
snake yarn
at first, till
one morn-
ing, after cow
time, I heard
a brother cocky
with a box under
his arm asking for
the loan of the rat
demolisher. My host
went down and jerked
his suakeship off a rafter,
and put him in the box, with
strict injunctions to return
the long ’un by the end of
next week, as Binno over the
creek wanted it. The snake
had then been toiling for the
cookies for four years.
“ Phoenix ”: In spite of the satire of
“ Paul Cupid” (B. 20/6/’O7) you can stop a snake by
throwing a hat in front of him, and so gain time
to: look for a stick. In the Queensland cedar
scrub and elsewhere I have many times performed
the “hat trick” effectively. Throw the hat
gently, just in front of your snake’s head, and I
am open to make a sporting wager that it will
stop him. This applies more especially to the
leisured, gliding carpet snake, who, when the
■obstruction faces him, will quietly sway his head
from side cogitating whether the strange
object will interfere with his digestion. In no
case have I known him to eat the hat. Of course
I never tried to. stop a python with a belltopper.
IN TOPHET. AN ADUL
TERATION CASE.
“ Flinderino ” : The Wannon Falls, near
Hamilton (Vic.), are likely to be cut off from the
public. The land adjoining the Falls, instead of
being a Government reserve, as such a beauty-
spot should be, is in the hands of a squatter. In
the past, Jumbuck, J.P., has allowed visitors and
picnickers access, but he now intends to fence in
the magnificent works of God, and prosecute tres-
passers who seek to consider the doings of the
Almighty, it is ever thus. Jehovah does great
wonders, and John Smith has you fined ss. for
looking at them. This place has always been a
favorite picnic spot in the Western District, and
the local Romeo and his girl Juliet are justly in-
dignant at the proposed alteration. The Falls
are half-a-mile from the township of Wannon.
The Wannon Inn, on the river bank, was a
popular stopping-place for the coach before the
railway was built. A substantial bridge now
spans the river, but at one time the stream had
to be forded. This crossing-place once proved
the downfall of a well-known Western District
bullocky. On arrival at the ford with his team,
this bullocky found the river in flood. Several
teamsters were camped waiting for the stream to
subside a bit before crossing. Being anxious to
push on, he reckoned his outfit was equal to the
occasion. But his luck was out. The leading
bullocks had almost reached the opposite bank,
when the waggon was caught in the rushing
stream. The cries of the unfortunate animals
were pitiable as they were carried down the river.
All efforts to rescue them failed, and the bullocks,
together with the waggon, were dashed to pieces
over the Falls. Bill started business afresh with
only an old whip and his language as assets.
* * * *
N.S.W. Land Appeal Court has been
wrestling with the meaning of the word “adjoin-
ing.” Two Moree cockies applied simultaneously
for the same block of land as an additional settle-
ment lease. The law states that in simultaneous
applications the land shall be awarded to the
man whose property adjoins the block applied
for, if there is any such man. In this case
Kelman was right against the desired land, with
nothing but a fence between him and it. The
other man, Blunt, was separated by a road. The
Land Board upheld Blunt’s argument that he was
as much within the meaning of the Act as Kelman,
and gave> him the land. The Appeal Court, how-
ever, held that a man who is separated by a three
chain road isn’t so near as the man who is
only separated by a fence. That knocked Blunt
out, but just as Kelman reckoned he had won the
Appeal Court found one of these beautiful things
called a side issue or a technicality. So it left
Kelman out also, and sent the case back to the
Land Board. Presumably the two applicants
have now hastened home and sold their cows to
cover costs.
* * « *
“G.S.K.” (Broken Hill): Am convinced
that the aborigines of this country are fast dying
out. During a 14 days’ journey from Broken
Hill to the Queensland border by way of Mil-
parinka and Tibooburra I only saw two of them.
One was a tracker stationed at Tibooburra, and
the other a gin. The latter was lying dead drunk
in the dry bed of Cobham Lake, accompanied by
the usual dog and a black bottle. Don’t know
where she got the liquor. The hotel was only
100yds. away, but I somehow fancy she had
brought .the bottle from Adelaide.
“ F.H.R. ” : The smallest residence I
know of was “Rose Villa,” near Lucknow
(N.S. W.). Long Harry had taken up his domi-
cile in a burnt-ont gum log, and some wag
painted “ Rose Villa ” on it during one of
Harry’.s visits to the pub. The opening was
more or less blocked by the remnant of a chaff
bag. Long Harry himself was an educated man,
who sometimes wrote a beautiful hand, was well
read, and well worth conversing with. B’.v;, alas,
he preferred the flow of beer to the flow of soul.
“ Agricola ” : The black dog had put in a
hard six months’ apprenticeship
with the pigs. The red dog was
pressed into service when
the mob was to be driven
away ; he held a sheep
diploma, but his
ignorance of pigs
and the pecu-
Parities thereof
was very large.
He attempt-
ed to work
round them
wide, and
failed to
make the
slightest
impres-
sion. But
he was
willing,
and after
watching
the black
dog for a
while, learn-
ed to grind
his teeth
down on their
hind legs. At
the same time,
by working wide,
he managed to rout
out many a skulking
porker from the ferns. The
black dog spotted the wrinkle,
and at the end of a week we
possessed the finest pair of pig
dogs in the district. Each
had jealously copied the good
points of the other fellow’s play.
Dear Bulletin. — Re the length of time
some bullocks go without water. Three months
and five days ago I boarded-over the mouth of a
long-abandoned shaft near my place, as I con-
sidered it dangerous to my offspring. The other
day, I removed the boards and descended the
shaft. Upon reaching the bottom, I was
astounded to find there a full-grown bullock.
Now, there was not a drop of water in the shaft,
and he must have fallen in before I covered over
the mouth thereof. Consequently, the poor
brute could not have had a drink for three months
and five days, at the very least.—Yours, etc.,
ArjEMO. P.S.—I forgot to mention that he was
dead when I found him.
DRY FARMING.
FARMER : “I don’t like the look of the weather. I wish I had my crops in.”
INTELLIGENT VISITOR: “I sup-suppose you pu-put them out again when it’s fu-Fine? ”
“The Prooshan ” : In olden times one
would meet some queer specimens of humanity
among bush pedagogues. There was once a young
pale dream of 20 summers teaching about 14 bush
kiddies in a bark humpy, that was “ vested in the
Minister,” as a provisional school. He was about
the simplest coon I ever met. One day he was
hauling in a bit of firewood with his thin scrag of
horseflesh. The collar was made for a heavy
drauerht, and finding sufficient daylight between
it and the weed’s neck, I’m hanged if that schoolie
didn’t shove "his mutton head into the collar to
give the moke a pound in scratching up the pinch
near the school. Of course he “choked down”
straight away, but just managed to screech out
“ Woak ! Woak !! Woa !!! ”in time to stop the
animal from dragging his head off entirely. He
revived in a while, and never tried wood-hauling
on co-operative lines again.
* * » *
“Thurla” : It is refreshing, as an Aus-
tralian, to hear an alien who has visited his native
land after years spent in this country, come back
to compare his adopted country in a joyous strain
with the land of his birth. I have met one. He came
from Germany many years ago, a poor man, and
gradually accumulated land,
stock, and wife and family.
But all the time his heart
yearned for Rhineland, and
one day he went off. Several
months later, he was back
again. I saw him jump from
the coach and head for the
nearest bar,' where he warmly
wrung the hands of several
acquaintances. Between drinks
he poured out his story.
“ Beel,” he said to the barman,
“ dere is only von Ostraylah,
und I’ve gome back to it.
Chermany, by yingo, ish nod
in id nohow. I meets my
beople, and dell dem about my
broperty and stock and tings,
and dey vinlc ad demselves
and larf at me. Dey not
believe me. De beer vot I
uster dell you aboud vas rotgot.
I never tasde goot beer from der dime I
sail till I ged back again. And de vine
—Got in himmel —dat I usder dink so goot
vonce—id’s sour winegar. I nefer leaf Ostraylah
no more. Dere is only von Ostraylah, and dere
is no udder place like id, and nefer vill be, so help
me dam.”
-« > * •
A cook at the lazarette at Frick.y Island
(N.Q.) made a remarkable shot with a revolver
the other day. While the colored lepers were
being put on board the steamer Otter to be trans-
ferred to the new lazarette at Peel Island (More-
ton Bay), the superintendent, who had been talk-
ing to a Chow leper, happened to turn his back.
Ah Dirt immediately seized a knife, and rushed
with the intention of stabbing the official. Then
the lazarette cook, who had noticed the Chow’s
action, picked up a revolver, and, though he had
never fired such a weapon before, aimed so well
that he hit the leper in the wrist, and the knife
dropped from the man’s hand.
Our natural history correspondent writes
us that recently, on retiring for the night, he
discovered a cockroach in his pyjamas. The
picture, he assures us, was laughable in the
extreme, the pyjamas being, of course, far too large
for the cockroach.
* * * *
“ Lindy Lou”: lie the battles of the
ants (B. 13/6/’O7). A row between sugar-ants and
meat-ants is about equal to a combat between a
cat and a cockroach. The sugar-ant has no sting,
nor, in fact, any weapon of offence. But for a
real scrap commend me to a disagreement between
two meat-ants’ nests. It usually commences by
one nest trespassing on the hunting-grounds of
the other. The injured nation cuts a track to the
offender’s nest. The fighters hurry along this
track, and hurl themselves ih masses on the
enemy, taking them by surprise if possible. The
fight ceases when the warriors on one side have
all been decapitated. Then, as indemnity, the
immature pupae are carried home, and reared up
to fight and work for their hereditary enemies in
blissful ignorance of their degradation. These
arguments often last as long as five days, and
usually occur in the early autumn.
PRIMEVAL STEVEDORES.
Shipping the Lire stock was a task compared to
which building the Ark was but child’s play.
“Periwinkle”: The Australian wildfowl
is a sociable creature when you overcome his fears.
Several toilers’ camps on the Waranga-Goulburn
channel, now fringing Kyabramapootra (Vic.),
have been pitched on the banks of lagoons, near
Corop. The toilers’ wives can’t do without a few
fowls scratching around, and these domestic pets
find company in the coots, wild ducks, bitterns,
etc., that usually shelter in the reedy recesses of
the swamp. The wildfowl feed with the poultry,
and a male black-duck has been giving the local
Muscovy pasha a bad time for the rights of his
harem. The coots are funny little chaps, and
flip their tails as though they had just seen a
Socialist bogey and hadn’t got over their fright.
They’re as greedy as a Freetrade importer when
Polly scatters the corn.
THE SHEARER’S WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis dark—but drudgin’s never done ;
Now after tea inside the door
I patch an’ darn from set o’ sun,
Till hands git stiff and eyes grow sore,
While Dick’s outback.
And times I lie awake o’ nights
An’ watch the moon throw tricksy lights
An’ shadows skeer with creepy sights
Out in the ranges black.
Before the glare o’ dawn I rise
To milk them sleepy cows an’ feed
The chooky-hens I dearly prize :
I set the bunny traps, then knead
The weekly bread.
There’s hay to stook, an’ spuds to hoe,
An’ ferns to cut in the scrub below ;
An’ I lay out palin’s row on row
To make a new cow-shed.
The poorness of this Savage Bush
Has crushed us since we came from town,
; (To-night I’m dreamin’ through the hush ;
My eyes are bright, my hair’s still brown,
And I’m Young Lil.
“ We’ll have a farm,” Dick used to say,
“ Where we’ll be happy all the day,”
But now I’m wrinkled, worn, an’ grey,
And Dick’s a shearer still.)
Blurred runs the track whereon he comes,
And tired am I with labor sore ;
Tired o’ the bush, an’ cows, an’ gums,
Tired—an’ I want to think no more.
What tales he tells !
The moon is lonesome in the sky,
The bush is lone, and lonesome I
But Stare as the red dust clouds whirl by,
And start at the cattle bells.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


SHEEP BUYERS.
Diamonds are a Good Investment*
They must rise higher and higher.
The world’s supply does not equal the demand.
They have risen gradually during the last 10 years.
Investment apart—they afford immense pleasure to
the recipient.
We are showing Australian Diamonds that are
phenomenal value.
Ma’quise Ring, Dia-
monds and Sapphires,
£l6 16s.
Finest Quality
Diamonds,
£45.
We bought them in the rough and cut them, hence their lowness of price.
SEE OUR LARGE STOCK.
. . '»'/
..■■A
P'ain Fig M-... FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, 11 ”23 Hunter Street.
“ Growler ” : How’s this for perpetual
motion ? I am working (pick-and-shovel work) 30
miles from my home. I work all the week, then
ride a bicycle home on Saturday after knock-off
time. I get up on Sunday morning and cut fire-
wood, and wheel it in a barrow till it is time to do
the 30 miles back on Sunday evening. I can t
afford to buy wood, owing to the largeness of my
family and the smallness of the pay which the
Victorian Railways give to their casual laborers.
They say, “ There’s no rest for the wicked.
Why, I don’t get any myself!
* * * *
“ G.S.K.” : From Packsaddle out-station
to the beginning of the Cobham Lake sandhills
(West o’ Darling, N.S.W.) there is a stretch of
treeless waste extending for about 40 miles.
Teamsters have to carry firewood with them when
crossing this stretch, as the country is void of any
material suitable for fuel. Gates thereabouts are
made of fencing wire, else they would go to boil
the teamster’s billy. At Iduna Park Hotel the
gate across the road was burnt long ago, and a
new one is still wanting. Camel punchers gener-
ally camp near Iduna Hotel, and at night they
steal wire from the fences, and place the proceeds
of the robbery across this gateway to prevent
their camels straying in that direction. Was
staying at Iduna one night, and the Afghans had
blocked the gate as mentioned. The hotel-keeper
got out just in time to save the incoming coach
from turning turtle over the snare laid by the
black and inconsiderate wretches.
* * *
“Roger”: Be snake-killers. My dog
Watch, aged five years and 4J months, was
rounding up 73 sheep last Wednesday fortnight,
when all of a sudden he stopped, bristled up, and
crouched as a judder might do when he saw
people coming out of the. back door of the pub on
Sunday. He remained in this attitude tor oJ
seconds, then leaped 4ft. 2in. and buried his
teeth in the tail of a tiger snake. Promptly he
started whirling the snake round and round with
a circular motion of his head, so that the leptile
flew straight out and couldn’t bite. As he did,
so he edged away towards, a tree 463 yards distant
in a north-easterly direction, Arrived there, he
gave an extra-violent whirl and banged the
snake’s head against the tree-trunk, which was
3ft. in diameter. He commenced whirling the
snake at twenty-five minutes past two, and
whirled it till twenty-seven minutes to three.
The snake, which was sft. Ilf in. in length, died
at a quarter past four.
THE GRAMOPHONE CURSE.
POTTA-BELLA (of the Cannibal Islands, who,
fiddling about the morning after the wreck, has
started “ Barney take me home again”):
“ Gorra! The soul o’ me ole woman come to
life again! An’ I thought it was a new brand
o’ salmon.”
“ Flinderino ” : Referring to Queensland
crocodiles, “Backwash” (B. 27/6/.’07) mentions
that the Johnstone River croc, is a harmless
beggar that never exceeds 12ft. in length. “Back-
wash” is a few inches out. About three years
ago a croc, measuring 18ft. 6in., and weighing
over a ton, was killed on the Johnstone River.
• * * *
Do you easily catch cold ? If so you need
a remedy that will not only soothe and strengthen
the lungs, but will also act as a tonic. Angier’s
Emulsion does both, and is the remedy above all
others for coughs, colds, and all lung affections.
It is wonderfully soothing and a great help to
digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
BOTH WAITING .
OLD BILL: “ Well, if that ain’t meanness, if yer like! I hadn’t seen that cove fer twenty year,
an’ e' never so much as offered ter shout!"
BUNG: “ Well , you didn’t , either.” OLD BILL: “ Why , I was waitin' fer 'IM."
“ K.C.F.” : N.S. Wales owns a township
which is being pulled down house by house, and
soon all that will be left will be the name, which
happens to be Dangar. The extension of the
railway from Narrabri to Walgett and Collaren-
dabri on one side of the Namoi River, and to
Moree on the other, is responsible. In the last
eight years about 40 houses have been taken to
pieces, and, in most cases, re-erected as selectors’
homes. In fact, nearly the whole of one side of
the main street has gone on the land.
* # * *
“ Waif re ” : Be statement of “G.S.K.”
(B. 13/6/’O7) that N.S.W. way-back hotels are
equal in cuisine to second-class
city pubs. My experience of
out-back pubs, is that they are
most decidedly “notin it” with
even fourth-rate city houses. Out
beyond Broken Hill the menu
runs : Boiled - goat - and - water
{alias “Irish stew”), baked goat
(served as “roast beef”), and
very ancient goat frizzled
(“ baked lamb ”). Arrived once
with a friend at a well-known
hotel on the road from Broken
Hill to the border, and asked
the lady in charge if we could
get some dinner. “Oh yes,” she
said, “if you’ll wait half-an-hour
I’ll give you some nice roast
mutton.” My friend had been
there before, so he said he didn’t
like mutton. Could we have a
few eggs? We were promised
fresh eggs in 10 minutes, so we
took a stroll, during which we
passed a shed where we saw
hanging a fine sheep’s (?) carcase.
I felt sorry that we had jibbed
on mutton, but a bit farther on
we discovered the newly-severed
head and hide of the Daddy of
All Goats. The horns were about
15in. long, and massive. Like-
wise, the smell was massive.
And when we tackled the eggs—
again phew ! And we had to
weigh out 2s. each for the feed.
The usual charge at this brand
of pub. is 2s. to 3s. per meal.
Also, there are nearer 24 than
four gates between Broken Hill
and Wompah. Also, camels do
block the road ; in fact, a camel
250 yards off will block the road
for horses.
* # *
“ David H. Richards ” :
Not long since I was camped
for a few days on the Namoi,
near Wee Waa (N.S.W.). There
were several others thereabouts, and many of
them had angled considerably but vainly,
though they had tried every manner of dainty
to tempt the fish. At last one evening
there came an old warrior of the battalion
that never was listed, and beneath the glory of
the everlasting stars that night he heard in words
of inexpressible sorrow the trouble about the
fish. Immediately he bade all parties be of good
cheer, and to-morrow they should have what
their souls yearned after. He was up and out
early, and presently he returned with a gohanna.
Dissecting it, he carved the liver into slices, gave
a piece to each gloomy fisherman, and in half-an-
hour the mirth that reigned in that camp was
greater than the joy of the cherubim when the
Fat Importer turneth away from the faked in-
voice he hath committed.
* • * *
Some poets rhyme for fame alone,
And some for bread and butter ;
Some rhyme because their nature is
Poetic thoughts to utter.
But these poor rhymes have nobler aim,
They’re written to secure
The health of all humanity
By Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ Janor ” : Your correspondents who write
about ant fights don’t know what a real shindy of
that sort means. I saw one once, and it was the
event of my life. It lasted three rounds of one
blow each. The assailant was a large, loony sort
of bullock, and the defenders were some white
ants. The bullock took offence at their residence,
and put his head down and charged. He re-
bounded off the mansion, and sat astonished on
his tail for eight seconds. The domicile was unin-
jured. Then the bullock bellowed furiously, and
put his head down and charged the tenement
harder than before. He again rebounded off the
modest home, and sat amazed on his tail for ten
seconds. The palace wasn’t damaged, and
it made the bullock mad, and he bellowed
as he slid about on his tail. Finally he
gathered himself together, ran his hardest, and
butted the humpy all he knew. This time he
didn’t rebound off the villa. His horns became
entangled in the castle, and his hinder parts flew
up in the air, and he turned a somersault over the
cottage, and came down on the other side of the
premises a wrecked, shocked, discomfited, be-
wildered heap of beef with about half a pound
of ant-barracks sticking to one horn. That ended
the fight. The termites had won in a canter.
Never before did I think that white ants could
throw a bullock sixfeet in the air, but they did it.
* * * *
“ Gundy ” (W. A.) : A neat method of
snaring the elusive free drink obtains in one of
our big towns here. When the evening train
arrives the P.O. clerk sorts out all the letters for
the barmaids of the town, which (i.e., the letters)
would not be delivered otherwise till the follow-
ing morning. After office hours he sallies forth,
accompanied by a bosom pal of the cop persuasion,
to hand the missives to the addressees. Entering
the bar, the sorter remarks, “ A letter for you,
Miss Jug,” hands it over, and makes a false start
for the door. The policeman here intervenes,
asking his companion to have a drink. Thereupon
it is distinctly up to the barmaid who has received
her letter eight hours in advance of schedule time
to say, “Oh, no, have this with me.” On a suc-
cessful night these two ingenious are
enabled to get quite a satisfactory “jag” on
without the disbursement of a red cent.
* * * *
“Rhaupo”: Peter stirred the fire for a
bit and told me this: “I wosdink dem Methodhist
barsons wos a long disdance avay frum der blace
dey gragked oop der be, so der speeg. I wos
drifing one off dem, Misder Tagley, droo der
blains do Gondobolin, wen der buggy sdruck mid
er stumb, and she capset der abble-bie. Der
strabs dat lash dem mid der buggy come unlashed,
an der horses glear like blazes midout us to Gon-
dobolin. When I ged oop from der ground 1 dink
I do der brober ding, an say, out loud, ‘ Tank
God, we not gilled—led us bray ! ’ Der barson
leap up mid a sudden, an slioud oud ad me,
‘ Bray be , yer square head Yerman
sausage ; sdop der horses, or ve haf to walk all der
vay der Gondobolin.”
I DON'T CARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dedicated to “Rita Sunyasee,” who wrote on this
subject in Bulletin (13/6/’O7).
Merry maid, with tangled locks
Of bright hair,
Wearing ventilated socks
Past repair;
You’re the girl I want to see,
Careless, happy, wayward, free,
Saying in your big-eyed stare,
“I don’t care.”
Ah, that I might hope for you —
I don’t dare ;
Yet your story’s scarcely true—
’Tis a snare.
If I had my youth again
I would teach a new refrain ;
But, alas ! my grizzled hair
(I don’t care !).
VIC.
JEACH.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be\ taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post w handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless Stamps (of any State) accompany.
W. Williams : There is a faint footmark left on
English history by an “Empress Maud” (or Matilda),
widow of Henry V. of Germany, who came over with
some foreign troops to shake Stephen off his throne. And
there was a certain Oomte de Perche, who was defeated
and killed at the head of a Franco-Norman army at
Lincoln (20th May, 1217), while his master Louis, son of
Philip Augustus, was a temporary King in London. In
fact, there are about 20 invasions of England recorded since
the Conquest, of which six were successful. Try Haydn’s
“Dictionary of Dates.”.. ..W.T.F. (Vic.): Re singing
sands. Along the eastern coast of Maoriland there are
patches of sand of which the particles are very hard and
resonant. When disturbed by wind, or other causes, the
concussion produces a tinkling sound similar to that of
musical glasses. The effect is as weird as the sound
is melodious H.H.S. : Unamusing doggerel
Kowree : There’s imagination in it, but little else
Annie L. : It isn’t up to the mark, but it promises better
work in the future... Blinker : How in creation can we tell
until we see it?... .S.T.A. : That story is older than the
pyramids....B. M‘C. : It is skilfully done, but it wasnt
worth the trouble Chummy :He was right in the
sense that the English army only “ stands ” for one year.
Failure to pass the annual Army Act would disband tne
troops automatically... .Subscriber: Impossible tp answei
your question re greatest number of sheep shorn in a day.
The question is obscured by a wilderness of untruths ; even
more lies have been told on this point than on Federa-
tion and the infamies of Labor Fred D.: We did not
regard your comment as a yelp ; sorry if we seemed to
misunderstand you G.B. : Your “ Hell ” was Hell.. ..
Teddy Edwards : Will be read, though the Is. Bd. postal
line rather damped our enthusiasm. Don’t enclose lettei s
in newspapers or packets. When the blessed thing
is discovered the whole concern is charged letter late....
E.H.S. : The “ good tucker ” story has been going round
tlie papers for years. Nothing in the other, and draw-
inn's are of the humblest order . .Naso: Doesn’t amount
to much 0.8. : Yes, and see the crowd the mass vote
returns to the Senate in N.S. W.-almost the six
woodenest, stupidest men in Parliament H.S.R.. mat
Bega “ Anti-Socialist” is evidently a strong Democrat,
who is pulling the paper’s leg, or the paper is a strong
Democratic paper, which is pulling the Tory party s leg.
W.H.C. : Give up poetry. George Reid, Jawbone
Nei’ld, and one or two others have written worse verse
than you have —but give it up all the same.... Rory
O’Daisy: Like your views, but not your verse.....
Currawanna: The “fireball,” which used to be considered
a globular form of lightning, is now believed to consist ot
incandescent, highly-rarefied air. It does not move very
fast, and has never been known to cause death i.R. .
True, but scarcely printable H.A.M. : You are ill
qualified to deal with the subject. No ; don t send us
“some more.” Corinna: Realistic, but lacking in
literary quality....F.P.: Sound advice, but poor verse.
..Fredß.: Humorous in places; dull in other place...
A.U.P. : May please “ a plain girl,” but we aren’t a plain
girl Nick: Several hover on acceptance-line. All is
interesting work ; but you should know better than to
roll your copy. Also a Victorian stamp fixed hard on to
an envelope is of no earthly use for return ..J.J.: Its
fate was “ otherwise.” Dandy : They both missed ftre. f
. ..Lazy-Bird :No use to us Sianora : ‘ Rousie
didn’t rouse us Gwyn : Please note that that yarn of
the soul to whom Peter gave back his fourpence with the
remark that he should go to Hell is very, very old. Peter
must have long ago got tired of handing back souls then
fourpences Crow-quill: You remark “red in tooth
and claw,” and “the fitful fever,” and “from dust to
dust,” and “ the longer hope,” and behind the veil.
Some of these we have heard before Brian Davis :
The weather was bad enough without your verses....
Koala: Pars, not of sufficient interest J.G. : Your
friend fell into a dam trying to catch a bear.....
Bushie : “ Mouse’s” bush dance par. was intended to be
humorous, and the humorist is allowed a certain license,
even as is the poet and the publican.... Tom Peters .It
may have been a joke, but it doesn’t read like 0ne....
Maulring : The Bullelin does not object to the Low. On
the contrary, it agrees with your .view that modern cow-
slavery is probably less objectionable than the old time
spud-slavery. But why have any slavery at alii....
A. J. (Auckland): Your friend , R. O. Harding, is hardly
worth more than the contempt of any decent citizen.
Tory dailies he mentions may have been responsible for
the “ fame ” and “ poetical existence ’’ of Adam Lindsay
Gordon and Henry Kendall, but if so they kept Kendall
very poor, and Gordon committed suicide to get away
from the blankness of his outlook. And Mr. Harding s
horror at the idea that poets may form a trades-union
“ for the protection of their wares ” (against the people
who never pay for verse, but steal it from papers which
do pay, and use it without offering any remuneration to
the writer) is apparently based on the villainous idea that
anybody may rob a poet but nobody must plunder a
landlord.... Mouse W. : Your “darnce” reminiscences
o-row too Zolaesque. Also, one of the last lot is a glaring,
foolish, dirty and aged steal Emile : You are a
most illegible cuss. Didn’t attempt to read your stuff....
F.A.G.: Your joke was done in verse by Mr, W. T. Goodge
many years ago B.: Well enough in its way, but quite
out of our line Berkeley: “Chinatown” isn t well
enough done... Derwent: That point has been too often
made before Islwyn : “Phantasy” falls rather flat,
and “ Appreciation ” doesn’t meet with ours. .... W.H.L>..
You have no verse faculty Bimi : Blankly uninterest-
ing CH T • Energetic, but reckless of statement and
faulty of’grammar... .Max W. : The verse form is good,
but the sentiment is watery J.C. (Vie.): Required a
lighter touch and a livelier metre... T.N.S.E. : Too obvi-
ously a dream yarn from the start.... Salad : Too trifling
for print C. Aswed: Not much of an improvement.
You lack lyrical facility Charles E. q W t !
well enough done .. G.W. : Both feeble.. : Cut
them down to paragraph size in future Ruby L.: 100
i uvenile. Your time has not yet come... Alan L.: Good
advice, but very tamely presented Austral: There
were possibilities about the idea, but your hand is not
strong enough Jumper : Had no chance.... .JoeD. :
Funny, but fearfully ungrammatical.. ..Darby : iudicu-
lously grandiloquent. A strong style is always simple..
BAP' True to life, doubtless ; but not well enough
written for us.... Dot W. : Capitally versified, but em-
bodies no discoverable idea .. .Hova: Yes, you are im-
proving, but you have still a good way to travel....
J.H.C. : Cultivate short sentences. The long and
pretentious periods you affect could be well handled only
by a literary artist.... .Seth B. :B. 23/5/’O7 p. 9.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
j N.W. : The drawing is bad ; the faint pencil marks
are worse ; the ideas are not up to very much ; and the
tightly-rolled picture is always objectionable..... Neil
EG. - None of them up to much. Both the drunk joke
and the black-eye joke are past their prime.. , .P,J.M. :
Very poor sketch of very ordinary men . coming off ordi-
nary ship under ordinary conditions.


“THE THIN BLACK LINE,” OR OUR NORTHERN COAST DEFENCE.
Mr. Strotton (sub-collector of Customs up North): “Ridiculous, the idea of Chinese gaining admission by landing in unpeopled parts of the coast because they
would be unable to pass the aborigines, who harbor such a ferocions antipathy to them that the life of a Chinese landing in the Territory would not be worth a
MR. PIEBALD: “DON’T BE FRIGHTENED, LITTLE BOY. IT’S ORL RIGHT. THESE NATIVE GENTLEMEN
HERE WON’T LET 'EM HURT YOU!”


''ijpw CV» Auslrajivis 'tolerjfe.
£. impMv'i'ly wf]6h if/ey
fife beautiful
G"°ii!
(D^Wilbwr
Joe '• * Cv» you JnnK Bill ?
Witff Hw»»rgs glitterin'
(onstc lUtion A 'S+auW
you in ttye f*ce liKe ? <
A+'tfje opening
Mfclb-& Sydney
" ti r Cdf r 'uß)€r< i Y&poXK
up K-Pc^Xitt"
\vyy\N
Mis
j)e*l(iti .-"Hullo : W lfo\ if/ere?
voice —" !.
h r ße.a ,
" J-le would 2vT7oUsa,nd
Y*Fier fa.ce
ttje wtworfty
of
+b
<f<s ! "
— AtfA your .
Qtory«\ " If- you Sir ) +o «fJ-3v«« hnpcJtL
tyje Boy-.
o^,v^l/ere v^s
W!'
"If Vabflre occat^,, A'/s+ra v rS^»*7«S r s “t'f' eK ’ for wn ~l jP " , \
lye. viot only c|os«. to -rfji. ye«e «j- Wfe afe drlm°*j> I fc «it'eeg mJZS v**f ■ (A^«.J
Reiter 6 Oo ■ k /‘-K
" /A, dj- s£'/e*) lb
"tftoKrtj^Ke wev£ -floG&zTj
o\f be.'Hl ’
x^VKwW-(? r^
-Ce
p^fr-v.,
> loc*l *
St ore<et\>\n<? Po X« $} r < W .^
a i «■#*'*' fo y yoi* B^^cben a< '*> ,r > 5 °
Jo« r *^ e B'll.— Kercs 3 d
eh'/'clojjc - %ooA day \'' nxs\\s
Ml
Wwz 4£ 2
/ //V "
‘jm JM A( .
fclllHllS'tflljiM^
in 4
j f«4 not y e^~
inite sf)2*bt WittJ -
VISIONS FROM VICTORIA.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY*
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
OOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSg & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
After the lapse of a century, the portrait
of Captain Bligh, fourth Governor of N.S. W., has
been added to the collection at Government
House. The portrait is by Norman Carter, and
is the gift of Mr. W. R. Bligh, of “ Longford,”
Parramatta, grandson of the old-time potentate.
Justice has not yet been done to Bligh’s memory.
He was selected by Cook to accompany him on
his last two voyages; he won distinction under
Howe at Gibraltar, under Duncan at Camper-
down, and under Nelson at Copenhagen. Nelson
called him to the quarter-deck and publicly
thanked him after the Copenhagen trouble. And
Bligh’s disasters in N.S. W. largely arose through
his opposition to a crowd of enthusiastic floggers
and land-grabbers who deserved all the incivility
that the old Governor showed them. It must be
admitted all the same that Bligh had considerable
incivility concealed about him at times.
The late John Hall, one time Premier of
Maoriland, bore no malice to that country for
having piled a heap of work on his willing
back when he was wrestling with his eighty-third
winter. During the M.L. Exhibition, Christ-
church wanted a person of position and polish as
mayor, and conse-
quently it dragged the
ancient politician from
his comfortable sheep-
stead, and pushed him
intothe arena to figure-
head the city. The city
begged that he would
only pose and do no
work. But John Hall
had never learned the
graceful art of loafing,
and after the show he
retired played out. His
will, however, is not
an angry document.
The dead knight for-
got to be spiteful to
anybody, and left
£30,000 “for chari-
table purposes ” in
Canterbury. He also
left £lO,OOO to estab-
lish a “Workingßoys’
Home” in the same
province, and another
£lO,OOO to build and
maintain an Anglican
church at Hororata,
the village that grew
up around his sheep
run. The will remem-
bered every benevolent
institution in the pro-
vince where he had
lived most of his life.
Maoriland will pro-
bably do something
severe to the tinned-
death merchant if
many more of its pro-
minent people are
bowled over with
ptomaine poisoning.
Chief Justice Stout tot-
HIS TROUBLES.
Within a few weeks one citizen has been robbed and
murdered, and three have been assaulted and robbed, all
for diamonds. It is a grave reflection upon our police
force that at the [?]resent time to wear one s diamond
rings is to court death or disaster. — Melb. daily .
HOGGENHEIMER (to mendicant): “I can't spare a
thickpence, s'clp me, mein friend, but hereth
a few diamonts, if you don'd mind .”
MENDICANT: “No, no, no, thanks. I have
troubles enough of my own! ”
tered on the brink for many weeks fighting
ptomaines, and Tom Wilford, a vivid soul, some-
what sought after as a pleader, has been more
silent than ever before, from the same cause.
Wilford, who has been in the M.L. House of
Reps, since he was twenty-one, picked up his
ptomaine while on a motor-car jaunt into the
stomach of the island.
Edmund Barton and John Downer meet
again under curious circumstances. Just 10 years
ago they two, with R. E. O’Connor, were turned
off by the Federal Convention to draft the Con-
stitution. Now, Justice Barton sits in the High
Court, in Sydney, to decide what the draughts-
men meant by the provision relating to the
election of Senators to fill extraordinary vacancies,
and John Downer hurries across from Adelaide
to argue the matter with him on behalf of his
Tory client Yardon.
It was J. Y. O’Loghlin, just elected by
the S. Aus. Parliament to the Senate, who made
the arrangements for the accommodation, etc., of
the Federal Convention when it met at Adelaide to
frame a Constitution. He was Chief Secretary in
Kingston’s S. Australian Ministry at the time.
Both Vardon and O’Loghlin are something in the
printing line. Yardon, who runs a general prin-
tery, is understood to be top dog now in the
Adelaide Critic office. O’Loghlin bosses the local
R.C. organ, and, along with Editor Korner, keeps
it clean, and free of rabid insectarianism.
RINGING UR MELBOURNE.
A number of conversations over the line have been
arranged as follows Prime Minister with the Premier
of New South Wales, 12 o’clock, &c.
A.D. : “ What was that? I didn't quite catch
what you said."
J.C.: “O nothing.... Only damn Victoria."
Some people almost overdo the strenuous
life. Arthur Alfred Lynch left the Boer battlefield
for the House of Commons; was fired out of the
Commons; tried for high treason (January, 1903);
convicted ; sentenced to death ; had his sentence
commuted to imprisonment for life ; was released
in 12 months on ticket-of-leave; was pardoned
last week, and is again, if he likes, available for
law-making in the British Parliament. It’s a
good deal of a rush to crowd all that into 4| years.
Australia gave Dowie to America ; in re-
taliation, the land of the smoked nigger has
now given us Wilbur Fisk Crofts. Wil-
bur’s special mission is to raise support, moral
and otherwise—principally otherwise—in order
that he may drive the evil spirit out of the
yellow heathens of China and Japan. While
awaiting the arrival in large masses of the elusive
local “thrum” —without which his gorgeous scheme
must fail —our visitor intends fighting to the
death what he describes as Australia’s four great
evils, viz., intemperance, gambling, impurity,
and desecration of the Sabbath. It is hard to get
angry with people like Crofts, or Judkins, or G.
Reid who tight things to the death for a living, as
it were, and are abusive as a matter of business.
But they all lack a sense of proportion. Why
does Wilbur F. neglect Pittsburg (U.S.A.), for
example? He could get.constant employment in
the rescue-work line amongst the millionaires
there, and not need to waste so much as a trousers
button from the collection-plate on steamer fares.
“Suffering Jehosophat ” is the common
expression when someone has stepped on your pet
corn. Why have corns when they can be speedily
remove 1 with Handy Corn Cure —sold every-
where, 9d. per box, or send direct to Sunset
Drug i j., (ii 2 Harris Street, Sydney.*
His visit to England seems to have done
Oom Bill Lyne a lot of good politically. He speaks
with more conciseness and firmness; his “ man-,
ner” has gained in dignity without losing in
kindness; and he is altogether a more polished
elephant.
A pioneer Australian passed out at Warr-
nam bool (Vic.), recently. William Harvey came
from Scotland in 1855, and joined the S. A. Survey
Department in 18(15. He was one of the party,
under G. W. Goyder, who surveyed Port Darwin
in 1868, and later on had charge of a sectior of the
overland telegraph-line construction.
Iceberg Irvine broke off one aurora borealis
joke, and sprinkled the dewy drops on a startled
House. Was it all a lobster fantasy? Wilks
stroked the cold, shiny back of the grinning
Icefloe, and said he was astonished and delighted.
Johnson hung a thermometer round the pers-
piring Iceberg, and shook his head sadly. Word
was sent to G. H. Reid that his worst suspicions
had. been verified. It wasn’t a giant joke, but it
wtis one consecutive, sustained, humorous effort,
and the Argus put “laughter” after it—in
brackets. If? Iceberg persists in such frivolity,
he’ll thaw some day, and members will wade into
the talk arena with sea-boots.
The Methodist parson who went to Wes-
tralia to save souls, but was himself converted
into a publican and sinner, had to appear at the
Perth court last week on a charge of adulterating
his whisky. His defence was sweetly methodisti-
cal. Customers, he said, had complained that
the spirit in the first instance was too strong. So
he called unto him the cellarman, and said:
“ This whisky is a spirit of evil. It raaketh the
consumers too uproarious. Let us then soften its
influence, that it may be good for the body.”
And the cellarman added water in abundance.
On being fined £5 and costs, the converted
preacher stated that the idea of increasing his
stock of nominal whisky by watering it had not
occurred to him. He was merely concerned for
the public health.
Labor-member Blundell, of S. A. Assembly,
has given notice of a painfully frank series of
questions as to the amount of Court work Chief
Justice Way does, as compared with his two col-
leagues; also as to the number of non-legal
societies and other bodies in which he holds
office; also as to the time taken by him to con-
sider his opinion in various cases where judgment
has been reserved. Adelaide has been gossiping
hard about all these things for years past, but to
have them dragged out into Parliamentary day-
light is considered shocking. As a matter of fact
the S.A. Chief Justice Pooh Bahs so enormously
that he has hardly time for judicial work. He is
so much accustomed to be president, vice-
president, chairman, patron or chief prop of any
societv that comes along that if he were asked to
be an honorary anarchist he would be liable to
accept quite mechanically. The habit of being
everything has grown on Samuel Way.
Eureka Stockade men seem as numerous
as Balaclava heroes. One died recently in the
person of James Torpy, a pioneer farmer of Bun-
garee (Vic.). He came from Clare, Ireland, in
1853. At one stage of his pilgrimage he was a
prominent figure on the turf and owned race-
horses. His years numbered 80 before he let go
his hold. Bungaree was first brought into notice
by “Mint-sauce” Jones, who, as a Parliamentary
candidate, addressed a crowd in these felicitous
terms: “Gentlemen of Ballarat and savages of
Bungaree ! ” Then the fight commenced.
H. E. Barff, Registrar of Sydney Univer-
sity, who has just completed his 25th year of ser-
vice, and the 50th year of his existence, is one of
the institutions of the place. He shares with a
glorified sort of messenger named Craddock the
distinction of being the best-known person there.
“Barffus,” as the irreverent undergrad, dubs
him, was married only a few years ago to the
daughter of the late astronomer Russell. Miss
Russell was at that time the “dragon ” in charge
of the women undergrads., and the union of
the pair, which successive “yeirs” of students
confidently foretold as bound to happen, was a
great event in the history of the ’Varsity.
A flight of colds set out one day,
Great ugly things, and flew away,
Across the hills and o’er the sea,
Determined vengeful thus to he.
But all at once these colds grew fewer,
Vanquished by Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ;
And so they died, all one by one,
Their deadly work left all undone.*
Died in Melbourne, on July 10, Andrew
Sexton Gray, whose diploma was dated 1854. He
was an eye and ear specialist; also, he was a
pupil of the great Irish oculist, Sir William Wylde,
father of Oscar, and husband of “ Stella,” of The
Nation. Dr. Gray was the founder of the Mel-
bourne Eye and Ear Hospital. He was 81 years
of age at his death.
The trials, hardships, and worries of the
Northern Territory trip were such that Mauger,
the Minister who accompanied the Governor-
General, lost 281 b. in weight, and came back with
all his clothes yawning reproachfully. Mr.
Mauger is the best of good sorts, but of the
“ worrying ” kind, and there was much to worry
about—the loss for some days of a naval officer,
the crocodile which wouldn’t eat Johnson, the
fish which jumped out of the water and attacked
the party, the grounding of the Pyramus, and
other deplorable happenings.
TheS. Australian Public Service has just
had its annual cleaning-out. “The province”
has made such poor progress in the way of popu-
lation that practically the only chance the
youngsters of the service have of promotion and
more pay is for the oldsters to drop out; so the
annual drop-out of septuagenarians is a day of
consequence. This year there weren’t many plums
to share around ; the best were those of Protector
of Aborigines (E. L. Hamilton went out after
being the staff and shield of Cumbo for 35 years),
and Statistical Clerk (Josiah Boothby, C.M.G.,
was officially extirpated); and one of those jobs
is worth only £2lO a year, and the other only
£250. It’s a service of appallingly poor pay, this
of S. Australia. When a man has climbed up to
the dizzy pinnacle of £250 a year, they reckon he
ought to be made a C.M.G.; poor Boothby,
groping up wool and wheat figures in the Chief
Secretary’s office, had maintained the “dignity”
on that screw, or less, for nearly 30 years.
William Pearce, of Newcastle, theN.S.W.
railway hero, has just received the Albert medal,
a distinction in the hands of the British Humane
Society, rarely awarded, and never before in Aus-
tralia. Pearce was a fireman on a passenger train
going at 40 miles an hour, when the boiler burst.
He clambered the whole length of the engine
through scalding steam, dangled over in front of
the locomotive, and turned a tap which emptied
the boiler and stopped the train, thereby saving
50 persons from almost certain death. The driver
was killed, and Pearce is practically a sick man for
life. Though he got the highest medals from all his
country’s Humane Societies, Pearce received no
fair recognition from the Railway Department,
which now wants to superannuate him. Of
course, he cannot work again at his calling—the
flesh was boiled off his legs while he was saving
the train—and he should be on the pension list for
life.
Sydney Maxted, who died the other day
in Sydney, though only 63 years of age when he
went to see St. Peter on urgent business, ranks
with the pioneers of Australian journalism. He
was a Maitland man, and began early to tread
the Blotted Way. He and Garnet Walch claimed
at one time to speak for the literature of the bush.
But they were bushies of a gentle type. Of the
literature of the fightable bush drunk, of the
drought, the crow with a traveller’s eye in his
mouth, the shearing-shed, the bullock-driver and
his language, the bush-fire, the wanderer on whom
a tree has fallen, and the boundary-rider with a
broken leg who is attacked by ants, the late Syd-
ney Maxted knew little or nothing. He hated
tragedy. He represented the mild gum-tree, and
the tame sunset that would feed out of the hand.
In his later years he dropped out of the urfholy
Bohemian company for which he was quite un-
fitted, and got a quiet Government billet (looking
after widows and orphans, and such-like benevo-
lence), and read Keats and Kirk White and Felicia
Hemans in between times.
BURNS TO SQUIRES.
WEE, S[?] pUGILISTH BEASTE
O, WHAT A PA[?]'S IN [?] [?]
WAY [?] T[?] S[?] AT ME
SAE HASTY
W[?] [?] BRATTLE?
WAB BE LAITH TO RIN AN
CUASE THEE
W[?] MUR[?]SRING PA[?]E
“ Wully ” Affleck, the careful Scot who
was crowded out of N.S.W. Assembly by reduc-
tion of members, is not mentioned this year as a
candidate for re-election. “ Wully’s ” horror was
any proposal for increasing the salary of a public
servant. Many a time did he divide the House
when the Estimates were on, and find that his
party numbered two, the other being “Monaro”
Miller, who also had economy in an aggravated
form, and to whom “Wully ” was a small wooden
god. Mr. Affleck now fills in his time waiting
anguished letters about the increase in the salary
sheet of the A.M.P. Society, in which his life is
insured.
Sugar-farmer R. M. Shannon, who re-
cently offered enlightenment to a number of
spectacled dames at a Sydney meeting concerning
the sugar industry, is a living scoff at the yarn
that the white man can’t thrive in North Queens-
land. He studied law in Sydney, but finding his
health giving way he went on the land in the much-
abused Mackay delta, and grew into a robust
Australian. For years Shannon has vigorously
advocated a White Australia, because he is pa-
triotic, and knows from experience the qualities
of the two classes of employee. Instead of ruin
facing the industry in his district, he says it was
never more prosperous, and the same flourishing
condition applies to the rest of the sugar-growing
centres.
AN EXHORTATION TO OWE’SULLIVAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The straight-out declaration of E. W. Owe’Sullivan that
he is for the Commonwealth, and against the disgruntled
Jefferson Davis party, covers a multitude of the garish
Owe’ person’s sins of extravagance... . Owe’Sullivan is the
one N.S.W. politician of any prominence who has the
courage to say that he is Federal to the backbone.
Bulletin 30/5/W .
Arise, E. Double-U 0.,
And say if thou art he
Australia once did know—
Its dim O. Double-U E. ?
Inform us, can it be
That thou alone, ’mid all
The State Frights mob a-squall,
Kemainest Federal,
In peerless constancy ?
Art thou, in New South Wales,
The only fix6d star
Whose beams amid the gales
For ever steadfast are ?
Thy sins do fade afar
They vanish, and instead
Upon thy faithful head
A halo’s light is shed.
As to a floating spar
Some drowning mariner
In his death-terror clings,
So we, nern. con., concur,
Amid the wreck of things,
And clutch thy hand. Loud rings
A question fraught with great
And awful port. Please state
Your answer while we wait—
Where-are your blessed wings ?
Transmogrified—like some
Celestial party new,
Unto us thou dost come ;
(And Cohen staggers too !
Thou wottestof the Jew ?)
Thou art a Circumstance
To make men cheer and dance,
Likewise to howl and prance.
For miracles are few !
Yea, through a mist of tears
We gaze in awe on thee,
As one who reappears,
Though buried long B.C.
For .J. Carruthers —he
Howls loud in bogus woe
And bleateth muchly—so
We hail E. Double-U O
Our own 0. Double-U.E. !
See how, O. Double-U.E.,
By yonder picket fence
McGowen sleeps—’tis he !
In sceptred impotence.
A man of sleep immense !
He banks—his party too—
Where many an 1.0. U.
Waits payment to the Jew—
The Bank of Indolence !
With Joseph in the mire,
And James immersed in sleep
We beg, Sir, to inquire
If you will take the leap ?
o.’Sullivan, we weep—
For chances like to this
Are few and far, we wis ;
E. W., will you miss
This chance to pile a heap
Of slaughtered Ms.L.A. j
Along your fighting track— \
A peerless chance, which may
No more to You come back ?
Wilt thou the Stink attack?—
For lo ! the Public Nose
Abhors Australia’s foes ;
Wilt thou with earnest blows
Beat Joseph blue and black ?
Arise, E. Double-U O.—
Art thou the Blessed Man
To lay Secession low,
And smite Carruthers’ clan
From Jabesh unto Dan ?
Art thou prepared to call
A party Federal
To squash these Insects small—
Art an Austral-i-an ?
VIC.
GRAKT HEBVET.


12?
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
w
*
m
1
*»
i
4428
4383 W
SS
4454
No. 4460 — Colored Molleton
Flannelette Gowns, light
and dark colors, newest
patterns, 8/9.
No. 4428 —Fancy Molleton Gowns, No.
newest light and dark fancy
patterns, 10/6.
4454—Fancy Pyrenees-wool Gowns,
frilled and trimmed fancy trimming,
assorted fancy colors, 35/6.
No. 4383 —Lambswool Gown, trimmed
iriilk Embroidery, plain, Red and
Navy only, 24/6, 32/6.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
1101.
No. 1101—-Winter Tweed Walking Skirt,
Dark Grey and Navy, all sizes;
length 38 to 41in.; waist 23 to 32in.,
10/6.
Terms
SPOT
CASH.
. « w
mm.
6099
No. 6099 —Walking Skirt, strapped Self
length, 38 to 45in.; waist, 23 to 27in.
Navy fine Serge, 23/6 ; Black or Na\
21/-. Special sizes made to order, 2/C
Material;
; Black or
'y Hopsac,
» extra.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES
Post Free
on Application
ryfhgjghjhjhj
2085 .
No. 2085 —Black or Navy Cloth
Skirt, trimmed Black Braid ;
length, 38 to 44in.; waist,
23 to 28in., 8/9.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ASK
BE
S(J
&
Cv
c#
A Rett Nose is the bane of many a woman’s exist-
ence. It detracts so greatly from her appearance that all
sorts of subterfuges are resorted to to hide the defect. But
ladies should know that an absolutely certain and pain-
less cure can be had at the Valaze Institute. Here Dr.
Lassar’s Electric Device, operating a process of Nasal
Massage, restores a Red Nose to its normal color in from
six to eight sittings. Mile. Helena Rubinstein secured
this treatment from Vienna, where it is used in the
Beauty Salons for which that city is famed. Of course,
one must personally attend the Institute to be treated,
but those who have to deiay their visit may secure a
Cream and Powder from 8/- that hides the defect.
Then, when opportunity offers, they can call and need
have no further trouble with the disfigurement. Call
or write either to the Valaze Institute, 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 158 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
The secret of success in modern life is to live
amidst stimulating surroundings. This does not mean
that one should live in a wine cellar, but in a well-
appointed home, where the cooking will be of the best,
and the appointments restful to the eyes and soothing to
the limbs. These conditions are fulfilled at the Hotel
Wentworth, Church Hill, Sydney. There the lounge,
with its green walls, its elegant frieze, its three cheerful
fires, its furnishings of subdued grandeur that bespeak
excellent taste and huge cost, is an ideal place in which
to read, write, or chatter. Then when the bell rings, the
dweller takes himself into a dining-room of white and
gold, where absolutely the best cooking in Australia will
flog the most jaded appetite into energetic action. For be
it known to all whom it may concern that the cuisine
is under the personal control of Mrs. Maclurcan, the lady
whose Australian cookery book has run through numerous
editions, and is now going stronger than ever. The bed-
■ rooms are large—absolutely vast in some cases—and when
this writer took a tour of inspection through the building
he went to sleep five times in eight minutes, so soporific
was the influence of those dainty, deep, luxurious beds
with their charming curtains, and the walls of delicate
half-tones that resembled the tints one sees in his best
girl’s hair—in dreams. Altogether it is a quiet and ideal
home, within a stone’s throw of the heart of the city, and
just far enough away to be out of the hurly-burly, and
the noise and dust of the trams. And the prices are
exceedingly moderate.*
FACILE PRINCE PS
Buchanan’s
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King,
andH.R.H. The Prinoe of Wales.
“Black & White” Whisky
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 16, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
“The little Esquimoses are fairer far than
roses. It makes me glad to see ’em clad up to
their very noses.” I’ve been saying that for a
week. It’s got on my nerves, which are demora-
lised by a cold in the head. All Sydney has a
cold in its fashionable head, and the blue-blooded
sneeze resounds through various imitation marble
halls. Governor Rawson and Miss Rawson lead
the fashion. Theyhaveeolds in their august heads,
and have had to cancel many engagements. You
can’t open anything with distinction with a bad
sneeze. Several of the visiting Maorilander foot-
ballers have colds in their heads. They didn’t
bring them with them. They are our property,
and the visitors didn’t want them. They had
coldness thrust upon them. If our colds could be
put into refrigerating units, we could freeze all
the sheep of the State and export them in one
congealed snuffle. Yet neither the Bible, nor the
Book of Common Prayer, nor the “ Path to Heaven ”
give a hint of divine consolation for those afflicted
with a cold in the head. Nary a mention of the
subject in any of them. Well, thank Heaven,
there’ll be no colds in the head in either of the
next worlds ! The sunshine in the one case and the
stove in the other will furnish a reliable pro-
tection.
And yet the weather is (apparently) the most
perfect that was ever spilled out from a celestial
wine press. It is like what a poet has called
“ the smile of God.” If a god smiles in primrose
and turquoise, blowing the while a gentle icy
breath, then it is a prolonged godlike smile. I
am aware that in the foregoing is a confusion of
metaphors, and smiles, and colors, and things,
but when one has taken 18 friends’ advice and 18
different remedies for cold in the dome of thought,
one’s,ideas get as mixed as one’s cures. I think it
is well to be born a sea-gull. That bird doesn’t
get colds in the head, though I believe it suffers
from wet feet.
Federal Excellency Northcote, with P.S. Share,
Captain Stephens, and two or three other men
got out to the great football match soon after play
had commenced. The Light Blues and the All-
Blacks made a pause in their hard labor while the
A.B.’s howled their uncouth war-cry and made
their primitive-man antics before the vice regal
box, waving iheir arms as the apes waved their
long fore-limbs in the long ago, and striking the
turf with their right heels even as their ancestors
flogged the clods with their tails. The first foot-
ball match, a million years 8.C., must have been
a fearsome battle. It was played between the
cave-apes and the tree-gorillas. The ball was a
cocoa-nut, and after every scrum there was an
interval for embalming the dead. Lady gorillas
ogled the umpire something shameful!
But about that All-Black and Blue Thing, out at
Sydney Cricket Ground, last Saturday, Anno
Dom. 1907. If I didn’t know, on the authority of
Dr. Arthur, that there are only four millions of
humans in Australia, I’d write you that there
were fully six millions of spectators at the foolish
combat. Papers say the number was 50,000.
And the noise of their roaring was as the noise of
Xerxes’ army dropping its gun on the pavement.
The southern crescent of the ring of humanity was
a bank of men. Stands and grandstands (there’s a
difference) werematted—that’s theword todescribe
the press—with mere men, or merely women. Thou-
sands of women punctuated with men. The winter
hat blossomed in splendor wild. Flowers, ribbons,
feathers—a tangled garden, showing every color
and semi-tone of color known to the dyer and
milliner. Looked at from above, one wondered
how, in so many thousands of hats, there were no
two alike. True, women has sought after “ many
inventions,” though God made her moderately
upright.
, A friend of mine sat just in front of me. She
wore the sweetest hat. It was a checked pink and
green straw—a faint, flesh-like pink, and trimmed
with a couple of pink wings and a bunch of
pink velvet poppies. By her sat the man to whom
she’s engaged. Several times she spoke to him,
but he didn’t hear or heed her. His strained
eyes were focussed upon the silly combat, like
Columbus looking for America, and his ears were
strained, as Wellington’s were when he listened
for the footprint of Blucher. Every now and
then his face worked as if he had colic, and at
intervals, when the Blues got into gaol (I
think that’s right—or ought to be), or kicked
the penitentiary or something, he arose yelling,
and waving his hat, showing much the same
excitability as his disreputable long-armed
ancestry did in the depths of the jungle at that
football match a million years B.C.
Evidently a football can make a man forget
the existence of the girl of his heart. I hope she
had sufficient self-respect to “ break it off.”
To return to the vice-regal box. There was no
lady in it, and the five men, muffled in dark over-
coats and wearing black silk hats, made it a sad,
funereal All-Black box. Every now and then
Captain Share smiled, and one felt that the order
for the hearse could be countermanded. Federal
and State Government Houses have each got a
superbly-toothed private sec. And, like all for-
tunately-toothed persons, these gentlemen smile
readily.
A little side-show at the football was the lining-
up of coachmen, footmen and chauffeurs to
examine the Wilders’ motor-car. It is a huge
closed carriage of (mostly) plate glass, with arm-
chairs and a card table and footstools and fawn
silk curtains to its doors and windows. The
Wilder lady’s sables, ermines and chinchillas, her
Irish point frocks and Brussels point and Irish
crochet gowns and chiffon velvets and jewels have
been paralysing the Australia for the last fort-
night. Wilder is the master of Stanstead Park,
a noted English country home, and contrives to
exist on of some £BO,OOO a year. He is
a famous sportsman and shot, despite his shirt-
pearl as big as a walnut and the thick cable bangle
that drops over his hand into his soup. The
Wilders leave this week for India, accompanied
by the pearl and the bangle.
Just as the German opera folk are leaving us
they are doing splendid business. Saturday night
we had “Hansel and Gretel” and “The Flying
Dutchman.” Started at seven and finished be-
fore Sunday. Mary Stoller, the German, was
programmed as Giretel, but the resourceful chorus
girl, Miss Ormond, appeared instead. In the
second act she was discovered clutching the score
of the opera. Probably little Stoller will be out
of the company now. She has been persistently
ill since her arrival, and a few days ago she
married the young German doctor who has been
attending her.
Mr. Harcourt Beatty was in the circle on
Saturday night looking meditatively at the
stage on which he’ll strut by-and-bye.
Miss Hildyard (the Beautiful Fiend) was in
a box with two cavaliers. She wore a
sable cape and her hair Madonna-wise.
A fiend is well advised to Madonna-ise her
hair. But it takes beauty to stand the style. Miss
H. bears some likeness to our late visitor,
Miss Hamer, and to Miss Dina Cooper of our
own country. The Australian girl is hand-
somer than either of the others, but her big
dark eyes are too soft for “fiendish” rdles. She
also was at the opera, back from an 18-months’ tour
of Westralia, Maoriland, and the Broken Hill
district of N.S.W., and she still wears her
“scorched bread” browns and turquoises with
artistic result.
Talking of Miss Hildyard. The lady has a
dear little husband, with nice eyes and a low-
comedy face. He put his Beautiful Fiend and
the two bloques into the box, saw them comfort-
ably settled, and then his wife —so it seemed to
the audience—chivvied him out. Anyhow, he
went off. Mr. B. Fiend plays small parts. lam
sure Sydney is going to like him.
The Royal Germans have brought out audiences
whose faces are quite unknown to the regular
hard-shell Sydney theatre-goers. Few well-
knowners were present on Saturday. The W. P.
Manning lady, just back from far travel, one of
her daughters, and the Willie Mannings, the
Taylor-Youngs, the Lachlan Beatons and Miss
Ruby Adams (who has also taken with great
success to Madonna-ing her hair), Mrs. Boesen,
known as “ the musicians’friend,” Judge Heydon,
the Markwalds, who haven’t missed a night of
grand opera, and tenor Fentress leavened the
audience.
Dr. Schute, whom little Stoller has married,
was medico of the ship in which the Germans
came here (again does it appear that the husband
and the whale are alike products of the sea). As
the lady is always ill, it was wise of her to secure
free, permanent medical advice.
Mrs. Riinger, wife of one of the baritones, takes
her fine presence Out of Australia this week en
route to Germany. She is a milliner or some such
in Berlin, and is a moneyed beauty. Her influence
over contralto Heinze is unbounded, and she it
was who rubbed the fur of the management the
wrong way whenher husband didn’t get the rdle for
which he yearned. “Fraulein Heinze—she will
better get when ma ’oosban’ sing Wotan-O, ya ! ”
Musgrove gave in, and Heinze got better.
The departure of the devoted interferer is good
for G.M.
The appetites of the Germans are incredibly
large. Three of the singers—two ladies and a
man—staying at a certain smart hotel, ate for
supper a liberal plateful of ham and chicken, all
the salad, and from four to six eggs each. I’ve
watched, in reverential amazement, whilst they
consumed eighteen eggs at a meal, as well as the
other provender mentioned. They don’t chat
through the demolition —they demolish in busi-
ness-like silence, and with the earnestness of a
martyr at the steak.
Miss Hamer is married to an Indian tea-
planter. He must have been a brave man to
marry that snapping-eyed artiste. Unless her
face belied her she wouldn’t take any back talk
from a husband.
University Sports Club ball was an over-girled
circumstance. Pretty well-frocked girls were
there with nary a male of their species to lead
them on to the waxed floor. The fresher-man
was more numerous than his seasoned brother.
Never before did I see so many red shoes gathered
together. Girls and women shod themselves with
hoofgear made out of the sunset, “regardless,”
as a man remarked, “of the quality and quantity of
their feet.” Miss Val. Read, in a grey chiffon
over white, with a skirt dado and braces of grey
velvet, looked a water melon. I really mean that
she looked a peach, but I hate the very name of
that vegetable since I found a caterpillar in it.
A friend writes : “It is a curious commentary
on Anglo-Saxon literary taste that while Ouida, a
woman writer of charm and real genius, starves,
the awful Marie Corelli should be a reputed
millionairess. Ouida was either a crank or a most
determined poseuse ; could never quite make out
which. At a dinner attended by all and sundry
in the London scribbling world, eight or ten years
ago, I sat at a table near the one which, Ouida
occupied, and regarded her covertly but with
attention. She ate little, stared wildly ahead,
and spoke no word to her hosts from soup to coffee.
Afterwards, there were speeches, and her great
green eyes grew wilder still. Then suddenly
she up-ended her tall lank ‘ greenery-yallery ’
form and fled —which struck me as the first
wholly sane thing she had done during the
evening. At another table near by sat
Richard Le Gallienne (long curling black
hair to his shoulder blades, Holman-like
features, ‘ intense ’ eyes, and a rasping cockney
twang), and with him Victoria Cross, a demure
little lady with hair over her ears, in the then
almost unknown Cleo de Merode fashion, and
the general aspect of a well-wined and dined
Madonna. She wore a confection of bright scar-
let and Le Gallienne, a short loose dinner out-
rage of black velvet! They looked an uncanny
brace, and, on reflection, they were possibly
accountable for Ouida’s aspect of misery and
hopelessness.”
According to an American paper, Miss Nellie
Stewart will play Prince Hal in a revival of
“Hen. IV.”
Miss May Seddon, who is more like Maoriland’s
departed Dick, as regards character, build and
voice, than the whole of the remaining Seddons
combined, lately rescued dentist Knox Gilmer, of
Wellington, from bachelordom. Knox is a scion
of a local beer family, and the son of a recently-
manufactured M.L.C., who wallows in wealth to
a comparatively large extent. May is just as
liable to board a car wearing a cotton blouse, a
utilitarian skirt and her brother’s cap, as she is to
say exactly what she thinks of things in a voice
remarkably reminiscent of the voice that died
away for ever, little more than a year ago.
Wellington society donned its new purple tie
and its varnished American boots to witness the
wedding, at which the Bishop of the Shaky City
officiated, but a deep respect for the Big Dead
spread a certain silence and sedateness over the
show. The lady knows a heap of people who
don’t wish her any harm, and the general feeling
in Poneke is that, if Knox is the decent chap he
is said to be, each deserves the other.
I saw the bride, Mrs. Knox Gilmer, a few
hours after her arrival in Sydney. She was
standing at the door of “Pennydom,” one of
Mr. Fred Shipman’s shows in Pitt-street,
and the two Shipmans were shaking her
hands simultaneously and combinedly—six hands
in one grip—and calling her “ Honey.” She must
have momentarily mislaid hubby, for he wasn’t
with her. But just to reassure Wellington on
this point, I had better mention that she collected
him later, for they were at large in the Australia
hotel at theatre time. The bridegroom with
the grim first name put on May’s theatre coat just
as gallantly as if he’d been named Maguire.
She’s a fine-looking youngster, and looked ripping
in something white and laceful. But how and
where did the buoyant May get her American
accent ?
Mr. Wilfrid Spruson, the patent agent, who
represented West Sydney in Parliament for three
years, is being congratulated on his decision to
give up single wickedness for double blessedness.
He is engaged to Miss Lonergan, a Mudgee girl.
In mention of London matters, writers speak
prettily of a miniature painting by Miss Ben
Norriss of Miss Frances Foy, a little Sydneysider
and niece of Mr. Francis Foy. Miss Norriss is
holding an exhibition of her work. Other minia-
tures by her are those of Percy Grainger, Flor-
ence Schmidt, and Miss Erna (late Lovie) Mueller.
“G. B. Lancaster,” the well-known Maoriland
writer, is in Sydney on a visit—her first visit to
Australia. She is by birth a Tasmanian, but has
been domiciled some years in M.L. A most
modest and retiring genius is she.
Blanche Arral, that gifted and artistic mystery
in prime donne, will give three recitals in Sydney
Town Hall next month. Dates are August 3,7,
and 10.
Sydney Muffs are to give a performance of that
jolly little comedy “ The New Boy,” in aid of
St. Martha’s Industrial Home, Leichhardt. The
Boy will wrestle with his troubles at the Theatre
Royal next Thursday evening. Lady Northcote
and Miss Rawson are so much interested that
they have asked to have sixteen seats reserved.
Miss Nellie Brown, of “Florence House,” Red-
fern, is hon. sec.
I came across, in a Rockhampton paper, the
advertisement of the Thankful Youth, and decided
that there were new things under the sun. Here
it is:—
A BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
T ERNEST SEMFEL, of Comet, do kindly thank my
-*-» many friends for their most kind and welcome com-
pany at the celebration of my 21st Birthday, which took
place at Mr. M'Nicol’s Residence, Comet, 2nd July, 1907.
Thanking same for their many kind and useful presents.
Presents received, viz.—Silver-mounted Pipe, G.B.D. Pipe,
1 Razor in Case, Razor Strop, Dressing Case, Leather
Writing Case, Silk Handkerchief and Silk Neck Tie, Silk
Neck Ties (2), Silk Handkerchief with Initial E., E.P.
Stud Box, Sovereign Case, Flowered China Shaving Cup,
25., Half-guinea.
And now I remember that a friend once gave me
a black-and-white kitten with a dissipated-looking
black eye, and I never advertised my gratitude.
The thought makes me crawl under the table for
shame. Please don’t tell anybody if you see my
feet sticking out.
Miss im Thurn, a sister of the High Com-
missioner for Fiji, has been in Sydney for a few
days. A retiring, cultured young party is Miss
im Thurn. She floated about the M.L. Inquiry
Agency for some hours prior to ambling off to the
islands for a tour. Later she’ll meet her brother
in Fiji. The extraordinary name of the family is
said to be Welsh, but it also sounds Dutch or
Bohemian.
Talking of tourists: Some time ago an unob-
trusive young Englishman wandered into a
Sydney intelligence office, and made inquiries
about sport. He was shown pictures and litera-
ture of trout and salmon-fishing in Maoriland, and
his eyes brightened. He was a fisher by instinct,
and remarked that he had the finest fishing tackle
made. He had seen none like it here. “I’ll go
and get it,” he said suddenly to. the agent, “and
you can map a route through Maoriland for me.”
Agent waited his return for nearly an hour, but
he didn’t return that day. He didn’t return for
eleven weeks, because he had gone back to Eng-
land for his lines.
A returned Australienne, who reached Sydney
by the Omrah, tells me that Miss Lyne, the
daughter of Big Bill, is staying with the Beau-
champs at Madresfield Court. She is understood
to be engaged to an Englishman of eminent de-
sirableness, and so will probably be lost to Aus-
tralia. From the same source I learn that B. R.
Wise is now fast recovering his health.
Miss Grace Miller Ward’s singing at the. Rugby
Association reception to the M.L. footballers
gave the greatest charm to the programme. Mr.
Arnold Gange, one of Mrs. Amy Sherwin’s recent
co., lifted up his fine bass, but his first theme was
“ The Sailor’s Grave.” As the All-Blacks had
that morning arrived after one of the roughest
trips on record —so rough that one of the
’bailers lost 131 b. in weight—the selection was
not popular. Only one thing could have been
worse —“ The Passenger’s Grave.”
A London correspondent, about the first Court
of the London season :
Mrs. Cogb lan’s lovely daffodil Court gown was worn
with a train of mist, green satin—the green of young
willow buds and that sort of youthful tone. White lilac
and pink bfebe roses meandered about it in bordering gar-
lands, with a big green chiffon bow as corner piece. She
presented Mrs. P. H. Osborne and dainty Miss Nan
Osborne. Mrs. Coghlan, by the way, has just established
a record as regards committees. She is chairwoman of
the committee for the Australian Women’s Exhibition of
Work in London, and ’tis said that the meetings at her
house go without a hitch through the tactful little lady’s
steering of the boat. So the medley of Victorian, N.S.W.,
Queensland, S. Australian, Westralian and Maoriland
dames pull well together. The exhibition opens in the
Coliseum auditorium in June, for a display of work
before it is packed off to Lady Northcote’s exhibition in
Melbourne.
Miss Jessie Ackermann, now on her seventh
scurry around the planet, will arrive here to-
morrow (Wednesday). The Girls’ Realm will give
handclasps and music in the evening in the
Pianola concert room. Miss Rawson is also to
entertain the Much Travelled journalist and lec-
turer. Miss Ackermann represents the West-
minster Gazette. She is an American, naturalised
in England. While sojourning in Australia and
M.L. she will speak on many things, and give the
world a lift generally. .
Mr. Savage Landor, the noted explorer who
explored the wastes of our own Edgecliffe and
Rose Bay extensively a few years ago, has been at
it again. “Accompanied only by one faithful
Somaliland black,” says a London exchange, “ all
the rest of his attendants having deserted in terror
of the trip, this intrepid man crossed darkest Africa,
clad solely in a Bond-street suit and a small straw
hat.” Mr. Landor’s characteristic as an explorer
is that he never does anything as anyone else
would. Either he gets tortured by Thibetan
priests, or worshipped by Hairy Ainus, or else he
does amazing things in amazing clothes. And
always his attendants (excepting one faithful nig)
desert en masse before the excitement begins. It
is a good thing if you are an explorer with a bent
for book-writing that your attendants should
desert, and eminently desirable that the remaining
adhesive savage should kindly disappear when
the show is over. Local explorers please note.
I found this curious advt. in a London paper:—
AUSTRALIAN SQUATTER.—If any in England
would like Comfortable QUARTERS (one hour
from town) in large country house ; lovely grounds,
60 acres ; excellent food ; ready to receive guest
moment’s notice ; liberal terms required ; advertiser
Australian squatter’s daughter all her young days,
parents enormously rich ; she is most anxious to
meet rich Australian, either lady or gentleman,—
Address
Probably when the Australian, yearning for
a breath of the old home atmosphere and for a
smell of gum-leaves in the conversation, hastens
out with his traps in one hand and the “ liberal
terms ” in the other, he will find disappointment
awaiting him and “ Mockery set at the castle
gate,” as a Bulletin poet once put it. He may
try to exchange confidences about Dandaloo, or
Gippsland, or the Darling Downs, but he will
almost certainly learn that the enormously rich
squatter’s daughter can only talk some few guide-
book generalities about George-street and Collins-
street, and when he wants to have a soul-filling
yarn about the koala, she will say she hears
someone calling at the telephone.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Some confusion crept into the most recent vice-
regal event. Invitations were sent out for the evening of
Thursday last, bidding some 20 squires and dames to
assemble at their Exes’ fireside—but no indication was
given of the nature of the “ jollo ”to ensue. Each of the
invited ladies hastened to have fashioned a new and dazzle-
some garment, but opinions differed as to the high, low,
or moderate cut of the top half. Some ordered elaborate
dance toilettes ; others chose the elegant bridge con-
fections. The men folk hung divided between black or
white ties and a dinner or claw-hammer coat. Most of
the dressmakers were told to wait further orders, but the
Oracle remained silent so long that at last every woman
decided to go on her own, and reveal as many buttons
of her spine as she thought fit. At the last moment
frantic messages by ’phone and wire reached the
elect, informing them that dinner and music
would be the chief events of the evening. Then the lady
who had cut her dress too high for dinner, or not high
enough for music, or who had exposed the right amount
of spine for bridge, which same was quite the wrong
amount of spine for melody, had to run for her life to her
frock-builder and get the terrible mistake rectified.
The results of the Hospital race meet pan out at £l9O
net. The proprietary of the course put into practice a
long-contemplated experiment, and did away with Patrick
Moses in favor of the Tote. The bag and book brother-
hood is still staggering under the blow. Albion Park
will follow in the footsteps of the Sandgate Club, leaving
only the Q.T.C. in possession of the nngmen.
At a recent fashionable wedding much interest was
manifested in a pair of silver garters, studded with tur-
quoises, sent the bride by a Canadian uncle. Uncles are
not what they used to be !
The vigorous policy of the local traffic inspectors was
expounded on a recent Friday, when a bulky emblem of
the law pursued and boarded a vanishing tram car, and
firmly took the name and address of the Rev. L. L. Wirt
for getting on the said car when it already contained the
full number of occupants. Indignation is a word wholly
inadequate to express the face and language of the
excited Yankee sky-guide at the outrage. “ Why, I’ve
got a seat! ”he protested wildly. “ Heow can a kyar be
over full if there is a vacant seat?” The law added in-
jury to insult by a fine of half-a-crown. The Rev. Loyal
L. Wirt is now busily preparing a sermon on justice and
its distance from equity.
The Aorangi has arrived with the Canadian lacrosse
men. They are a fine-looking lot. They were to be
toasted by Mayor Thompson on Monday, to go up the
river and look at the sandbanks on Tuesday, and
dance at the Commercial Club hop that evening in the
O’Connor shed. Then the Government yacht was to carry
them down the river to show them more sandbanks.
Also picnics and dinners ha,ve been arranged, and, if the
local men practise hard while the strangers are eating,
there may be hope for them.
Chief Justice Cooper, his daughter Celia, and a party
have retired to Southport for some weeks. The Federal
O.J. has also left here for Rockhampton ; date of return
indefinite. Archbishop Donaldson caught last night’s
train, en route for New Guinea. We are getting short of
celebrities.
That handsome D.A.A.G., Major Hoag, leaves this week
for England, and still no engagement is announced.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


once
USED
ALWAYS
USED.
RUBBER HEELS
For COMFORT and WEAR on
hard pavements THEY HAVE
NO EQUAL. Made only of ih»
BEST RUBBER, in various
shapes and sizes. Obtainable all
Leading Boot Stores. Specify
and accept only " DUNLOP *'
Brand.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, ClrrTsrcfurrth, NX
to mTNE MANAGERS, etc.
We now make a, speciality of
catering all Robber Mining
Goods?*, and ean recommend our
DUNLOP
CONVEYOR and VANNER
BELTS. AIR DRILL and
SUCTION HOSE. PACKINGS.
VALVES, etc., as being the equal
of any imported article. Our
Goods Have the great advantage
of being fresh and free from
perish, and being specially made
to suit your own requirements.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.-
• • *■»
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Sydor, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Chrietchotch, (ML
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets cr
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fins
assortments, 10/ — and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portuija’.
RL
ryfhgjghjhjhj
COI^ETJ
fOOrtETHINQ-
,N JTriL«JMPL
TEE
WORLDI
i
mm
M
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 15, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The mildness of the last day of the G.N. meet-
ing oheered somewhat the souls of smart frockers.
They ventured into a certain hilarity of garb.
Melon hats were donned with a dash-the-conse-
quences air. No use looking meek and mild
under a melon hat. Per se, it is hideous—level
with the forehead in front, and sticking out
behind like a back verandah. ‘ ‘ Edna May ”is
another giddy variety of hat. It was worn on
Saturday, appropriately enough, by several ex-
actresses. It’s a comfort to find anything with a
brim on a fellow-woman’s head—just anything to
hang the seductive plume to, and to act as a
foundation for pin curls. The expected slump
in pin curls is still in the future. They trimmed
a lot of quite important heads at Elemington, and
—when they matched—trimmed them very well.
Committee-box dowagers looked dowdy, and
their daughters dumpy, when put in contrast
with the svelt Mrs. Colonel Somebody, D.S.O.
Dressed entirely in black, she contrived to get
more expression into her clothes than any other
woman on the terrace. Black worn by a real
artist beats creation sartorially. Beginning with
a wicked, tricky, long plumed hat, she con-
tinued the effect with a long sinuous white
throat, encased in black lace to the very
ears. A heavy black fox fur nestled at
just the right angle on the slopes of her excellent
shoulders. Her gown concluded in a mass of
frills, suggesting the inky clouds of the poet’s
dreams. Mere colors paled beside the sable lady.
The second-best gown was that of a suburban
dress-builder, who builds for many fair and
fashionable dames—the presiding genius of a
popular cheap shop, where everyone pretends she
“ never thinks of going, my dear.” A good-look-
ing woman, who ought to know better, came out
in a transformed gown of the grassiest green. As
a race-gown, it was enough to make the horses
wander off the course, blinded by a vision of
green feed.
The vice-regal box was well filled. Mrs.
Wrixon, in a gown of the plum family, and one of
the mantles that’s going to be restored to respon-
sible matronhood, bore Mrs. Chief-J. Madden
and old Mrs. Frank Stephen company, whilst the
family made excursions to and from the terrace.
The Madden lady wore excellent grey furs with
something in reseda green. Her replica daughter,
Mrs. Yallange, looked more than passing pretty
in mauve. Like sister Ruby she raised a crested
head, and, together with sister Ruby and Papa,
she was led into the “Birdcage” by Colonel
Campbell to see Danjiure saddled-up for the
Grand National. The gee-gee in question is
trained in the stable where the Colonel sometimes
keeps a jumper, and the hopes of the Madden
clan were centred in him. Alas ! Danjiure
finished sixth.
London gossip from “ Tryphena ”
Tummy Bent told King Ned at Buckingham Palace
last week that he’d been drinking his health a lot
lately. “The last thing I did in my State,” confessed
Thomas, “ was to drink your health, and I’m blest if it
wasn’t the first thing I did on landing here.” Majesty
gazed upon the Bent Premier with a droll eye, and some
officials in hearing distance broke out into a cold per-
spiration at the audacious front of Thomas in the august
presence. There was no “Sire" or “Your Majesty.”
He might just as well have been having a casual yarn on
a wayside station with Wayback Bill. And that was
sensible.
Miss Botha is the next original in the public view.
She persists in being natural, but as she’s charming
and carries about effective raiment her sang froid is
more endurable in the eyes of potentates. Honored by
a little attention from Royalty at Buckingham Palace,
she grew confidential, and said she was dashed sick of re-
taining the perpendicular in the Presence. She didn’t
put it in exactly those words, but she heaved a sigh and
volunteered an airy trifle about being so tired of standing
around. This sort' of thing would have killed Better-not
Wally stone-dead had he heard it. King Ned, however,
was able to bear it without a quiver of his royal eyelid.
This type must be really a joy to a monarch, sated with
pomp and ceremony and grovel. Wasn’t it Darius Hys-
taspes who complained that all he ever saw of the Persian
nation was a foreshortened and inverted back view, and
that he was tired of ruling over a horizontal people ?
It’s a small London. Down in Windsor on Sunday, when
removing the motor-grit from my eyes and mouth in a
toilette room of the local inn, I discovered Mrs. Charlie
Ryan and her chick from Collins-street doing the same.
Then, later on, Mrs. Cyril Landale fluffed in and mopped
her countenance.
In a caf6 where the best and the worst women of the
Big Smoke brush shoulders nightly,! decided, after an
hour’s deep cogitation, that it’s the band that leads to
half the dissipation and giddiness and extravagance of
this nation of soft-spoken hypocrites. The London
restaurant band makes the most alluring music. It steals
through the veins and casts a spell on the seven cardinal
virtues away back in a crevice of the mind. Also it makes
the bill longer than the shriek of a Suffragette. The
band rules the bill. A tiffin at a chop-haunt, minus
music, costs a few shillings. With the band, it costs a
few pounds. Not that the band is charged for. It’s not
even down as a sundry. But it’s there —playing the
mischief with the emotions and the devil with the ex-
chequer.
I saw a bunch of Walfords (of brewing association) at
Henley the other day. Mrs. and Miss were browsing on
the green banks after hospital treatment for German
measles—such a lot of things are German here. The
stout Mrs. Winston (nie Flood) glories in her newly
caught and youthful bridegroom, and at present prepares
—but that’s giving away a holy secret.
I saw Mrs. Dyce Murphy trailing over the Hurlingham
lawns, the other Saturday, what time the Magpies and
Moonlighters were bashing at a competitive ball in
the polo course. Mrs. T. Coghlan is bringing her two
small kids up in the way they should go in this land of
Conform. They’re to be quite English. It is a land of
Conform. If you don’t brush your yelper’s coat from right
to left when Fashion decrees that the beast should wear its
fluff that way, you’re a social outcast. If you don’t whiff
your weed without blinking an eyelash, you’re no class.
If you laugh, you’re a decadent. If you grin, your ante-
cedents are sniffed at. It’s conform —conform —conform.
If you refuse, your light goes clean out. Your morals
may be rotten, but your code of manners must be sound,
or there’s no place for you in Vanity Fair.
Annette Kellermann grieved in a note she scribbled
before swimming out for Yankee-land, that she weighed
a stone less at the end of her London season than she
did at the start. And this, scrawled the nymph, wouldn’t
do. Of course it wouldn’t.
The Chief Justice, who once referred to lacrosse
as the sport of “ thoroughbreds and gentlemen,’’
and has been the patron-saint of the game ever
since, is going to confer his presence on a Lacrosse
Club Ball, at Hawthorn Town Hall, on Monday,
the 29th. Also the Madden dame will attend,
and a choice collection of buds may be expected
to blush under her approving eye. Meanwhile,
the lacrossers are in strict training for the event.
One can single them out from the ordinary Collins-
street crowd by their earnest assumption of a
thoroughbred, gentlemanly demeanor. They’re
always playing the game, as it were.
The Victorian artists opened their exhibition,
at Eastern Hill, on Friday. Prime Minister
Deakin was to have made the opening speech, but
in his absence the president, Mather, supplied
the preliminary talk. Speaking of the ups and
downs suffered by Australian art, he put in some
hopeful comment on the particular “up” of the
present moment. The collection is good, but not
as strong in big telling canvases as in some other
years, the best work being among the smaller
paintings. A new poster artist, Laurie Taylor,
shows some striking pictures. Blamire Young has
a small, voluptuous painting—a girl, the very
goddess of life and color, carrying high the
bleached bones of a huge skull.
All at this exhibition must, of course, be new-
work not shown before, and M‘Cubbin’s latest is
perhaps better than anything in his recent col-
lection. Wilkie, who takes M'Cubbin’s classes at
the Gallery during his holiday jaunt, shows
several portraits. Clever Mrs. Muntz-Adams (the
Josephine Muntz of portrait fame) has a big
canvas of the late George Watson, M.F.H., in
hunting kit. One of the most discussed paintings
is a portrait by Violet Teague, and Tom Roberts
has a small but exquisite “head.” Mather,
always a most energetic worker, shows a good
deal this year. His “ Buffalo River ”is the most
restful and placid scene weary eyes could gaze at.
Hal Waugh, of course, has canvases with his
favorite horses. His animal painting is more
than satisfactory, but his landscape—with its
crudity of greens and blues—spoils the effect.
Ford Paterson has a couple of fine canvases,
both bush scenes. Bernard Hall is represented
by two portraits of one lady, which are painted on
backgrounds of flat color. As tours-de-force,
they’re admirable; as decorations, they’re not
great. A couple of water-colors of Melbourne seen
from the Yarra, by John Sommers, are entirely
desirable. They disclose in some degree the
beauty which so few of us look for in our home
town.
There was a jolly, informal sort of gathering
around the tea cups in Her Majesty’s lounge, on
Thursday afternoon, to discuss the ticket-selling
aspect of the forthcoming matinee for the Dis-
tressed Actors’ Fund. Andrew Mack was in
evidence, and nearly all of “The Blue Moon”
principals. Miss Amy Murphy appeared in her
true Dunedin complexion and a cunning little hat,
skewered on with a huge pin of Maoriland green-
stone. Miss Maud Thorne, daintily tailor-made,
was supported by clever Daisie Wallace, with a
wide, happy smile and a very happy hat. The
most valuable suggestion was that of Mr. George
Tallis, who had an idea that if the girls would
divide into groups of twos or threes and syste-
matically besiege the business offices, the tickets
would be sold unanimously. The meeting broke
up gaily, everybody carrying off bundles of the
pink and yellow tickets for sale—by force if
necessary.
The Waldron-Humphrey co.—now on the high
seas Americaward—left its only English member
in Melbourne. Mr. Kay (who was wont to be led
off nightly to be lynched) has given up the practice
of getting hanged, and is busy rehearsing for
“ The Madcap,” wherein he will take the part of
a Frenchman, and make violent love to the
prettiest girl in sight.
The Mooltan took away Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn
and her school-going girlie. Mrs. Marsden, an-
other voyageuse, had quite a royal send-off, and
there was a mighty girl-gathering to say good-bye
to Miss Orkney—the pretty niece and heiress of
the “Arcadia” (St.Kilda) Orkneys—who fluttered
off under Mrs. Marsden’s wing to be married in
London. Her trousseau and mountainous Sara-
togas of frillies (“six dozen of everything''' as
Crocodile - Gourier murmurs insinuatingly in
“Blue Moon”) were all Australian-made, and
the bride-elect snorts her indignation at the girls
who wanted her to “ get them in London.” The
bridegroom-to-be is one John Parkinson War-
wick, of Bedford Park, London.
Sister Freeman, one of the prettiest and
brightest of Melbourne Hospital nurses, has just
annexed a newly-fledged M.D. There was a
quiet wedding at Geelong, which turned over in
its sleep for the occasion, and the nightingale has
departed with her Dr. Short for a country town,
where she will train roses over the cottage porch
while her husband builds up a practice. The
jolly little bride is much missed at the hospital.
She was quite the youngest maiden who was ever
made “Sister” of a ward, and she was nurse-in-
chief in the grim surgical theatre.
Our State Parliament opened on Wednesday.
The frill was subdued and damp. Snow lay on
the hills all round Melbourne, and a sudden icy
rain-storm made the barn-like, temporary House
chill and dank and churchy. The dejected
Lieutenant-Governor and his frozen Aidelings
had harouched from St. Kilda in laced uniform
and feathered hats, but nary a cape or overcoat
was there among the blue-nosed creatures, though
the wind was all flying icicles.
The Wrixon Lady held a reception in the lobby
after the dreary ceremony, and tried to thaw the
chill with her most cheerful smiles. Presently
there was a scramble for the coffee and bun,
served in rooms glowing with rose-veiled electrics
among glossy greenery, and with spring-like
wattle on the tables to cheat the wintry day of
its triumph.
The newly-instituted Chicago Tea Concerts, on
Tuesday afternoons, make still another objective
for the wide-eyed Tale-bearers, who can put in a
good solid hour (between songs) garnering the
currants of scandal from the plain bun of fact.
The concerts have real go —good voices and a
romantic blue-eyed accompanist.
Foundation stones for four new cottages at one
swoop were laid on Friday at the Old Colonists’
Homes in North Fitzroy, which homes are grow-
ing into an imposing colony. The big main drive
was gay with bunting flying across from the
avenue trees. Mayor Weedon patted the stones
with a silver trowel, and a great crowd of well-
known citizens lent blue countenance to the
ceremony, whilst the Bavarian Band tried hard
to disguise the fact that it felt like a Polar expe-
dition doing the Greenland National Anthem.
The cottages will cost over £llOO, and the
benefactors who are defraying this cost are Mr.
and Mrs. J. M. Pratt, Mrs. Elizabeth Davies,
and Mr. Sali Cleve. They deserve at least a
mention, for they have nothing to expect save
gratitude from the needy ancients who will benefit
by their bounty. And it isn’t safe to count on
gratitude under any circumstances. Some people
say it is an extinct virtue. Others assert that it
is as much alive as ever it was, and that the only
thing which prevents it being dead is that it was
never born.
Mr. John S. Dane and his lately-acquired wife
farewelled their respective progenitors and pals
last week, and went off world-wandering on the
Manuka. They made the sixth couple of billers
and cooers aboard that blessed vessel. The genial
John deports some savory baits for Yankee in-
vestors, and will engineer some mining schemes
in the Respectable Country. His better-half’s
only duties will be to look charming, and be
happy, which is a reasonable proposition.
The students of the University gave their
half-yearly concert on Wednesday before a
crowded audience of small girls and proud parents.
Whether it is that the small girl fills the box-plan
before her elders get an opportunity to book, I
don’t know ; but she’s always there in great force
and her best white frock and a blue bow. The
events of the evening were the singing of H. R.
Thomas (a Bendigonian, of course) and Miss
Laura Wmter-Irving’s performance of a Grieg
Ballade. She played superbly. The long folk-
song assumed real human significance and poetry
in her interpretation.
Mr. Thomas, who is a pupil of Wm. Llewellyn,
is the only Conservatorium man who is threatened
with a future. His voice and his art, which are
like unto Santley’s, suggest that it will be a de-
sirable one. For the rest, everyone looked nice,
and some did well.
Miss Ballara, a former pupil of Mrs. Wieder-
man, concerted last week at the Masonic Hall.
She sang twenty-four numbers in a strenuous
fashion, and Una Bourne played a bracket of
Saint-Saens and a Liszt Polonaise. Pretty Una
was the success of the evening. Miss Ballara
made her worst mistake in singing ballads. _ Her
voice doesn’t suit them. In a high aria she is very
tolerable, but in sylvan ditties treating of coy
lovers and woolly baa-sheep, she fails. Her
laborious archness made several simple songlets
assume new terrors. Her voice would be useful
in a hard-working German opera co. However, a
friendly audience was kind, and the Pinschof
family uttered loud applause.
There’s a nice, substantial rally round kindly
little Mrs. Charbonnet-Kellermann, whose aquatic
daughter has made it possible for her to give over
hard graft at the piano. Now that she doesn’t
need it quite so badly, money is coming in for a
testimonial in quite large amounts. Meanwhile
she is getting other evidence of the esteem in
which her quaint little self has always been held.
She has had lunches and dinners given in her
honor, with a lot of teas and at-homes as well.
She trips away some time this week, with no
definite intention of returning to the land of her
wet and shapely daughter’s birth.
A breach of promise case looms in the near law-
lists. The defendant is a popular doctor; the
plaintiff is a mature dressmaker. She asks for
£3OOO, no less.
It’s fashionable to go home early nowanights.
Happened on two or three hundred thousand
pounds’-worth of men in the Toorak car the other
night. Asked one veteran if he and the rest of
his ilk didn’t feel nervous these burglarious times.
“Just a bit,” he confided. “That’s why we all
go home together in an early tram. ” Later in the
evening a sweet-and-twenty asked me if we might
walk along together—quite a usual request
between women leaving railway stations late at
night. Everyone’s arguing that something’s got
to be done, but, in the meantime, folk are staying
in o’ nights in a highly-exemplary fashion. So
the garrotter is not an unmixed evil.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide:—
Admiral Fawkes, with all his glory and decorations,
has spent a week with the local Exes. Also, his gallant
ship, Challenger, sailed into our mighty port, tied itself
up to a post, or an oyster, or something, and there it
stays for awhile. All the available officers came out in
brass-buttoned magnificence for the Mayoral ball on
Thursday night, and the girly populace had a hilarious
time in consequence. The young male element is always
a rarity at Mayoral functions, so the officers had all the
dowered youth and beauty of the State to choose from.
The decoration scheme for this year’s ball was a thipg of
joy—palest pink poppies and peach blossoms festooned
thickly about the walls, and hanging aloft from
huge skeleton umbrellas. The stairs were a hower
of scarlet, and a scarlet-coated, be-kilted Scqttish
corps formed the guard of honor. The Excellencies, with
a horde of aides, the Admiral and Miss Clowes, went
along and did a vice-regal set. So also went the Chief
Judicial Ways, and Bishop and Mrs. Thomas, and stacks
and hordes of other eminent folk. Lady Le Hunte wore
a lovely satin gown, panelled with cloth of gold. The
Mayoress was concealed in a champagne colored taffeta,
with etceteras of turquoise chiffon and cream lace. Mrs.
John Downer, of the gorgeous gowns, exhibited a black
pinafore frock with dainty white under-bodice and sleeves,
and Mrs. Chief Justice Way was resplendent in black
lace, over glac6 silk. Miss Angus wore a rather quaint
frock of lovely flowered silk, with stiff velvet cuffs turned
back from its puffy sleeves. It’s a kind of great-grand-
mother fashion that has just come back from the grave,
in the language of George Darrell’s drama. Among the
gayest and frockiest maidens present were pretty
Dorothy Deeley, the Fotheringham damsels, Miss Jean
Martin, and Miss Hack.
Government House hung up its best Sunday curtains
and beeswaxed its best oilcloth on Monday (15th) and had
a dance. The Admiral and the other gallant ornaments
of our well-meaning but rather scrap-iron navy, certain
selected officers of our leaning army, and a select con-
course of civilians were bidden to the fray. The ball-
room (it’s a courtesy title) at the Residence is not large
enough to accommodate much of a crowd, and therefore
the few ordinary and untitled persons invited were
mostly officials of some sort or another. Still, South
Australia has no room to get frenzied about the lack of
invitations to the Residence until it builds its Excellency
a ballroom wheretmore than two-and-a-half persons can
waltz at the same time.
Another product of the effete and inflated Eastern
States has dropped upon Adelaide to sing it into parting
with a few of its shekeis. She is a little Victorian girl,
Lizzie Newbold, who was born in the same street as
Melba, and seems to. have caught some of her bird notes.
Recent experience has taught Adelaide to fight rather
shy of strange young warblers, therefore the visitor’s
management was wise in allowing her to sing at last
week’s Lyric performance. By thus throwing in a sample
of Lizzie as a casual item, it convinced the community
that it wouldn’t be wasting its money if it speculated
later on a quantity of bulk-Lizzie, so to speak.
The child possesses a marvellously high and sweet voice,
not greatly trained as yet, and not large, but promising
to become a true lyrical soprano. Also she has an un-
affected manner which is a valuable asset these days.
At the Lyric Club her warbling brought down the house,
and she was wildly encored. By the time this reaches
the bleared eye of the printer she will have achieved a
concert in the Town Hall, under vice-regal patronage,
hut whether the populace will support her one cannot
prophesy. The populace is an elusive beast that some-
times rushes at ,\ ou with money in both hands, while at
other times it wouldn’t even loot out of the window at
your funeral as it passed by.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNS.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE stock of furniture.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
GrO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Nagei), Ltd.
. FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss—
■ l' ■
j§osj|
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
istheacnieofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A BAP OVER THE KNUCKLES.
Mr. Reid proceeded to refer to the fact that some
people in New South Wales talked of secession. That
was the. most childish talk in the world. (Cheers.)—
Australian Parliament Reports.
Hobart, Tuesday.
Mr. Nicholls, leader of the Opposition, referred to the
very unfederal spirit displayed by the majority of the
Premiers at Brisbane. The Conference was deserving of
the utmost contempt. All Mr. Carruthers could talk
about was secession and the jealousy of Victoria, and no
one could take him seriously.
JOY: "Here, I say! Mr. Reid! I can't punch
YOU: hut, my word, won't that Nicholls kid
cop out ?”
N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers says
that in the matter of the Australian capital he
only wants a fair deal. Well, he can’t get it.
There isn’t a brick big enough.
Alfred Edden, M.L. A., spoke a few pleas-
ant words when the remains of N.S.W.’s dead
Assembly dispersed, and said he hoped that
during the coming electoral fight there would be
no fritting “below the belt,” It was kindly
meant; but Ed den’s chief opponent has a
habit of wearing his belt in his hat, and in his
dealings with the Commonwealth he seems to
assume that it wears its belt in its boots.
The Wellington (M.L.)
White Race League, Anti-
Asiatic League, and other
battlers for an undiluted Hem-
piah, stood at the local man-
o’-war steps, a small space
since, emitting subdued grunts
of satisfaction as the officahs’
pinnace, manned . by British
bulldogs, bobbed in the water
waiting to take a load of gold
braid to the Pah’f’l. The
satisfaction had reached the
top note when a cart backed
into the crowd and the bul,
Idogs unloaded a couple of
tons of groceries, a dozen
cases of fruit, and other com-
forts. All the cases were
branded with the name of a
local Chow merchant. Also,
the carter was a Chow, and
Jack hailed him with affec-
tion. Before the other cart
from the Chow laundry, con-
taining the Pah TPs clean
shirt, had stowed its contents
down on the pinnace, the
accumulated Leaguers weren’t
cheering worth a postage
stamp.
Three members of the
last Queensland Assembly—
Peter Airey, Frank McDon-
nell, and Henry Turner—
have been appointed to the
House of Nominees. Neither
McDonnell, who represented
Fortitude Valley, nor Turner,
THE NATION'S LAURELS AT STAKE.
wbo sat for Rockhampton North, contested seats
at the late elections. This addition to Kidston’s
support should carry a number of democratic
measures which were previously defeated in the
Council by narrow majorities.
In the lexicon of Australia there is no
such, word as States.
One of the lighter aspects of the trouble
among the Sydney lumpers is the proposal to
form a Free Laborers’ Union.” It is a humor-
ous idea—this disunited organisation of disinteg-
rated atoms who propose to join in a separated
sort of combination, and unanimously put down
r^| 1 . e ] Victorian State Government has a few
good ideas and a few very foolish ones on its pro-
gramme for the new session. They are a mixed
Jot, and include an increase in old-age pensions
which is an act of justice long and cruelly de-
layed; a Workmen’s Compensation Bill, \vhich
has been, wanted for many years; a measure to
pander to Judkins and co. with another referen-
dum re Scriptural teaching in State schools ; and
a provision for consigning hardened criminals to
i I llld ,°. terrmn ate sentence principle, so
that the local police will at least know where they
A casual side issue of the Federal capital
squabble is the statement of an indignant fol-
lower of Jos. Larruthers that it would be wholly
illegal to plant the new city on the proposed site,
because the Federal territory would then touch
Vmtoria on one side, and-so wouldn’t be “in”
N bAV. as provided by clause 125 of the Consti-
tutmn To be “in” N.S.W., he holds, means to
be wholly surrounded by N.S. W. territory. It is
rather a curious point, for if it held gbod the
staggering result would be that no less than 34 of
the 141 counties into which N.S.W. is divided
a . r , e . in N.S W. at all, because they touch
either Victoria, S. A., or Queensland. That would
raise a rather large question about N.S.W.’s
nght to its own territory. Some of these Anti-
hederal grumblers are an ingenious crowd—too
ingenious, in fact.
Circumstances alter cases. Adelaide
Register and all the Tories of S. Australia were
outraged by the proposal that the S. Australian
-Parliament should choose a Senator vice Vardon
whose election was declared invalid. Yet 12 or
15 years ago, before the Federal Convention
drafted the Constitution, Editor Sowden, of the
Register, was a prominent member of an inter-
State A.N.A. Conference held in Melbourne,
where he actually proposed, and vigorously fought
for, the election of all Senators by State Parlia-
ments ; and the Tory feeling was all that way.
But there was no Labor Premier in sight at that
time, and no Labor-Liberal majority in any Par-
liament. To the Tory a principle is" a thing that
pays; when it no longer pays it is no longer a
principle.
Bruce Smith had been speaking on the
Address in Reply for about four hours and forty
minutes, and a very, very weary House yawned
like a railway tunnel with a hurricane blowing
into it. Wilks, who had been waiting for some-
thing like three hours for B. Smith to sit down
and give him a chance to get in his say, fidgeted
in his seat, and scowled alternately at his fellow
Anti-Sosher and the clock. Somebody interjected
that the House was very tired of B. Smith, and
B. Smith stopped in the middle of a beautifully-
turned period to snap, “It’s a free country, and
it’s a fine night outside.” In the moment’s silence
that followed this crushing rejoinder, came the
cold, cutting voice of the exhausted friend who
was waiting to speak : “ It’s a long time since you
were outside, so you don’t know anything about
it.” Wilks’ cruel gibe so broke up B. Smith that
he was positively unable to continue, his speech
for more than another 50 minutes.
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Association,
at its annual conference held in Sydney last
week, passed a resolution to the effect that the
conference was bitterly opposed to the doctrine of
State Socialism. Then the Spine of the country
stiffened itself, and began to reach out for
Socialism for itself with both hands. In one
nigh t the Backbone passed forcible but ungram-
matical resolutions as follows :
That the interest on conditional purchases from the
State be totally abolished. (The conference is tired of
purchasing on time-payment with interest from
Private Enterprise.)
That the facilities of State-purchased wire netting be
everywhere extended. (The conference has no time for
the wire netting supplied by Private Enterprise.)
That the State undertake rabbit destruction. (Private
Enterprise has been found incompetent.)
That railways be run into country districts, and the
State revenue charged with the interest on the cost of
construction.
N.S.W. Public Service Board, in its
report to Parliament, complains that the recent
quinquennial regrading of the service, coming as
it did at a time of prosperity, was taken by the
public servants to mean a more or less general
rise in salary ; and the Board reckons that Parlia-
nient never intended any such liberality when it
invented the regrading idea. The Public Service
thereupon asks the Board to explain what “ re-
grading” means. If it means a reduction of pay,
then it is degrading, not regrading. If it means
leaving things as they are, then what does the
Board get its salary for? An office-boy at 7s. 6d.
a week could leave things as they are. So the
Service and the Board are agreed that the whole
thing is unsatisfactory, but the Board is mad
with the calm, unobtrusive madness of men who
have an easy job, £lOOO a year, and a pension in
prospect; and a great part of the service is angry
on the basis of £lOO a year and prospects that are
as dun-colored as the side of an elephant.
The suggestion that the nation should run
a line of mail boats on its own provokes the same
outcry in Melbourne as was occasioned by the
attempts of the State Government to prevent the
sale of fraudulent sausages, but one'or two of the
papers have slightly varied their phrases. They
do not speak of “interference with private
enterprise,” but of limitation of the opportu-
nities of the individual.” It is a luminous term,
and the local garrotters will be grateful for it, but,
nevertheless, two-thirds of our laws are designed
to limit the opportunities of the individual.
Burglar-proof safes put shameful limitations on
the opportunities of the individual, so do prison
cells, and policemen, and fire-brigades. Many a
nice pot of insurance money has been saved
through the thoughtless velocity with which the
firemen have turned the hose on individual
opportunities. When the State purposes taking
over some business for the public good, the capi-
talistic outry against “limitation of oppor-
tunities,” is rarely wise. The fox does not howl
when barred out of the hen-house.
The Bent Government in "Victoria has
been trying hard to “settle people on the land ”
for some years past, and
it has made such violent
progress that it hasn’t
even prepared a map
showing what State
lands are available.
Thomas has been plung-
ing around in the State
motor car buying some
rocky estates at ridicu-
lous prices, and threaten-
ing wildly to compel
some big landlords to
sell; and he has been
“had,” in the exuber-
ance of his energy, with
some unsaleable subur-
ban paddocks; and he
has fallen out of the
State motor car; and he
has been full of wild mis-
directed energy; and he has
gone to England; and with it all the exodus of
the farmers still continues. Bent means well,
but he is too much like a whale on dry land.
Parson Tregear, of Melbourne, having
apparently abandoned the business of rescuing
escaped nuns, lately set out to raise the same old
insectarian issue by asserting at Geelong that
“more than half the health inspectors were
Catholics, because the head of the Health Depart-
ment was a Catholic.” Tregear had hardly
finished letting this little poisonous insect loose
before the permanent head of the department
called on him to withdraw his statement,
“as it was absolutely incorrect”; while as
for the Ministerial head, old farmer Cameron is a
dour Seotchbyterian. They are a poor lot, these
insectarians; they might at least build a lie that
would hang together long enough to get a start
before the inevitable contradiction sets out
after it.
J. Bruce Walker, in charge of the London
office of the Canadian Immigration Department,
speaks a piece to the Herald's special corre-
spondent :
Our broad prairies lay smiling to the heavens, but they
were worthless because there was no one to work them.
They are booming with production to-day. . . . Every
immigrant who is put to work on the land makes work
for others. Room is thus found for more artisans,
tradesmen, mechanics, railway, professional, and business
men. . . . The cities, the centres of manufacturing
enterprise, reap advantages as well as the country
districts. . . . Australia wants to wake up, etc.'
Quite so. But i 3 the llkkald the correct brand
of angel to sound the trump ? Our broad acres
also smile to the heavens—as one awful example,
there is on Monaro an allotment of 30,0,000 fertile
acres smiling to the Heavens with only a single
owner upon it to see the smile. For the best part
of a. day the coacli drives over the beaming
countenance of that fellow's little fhrm. Will
the Herald lend a hand to prevent all that,
grinning area being shut against settlement ?
Joseph Ward, Maoriland’s Premier, re-
turned from the Cold Country showing signs of
deep infection with the snobbery bacillus. At
Wellington he said he thought it was time the
Mayors of Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch,
and Dunedin were called “Lord Mayors.”
A small straw, but perhaps significant.
The British Weekly, berating “the colonies,”
asks—
Is it a small thing that men are already beginning to
talk of the immense development of Australia which
would be secured bj' Japanese possession ?
It’s a message to hurry up with the Australian
navy!
“ Hexham ” discourseth with violence :
“ Squidge ” (11/7/’O7) may have seen the 120 imported
O.S.R. samples, but all he seems to know about Spain or
the Spaniards might be written o : n one side of a cigarette
paper. He talks about the nation as if if were a homo-
geneous people, whereas in no other country of the old
world is there such a racial mixture. Between the non-
Spanish-speaking Basque and the half-Moorish or gipsy
Andaluz, there is more difference than between a
Connaught Irishman and a Leicestershire chaw-
bacon ;■ and there is a wider variation between the
semi-French Catalan and the genuine Castilian than
between a Highland gillie and a Whitechapel
cocknej'. I have worked with pretty well all white
nationalities, and some colored, and finer men physically
than the Spanish Basques, or more industrious, I never
saw. For heavy work in the River Plate they, with the
Gallegos (Galicians) and Piedmontese Italians, are always
preferred. And, speaking from actual experience of
both, their standard of living is quite as high as, if not
higher than, that of our Northern River cockies. Four
meals a day is common with them. When “Squidge”
fears the imported crowd will drift to the peanut and the
oyster he shows that insular Australian ignorance is as
crass as British insular ignorance. The Spaniard is not
an Italian or Greek ; the fever of commerce does not run
in the blood of any variety of the breed.
This pretty little patch is cut out of the
Vic. Women’s League’s appeal to the Echuca
electorate to return the Foreign-trader :
Loyalty—the word is electric. Its meaning is swift,
far-reaching. It is a word dreadful, splendid, vivid, mur-
muring odes over a dead Queen’s tomb, or teeming with
reddest blood, waiting to be spilled, if necessary, the
length and breadth of Empire. Universal it is, yet con-
centrated ; all-embracing, yet having its life in isolated
spots, in bleak wildernesses or deserts, in storm-ridden
seas, or beneath the undimmed azure of cloudless firma-
ments ; expressing itself not only in taking up arms, but
in arms falling emptied of all that made life dear, the
arms yielding with bitter tears perhaps, but yielding for
husband, lover, son. Loya.ty—dreadful, splendid, won-
derful indeed.
What dainty creatures these lady leaguers are!
They can’t think of loyalty except in connection
with blood and entrails ! Yet they probably look
upon Liz as a poor, low thing because she won’t
believe Micko loves her unless he is prepared, at
a moment’s notice, to deal out stoush to every
other bloke who asks her for more than one darnee.
Bruce Smith is, in his own opinion, a
flawless logician, yet he gets his own argument
down and jumps on it with his own tight boots.
This tendency is well illustrated in the S.M.
Herald report of his speech in Parliament on
July 11:
He (Mr. Bruce Smith) was prepared to show that Mr.
Deakin had said many impudent things, and he went to
England in a bumptious, aggressive way, ancl imagined
his little experience gained in a country which had but
four million inhabitants was sufficient to entitle him to
dictate to the 45 million people of England.
Then, three inches lower in the same report—
same speech, same Smith :
The Prime Minister had posed as the authorised repre-
sentative of Australia in England, and iiad whined there
AS THOUGH WE WERE PAUPERS SEEKING SOME CHARITABLE
CONCESSION.
How the supercilious Smith would jeer at
O’Malley if the owner of the Large Hat accused
anybody of whining bumptiously, and being a
crushed, abject, and aggressive pauper who tried
to dictate to 45,000,000 people ! The trouble
about Smith is that he learns nothing and doesn’t
really remember anything.
A TEMPORARY ECLIPSE .
JOE (to elector): “ It's utter nonsense, all this
fuss about a little thing like that. Now you
can see things in their true relationship .”
President O’Dwyer, of the Victorian
A.N.A.’s Board of Directors, says that the Asso-
ciation hasn’t made up its mind whether Aus-
tralia should have a navy of its own instead of
continuing to give a subsidy to Gt. Britain; “it
wished first to hear the views of all their leading
men on the issues.” From which it is to be pre-
sumed that the Australian Natives’ Association
hasn’t got any opinions of its own, but wants to
hear what Willie Kelly, Joe Cook, and other
great naval experts and Australian nationalists
have to say on the subject. If the Association is
ready to be led round like this on the end of a
string, it might at least be honest and call itself
the Australian Native-Bear Association.
A SONG OF THANKSGIVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is certain that, before long, Australia will commence
to borrow again for works of development. Such a policy
will not only be wise, but necessary, since our own capital
will not multiply quickly enough to supply our need. . . .
Our only concern need be that Great. Britain shall con-
tinue to be tne richest country in the world and the
greatest trading nation—supplying us with capital at the
lowest rates, buying our produce at the highest rates,
sending us immigrants, and defending our trade.— The
Whole Duty of Australia, as summed up (for the
978,297 th time) in a typical “ leading article” in the
Argus of 9/7(07.
The Lord be praised, Who gave us sense, and gives us eyes
I to read ! '
Our gratitude should be immense—as boundless as our
need.
For years we labored all in vain and dwelt in dire distress,
But now we raise a joyful strain, led by the Freetrade
press !
There’s a German fleet in the cold North Sea that hangs
1 on England’s flanks,
And its "main Objective ” seems to be a raid on England’s
banks;
They are building ships of the Dreadnought type—on the
average, two a year—
And no doubt they’ll fight when the time is ripe, and of
course they’ll fight out here !
We owe a lot to the dear old land—three hundred millions
odd!—•
And the Argus gives us to understand it is due to the act
of God.
So, though disloyal traitors groan for a country held in
thrall,
It’s time we raised another loan at the Si£n of the Old
. Three Ball.
Tliere’s untold money in Lombard-street, to be had from
German Jews;
But much I fear that German fleet holds most bur*
glarious views.
So what Australians ought to try, as the best and wisest
plan,
Is—before that plundering fleet draws nigh— to harrow
all they can!
For—don’t forget—it’s the dear old land (some call it the
“ dear old sod”)
That’s mother and uncle in one to us, and also the “act.
of God.”
To the beat of the heart of the German Jew Australia’s
heart responds—
We are bound to it by the I O U—and a number of other
bbnds.
And this is the lesson we’ve got to learn, and then we
can rest content:
The safety of Britain's our sole concern—and money at
four per cent.
And as long as the Japs are good to us, and keep from
our Austral seas,
We can send our interest regularly along with the eggs
and cheese !
Now the Lord be praised who gives us sense—and also
ears to hear!
When the Argus from its eminence shows our duty plain
and clear.
We humbly bow our heads and heartfelt gratitude express
For the patriotic counsel of the Tory Freetrade press 1
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


ik.%.
Ladies’ Light Douro Calf Lace
Boot, Stout Soles, Broad
Heels, 16/6. Post Paid
1716.
OUT OF
THE
WET!
In . . •
CALLAGHAN BOOTS
and SHOES.
Men’s Stout Black Calf Lace
Boot, leather lined,
Derby cut, a real
Shooting Boot, 30/-
Post free
31/-
CALLAGHAN BOOTS
AND SHOES
will take in “Out of the Wet ” (as the shark does the bather) any feet that are asking for
the comfort of a dry, cosy home, that is capable of withstanding the severest assaults of the
severest days in this winter season.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS AND SHOBS are real Wet-Resisters, and wear-resisters
too—and yet so pliable as to afford the greatest possible comfort to the feet.
Our New Style Book Posted Free. Goods Exchanged or Money Refunded.
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A. <& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SQAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels;
Trade Marks, Rights, eta
P. <& B. PAINT
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
THE SQUATTER AND FARMER are often at their wits’ end with
tanks, sheep troughs, and other ironwork which have become rusty. They
MUST HAVE AN ANTI-CORROSIVE PAINT, and to overcome the
difficulty P. & B. Paint will resist corrosion and strong alkalies under most
trying conditions.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'dont
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JAMES SANDY & 00.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Jtalodemia-
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
F. WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers.
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Makes you look manly
1
Before
After
In One
Jar of .
Capillarine !
In one jar of the famous Capillar] nb is con-
centrated the essence of many years’ experience
of an eminent hair specialist. Capillarine will
produce a full-grown moustache in wonderfully
quick time.
Price 10/6 Post Free Anywhere, under Sealed Cover.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 35 years.
Every Home Needs
a Genuine
Edison Phonograph.
TTT will play the music for an impromptu
dance, and you can hear Vaude-
ville, Comic Opera, Minstrels, or any
other form of vocal or instrumental
entertainments right in your own home.
Whether you invite your friends to an
evening party, or they just drop in
unexpectedly, the Edison Phonograph
completely “ fills the bill.”
ryfhgjghjhjhj
At your bidding, the Phonograph will tell the funniest
stories, sing the latest popular songs, or play the finest
operatic selections.
And last, but not least, you can make splendid
records of your own or your friend’s voice.
Ask us to send you the latest printed matter, and the
name of your nearest dealer, who will be pleased to
play you some selections—free of charge.
National Phonograph Co.
of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. 8., 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
Do not be misled or prejudiced
by the distressing noises of in-
ferior imitations. There is only
one genuine phonograph—the
Edison —and you will find Mr.
Edison’s signature—as shown
here—printed on all our produc-
tions.
TRADE
IAOTI~
MARK :


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
lartd Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
» Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, STDNIJY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
' .Maori land and N.S.W. Rugby teams met at
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday afternoon last in
perfect football weather. A cloudless slcy, warm sun-
shine, a bracing- breeze, and a crowd of over 50,000 people
supplied the setting. That crowd was worth going far
to see. It was jammed and crammed, and when it moved
one saw an undulating, wave-like motion of a mass of
mixed color that scintillated like shot silk in the wintry
sunshine. N.S.W. led the way on to the field. Behind
came Maoriland’s representatives, who suddenly faced
round towards the deadheads, among whom was the
Writer, and chanted a hoarse Maori war rune, waving
their arms, making ferocious faces, and thrusting- out
their tongues like tohungas on a drunk. After their
little pantomime was over, they proceeded to the task of
betting on the spinning coin. N.S.W. won, and left the
islanders to face the sun.
The N.S.W. team played a magnificent game
in the first half, scoring tiie only points (three) made
during that section. At the beginning of the second half
the N.S. Welshmen were still playing well, and bustling
the Maorilanders badlj r . But it was obvious that their
strength was failing. They had played a fast game
and it had told. To make matters worse; many of
them tried to stay their flagging energies with whisky
in the interval, and the only di-ink a footballer should
touch is egg-nog, with nothingmore than a dash of sherry
m it. The strength of the N.S.W. men ebbed away like
water, and the Maorilanders were still comparatively
fresh. The weaker the Walers grew the slower thej-
played, and the prancing Blacks bustled them so that
they actually failed to find the touchline when kicking,
and booted the leather blindly into the hands of their
enemies. It was a shocking sight to see that team going
to pieces. The Blacks swooped down on it in its
helplessness, and in rapid succession scored three tries,
one of which they converted, thus winning by 11 to three.
Strangely enough, all the passing charges were
made by the N.S.W. men, who three times got going in mag-
nificent style. But their passes came to nothing. Firstly,
they were too slow, and the distance between the runners
was too short, and they were taken by men who did not
seem to have the slightest idea of cutting in. Waddell,
who twice crossed the line, had hard luck. The first
time he touched down, but as he did so he was bowled
over against the corner flag. The second occasion saw
him dodge all-comers, and then run into touch in goal.
The first try was perfectly correct, notwithstanding that
the referee gave it against the home team. In the long
run the referee’s mistake made no difference in the game.
Even had it been allowed the Maorilanders must have
won. They might have won by a bigger margin, but
apparently the pace had told on them as well as on their
weaker-fibred opponents, and they were quite satisfied
with the game as it was.
The third try gained by the Maorilanders was
an example of the team’s alertness. A Maorilander
having carried the ball into touch, and rolled over sud-
denly sprang to his feet, and threw the ball into the
hands of another Black before anybody had lined up on
the N.S.W. side. There was no one marking him, and he
just darted over the unprotected goal line, and touched
down, while the N.S.W. men were trooping up to the
line-out. One outstanding feature of the islanders’ plav
was their remarkable coolness. They took the ball
caught passes, or made dribbling sweeps with a quiet
unobtrusiveness that kept the bulk of the N.S.W. team
in ignorance of what was really happening. But on the
whole, their play was not up to Maoriland standard, while
that of N.S.W. was much ahead of that of any inter-State
team writer has previously seen. Dix at full-back was
ideal, and the forwards, to the last man, played a magnifi-
cent game. Messenger got no opportunities—it was a
forward game right through, ana he and his fellow-
backs never had a show to distinguish themselves.
Summed up, the Maorilanders were still suflFer-
ing from the effects of their voyage, and the N.S.W.
team played much the better game right through the
mateh. It was beaten, but it played with shockingly
hard luck. One try which was fairly and squarely
obtained was disallowed owing to the referee being
unable to see clearly, another was lost by Waddell run-
ning into touch in goal, a mere accident. But, man for
man, the Walers have not the stamina of the Maori-
landers, who have mostly worked hard in the open air.
How to Beat the All Blacks ” was a fruitful
subject of discussion in Sydney papers recently. Well,
judging by the first match, Thk Bulletin would say:
bustle their five-eights and halves, and use the touch-line
all the time. It was not till Dix had been temporarily
ruined by getting someone’s knee in his stomach, and the
fainting kickers were too exhausted to find the line, that
the almost equally tired Maorilanders managed to break
through.
» * . »
In British Association football in Sydney the
surprise of Saturday afternoon was the tremendous
defeat of Balmain by Rozelle, the figures being six to
one. Still there was nothing to crow over. Balmain
played the first half short-handed, and filled up with
emergencies during the second half. Even with emer-
gencies picked up at random Balmain was able to stem
the tide of disaster in the second half, and managed to
get a goal. Another surprise was the escape of the
Navy. Truly it didn’t win, but it escaped the usual
walloping by making a draw with Petersham, and
with one goal each at that. The Navy is coming
on. The Glebe-Ultimo struggle was well-sustained
on both sides. With superior weight and combination
Glebe attacked from start to finish. It met with a stern
resistance on the part of Ultimo, but a defensive battle
is always a losing fight at football, and although, through
over-anxiety, Glebe lost its head several times, it managed
to win by three to one. Pyrmont had the bye, and by
virtue of the fact retained its position at the head of the
competition with 17 points. Ultimo, in spite of its de-
feat, still heads Glebe with one point, the figures being
14 and 13 respectively, while Balmain and Rozelle are
level with 15! each. Petersham and Navy are six and
three, in that order.
» * * «
The Australian football game has apDarently
made good progress in Queensland, for the N.S.W. team
was wiped out in the northern capital by 76 points to 40.
A most unholy licking. The Cornstalks were defeated
from the start, Queensland scoring 23 points in the first
five minutes, while the Walers recorded only a solitary
one. The Bananalanders were all tall men ; they towered
above the Cornstalks and took all the marks by reason of
their superior height. Half-time found Queensland lead-
ing by 40 points to nine. N.S.W. continued to attack
gamely, but was overweighted, out-paced, and out-
kicked. The only redeeming feature of the N.S.W. play
was the energy with which the men came up again after
each reverse.
* « » *
The possibility that was here hinted at last week
duly transpired when Geelong flattered its supporters
and promised to get into the Vic. League football finals by
defeating the erst invincible St. Kilda. The defeat was
chiefly due to Saints’ wretched kicking', though the
Geelongers’ strenuous finish accounted for some of their
success. This was the more notable as the match was
fimshed;in semi-darkness, owing to the exceedingly gradual
habits of Tait’s trains. It was a pleasing, friendly dis-
cussion all through, and though a lop-sided game was
promised in the first quarter, when Saints notched three
goals hve behinds to three behinds, the Sleepy Hollow
men thereafter woke up and steadily reduced the deficit.
Starting the last quarter four points to the bad, they
pressed the attack strenuously, and though the Tricolors
added 10 points to their score the others notched 19
which gave them a five point victory—nine goals five
behinds to six goals 18 behinds. The Carlton-’Roy argu-
ment was hopeless from start to finish, the dry-rot
that has attacked the Maroons making them easy
victims. The big Carlton battlers ate up all that was in
the trough to the tune of 104 points to 26. As the pre-
vious Melbourne v. ’Wood disturbance had resulted in an
exciting win for the big club’s ’bailers by 46 points to 34
the return match was expected to give good value for the
spectators “ sprats,” but, alas ! the Red Caps were minus
j their best men, and after a temporary spurt,
settled down to be mere chopping blocks. It was fair
footban, but the tally—’Wood 15-11 to Melbourne’s
2-10—hardly denotes a match. There was too much of
the elephant and the flea about it. Essendon, which is
now so little the “same old Essendon” that it is
mostly a different team every week, tackled South,
but could do no good against the weighty men
whose god is caterer Skinner, and departed to its pro-
miscuous abodes 12 points to the bad. The Williamstown-
I ootscray Association debate attracted a beautiful
crowd, for it promised excitement, both legitimate and
otherwise, but the long lead speedily established by
lown dashed all ’Scray’s hopes, and by the time its
half-time score of 47 points to seven had been varied to
59 to 28 the bell rang, and ’Scray’s cognomen was the
tning that sticks to your boots. Preston gave another
dilettante goal-kicking exhibition to match last week’s—
four goals, no behinds—but, as Richmond simultaneously
booted 16 goals 21 behinds, this accurate shooting was of
little advantage. Brunswick’s 18, having apparently
learnt wisdom from their League coach, unexpectedly
surprised a week’s growth out of top-notch Ports, and
returned to their bricky suburb with a score of 92 to 29
to console them for many previous defeats. If it were
not .1° J ate * n the season, there would be Premiership
possibilities about Brunswick. As it is, only six Associa-
tion and five League clubs have hopes of being among the
final four—and none of them knows what a day may
bring forth. J J
* * * *
Apparently there is something in the atmo-
sphere of haughty St. Kilda that induces a hankering
after bloodshed. It is but a few weeks since the South v
Saints’ League match developed into a disturbance that
evoked unfavorable comment all round. Next week the
Carlton a. Saints’ row was almost as willing. Then the
Wednesday League teams, Saints and ’Wood, had a
pleasing m&lee, and in their haste forgot all about foot-
ball, and thought they were Burns and Squires. Last
week the same Wednesday Leaguers, in the course of the
controversy, Saints v. South, got into holts at various
stages of the uproar. A strenuous umpire managed to
stave off a general engagement till three-quarter time
but, after that, the debate became so cordial that the
public joined in. A barracker, noticing one of his pets
sustain an elbow-jab, lost what brains he possessed,
jumped the fence, and landed a South player
one where it was least expected. Half the crowd
promptly swarmed on the ground and smote all
heads indiscriminately—the individual who caused the
trouble getting the whole of his share. The one lone
bobby ” had a really lively 10 minutes, and the umpire
had his hands so full that he could have done with more
of them. Finally, a posse arrived from outside and
sorte « the rioters out, but, unfortunately, arrested
nobody. The “game’’was resumed in semi-darkness,
and is understood to have been won by South, with 38
points to Saints’ 29 ; but a protest is threatened. Mean-
while, the bloodstains are being washed off the ball.
■* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union has bought
Epping Recreation Ground, where the racecourse used
to be, for the elegant sum of £15,000. This means that
tne British Association people will have to move on, and
they.are likely to get a new ground out Annandale way.
All the same, writer does not think that, from a playing
standpoint, the purchase is a good one. As a speculation
in real estate, it is no doubt superb, as land will increase
in value very much out that way during the next few
years. But it is not a Rugby' centre ; Association and
the Australian game have a strong hold out Annandale
way, and the chances are that for many a long day' to
come Rugby at Epping will draw very small crowds
indeed.
* * * *
The Bulletin learns from private letters that
when the last mail left England there was grave doubt at
Marylebone Clubhouse whether any team will come to
Australia this year. Someone, whose identity is not hard
to guess, has turned a perfect stream of letters on to
members of the club, informing them that the Board of
Control is not by any means firmly established, and that
the Players and Sydney Cricket Ground trustees are in a
state of active revolt against its tyranny'. It was this
Stinking Fish correspondence that caused the Marylebone
Club, for the first time in the history of Anglo-Australian
cricket, to demand a £lO,OOO guarantee. The report
of the further trouble raised by the Cricket Ground
trustees has caused some of the best cricketers to recon-
sider the matter of joining the XI. Jackson is strongly
averse to coming out till the Australians have settled
their internal troubles, and other crack players are of a
like mind. So, also for the first time, the position of
captain of the English XI. for Australia is practically
going begging. Said that Maclaren will be offered the
job when he returns from India. The Players and Syd-
ney Cricket Ground trustees are to be congratulated‘on
their work ; still we have their word for it that they
have made all this trouble in “ the best interests of
cricket ”!
* * * *
Of the 16 more or less seasoned jumpers that
started for the G.N. Steeple last Saturday, five fell in the
race, and one (Cardinal) lost his rider without coming to
grief. Seeing that two of the fallen were Decoration (the
hero of last year) and The Trick, who had won the Maiden
Steeple over the same course on the previous Saturday',
it must be admitted that the proviso “bar accidents”
is a mighty big reservation to make in discussing the
chances of a steeplechase field. With six horses put out
of the struggle, and two of them favorites, it was
left for the 20 to 1 chance, Divham, to win easily
from Maine, Boomerang, and Mayo. Boomerang carried
a lot of money on the strength of the mistaken
notion that he was “bound to win if he stood up,” but
either Maine or Mayo would have been a more surprising
turn-up for the bookies than Divham was. The winner is
a good rough cut of a ’chaser, and he had two or three
respectable performances to his credit before he went out
for the big event. But if he were pitted against Beilis in
a three-mile race on the flat, it would be odds on Beilis
giving him three stone. Divham is a ’chaser rather than
a racer, and a lot of people were glad to find that strength
counted for more than “ quality” in Saturday’s struggle.
* * * *
Dickenson, who rode Cardinal in the Grand
National and parted company' with that gallant grey
gelding ere they had gone half a mile, must have dropped
his judgment when he lost his seat. Cardinal was none the
worse for the blunder he had made at the second obstruc-
tion, but his chance of winning the race if remounted was
practically nil. The jockey should have led him back to
the “birdcage” at once, that he might be presently
brought out for the last race of the day'—a two-miles
steeple, which looked a pretty good thing for the veteran.
Instead of making the best of a bad job, Dickenson re-
mounted, and set off in pursuit of the field. The cheap
applause of the multitude urged him on his way. He
was two furlongs behind the leaders, but he bustled along
for all he was worth, getting as much work out of the
outdistanced horse in the National as might have sufficed
to win the minor steeplechase an hour later.
* * * *
Of 16 starters in Y.R.C. G.N. Steeple, Satur-
day, six fell. Year previous seven out of 19 came down ;
and starters and falls were exactly the same 12 months
before. Brush fences proved perfectly safe. The falls
with one exception, were caused by the recently
straightened post-and-rail jumps.
* * * m
Despite that there are only four jumps, and
easy ones, in each round of Canterbury Park Club’s
circus-ring- track, three (Loch Lala, Cambooya 11. and
C.K.) of nine starters for Saturday’s hurdles bumped
the ground with such force that Loch Lala had to be
destroyed, and Cambooya will probably never race again.
Gambooya’s rider (H. Phillips) had a bad experience ; his
face was badly cut, and he hadn’t recovered conscious-
ness up to Monday night. W. Crimp, on Loch Lala,
sustained a fractured collar bone. Still this sort of thing
is necessary to improve the breed of horses !
* * * *
The size of horse-racing in Victoria is disclosed
through returns supplied to the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment in obedience to recent legislation. Total revenue
exceeds £200,000 yearly. The V.R.C. alone has paid tax
on close to £50,000.
Tasmanian season just closing has seen 27 clubs
hold race meetings on 52 days, in connection with which
prize-money didn’t reach £13,000. The biggest winner
was Mr. T. Gatenby, owner of Bribery. And the dizzy
pile he made was only £760.
* * * *
On the same day that Australia was hit on the
point by the news that a person named Bill —(No, Bill
must be kept out of this par). On that day Australia
took another sport out of England’s hands, and trans-
ferred the world’s centre of lawn tennis to this continent.
Norman Brookes runner-up for the All-England
championship last year—has this year won the
event with ease, winning every match three sets
straight with the exception of two, one against
Behr, the runner-up for the American championship, and
the other against the Maorilander, A. F. Wilding. Thus
there was no tennis player in England who could win even
one set in a five-set match with the Australian, while an
American and a Maorilander were each able to score two
sets against him. The retirement of Doherty from tennis,
and his failure to defend the All-England championship,
which he has held so long, is alleged to be due to his
sudden infatuation for golf. He has hit a moving ball so
long and so accurately that he has got tired ; now he is
trying to hit one sitting. It doesn’t seem sport. But
the chances are that if Doherty had defended he would
have gone down ; he has been beaten recently in Europe
by Wilding, and even by English players. Brookes must
be placed in a class by himself as the greatest lawn-tennis
player yet produced. His terrific “ American” serves, and
his capacity to impart any rotation he likes upon the ball,
have won him his position. It is the brains behind the rac-
quet for tennis has within the last five years become as
scientific a game as billiards. At the same meeting
that saw England lose the singles championship,
Brookes and Wilding easily secured the doubles
championship, and an American girl took the
ladies’ championship. A few other championships
that England has recently lost are the covered
court championship of London, the covered court
championship of France, and a heap of other champion-
ships upon the European continent usually regarded as
England’s perquisites— all of which have been taken by
Wilding. Should the Australasian representatives win
the Davis International Oup—and at present writing it
looks a gift for us—it must be fought for next year in
Australia or M.L. ; so that there is every chance of
Melbourne becoming the Mecca of English and American
champions. The older countries must come to us in
quest of the ashes. So even if Bill—but Bill is being
sternly kept out of this par.
* * « *
Mr. George Cramp now sits in the uneasy chair
of the secretary to the N.S. W. League of Wheelmen,
Fighting Mac having formally resigned last week. Cramp
is a quiet, gentlemanly fellow whom the crooks think
they can bustle easily enough. But there was an ugly
light in his eye on the night he took office that causes
The Bulletin to suspect him of much more backbone
than the crooks dream of. The difference between Fight-
ing Mac and Cramp is beyond description. Mclntosh,
medium sized, strongly built, with bright beady eves and
an expression of affable independence, was an ideal man
for the position. When he met a gentlemanly cyclist his
politeness was fearful to see ; he was gentleness and
urbanity itself. When he met one of the other sort—
well, there was no game at which Mclntosh couldn’t go
one better. He wears a very soft mo.—a brief mossy mo.
that pencils the top of his mouth elegantly and effect-
ively enough without giving an opponent a chance
of a grip. Cramp, on the other hand, wears a spiky
mo., heavily waxed at the ends, and The Bulletin
begs of him, for his own sake and for the sake of the
sport committed to his care, to shave it off. If he doesn’t,
some wheeling bounder will one night give him his choice
of passing some swindle or being blinded instanter with
the ends of his own moustache. A moustache like that
is a source of deadly danger to anyone who has to keep
the professional wheelist honest against his own wish.
The appointment of a new secretary was like
the breath of new life to the disqualified riders. They came
with a rush—practically the whole Association seemed to
be applying for reinstatement. And why not? That
whirling fighter Mclntosh was out of the secretaryship.
They reckoned he was too busy making money catering
to bother about their miserable little ten-pound swin-
dles. So they came trooping in with their little applica-
tions, to find Mclntosh still on the council, and aggressive
as ever. “No mercy for the ringleaders,” was his
policy, and he carried it. The axe is sharp, and the arm
behind it willing as ever. And in a little while it will
bring proofs that it is the only way to make cycling boom.
Most of the crooks and purse-cutters are out of the game
now, and if the League keeps them out, the game will
probably revive by the time next season comes round;
arid when it does, the awful example made of the ring-
leaders of the disqualified Association will act as a solemn
warning.
* * * *
“X ” : What a dead silence has fallen on the
proposed visit to Australia of cyclist Major Taylor since
he has been severely drubbed in Europe by the cracks !
The negro was to revolutionise cycling in Australia next
year ; but Taylor will need to look after his legs and his
No. 13 if he happens along, or the second-raters will beat
him.
* * * *
It turns out that the retirement of Victorian
bicycle handicapper Broadbent was due to a row with
his League Council over the handicapping of a Sydney
rider named Quinlan. The Council asked for an explana-
tion. Broadbent told it. to mind its own business, and
denied its right to interfere with his handicaps. It
must either swallow them whole or turn them down en
masse.. The Council could take its choice, and he laid his
handicaps and his resignation on the table together.
The Council took the resignation. A new handicapper is
now advertised for, salary £2OO per annum.
» * » *
On Friday, last week, Borghese and his Italian
car had reached Tomsk, in the course of the Pekin-
Paris motor ride, having done 2420 miles in 31 days—
an average of 80 miles a day. He is now confronted
with 1100 miles of desert plain and hideous sw'amps,
which lie between Tomsk and Omsk. This part of the
track is not a track at all in summer, traffic
being suspended till the winter frosts have
made it possible to drag a vehicle over the
bogs. The only guide is the telegraph line, and as
Borghese is alone, and almost sure to be stuck up, the
betting is in favor of the other three cars, which are
assisting each other 660 miles behind, overtaking him
before he reaches Omsk. This writer has doubts about
any of the cars getting through.
* * * *
The Canadian lacrosse team has arrived in Bris-
bane, and will play the northern State on Saturday. In
the meantime N.S.VV. men are practising hard, and if the
N.S.W. Kangaroo doesn’t down the Canadian Fox at his
own pastime it will not be for the want of careful prepara-
tion and steady application. If our Rugby teams were
trained together the way the lacrosse men are, we should
be saved many debacles.
* * * m
The beautiful bowling green that the late John
Young created at Kentville, North Annandfile (Sydney),
and on which the Annandale Club used to play, will soon
he a th l ng of the past. The estate is to be cut up and
sold for building sites, and the lawn, where the Father of
Bowls made merry and dispensed regal hospitality, will
be handed over to the jerry builder and land speculator.
This means the death of the Annandale Club, which, in
y>ew of the impending disaster, is preparing to commit
the happy despatch. Seems a pity the Club could not
have secured the green, which is one of the best in
Australia.
* * * »
The law of N.S.W. has been making a pretty
exhibition of itself of late. N.S.W. Parliament was called
together, apparently, to amend the Anti-Gambling Act,
so that ruffians could legally bet on coursing matches.
And while the ink was still wet on the parchment the
police raided a patch of scrub out Canterbury way, and
arrested seven out of about 30 men who were watching
some roosters in conflict. This paper doesn’t hold a brief
for cock-fighting, but it considers it a less brutal sport
than coursing, in which the excitement is derived from
the brutal spectacle of a helpless little animal being torn
to pieces by a large one. The cocks at least meet on equal
terms, and the victim is not first subjected to a process
of terrifying torture. There is nothing more horrible
than being hunted for one’s life, and it is a thousand
pities that the ruffians who voted for the encouragement
of bestial cruelty could not be chased by the votaries
of it.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: I said Squires would prove to
be the cove who shook the world. Well, so he did—when
he hit it with the back of his head. Certainly, Australia
was never so seriously shaken up by the failure of any
individual athlete. If the papers had said that a gloom
was east over Melbourne by Willie’s failure to hit the other
fellow in consequence of the splenetic rashness with which
the other fellow hit him, they would have told the solemn
and simple truth. Never have I seen Melbourne thrown
into anything approaching gloom, or mourning under
the remotest resemblance to a pall, because of the
demise of a knight or an alderman, but when Willie Squires
and Willie’s reputation fell with a dull, sickening
bump, Melbourne sorrowed openly It moaned
aloud, and misery sat in the market-place. For
a time citizens clung to the hope that it
was all a terrible mistake, that the names had been
inverted, that America w r as playing a mean game of
spoof upon us, and had changed Willie and Tommy
in the cot at the hospital. Even now, when there
remains no shadow of a reason to doubt that
Mr. Burns hit Mr. Squires the £3OOO punch,
Melbourne declines to believe that the Australian
champion has shown his true form. Alas !it is plain
Australia must be concent with a back seat for some
time to come. Although I cherish great expectations of
Squires, I believe he has been beaten on his demerits.
• * * *
“ Pongo.” : “Micawber’s” statements (Bulle-
tin, 11/7/’O7) are not correct. So far from saying at the
reception (in Sydney) to negro pug Jack Johnson, that
“ Squires is no champion, but he is the pick of a bad lot,
and may be depended upon to do his best,” Larry Foley
said Squires was the best natural fighter he ever saw, and
would beat them all in America ; and, many times subse-
quently, Foley tipped Squires a sure winner over Burns—
especially in an interview with a Star man, published a
week or so before the battle. It was Mr. Corbett, of
the Sydney Referee, who made the remarks
“ Micawber ” attributes to Foley.
* * * *
Jobn Wren has received another set-back over his
idol, Bill Squires. Manager Reynolds cabled, in reply to
Wren’s offer for a return contest with Tommy Burns, that
Squires has refused to meet the Canadian 'heavy again.
Also he doesn’t want to meet anybody else, it seems. He
wants to go out of the business. The damage to his tail
has been so extensive that it requires a rest (in splints).
Wren is considerably riled, and has notified Reynolds
that Mister Squires must hang to his contract. Before
leaving Australia, the then intrepid Billiam contracted to
meet anybody whom Wren could induce to face him.
* * * *
Mr. Von der Luft complains—with what seems
to be good cause—that the squeaking bookmakers of the
Victorian Club (Melbourne 1 made an altogether unjustifi-
able disturbance about his having been lightly handi-
capped for their Billiard Tournament. It is true that he
proclaimed his own good opinion of himself by subse-
quently entering for the amateur championship compe-
tition, but it is now evident that, in winning one of the
championship test games against a man (A. E. Brooks)
who w'as handicapped much less favorably in the tourna-
ment aforesaid, Von der Luft did nothing inconsistent
with the “ form ” he had shown at the Club, when he was
admittedly out of practice. Brooks was quite out of
“ form ” when Von der Luft beat him, and the winner in
his next test game was decisively knocked out. As for
the objection raised to his being “ thrown into ” the
tournament, he was the first to suggest that he should be
rehandicapped. He never offered to back himself for
any amount, large or small. The “books ” talked of him
as a good thing, and some very short odds were quoted
—but nobody backed him. Finding that the rules of the
tournament didn’t permit of his being rehandicapped, Von
der Luft finally decided to stand on his right rather than
withdraw. He wanted to play, anyhow, and when the
protesting bookies at last persuaded their secretary and
committee to cancel the original tournament handicap,
and invite entries for a new one, Von der Luft entered
himself again, instead of claiming first prize for a “ walk
over ” in the previous event to which he was legally en-
titled. The “ weight” given him in the new tournament
appears to be far too heavy.
* * * »
There is a peck of trouble brewing with the
owners, trainers and jockeys, whose disqualifications
have been removed by the A.J.C. Having declared them
no longer unfit to live on the course, the A.J.C. has
refused to license them that they may do the thing the
club has declared them fit to do. And now the question
arises : Has the club the power and authority to act as
it has done ? The club says it has, the other fellows say
it has not, and there is some pretty litigation ahead. The
contention is that the new Act has deprived the club of
the power of refusing to issue licenses, unless the appli-
cant has some sentence of disqualification standing
against him.
* * * *
Betting at Sydney suburban courses is so
cramped now that punters might easily back three
winners in six races, and finish the day losers. At New-
castle last week one man put £250 on Fanshawe, and,
though the best price available at any time was 3 to 1,
heaps more money at 5 to 2 and 2 to 1 might easily have
been gathered before the flag fell. In Sydney that £250
alone would have shortened the price to at least even
money.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
purely vegetable preparation, compounded on a
scientific principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines of children and adults.
They contain specific properties which destroy
the worms, but cause no injury to the stomach or
bowels, and do not weaken the system. The
Pellets are prepared in the form of a confection
or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell, but
on the contrary inspire children to take them as
they would an ordinary lozenge. The symptoms
of the presence of worms are fully explained, and
directions for use in every box. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores, or from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney. Price Is. 6d.
per box (six boxes Bs.).*


KUGELMANN’S
V
©
©
B.
2GV.
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP,
"Beauty's
Aid/'
FR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt o/
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kug'elmann's Pare Herbal Skin-
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at Sts. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains,
The most Fashion*
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Building's heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Good Cuisine, and
Healthful Amuse-
5
-
ments. Motor Cars and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone
4349-
Weight
when you are buying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built of
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong!
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Art Catalogue. Dept *
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings
Collins St., MELBOURNE
WORKS : RE IJ DITCH, ENG.
Sauce
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Gloser Settlement,
IN ALL CLASSES OF
COUNTRY LANDS.
PUBLIC NOTICE
To meet the growing demands from people who desire
to settle on the Land,
HARDIE & GORMAN
have opened
A Metropolitan Central Office
for the Sale of COUNTRY PROPERTIES.
In order to facilitate the work of inspection, HARDIE
and GORMAN will open an OFFICE RECORD, so as to
be able to supply the fullest particulars of AREA, SOIL,
CLIMATE, RAINFALL, FACILITIES TO MARKET,
NEARNESS TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, TIMBER SUPPLY,
CREEK and RIVER FRONTAGES, and generally what
the lands are best suited for, etc., etc., and a PRINTED
REGISTER will be issued quarterly.
Specially in connection with the above, HARDIE
and GORMAN have secured the services of Mr. C. H.
GORMAN, who for years past was Manager of the
GOVERNMENT EXPERIMENTAL FARM at WOLLONG-
BAR, on the RICHMOND RIVER.
AGENCIES WILL BE FORMED IN ALL COUNTRY
DISTRICTS, and everything will be done in the most
comprehensive way to supply the wants of Purchasers,
and at the same time give such detail information as may
justify inspection.
OWNERS OF COUNTRY ESTATES
are requested to send particulars of all Properties “ FOR
SALE,” or FARMS “TO LET” to 133 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, at the earliest possible moment.
Whilst giving - special attention to the sale
BY PRIVATE CONTRACT
of separate Farms, or Blocks in Properties which have
been subdivided, HARDIE and GORMAN would be
pleased to receive instructions to conduct
AUCTION SALES
of NEW PROPERTIES suitable for Subdivision into
Farms, etc., or to report on the proposals to subdivide
before any Plan of Subdivision is arrived at, and arrange-
ments may be made to sell with other Auctioneers.
All Communications to be Addressed to
HARDIE AND GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SEE OUR CATALOGUE^
where.
Of Novelties, Curious Musical Instru-
ments, Cheap Sheet Music, Violins, Accor-
dions, Mouth Organs, Harp Zithers, Home
Electric Medical Batteries, Electric Light
Pocket Lamps and Scarf Pins, Rubber
Type Outfits, Name Brooches, &c., &c.
Sole Agents Wilson’s Ear X)rums and
Ramey’s Medicator. Write to-day (mention
this paper). Catalogue posted free any-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
SONVId X93JLS
If you are considering' the purchase of
a piano* and will but compare the
STECK with any other instrument you
have in mind as being of fine quality,
you will quickly learn the reason for
the enthusiasm of musicians over the
wonderful merits of the STECK*
The individuality of this Piano, so far as it can be described
in words, consists of a certain richness and mellowness of tone
—a sympathetic, singing voice, as distinguished from those
pianos characterised chiefly for brilliancy, but lacking in the
deeper and subtler qualities which art demands* Wherever
there are musicians of true culture, professional or amateur,
this piano is known for its enduring qualities, its generous
singing tone, its beautiful harmonious soul.
When the Grand Nibelungen Orchestra, at Beyreuth, desired to
tender Richard Wagner a special token of their affection, it was a
STECK PIANO that was selected for the gift. Wagner placed the
STECK PIANO in the first rank, his opinion being shared by his
friend Frank Liszt:
“ The fine STECK PIANO which / have obtained! is
everywhere acknowledged to be excellent. My
great friend, Frank Liszt, expressed the liveliest
satisfaction after he had played upon it.
“(Sgd.) RICHARD WAGNER.’
The STECK PIANO is manufactured by the PIANOLA CO., in
the largest piano-producing factories in the world, making last year
a little over 16,000 instruments. The prices range from £5B to £l2O.
We should be glad if you will call and see the STECK, or, failing
that, write for Catalogue “ P.”
THE PIANOLA C 0», 357 george-st., Sydney.
Propy. Ltd.
Branches at 185 Oollins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-St., Brisbane ; 38 King William-St., Adelaide.
m
Real Shaving Comfort
SHAVING COMPORT is what .you’ll get day after day
all the time with the celebrated Plum Razor.
Try it against any other Razor and note the difference.
The PLUM RAZOR Costs 10/6 Post Free Anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair In Handsome Case, 30/-
Post Free to any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
ISLE OF MAN MOTOR RACES.
&
JriraeS
?Vr£s
te O
is
ANOTHER SWEEPING VICTORY
FOR CONTINENTAL TYRES.
Following close upon their triumph in the Irish Reliability Trials,
CONTINENTALS have scored a big victory in the Tourist Trophy
Competitions in the Isle of Han. The contest for the “GRAPHIC”
TROPHY” resulted as follows:
FIRST ...
SECOND
THIRD ...
FOURTH
FIFTH ...
CONTINENTAL TYRES
CONTINENTAL TYRES
CONTINENTAL TYRES
CONTINENTAL TYRES
CONTINENTAL TYRES
In the Tourist Trophy and Heavy Touring Car Races, CONTINENTALS
established a new record for Durability, not a single car fitted with thlfi
make of Tyre being delayed through tyre troubles.


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl'and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
16ct. Gold, 15s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gcnt.’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Sih tr-
eated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
£3,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s, 60s. Solid Gold,
, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6 10s £7 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bet. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well- Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4fin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 25s, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set. Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold. UOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10».
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold, Dia.nond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£6 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
get. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire. 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
rA
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 8s 6d, K's 6d>
Silver Pilled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s 6d.
A. SAUKDERSv
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trow 1
Charm,. 3s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS;
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.-
T ’ -
i/
Lady’s Purse and- Card 1 Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,.
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d*.
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 205..
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s Cd.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Ueat Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x S|in, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct- Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
get Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
. A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Duck”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6cL
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
Bet. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15a.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted,! os6d
smaller 8s 6d. ot *L er
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Ax SAUNDERS.:
Shaving Brush and!
Soap Holder, Solid,
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s6d, 10s 6d, ..
12b 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
'Get. Gold Signet Ring,
20s: 15ct. Gold, £2;
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
Curling T3ftg;- Solid ’Silver' iHftt
long, 3s Gd!
lies Eichly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6Jin
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2,
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
Gent. !
Watches,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £S,
10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
| K
■ 1
A. SAUNDERS.
#ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9et. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
iKct. Gold, £2 10s;
ISct. Gold. £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BuoKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6d.
°“ i H “ dle ' m
Sydney's Leading: & owellen
Silversmith and: ician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811,813,815,817 George-st,
Opposite New
Railway Station,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


3
■
ft'. '4
i
I
m
.
X
: ,;X
m
-
mm
m
m
&
X
■. -* 1
m
X
\ :■ %.
\
%
«»
\
\
I V/pflo^
mm&M
If you’re forced to wait, maKe thing's pleasan
with a CAMEO CIGARETTE.


CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT
PERMANENT SETTLEMENT,
NOT PECUNIARY GAIN.
SUBDIVISION
OF THE
ALXAMBEE ESTATE
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Lands Purchase and Management Board for Farm and
Agricultural Laborers’ Allotments on the ALLAMBEE ESTATE. Applications close July 23rd, 19 7.
THE LOCAL LAND BOARD to deal with Applications will be held at WARRAGUL, on 24th JULY, 1907
N.S.W. Carrufchers has replied officially
to the charge hurled against his Government of
trying to make up the revenue remitted in fees
for compulsory education in the public schools by
making charges on the parents for school material.
His answer is that the accusation is utterly un-
founded, and that the sum of £OO,OOO will be
■ spent next year to prevent the Education De-
partment having to do any longer the thing that
Premier Joseph says it isn’t doing. For a man who
is dead sure of re-election Oarruthers is putting
up a record for pre-election promises.
Bowden, the ardent Freetrader who firmly
believes in a 12j per cent, duty for the benefit of
the ironworks in his constituency, told the House
of Reps, that “ever since its birth Australia has
been dependent on the British navy for its exist-
ence.” Ever since his birth Bowden’s existence has
been dependent on a reasonable supply of food,
but it doesn’t follow that he still takes his susten-
ance out of a feeding bottle.
G.oldsbrough Mort and Co. report re wool
There is more inquiry in the local market; very little
wool, however, is available, any sales taking place being
confined to fellmongered descriptions. Our next sale is
fixed for the 23rd inst., when we purpose offering about
1000, bales, chiefly from Queensland. We are in receipt of
the following cable from our London office, dated 9th
List. : “ The sales opened this day with a good attendance
of buyers. For merinos and fine crossbreds the market is
firm and unchanged, but for coarse crossbreds prices show
a decline of 5 percent., and for slipes a fall of 10 per
cent., as compared with the rates ruling at last series.”*
Amusements.
Australian exhibition of women’s
work.
THE SYDNEY DISPLAY
ON THE SHOWGROUND,
FROM SEPTEMBER 9th to 14th.
LADIES’ RIDING AND DRIVING
COMPETITIONS.
ENTRIES CLOSE AUGUST Ist.
Full particulars on application to the Secretary,
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
pALACE THEATRE, SYD NE Y.
NIGHTLY at 8.
Matinees Each WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
EDWIN GEACH presents the
EMPIRE PICTURES CO.
First Production in Sydney of a Magnificent Sequence of
Animated Views, representing
"CANADA AND THE IMPERIAL NAVY.”
PRICES—2s, Is and 6d. Plan at Elvy's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE SPRING CHICKEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 20, The Charming English
/ Pastoral Opera, entitled,
DOROTHY,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
SATURDAY NEXT,
First Appearance in Australia of the Great English
Emotional Actress,
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in the Highly Stirring and Sensational Play,
A BEAUTIFUL FIEND.
Prices 3s, 2s &ls; Is extra for booking. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
«|* H E LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty."
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
popular prices— 3s, 2s, is, and 6d.
T| VO LI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Remarkable Success of THE SVENGALIS.
CARLTON. Card King and Quaint Jester.
Splendid Success of Mr. V. L. GRANVILLE.
GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME. WILL LOCHRANE.
LEONARD NELSON, the Quaint Character Comedian.
M SAM LE MERT. MASTER ADRIAN AMADIO.
IRVING SAYLES. LITTLE MARJORIE BRAY.
Miss EILEEN LYONS. Miss NELLIE TYE.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL, Eccentric Jugglers.
TECHOW’S PERFORMING CATS.
FOUR ROSEBUDS, Vocalists and Dancers.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy,
MY YOKOHAMA QUEEN, Musical Scena by England’s
Clever Comedy Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
GREAT SUCCESS of the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK in
THE WAY TO KENMAKE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 20, ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Mcnzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, JULY 18, FRIDAY, JULY 19, Last Two
Performances of THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 20,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE COTTON KING.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan's, Menzies* & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
THE BLUE MOON.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
m~ USUAL PRICES.
C E
SKATING.
R E A 1
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
OPEN THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Missing? Friends.
SHOULD this meet the eye of WILLIAM
>0 KENNEDY, formerly of Gippsland, Con-
tractor, or anyone knowing his present address,
kindly communicate with
McMERNEY & WINGROVE,
Solicitors, Melbourne.
WANTED present residence of THOMAS
GABRIEL ANDERSON, sometime law
clerk, present occupation unknown; native of
Pollokshaws, Scotland. Was seen in Sydney
about six years ago. Information to Officer in
Charge, Criminal Investigation Branch, Perth,
W. Australia, from whom Anderson on communi-
cating will hear of something to his advantage.
Business Announcements.
I
■
?Sss
■
re
Mcdicattr, «lzo
3i Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from tiie nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the atlected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure* If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note tos. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post
Address: Star Novelty Co.,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
free anywhere.
229-231 Collins
STAMMERING
can be cured by
correspondence.
Tell all about your ease and send £2 2s. for com-
plete course to
W. Phipps, Evening Echo, Ballarat.
Over 25 years’ experience. References given if
required. Pupils report “ Speech greatly im-
proved.” “Already talking much better,” etc.
Vo inlander's
Binoculars.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade. . .
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES;-
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Militarj', Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution-— I Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never trave
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
S 2
Price,
57/6
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24 inches, Weight 8f lb.
James Martin and Co.,
161
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU HEARD THE
COLUMBIA
" REGENT " disc
GRAPH-o~phone ?
ALL COLUMBIA
GRAPH-o-phones
are fitted with our Patent Aluminium Tone Arm with
Sound Analysing: Reproducer. This wonderful device not
only reproduces the human voice, and all kinds of music,
with absolute fidelity, but it entirely eliminates the dis-
tressing grating noises peculiar to other makes of Disc
Talking Machines.
COLUMBIA NEW PROCESS 10-in. DISC RECORDS,
To fit all Disc Talking Machines, 3/» Each ;
12-in., 5/- Each.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH GO. CEN’L.,
Largest Talking Machine House
in the Southern Hemisphere,
Wholesale and Retail,
288 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
London, New York, Paris, Berlin.
FITTED WITH ALL THE LATEBT IMPROVEMENTS.
HANDSOME APPEARANCE, and has a TONE.
QUALITY EQUAL TO THE HIGHEST
PRICED MACHINE ON THE MARKET.
Price,
£6
f
I
THE BEST VALUE TALKING MACHINt
IN THE WORLD.
§SP§T* Write to-day for full particulars of this
splendid machine.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
OOUT fIND
JJid.II RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/tj & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT * Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
ryfhgjghjhjhj
STRANGE
PREDICTIONS.
Planetary Professor Foretells
Events and Quickly Reads the
Lives of People though Thou-
sands of Miles Awaym
Sends Letters to the Rich and Poor
Alike, in which he advises them about
BUSINESS, MARRIAGE, SPECULATION,
LOVE AFFAIRS, WEALTH, ETC.
OfFers Readings to all who write and
send Date of Birth, with //- to cover
cost of postage, etc.
IN his office in Melbourne, surrounded by
Charts and Dials of strange design, Prof.
Henri De Astro studies daily over the lives
of men and women who have written him for
advice on affairs of business, love, speculation,
travel, marriage, health, and the important
events of life. The following letter gives an
idea of
MR. DE ASTRO’S ABILITY.
; n
tr \ >■
Everything Perfeotly True.
Goulburn.
I can truthfully say I feel happier since I
have received my Horoscope, and think every-
one should have one. Everything you told
me is perfectly true. You have read me to
the letter. Should I need advice in the
future, I shall surely write you.
LILY CONBEE.
THE accuracy of recent predictions made by
this eminent Astrologer has caused many
of his friends to believe that he possesses
a supernatural power, but he modestly asserts
that his predictions are due alone to a scien-
tific understanding of natural laws. The many
thankful letters Prof. De Astro has received
from people who have benefited by his advice
furnish ample proof that he is sincere in his
work and has a kindly feeling towards
humanity.
Readers of The Bulletin can obtain a
Reading by addressing a letter to Prof- De
Astro, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Simply
say you wish a Reading of your Life, stating
your birth date, sex, and whether married
or single, enclosing Is. Stamps or Postal Note
to pay postage etc., and the Reading will
be promptly sent.


ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
HANDSOME
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE BY POST.
Are used by the
World’s
V Greatest
Pianists
Exquisite Tone.
Perfect Touch.
Artistic Case Desig'ns.
Sold for Cash or on
Easy Terms.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
*
,
: '
v ■■jp’ '
H8k1" / Hill
jHpdfcs?
—*a*l
Fi®
' ) li®
.... 4-'T- ’’
M''' T % *3£
L
Sole
Agents
W. H. PALING © CO. Ltd.
338 George St., Sydney, Brisbane © Newcastle.
ALLAN (£l CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-8 Collins St., Melbourne.
LIVER TORPOR m BILIOUS HEADACHES
Removed At Once.
BRITISH VICE-CONSUL
WRITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate, Tarragona,
“March 12th, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using Kutnow’s
Powder, and find same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised to do.—l re-
main, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES, British Vice-Consul.”
RICHARD WARNER, ESQ.,
WRITES :
“ Grenada Lodge, Stockwell Park Road, S. W.,
“July 12th, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the efficacy of your Kutnow’s Powder,
which I have taken for some considerable time,
and derived a great deal of benefit from it. I
have been a great sufferer from biliousness and
gastritis, and am only too pleased to give you
this acknowledgement.
“RICHARD WARNER,”
NURSE A. WHUR
WRITES :
“2 Ethelbert Road, Birchington Bay,
“ August 14th.
“Gentlemen, —Thank you for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder; for years I have suffered
from severe headaches, and have tried almost
every medicine, without doing me the least
good ; your Powder, I am thankful to say, has
been most efficacious. Several members of the
household have tried it with the same results.
“A. WHUR (Nurse).”
REV. A. LEES
WRITES :
“ Whorlton Vicarage, Newcastle-on.-Tyne,
“July 2nd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have tried Kutnow’s Powder
and found it highly satisfactory, so much so
that I shall recommend it to my friends.—l re-
main, yours truly, “ (Rev.) A. LEES.”
CANDIDATES FOR HEALTH must first of all recognise the paramount
influence of the liver ; it is the organ which holds the key of life and
death. It regulates the whole mechanism of the human frame ; it is
M KJ
KUTNOW’S i
Improved Errenv/eECENT carlsbad
POWDER.
Husch«nspiun& or Deer Lea
roau. tr.
REGISTERED TRADE MARW
(tNTERED AT STATIONER'S HAUA
only when the liver acts properly that all the other
organs—the kidneys, bladder, stomach, and intes-
tines—work: efficiently, and there is general good
health. The liver, furthermore, exercises a still
higher function than that of mere mechanism. It
produces great moral effects in the influence it
exercises on the temperament; an active liver
creates brilliancy, energy, shrewdness, keen intel-
lect, and many other excellent qualities. Reverse
the picture and see the irritable, nervous, fidgety,
and morbidly despondent individual. In despair,
the victim of liver torpor will sometimes endeavor
to thrash it into temporary activity by drastic
medicines. This is useless. The proper remedy
for a disordered liver is a course of Kutnow’s
Powder, which is always safe, sure, and efficient.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Imitations.
The Genuine and Original Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap, ” are on the-carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations,
and know
How to Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
A GENERAL IN H.M. ARMY
WRITES :
“104 Seymour Place, London, W.,
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure in stating
that I have derived very much benefit from
Kutnow’s Powder, and, after taking four
bottles, am completely cured of abscess on liver,
contracted after a residence in an Eastern cli-
mate of twenty years. I now take a dose once
or twice weekly, and would not be without a
bottle. —I am, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ C. ANDERSON (General Retired).”
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WRITES :
“ Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset,
“ November 9th, 1906.
Gentlemen,—lt may be of some interest to
yon to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder
from time to time with most excellent results,
and I consider it only fair to acquaint you of
the benefit I have experienced from so useful a
remedy, which fully carries out what it is
advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., F.R.G.S.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane, Southampton.
'“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the excel-
lent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only
wish I had tried it years ago. In my case it has
proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient,
cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort,
and regulating generally the whole organic
system. I have much confidence in recommend-
ing its use to my friends. —Yours truly,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON
E.G.
[l-7]


Eczema Broke Out Also on Hands
and Limbs—Suffering Intense-
Doctors Said Too Old to Be
Cured —An Old Soldier of 80
Years Declares:
“CUTICURA TREATMENT
IS A BLESSING”
'‘At all times and to all people I am
willing to testify to the merits of Cu-
ticura. It saved me from worse than
the tortures of hades, about the year
1900, with itching on my scalp and
temples, and afterwards it commenced
to break out on my hands. Then it
broke out on my limbs. I was advised
to use salt and water, which I did, to
no effect. I then went to a Surgeon, who
commenced treating me with a wash of
borax. This treatment did me no good,
but rather aggravated the disease. I
then told him I would go and see a phy-
sician in Erie. The reply was that I
could go anywhere, but a case of
eczema like mine could not be cured;
that I was too old (80).. I went, to an
eminent doctor in the city of Erie and
treated with him for six months, with
like results. I had read of the Cu-
ticura Remedies often. I was strongly
tempted to give them a trial, so I sent
for the Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Resolvent and continued taking the
Resolvent until I had taken six bottles,
stopping it to take the Pills. I was now
getting better. I took two baths a day,
and at night I let the lather of the Soap
dry on. I used the Ointment with
great effect after .washing in warm
water, to stop the itching at once. I
am now cured.
“ The Cuticura treatment is a blessing
and should be used by every one who
has itching of the skin. I can’t say any
more, and thank God that He has given
the world such a curative. Wm. H.
Gray, 3303 Mt. Vernon St., Philadel-
phia, Pa., August 2, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in tht
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
Chcm. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S, A.
Mailed Free, “ llow to Cure Disfiguring Humour*.’’
Address, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, X. S. W.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
k\
%
m.
-fe
%
ifif-
*B
4t
e®
ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
i-L.
. --
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Vlotoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
j West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Looks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE’’
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company’s Guarantee*
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots), without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that the Cap would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent, post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES’
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE. lEifOur Booklet, “Shoelight,” that
illustrates and describes our stock of Foot-
wear. Posted anywhere free on request.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday .
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
si
I
PRIZES value £,1500.
IN THE ' JW 11 "" l— ™ ”
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £.500. fK'VPz? 1 «3
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN MctiOUCALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
Up in the North even the newspaper headlines are
gorgeous at this glorious spring time of the semi-tropical
year. So, chough the Croydon Mining News might have
headed it “ Mining, Pastoral, and Industi-ial Association
-—Second Annual Show,” and left it at that, it broke out
thus: —
Art, Industrial, and Equine Exhibition.
Hifpodromia.
Terpsichore an Frolics.
Snug Junketings.
Pigeon and Rifle Shooting.
Concert and Reunions.
We know what Gulf re-unions are, anyway. You take
them out of a bottle, and don’t want any breakfast next
morning, and if they last more than a week crimson
crocodiles chase you through the keyhole.
» * * *
‘ Drifter ” : Syndicating a city letter for the country
press is a bright notion which has been exploited to
death of recent years. Some months ago I decided that
the country press wanted regenerating—which it does.
Circularised a hundred journals offering to write a
weekly letter, a column and a half long, which would
scintillate with bright jingles, flash with epigram, dazzle
with political, social, and personal pars., aud contain all
the interesting metropolitan events that had, and had
not, occurred —something, in short, that would make the
hitherto dreary pages of the bush press sell with a rush
like that of the Gadarene swine. The price was 2s. 6d. a
week, and I counted upon receiving a certain twenty
favorable replies. Received one definite order and
half a dozen cautious requests for a sample letter.
I pushed the pen vigorously for a day and a half, and
polished every par. and jingle till they sparkled like
Brummagem diamonds ; then hastened to a typing firm,
had a hundred copies run off, stamped and posted them,
and sat back with a sigh of relief to await an Assured
Income. I received four acceptances, and a dozen or
15 explanations regretting “funds would not permit,”
“ already had several city letters under consideration,”
and so on. All the same, I decided to persevere, in hopes
of finally building up a connection. Bought a copying
outfit, and sailed into the business in dead earnest. But
at the end of the second month, the fact that it was
time to aim the sponge at the roof of the atmosphere
sheeted itself home to me. Received payment from two
papers ; and dead silence from remainder, despite re-
peated billing. Discovered that several had graciously
printed sample letters without the slightest acknowledg-
ment, and numerous others were cheerfully scissoring
generous slabs of the letter from my regular customers
at the same terms. Then I sadly capitulated. After two
months’ hard work the enterprise panned out: Outlay
for typing, purchase of composition, copying roll, paper,
envelopes, ink, stamps, etc., £4 ; cash received, £2 2s. 6d.
Have concluded that country editors, in most cases, must
be having a hard battle.
* * * *
Maoriland Education Department gives about the
largest salary known in those parts to a scissors and
paste artist. The editor of the lately-established School
Journal has a month in which to clip his work.andgets
£8 a week. It isn’t likely he descends to gluing the
work of Walter Scott and Kipling on to the paper him-
self, because M.L. politicians always have rising gluers
w'ho can be depended on to attach a whole article on a
slip within ten days or a fortnight. The .Education De-
partment laughed to scorn the applications of any mere
journalists for the kiddies’ paper job—men with experi-
ence but no trail of alphabet after their names. Only an
M. A. is permitted to saw pieces off Motley and King’sley
and other children’s authors, and issue them once a
month for £416 a year.
.**•**
“ True William ” : Nowadays an Australian morning
paper, which has taken to nature study in its old age, has
to keep itself in continual readiness to fight a way
through the mystic odors of considerably deceased
specimens sent in for identification. The scent of
a kookaburra that has passed over mingles in per-
fect amity with the exhalations of kangaroo-rats
and mutton-birds, while a black snake, smiling as
though he but slept, has his classic brow adorned with
garlands of stinkwort. All these samples of our magnifi-
cent natural resources are banished to the basement
(where also the goanna of full habit smells with quiet
forcefulness), while the blood-and-hair expert sitteth in
an upper chamber and identifies the fragrances as they
mount the stairs. Not long ago the office w'as
somewhat flurried by the shrieks of a Women’s Anti-
Labor League dame, who had called to leave a letter to the
editor on the Ingratitude of the Lower Classes, and sud-
denly found herself pursued by a solid mass of native-
companion redolence. Further, several members of the
staff have growled that they see no good reason why a
fellow making his way through the court yard should be
meanly thrown by a dead cow. However, complainants
in this last matter have been somewhat mollified since a
lorryman called and offered good reasons for having mis-
taken the place for a boiling-down establishment.
WHY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why do the poets camp in the Necropolis?
Why don’t they whirl with the merry Metropolis?
Why are their glasses all tinted so gloomily ?
Why has each stanza a tendency tombily ?
Why are folks" pallid ’’and “ careworn’’and “haggard ” ?
Why are their footsteps all “ lonely ” and “ laggard ” ?
Why do they mourn for that rotten old “Past” of theirs?
Why don’t they give it a good damanblast of theirs ?
Why does the wind through the sheoaks “sigh mourn-
fully ” ?
Why does the maid at the villain “ look scornfully ”?
Why is her “ virtuous horror ” sublime with him ?
Why don’t she go for a jolly good time with him ?
What is the good of the “ Days that are dead ” to us ?
What is the use of the “ Hopes that are fled” to us ?
Why is “ Remorse ” with a capital “ R ” to it
Dinned in our ears with monotonous jar to it?
Why don’t they kill, pluck and eat that “curlew” of
theirs,
“ Mournfully wailing ” each tripe-measure through of
theirs,
Sorry old fowl that they’ve rung in for years on us,
Just to assist the “ lone bushman ” shed tears on us ?
Why are all heroes as “ Bill ” or “ Jim ” shown to us ?
Why not make Harold or Percival known to us ?
Why are their slanders confined to the “ wattle tree ” ?
Far more congenial to go for the “ bottle tree.”
Why can’t they sing of the plains without “ rolling ”
them?
Can’t the bells ring without mournfully tolling them?
Are rivers all watches that they must be “winding”
them ?
Cannot they take the poor things as they’re finding them ?
What have we done that the cliffs should all “ frown ” at
us?
What’s the old moon that she always “ looks down ” at us?
Are we all deaf that the breakers should “ roar ” at us
When they come “ thundering ” down on the shore at us?
Why has “ Out Back ” got an “ Outer out Back ” to it?
Why not additional adjectives tack to it?
Why can’t they sing of the South and the North to us?
Why must the West be for ever brought forth to us?
Are there no bushmen whose language ain’t “ bianky ”
now ?
Can’t they make beer without calling it “ swanky ” now ?
Why do bush lovers make “ sliprails ” their greeting-
place ?
Is it their only and possible meeting-place?
Chuck the old properties into the ocean, boys ;
Give us for once an original notion, boys ;
Give us a rest from the threadbare old metaphor,
Change it a newer, and brighter, and better for ;
Sing us a song with the fierce lust of strife in it,
Treat of a theme with the sunshine of life in it;
Jingle the joys of the world you are striving in,
Lock the old wheels of the hearse you are driving in.
N.S.W.
HORACE cHARLES hALLORAS.


SULPHUR
BITTERS
Ladies:—
The Secret
Of a
Fair Face
Is a
Beautiful
Skin.
Sulphur Bitters
Will give you
A lovely
Complexion.
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
flWMge
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
Discovery of a Rational
Treatment for Deafness,
A glance through the medical literature of the
last 20 years reveals to the close observer a re-
markable diversity of opinion among aurists as
to what constitutes the proper method of treat-
ment for deafness and diseases of the ear. Some
authorities recommend in obstinate cases cutting
away the drumhead of the ear, other aural surgeons
are emphatic in saying that the results obtained
are too uncertain to justify such severe measures.
Another class of medical men base the treatment
of deafness almost entirely on the application of
medicated vapors forced through the nose into the
middle ear by way of the Eustachian tube, but it
is strange to find these sameauristsacknowledging,
in their writings on this subject, that it is doubt-
ful if medication applied in this way can reach
the seat of disease which causes defective hearing.
In the midst of all this doubt and uncertainty
there is fortunately the record of the discovery of
a rational method in the Electricon to successfully
apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to the
Ears, permanently curing Deafness, and com-
pletely banishing all distressing Head Noises.
Like all innovations the Electricon received the
severest criticisms, but notwithstanding such
opposition, seven years’ test of the method has
given results so emphatically successful that the
usual medical opinions on the curability of deaf-
ness have been completely overthrown.
Those who are interested in the subject would
do well to read the complete description of this
method of treatment in the “Journal for the
Deaf,” published by the L. R. VERNON CO.,
00-64 Hunter Street, Sydney, and sent FREE to
to any one asking for it.
WHY DON’T YOU
STOP DRUGS?
7a
23
m
OU have a complaint or weakness that has bothered you for
years! You are still doctoring and dosing yourself! You
are trying one doctor and then another; one medicine and then
another, but you are no better, and your stomach is turning in dis-
gust from it all. Now then, why don’t you Stop it ? Why
don’t you hesitate before you carry the dose to your mouth and ask
yourself, “What is this stuff lam taking ?” “ What am I taking
it for ?’ ’ How can I expect it to make me strong ?’ ’
Ask yourself these questions; think them over, and if you have any “common
horse sense” you will quickly see your folly ; you will quickly realise that the
remedy you need to cure must give new power, new strength, and new life to
the impoverished nerves, organs, and blood of your body. The life and
strength they have lost is Electricity. The most eminent scientists of the world to-day admit that life is elec-
tricity • therefore, Electricity properly applied, as it is with the improved
DR. McLAIIGHUN’S ELECTRIC CELT,
is the only certain and natural cure for you. It cures where drugs fail because it is Nature’s cure, and restores the
natural Electricity to the body. Throw physic to the dogs, and try this world-famed Electric Appliance It is
the original and standard Electric Belt of Australasia, and the only one that has stood the test of time.
Its nrice is as low as £1 in many cases, and with its special attachments lor men and
women it is a certain cure for all nervous and chronic diseases. We have testimonials from every part of
Australasia, and will send you the names of people in your own, locality whom it has cured.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your rnus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon *o-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man !
Send the COUPON or call to-day.
the McLaughlin go.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R COpCpIiAN Office Hours—Q a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
6
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
ryfhgjghjhjhj
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down” or "out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
•Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo.®* welcome relief
in a very short time.
<p‘ <s• A'
V V
and OINTMENT
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
R
m
D ET
m
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
oh Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd ~ and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
COCKLE’S
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”— De, G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London
0% FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family, m


Digestive Juices
What becomes of the precious
digestive juices when you flush
out your bowels with cascara,
jalap, sedlitz powders, aperient
water and the old fashion pill?
Why it’s flushed out along with
the rest of the bowel contents.
It’s wasted; washed right away
from the very place it s most
needed. Reuter’s Little Pills don't
flush out, don’t purge, don’t weak-
en, nor upset your stomach They
don’t waste the precious digestive
juices needed for to-morrow’s
work. No, they act like exercise.
They build up and strengthen
the bowel muscles, so that they
expand and propel the matter on
its way. They set the hundreds
of tiny cells inside your bowels to
work drawing up nourishment
from your food
Reuter's Soap will make your
skin soft.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1898.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
n 0,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed l / / No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Bed Harry Is
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle,
TT A<3 TWrn\TT!V TO T.TJWn on Security of Freehold Of Leasehold
xxxxr? XflUXll Xi X lllilll/ city or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand iMF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed oontains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Blaok, M.L.0.; F. E. Winohcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Aotuary : Richard TeeDe, P.1.A., P.P. A., P.S.B.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
CA PEL’S SUCTION GAS PLANT.
Five Times
Cheaper than
Ordinary Gas.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Twenty Times
Cheaper than
Electricity.
LESS THAN A PENNY PER HOUR
For a 10 H.P. Engine.
Send for Illustrated Booklet and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., Sole Agents
7 and 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
mt
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
ryfhgjghjhjhj
BE A HYPNOTIST
MD
MAKE
FUNiL'MONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others? Do you
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both fun and
money ? If so, you should become a Hypnotist. You can now master this
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating science, free of all cost at your own
home. By a few hours’ study you can learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic trance. You can surprise and mystify all
your friends by placing any one you wish under this, weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, think, feel, and act precisely as you wish. You
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding
feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amazing l things that other people cannot do, and make yourself famous in a week’s time. If
you want to make- tyion*y y you can do so by giving entertainments, curing disease, or teaching the art to
others. These are three sure and easy ways to win a fortune. Why be poor ? Why work for
. when you can master this money-making profession so easily? Investigate now. It costs nothing to find
out all about it. Professor Barraden, the world-renowned Hypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Key to the Mysteries of Hypnotism,” and anybody can get a copy of it
merely for the asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting and valuable book ever published. It
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best of all, this charming book tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Every secret and mystery is here explained in the simplest
language. You are also shown how you may heal the sick, relieve pain, cure bad habits, give sleep to the
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, you can win promotion,
social and business standing, increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desire, and, m
short, all that is needed to make you rich, esteemed and happy as long as life lasts. This book also treats
fully on Personal Magnetism, Magnetic Healing and kindered subjects, and how to cure yourself of
any pain, ache or disease. In spite of its great value and precious contents, this book is free to you.
Simply write and it will be sent by next mail. Don't send any money, but send your name and
address TO-DAY.
Professor R.
H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sonsiilt HERR RASBMUSSEN,mi
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases and all Specific Complaints of Men and Women. No
Mercury. Cures Guaranteed. ALL DISEASES OF WOMEN CUBED.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Pile Powders. P-; Powders, 6/-; Liver and Kidney Pills, 1/-
|TJ j Hll | I IF!
IiIMIHIJMH
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility
. Strengthen the Spine, Brain & Nerves
They secure the Return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish Self-Confidence and Prevent
Melancholia, Despondency and Despair, Boxes, 6/-& 12/- Courses, 23/6, Special Powerful Double Courses,43/6
VARICOCELE, PILES, RHEUMATISM, STRICTURE, GRAVEL CURED
DT AATI TITQTH A CPC No mattepof how long standing, Cured
JDJuUUJLI JJl&JluiiJiLD by alfaline blood pills, 12/-, 24/- & 44/-
Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
I CURE FITS.
What I think of my remedy for Fits
doesn't so much matter; what you think
of it is much more important-therefore
I will give you a bottle of it to try before
buying any. It speaks for itself I I guar,
antee it to be the best and safest remedy
for Fits yet found. I have given away
over 70,000 bottles of it during the past
80 years, and have testimonials of cures
from all over the World If you, or your
people, care for restful nights and health*
ful days you will do well to
TRY IT.
A simple and safe remedy-approved by
the Medical profession.
Prepared, only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum St., Bloomsbury, Loudon,
England.
Send 1/- to pay parcel post to the Colonies.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
—For Locating MINES,—
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON.. 64 Huhxek Steeei. SYDNEY.
FREE
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Electro-plated Goods. We are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give ns a call.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
THE BULLETIN TOST CABDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ton, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Offioe,
214 George Street, Sydney.
0
me
0* -
is the great English
face cream you ought
to try.
If you would be freckle free
and keep your complexion
through the hot Australian
you must use Oatine. It will take the
grime that so;-p and water cannot reach from
the pores, will keep your skin fair and soft
and prevent it drying and cracking.
Oatine is pure, made from fresh clean
healing oats and free from mineral salts or
animal fats. No matter how hot the weather
it will not go bad. It does not grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Every Australian woman who values a
clear complexion should get Oatine now. It
is the only thing that will enable her to keep
her complexion permanently in the dry
Australian climate.
In dainty white jars, 1/9 ; or large size k
(four times the amount), 3/6.
To be obtalrted at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia, j
Get a Jar to-day.
A
&
M.
m
w.
w//
m
ih
ZA
mmm
~RREB TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat st improved high grade ELECTRIC
BEI/fS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all eases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
MORE HOMES MADE HAPPY!
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE!
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
mmmammmaaass Writing
r ~n— »i'mi i iiiiii I———ll
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do In others.
EUCRASY
is doing a great Humanising, Reclaiming,
and Reforming Work throughout Aus-
tralia. One of its Most Valuable Features
is that it is Tasteless and Odorless, and
can be administered with or (seoretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer.
It is imperative to note that—
EUCRASY DIPPERS FROM ALX.
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/'O7.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing which has be-
fallen me. My was the patient to whom I gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one time
it seemed hopeless, being in the bar all day, as he was, in
the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let him stay
in it any more than I could possibly help, and I am now
thankful to see him constantly turn away from the spirit
bottles with a shudder. I have about a dozen powders
left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to anyone I know
troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours sincerely
grateful, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
If you mention this paper, a Sample
of EUORASY and BOOKLET of IN
STRUOTIONS will be sent you sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine oiler.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS-
THE EUGRASY GO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, bas been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient. but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal, organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and, by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid.y on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse: Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists,© storekeepers, and ♦'whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.


§£ Britisb=Jlusfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, ajl over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—•
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NaarKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E„ SCANTLEBURY.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ URICA”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
k ness and kindred ailments.
in, J,
These rings are scientifically
made from specially prepat ed
metals with four zinc and three copper
coils foiming a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connects the coils, causing a gentle
current of Electricity to circulate
througnout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free.—White Metal, 2/-;
Silver. 3/6 ; Gold filled. 3/-, 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE.
DUNKLINQ. The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
$
D
Le
<3
CHILDREN^
DRIMK.-
PUNCH
J.Dixon*(9
A Okiat • Cure
“ 0.T.” iis the idea]
winter dri ok tor children
—pure, delicious, health-
giving-. Vfhen they re-
turn from. 1 school on a
cold, raw day, like to-
day, a driink of “ O.T.’’
will ward, off many a
dangerous “chill. It is a
delightful; drink at all
times, andl a medicine in
the hour Of need.
All Grocers, Chemists,
Hotels, and General
Stores,
MILLERS
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Creatm,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/_ Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Fesithers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Stranc! Arcade, ?ltt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand £« .anston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mentipu y he Bulletin.] / [3
Allcock's
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For pains in the region of tHe
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
Shown above.
_ Wherever there Is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster,
Wherever there is
a pain a 1-Master
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
1 &c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock's
’■r
or » n
Shoulders. fc-lbows or elsewhere,
or for Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
fj? d ,s°r Aehlng Fast. Plaster
should be cut size and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic,
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc
established 1762.
aumM
TYRE
WINNING
THE CBAND PRIX WON ON MICHELINS.
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, sth, 6th, 7th, Bth and 9th Gars All Michelin Tyred.
Following on their successes in the TARGA FLORIO Race (when the First NINE Oars were Michelin-
CUPf when^'t n UP ( whe « the First FOUR Oars were Michelin-tyred), and in the KAISER’S
1 rniuffT V n- Ciu !, were Michelin-tyred), comes news that the GRAND PRIX has also been
won on MICHELIISS, the First NINE Cars home being all fitted with these famous Tyres.
Originally this Race was knoum as the Gordon-Bennet Cup Race, hut since the Automobile Club of
Fn twscn a ntpsrfn er !f- d i tfche Pnx,” it is considered the Blue Ribbon Motoring Event of the World,
i Co .P test fch u e distance was 477 miles, and, as the winner covered it in 6 hours 40 min., the average speed
MICHPT 1 TW S i?n r h £ U i7p eStabllSh,ntr a " ew weld’s record. For the first time in a speed contest the well-known
MiEU&LIJN Non-skid Tyres were used by the winner.
latest win MICHELIN TYRES have thus secured victories in the world’s Four Greatest Inter-
national Events, held respectively in America, Sicily, Germany and France.
MICHELINS ARE ALWAYS FIRST-First on the Track, First on the Road, First in Hill-climbing
T nnlFwLFV'p- 1 sp^! d Cations First ovel . Rough Roads, First in Durability, Resiliency, Reliability,
Lon*, Wear , First in the Thoughts of Motorists when the Tyre Question arises.
Sole Australian
Agents-
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
85 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, and at 226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
DOLLOND’S PRISMATIC BINOCULARS.
4«
CHE finest examples of British Optical
Industry, and in spite of many im-
provements seen in them, they are con-
siderably less costly than glasses “made by
Continental manufacturers.
These Prismatic Binoculars are appreciably
less in thickness, more graceful in appear-
ance—are absolutely dust and damp proof,
and the interior can be cleaned by anyone
without the risk of disturbing the adjust-
ments.
They possess great depth of focus, and a
surprisingly clear definition. They are very
rigid and free from all perishable materials
generally used in other Binoculars.
The bodies are covered with Morocco
Leather, and a best quality case with sling
shoulder strap is supplied with the glasses.
DOLLOND’S PRISMATIC BINOCULARS, *7.
DOLLOND'S OFFICIAL SERVICE BINOCULARS, 63/-
. i .
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS .
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., My opllcl 1 8 '
Agents for Dollond’s Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
&h<2 BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, la. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Advfc. from the Lismore (North Coast,
N.S.W.) paper
Wanted, a Family of four good milkers ; wages £10
per month and house rent free. J. N. Ferguson
Bangalow.
Work it out. Thirty days a month (the “ milker ”
works seven days a week), four people, for 200
shillings—just Is. 8d. per day for each person !
Yet Lismore and Bangalow are in probably the
most fertile district in N.S. Wales, if not in
Australia, and the best watered. The curse of
the Cow ! Or, in many cases, it is really the
curse of the Landlord. For the curse of the
Landlord is felt where there is no land-
lord in the immediate case. The landowner
steadily shoves up the rent. To meet his exac-
tions expenses have to be cut to the bone, lienee
the hideously ill-paid hired worker and the
wholly unpaid child-worker. By these shameful
economies it is possible to pay the high rent, and
the high rent fixes the high selling value of land
—not only of that land, but of all other land in
the district. So the man who has no landlord is
often no better off than the one who has ; instead
of crushing flesh and blood beneath the Jugger-
naut car of Cow to earn the rent, he is doing it to
earn interest on the preposterous mortgage, which
is based on the preposterous land value, which is
based on the preposterous rents of other proper-
ties, which are based on cheap labor. When the
mortgage is paid off, he maintains the old grind
to make the land pay good interest on a purchase
money that is twice or thrice as large as it should
be. Also he does it because others do it. And
the miserable infant Cow slave also has to do it
because others do it. If Jones’ kid can get up
at five and “do his twenty,” Brown’s kid is ex-
pected to do the same, even though Brown is
paying neither rent nor instalments. And so the
wage Scale degenerates to twenty pence a day.
“J.D.” from Bloemfontein (Chow Africa) :
Re immigration. Why not get Boer farmers? They
wou)d be much better than Italians or Germans, as the
Boer has already farmed under conditions similar to what
would be required in Australia. Also, if it comes to a
matter of good foundation for a defence force, thev have
it in the blood, and their hatred of anything colored
would be their finest asset.
They are essentially a stock-raising community, and
have always labored in this country with the greatest of
drawbacks, hut still they seem to be prosperous.
The Boer farmers who went last year to Australia to
buy breeding sheep cannot say enough in favor of the
country. They declare publicly that there is no com-
parison between Africa and Australia as countries for
stock raising or agriculture.
The population question is a serious one here (not
in the same light that Australia looks at it). At present
the youngfer sons are being shut out. There is no more
available territory for them to select, and the present -
farms will not permit of any more subdividing.
The farms here are more or less small, and the families
are large, and although there is plenty of good territory
n the native reserves, the Boer does riot see any hope of
t ever being thrown open forsettlement with British rule
n the country.
“ Polstan ” : I have just read a dignified
and imposing article in an English kow-tow
magazine. It was all about royal etiquette, and
was most edifying. I held my breath while I
read of a miscreant who had attended dinner at
the King’s diggings wearing a black bow instead
of a white one, but I was gratified to learn that the
creature was punished b.y the King sending him
a white bow on a salver during the second course.
The magazine doesn’t say what he did with the
gift, but I presume be crawled under the table
and changed the neckwear, and then crawled
back a wreck and ashamed. I’ll bet he crawled
somewhere. Another unfortunate was sent
upstairs to change his trousers, having made the
awful error of wearing the pair that should only
be used when the Queen was present. I wonder
how a Highlander would get on, and what if a
fellow only had one pair? I suppose he would be
given a revolver, and left alone to choose death or
dishonor.
“Backwash ” writes :—•
These wails by raw amateurs re malaria in the Northern
Territory prod me to action. Southern Queenslanders, on
their way to billets in the Gulf, grow old on the voyage
because of the dangers to come. Malaria is, they are
told, the greatest of dangers, but in five years of Gulf life
I did not encounter one case of malarial fever amongst
those who had livedin the settled localities only. Of course
any amount of men get on the jag, and the recovery is
Styled “fever” ; but even though in Croydon, Normanton
and Burketown the microbe-distributing mosquito is
eoipmon, yet instances of malaria are confined to those
who have drunk lagoon water in the bush. Years ago the
coqiplaint was common, but like the blaekfellow, malaria
dies Off before the advancing white. It is still common
at this time of the year amongst bushmeh and those who
were 1 " first attacked in the unsettled days, but, from
I am satisfied that if water taken from
swamps in tire bush were boiled before being drunk, there
would be a terrible slump in the “ malaria ” rate.
Another correspondent writes on the sub-
ject of our new Spanish brother :—
By the German liner Bulow there arrived at the end of
June “eight young Englishmen and 100 Spaniards,”
under contract to the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. for
labor in Bananaland’s canefields. The Spaniards were
picturesque, and that is about all that can be said of
them for certain ; for there was no one in charge of the
party, none could speak English, and how they were re-
cruited or What sort of reputations they possessed in
their own country no one knows. But the eight young
Englishmen, who had been farm laborers in Lincoln-
shire, and appeared eminently desirable citizens,
made statements that call for Prime Minister Deakin’s
attention. “We were,” they said, “only too glad of
the chance to come out, and there were hundreds of other
young fellmvs of the same mind, only the Immigration
Office was so awfully strict in its requirements. ■ These
Spaniards were engaged in any sort of way, but in
England they would only take experienced farm laborers,
and even these were required to produce references of
steadiness, reliability and good character.” The Spaniards
from turbulent Barcelona may possibly be very desirable
immigrants, but young agriculturists from Lincolnshire,
other things being equal, would be a mighty lot more
desirable ; and if, as alleged, “ hundreds of young fel-
lows ” from England were available, it would be well
worth finding out why the Spaniards were roped in—-
also why the hundreds of young Englishmen were roped
out.
“Janor” writes:—
The scheme of “ Num ” for the elimination of criminals
by compulsory gladiatorial combat (B. l3/6/’07) presents
good points, and if it were run on business lines should
do more than reduce the “expenditure on criminal de-
tention as “Num” opines. There should be enough
money in it to cover the whole cost of the administra-
tion of the Department of Justice. Doubtless the gate
receipts would bq enormous, and they could be largely
augmented if a tote was run by the Department on each
combat. Also, a large revenue could be derived from the
sale of advertising spaces on the bodies of the com-
batants as they fought before the vast concourse. Then
there would be the sale of programmes. If these were made
attractive, with photographs, records, and biographical
notes of the gladiators, the Treasury would be still further
bloated. Advertising on the walls of the arena would
bring in money. There would be the receipts from the
refreshment booth and the bar, and the sale of the right
to vend peanuts in the Coliseum. Likewise the royalty
on biograph or cinematograph pictures of the proceed-
ings would be a big item ; these would yield a great
profit as shows in remote country districts 'which hadn’t
enough hardened criminals to make a day of gladiators,
and the State’s percentage would bring 1 in a steady
income. There ought also to be gramophone profits.
Whether the State would be justified in taking 10 per
cent, f f the collection at special services held by sensa-
tional preachers to denounce the new class of show, I can’t
say—perhaps it wouldn’t. It is better not to be too
grasping, and it is inadvisable to run the thing into the


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and 1 LONDON.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 t.o £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS IN TERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. „„„ „ rl
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital ? a
Capital Paid Up 41 3.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specialty protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; lion. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. „ * T CTIU ,
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wades :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank uf Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
. .Local. Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of n eul Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ... £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .. y. £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GOVERNfIENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
ri’HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
■JL on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
rates of interest.
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, I
P. E. WILLIAMS, V
W. H. O’M. WOODj
-Commissioners.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt-St.. SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Capital paid-up £9O OOO ° 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOIUtOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
* SYDNEY.
ACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NOIID-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to E<rypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seatroina; Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Asrents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridsre-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 08,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
. IH. A. Schleman .. I Noon. July 19
•MILTIADES .. iA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 10
MORAVIAN .. |A. Simpson . J Noon, Sept. 13
|3rd Class Passengers onlv. *Twin Screw. Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to sail about 7th AUGUST.
MEDIC, to sail about 6th SEPT.
AFRIC, PERSIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ITork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DaUjety and ('omyany, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> NOLI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
.-. . .
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney,, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs*
$
Free
*8
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
oxr.s.’W.
||)ont deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
■h AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. . • • • .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. •• •• •• ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual oriee, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price, .
225. 6d. Sale Price . ..£0139
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Green
P^E
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
TREBLE-WEDCE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,.
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE,
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 deacon sfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mIM Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
TjWNEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
-U LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY. Telephone 174.
Shipping. _1
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOU MELBOURNE, %
ADELAIDE,
PORT PiRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Portfor
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
-S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
July 20.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, July 20.
S.S. Innaminclca, July 27.
Heat and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-,State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
(via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
“ WAIPARA,”
9500 Tons ! J. K. ROSE, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
Jon 30th JULY.
Has Excellent Accommodation for Saloon Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins,- on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewardess carried.
Fares—Durban, £2O ;
Capetown, £22 lOs. ; London, £45.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND, Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & COJ, LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMB At A, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 20.
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 27.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR
DAY, August 3.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY'
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S. A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, July 20.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, July 23.
BOMB ALA, 2 pan., SATURDAY,
July 27.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies* Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanstan-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel In Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonSt? Melbourne^
WEST. AUSTRALIA
3955397 Hay S.T Perth
QUEENSLAND
) Queen S Edward St? Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
1465143 Queen St. Auckland
153 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
2365233 High St
Princes 5 DowlingSt? Dunedinju^
I
ffit's frorr,.
Stewart Dawsonl
its good 3 |
Write fhejk
store nearest
you.
0
nn
LSLS
o
6
o
u
7
m
s
£
1
m
h
*
\
V)
n
1
/j/m
1
i
"| , HE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an Honest
Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you never find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch we can recommend for your
perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest Watches, prices for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of which we will send free and safe by post, together with our written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch ,
S. D. & Co.’s Gentlemen’s Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the very best make, highest possible finish throughout. Finest
f-plate movement, Chronometer Balance, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
by jumping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action, Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Cases, suitable
for merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. These
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Cases, £27 10s.
a
*sfl tOI
The “Derby”
Double Chronograph.
Our “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop, and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled in
rubies, is fitted with
Breq u e t spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunt’" ;.
sikh
Mas
a
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Biequet spring, and compensation balance. The
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £6 10s.
£
The “Premier ”
Watch.
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is finished
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high grade watch, and it will be as good
after 20 years’ wear as it was when new. The Hunting
case is a 2£oz. solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequet hair-spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
justed. The price is
4
Ilf
A Special Dust
Protected Watch .
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
r 4 MAKERS PRICE R
The Lady’s
Gold Filled.
The ideal Watch for a Lady. Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key.
less, of course, and fitted with a real good quality Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tion, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches. Price only
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14ct. Gold-Filled Oases, £5,
ryfhgjghjhjhj
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would he the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
ryfhgjghjhjhj
The Famous
“ Nonpareil ”
Lady's Gold Watch.
These Magnificent 18-ct. Gold KEYLESS “NON-
PAREIL’’ WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch. The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Oases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable.
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
The Steel Lever.
We can recommend this watch for Country wear, the
Steel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Key-
less, f Plate, with exposed winding wheels. We find them
to be most excellent timekeepers, and they have a large
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Establish-
rnents throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
e
The Old Reliable
Keywind English Lever.
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given general satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one, and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra jewels, £4 10s.
Open face, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
m.
An Ideal
Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Oases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Special Gold
Waltham .
For a gentleman nothing can be more suitable than the
14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky—is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are f plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
Brequet Spring.
Price
Price, with Best
Movement and
18et. Gases, £2l;
lOct. Gold Cases,
£lO 10s.
1
Get a Gold
Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure; buy
it now, when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
full case and move-
ment guarantee,
for
Special Circular
on application.
&


FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerin© fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
and 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
wholesale AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROPRIETARY LTD., SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. VV. Nichcll, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
0
D
d
ryfhgjghjhjhj
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for . . .
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic
complaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I have taken (including- those from Drs.) none have
proved so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended it to many others. Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER, Proprietor of “ The Lilydale Express,” Lilydale, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Copmanhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine for
obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me cured one man that had a distressing cough for twelve years.
Please find postmffice order enclosed for payment. Yours thankfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM, Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this particular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours
verj trulj, GEO. S. CALDWELL, Camberwell, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the che.-.. lam sending you this testimonial to make any use of it you wish.
I have
used many co'iigh medicines, and can unhesitatingly say that youis gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
1 gh since. I have also given it to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
been troubled with the coug
results, and now recommend it to my friends.
Wishing you every success—l am, yours truly,
J. ERSKINE, Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT. HAD FAILED ,
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong. „ , , ,
Dear Sir,—Some months ago in Sydney, I suffered from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my
room for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact my busi-
ness as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures- from what the
doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and
for four long weeks I was confined to my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his
medicine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where I resided, told me of a
medicine —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in
the chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second
bottle, my cough had ceased ; but what is more astonishing, the pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and in about
a week I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM, Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY ’ HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—We have to thank your bronchitis cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and gave it a
trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT, Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of. A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite cured in three doses. We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, OHATER and CO., 69 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREATMENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Having- been a sufferer from bronchitis for a number of years and not being able
to get relief from doctors I started taking your Bronchitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it on and
off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its worth.—l
am yours truly, w j CLARKE, Redbank, via Avoea, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible, as
I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she was
seven months old. She had been suffering from bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old, and has
not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE, Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER—COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis and asthma from which I had
suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the
difficulty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write to you this acknow-
ledgment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the
medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I became as I am now,
quite well.—Yours sincerely 7,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear; Sir, —It is with much thankfulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had previously suffered terribly from asthma fof- about three years,
and had tried everything, and had advice, but without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time without moving
day or night out of my chair. If I went to bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand about three
years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles there suffered with asthma fpr a number of years till he took your cure
about five years ago, and has never had the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of my mind until read-
ing your advertisement in some Tasmanian papers brought it to my memory. I told my husband, and he got your
eure for me, which I have taken with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McOOMBE, Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS A
SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your favor of the 27th inst., in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in London. lam sure their annual bronchial attacks will be
greatly relieved if not cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My own experience, and that in connec-
tion with my two-year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I shall continue to highly recommend it for
both old and young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you deem it worth using.—Yours truly,
HERBERT E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral Street, Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. Can confidently say it has saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try it. —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON, 223 Chapel Street, Prahran, Victoria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS ! The great success of HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARN E’S and see that you get it.
HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
A
A
4
smrs
m
r
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ Bindogalbie,” about a helpful inspector:
My late school inspector was a bully of the old variety,
and very imperative. After examining the second class
he turned to me, and, pointing out a girl, said : “ That
pupil is very backward. You should bring her out —bring
her out." I answered that that was impossible. “Non-
sense 1 ” he rejoined. I ventured that, perhaps, he would
show me how to do it. “I’ll soon do that,” he replied.
“ Here, you ; stand up,” and up stood a real specimen of
a bush idiot. He was staggered, I think, when he got a
full view of her, and he started on something easy.
“ Now, what are newspapers bought for?” “To wrop
up parcels, sir.” “Yes; they might be used for that
purpose ; but what is their chief use?” “ Butchers, to
wrop up meat with.” “Yes! yes! yes! but why are
they called newspapers?” “ I don’t neow.” “Well,
they’re called newspapers because they are full of news.
Now, what are they full of ? ” “Noose.” “No! News!
News! News ! Say that.” The poor child fearlessly said
“ Noose” again, and I thought the inspector would have
a lit. He then went on. “ Now, soipe papers are pub-
lished once a dav, therefore they are called”
“ Noosepapers.” “‘No ! ! Because they are published
once a day they are called daily papers. Do you under-
stand that?” “Yes, sir.” “Now, some papers are
published once a week, therefore they are called ”
“ Noosepapers.” “No! ! ! ” “ Daily papers.” “No !!!!
You stupid child ; weekly papers. Do you understand?
Weekly papers.” “Yes' sir.” “ Now, some papers are
published once a month, therefore they are called ”
“Noosepapers.” “No!!” “ Daily papers.” “No!!!”
“ Daily noosepapers.” “No-o-o-o!!! You foolish girl;
monthly papers.” Then, turning to me, this cheerful
help said: “ There, you see, you can draw her out, if
you only persevere with her ! ”
‘ ‘ Snell ” : I was at the football match
last Saturday. A popular player came in, the
disgusted possessor of an eye. It was a Gehenna
of an eye. He had picked it up in the course of
an exchange of arguments when the umpire was
looking the other way. The poor fellow loudly
complained of the degeneration of the game. He
said no decent fellow would play football if things
went on as they were going. “ What’s the good
of playing light,” he moralised, “ when the other
chaps are playing all in ? I’ve tried to be decent,
but no more soft play for me. I’m going to wade
in for the future.” He fondled his eclipsed orb.
“ Where’s the sense in being gentle anyhow ? You
get no credit for it. I wouldn’t have got this eye
if I’d hit that cow hard enough in the first place.”
Then the virtuous footballer retired to the dress-
ing-room, still complaining. *


That Bronchial Cong
Is Eased and Cured by the Pine-Air in PEPS.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
THAT bronchial cough begins very innocently-—a mer j tickling in the throat, which is very annoying, yet hardly
alarming. Just at first it is easily soothed and allayed, but it comes back again. By-and-bye it
becomes a serious nuisance. You cough incessantly—your throat is raw with it; there is an uncom-
fortable tightness, and you can scarcely breathe.
It is demonstrably true that half the cases of chronic bronchitis are directly caused by wrong treatment.
That bronchial cough is a purely natural effort to get rid of some obstruction in the bronchial tubes.
Ordinary liquid cough mixtures usually stop the cough by soothing and stupefying the irritated nerves with
narcotic or sedative drugs before its natural work is done, with the inevitable result that the ‘obstruction gets
worse and worse. The tender bronchial tubes become inflamed, the trouble spreads deeper and deeper,
and at last the very structure of the bronchi is affected. The walls of the delicate air tubes thicken
and lose their elasticity, and the mucus secreted from them is thick, ropy and objectionable.
The Peps treatment is open to none of these objections. There are no narcotics or
sedatives in Peps. Peps do not merely stop a cough. They help a cough to do its natural
work of expelling impurities from the throat, lungs and chest, and they do it by bringing
direct to the lungs and bronchial tubes the pure, healing breath of the famous pine forests. With
Peps a powerful, natural remedy is brought into direct contact with the parts needing
treatment. Irritation is allayed, soreness and inflammation healed and soothed, acccumu-
lations of phlegm and dust expelled, and the natural functions of the lungs and chest
restored.
Peps are a natural and effective remedy for Coughs, Colds, Throat Troubles, Asthma,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Croup, and other affections of the throat, chest and lungs, and are sold
by chemists and stores at I/O and 3/ per box (large size contains three times the quantity),
or will be supplied you for same prices (post free) by the
Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
"A Pine Forest
£4 in E very Home
for all
Throat and Chest Ailments
CAUTION.
Don’t be deceived when told
something is just as good as Peps.
There is nothing as good. Peps
are a scientific discovery. Insist
on getting them, and see that the
registered name Peps is on every
box you buy.
A SAMPLE FREE.
This Coupon entitles you to a
FREE SAMPLE. Cut it out and
enclose it with Id. stamp, ad-
dressed to the Peps Pastille Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney, when
your sample will be sent you.
MS
l
“Oh!
for a
Breath
of
the
Pine
Forest
Business, Robbery, etc.
Contracts for the carrying of ocean mails have
excited much heated controversy among the Australian
States. Now that the Commonwealth Government has
become negotiator for all the States, State jealousies do not
seem to have been reduced. Owing to internal dissensions
the States have never been able to fight large shipping
combinations, and the ocean mail arrangements have been
the subject of many an unseemly scramble. One time
sailing boats did the mail business, and even then there
were quarrels over routes and ports of call. When steam
became practicable, the residents of Sydney, in oppo-
sition to protests from the South, fixed the
route via Singapore and Torres Straits, and
the Indian and Australian Steam Packet Company
was called into service. The route was dangerous, and
as Queensland had practically no population then, the
vessels could pick up little business thereabouts, but the
arrangement kept the mailboats away from Melbourne.
The service died young, after considerable loss of
time and money. The Peninsular and Oriental Company
and the Royal Mail Company came next on the scene,
operating through Suez and the Red Sea, but the ser-
vice, whatever it was to the companies, produced nothing
but vexation and disappointment in Australia. New
South Wales and Maoriland went together in subsidising
the Panama Company. The N.S.W. Parliament voted
£50,000 a year as its share. But the co., after a couple
of years’struggling, failed to call up sufficient capital,
and succumbed. The old A.S.N. Co. carried the mails to
California for a little while. N.S.W. and Maoriland
again collaborated in subsidising a line via San Francisco.
This time the Union Steamship Co. and the Pacific
Steamship Co. were the contractors, and the line, it is
fair to say, worked much better for all parties than any
of the predecessors, but still left much to be desired.
The first nominally Federal mail idea took form in 1873.
N. S. Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, Westralia and Maoriland
sent deputies to Sydney, but, as usual, the proceedings
resolved themselves into an effort each to get the better
of the others as regards mails and cargo space. Such
docking and repairing as had been hitherto done were
done at Sydney ; but the conference on this occasion
carried a resolution that the boats should first put in at
Melbourne, which opened up the possibility of repairs
being done there. N. S. Wales delegates fought
bitterly, and, although beaten on this resolution,
had it recommitted, and were again beaten. Then
N.S.W. washed its hands of the conference. But Victoria
made its own arrangements for the carriage of the mails,
a.nd notified the other States that as many of them as
liked to come in could do so on terms. N.S.W. Govern-
ment threatened wildly, appealed to thoßritish Secretary
for the Colonies to suppress the new mail service, and
finally determined to build and run mailboats of its own.
It is interesting in the light of current opinions to recall
that the N.S.W. Parliament authorised Henry Parkes,
then Premier, to construct four iron steamers for the
carriage of mails and passengers. That was simply in the
fancied protection of N.S.W. against Victoria ; how much
more noble a cause has the Australian Government should
it propose to run its own steamers to protect Australian
citizens against foreign financiers and shipping rings ?
Therefore it is up to Australia to remember that the
idea of a Government-owned steamship line isn’t a new
device of the Labor party, and that it looked quite
reasonable to the local Tory crowd when it was meant
solely to get a bulge on another State, however unreason-
able it may look when it is suggested as a means of
protecting Australia against the exactions of foreign
shipping rings. Also it is worth Australia’s while to
remember that it isn’t wholly dependent on foreign com-
panies. It has carried its own ocean mails before, and
there is no reason why it shouldn’t do so again.
* * * *
“F.C.” writes (it is hard to say whether this
item is Sport or Robbery, but so much sport is robbery
nowadays that the two are almost the same. Some such
new word as Sprobbery is badly needed): Melbourne has
got a trifle of information on the finances of football.
Somebody wrote to the Age saying that the person who
“officially” gave the attendance at the recent Carlton-
Saints disturbance as 16,000 was either Ananias or
couldn’t count worth tuppence, and that, if the football
clubs couldn’t account accurately for their expenditure,
they at least needn’t fake the attendance figures. Where-
upon the hon. treasurer of the Saints Football Club wrote
at great length explaining that the club didn’t get all the
receipts, or anything like all, but completely ignoring the
point at issue. Said point was that though competent
judges estimated the attendance at 25,000, the official
figure was 16,000. The officially-stated receipts were
£3lO 10s., and £467 17s. 6d. for the previous week’s match
against South —a difference of £l5O odd. Yet good
judges felt satisfied the attendances were about equal.
Anyhow, the treasurer who accepted those figures—the
cricket club takes the receipts and hands each football
club its share, after deducting expenses—seems to be a very
trustful individual. As to what the Saints Football Club-
like other League clubs—gets out of the gate money, the
figures are interesting. The general charge “inside” is
Is. 6d. per head ; to the ground, 6d. The cricket club
that bosses thd ground first collars a Clear Is. out of every
Is. 6d. paid ; the expenses for gate-keepers, police, etc.,
are then paid out of the 6d. a head which remains, and
then the cricket club and the two competing football
clubs whack what is left. Practically each football club
gets 2d. a head, while the cricket club collars 2d. a head
from those “outside” and Is. 2d. a head from those
inside, and each pays a third of the exes. The football
clubs get the full receipts from their members—the season
tickets are sold at ss. each —but these wouldn’t account
for a third of the attendances, while cricket club
members, of course, enter “inside” free. Taking the
official figures for the Carlton match —-the disputed
attendance—it appears that St. Hilda Cricket Club, which
did nothing and took neither responsibility nor risk, an-
nexed £134 45., while each football club got but £BB Bs.
In this connection it is interesting to note that the St.
Hilda and South Melbourne Cricket Clubs, which both
play on fenced-off patches of the people’s property—the
Albert Park—pay only a peppercorn rent of £25 a year
each to the Park Trust! When it is remembered that
local and inter-State cricket matches during the last few
years would scarcely pay bare expenses, one is struck
with amazement at the moderation of the football clubs
in not demanding full control of the grounds, and treating
the cricket clubs as interlopers who may be graciously
permitted to use the turf a month or two in summer.
Also, viewing the dilapidated stands and the other ac-
commodation that is mostly non-existent, especially at
St. Hilda and East Melbourne (Essendon), one is moved
to inquire pertinaciously—what do the cricket clubs do
with all this money ?
While looking at the money aspect of football,
it is interesting to consider the ways and customs of Cold
Country footballers, who are openly professional. Ever-
ton (Liverpool) Club, which plays the British Association
game, had an income in 1906-07 of £21,670. This club is
a limited liability co., duly registered, with a paid-up
capital of £1946 10s. The directors could pay a dividend
that would almost satisfy Rockefeller, but the law limits
it to 5 per cent.—£97 odd. Of the rest, £7440 went for
transfer fees and players’ salaries; travelling expenses
took £1249 9s. Bd. ; training, £744 3s. 4d. ; ground ex-
penses, £463 os. Id. Those are the chief items ; there is
no abnormal outlay for boots, hot sea baths, theatre
parties, etc., for a ’bailer getting £5 or £8 a week is ex-
pected to pay for his own boots, as well as his luxuries.
After paying all claims, the Everton Football Club, Ltd.,
is worth £25,136 11s. 3d., and has, besides, £5980175. lOd.
in the bank, to keep its team from starvation during' the
summer.
* * * *
There is gloom over the British cotton industry.
For years the cotton supply of the States has not been
altogether equal to the demand. Not only are the plan-
tations showing signs of being worked out, and the
supply failing at the source, but the U.S. mills have used
more and more of what the plantations have yielded, so
for several years there has been a well-defined shortage.
Recent cables report that the Yankee crop is again in-
sufficient, and the result is that the mills of Lancashire
are working short time. The Americans can already
foresee the time when they will have to import cotton,
and if they decide to protect their home industry by
placing a heavy export duty on the raw product, the
British industry will be, for a time at least, ruined.
Cotton isn’t hard to grow, but it takes a few seasons to
build up a new source of supply of even the most easily
grown raw material. And by that time the Yankee will
have gathered in Britain’s trade in manufactured cotton
goods.
• » * *
“ Red Tape” : N.S.W. Parliament bit off more
than it could chew when it passed the Second-hand
Dealers Act last session. This Act, which was meant to
stop petty thieving, and to enable stolen goods to be
traced, has bobbed up in unexpected places, like the
mermaid sitting suddenly on the water to look at the
passing ship. At present there is a fierce war in bottles.
No more violent bottle war has been known. It is more
furious than the war of Jenkins’ Ear. Owing to an
imperfect tariff, local bottle-making is a ruined industry,
and Australian brewers fall back on second-hand bottles,
which had been used in the first place for imported beer.
Lately the demand for Australian beer has increased more
than that for bottled English ; and the struggle for the
empty bottle has become like the crush at the gateof Sheol.
A dozen hands are reaching out for each dead marine—in
fact, it is grabbed almost before it has breathed its last.
The Sydney brewers have formed a Combine to buy
bottles at l£d. each, so that they may put into them
4£d. worth of beer. The fight is so strenuous that the
bottle-oh’s, the bottle merchants, the pub-keepers, and
the beer drinkers are all running round selling and re-
selling the empties. Now the police ask whether every-
body is a licensed second-hand dealer under the Act, and
if not, will everybody please license himself quick and
lively? The Second-hand Act distinctly names “bottles”
as wares the dealers in which must be licensed, and there
is no possibility of exemptions. The bottle traffickers
have appealed to the Attorney-General to show them a
way out, but up to date the Department has said nothing
worth taking down in Pitman’s system of shorthand.
The obvious remedy is for the entire populace to be licensed
by proclamation as second-hand dealers, and then things
would be just where they started.
* * * *
The Carruthers Government lately sold by
auction the old l£rin-Go-Bragh hotel in Cumberland-
street, Sydney, running back to what used to be Brown
Bear Lane. The old house, which dates from the whaling
days, will presumably now disappear. The block (37ft.
frontage) brought £3OOO.
* # * *
“Quill Chauffeur”: Replying to “Stony”
(B. 13/6/’O7) re Melb. Accountants and Clerks’ Association,
would like to remark that if he isn’t more accurate in his
accounts than in his statements, it is no wonder he is
stony. The association’s rooms are not above a fish-shop,
to start with ; consequently there is no odor of decayed
fish on the premises, unless “ Stony ” brought it with
him. The Secretary of the association doesn’t draw “£3
to £4 per week to hunt up 30s. a week jobs ” ; present
Board of Management carefully considers what a job is
worth, and if the screw offered isn’t up to requirements,
it doesn’t send an applicant. Also it rebels against the
“ state salary ” curse, beloved by sweating advertisers.
Doubtless other associations can offer better rooms and
better furniture, but present management believes in
paying off the legacy of debt left by previous manage-
ments, before making a splash in comforts for which
future members may have to meet the bill. If clerks
of the “Stony” breed would support the association,
instead of decrying it, it would soon be strong enough
numerically to talk straight to some of the employers.
* » * *
“Philo”: Alien t the difficulty of procuring
Australian-made boots in Sydney shops, “ Mul ” has been
misled. While collecting information for a par. which
The Bulletin printed awhile ago, I was told "by half-a-
dozen prominent Sydney bootmen that they prefer to
sell the locally-made article, and never show the im-
ported unless specially asked to do s'o. But that doesn’t
alter the fact that Australian manufacturers label some
pf their boxes with names that look English or American
? or the benefit of that portion of the public which has an
idea that if an article is made in Australia it can t be
good, while, if it is made abroad, it can t be bad.
* * * *
“ J.Gr.” : I was in a Chow doctor’s shop one
day to see a man who had his hand crushed. The Chow
p U 't on a pair of big gold-rimmed specs, and looked at my
friend’s hand, and with a know-all kind of air said, “ Him
hand welly bad. You take ’im this. Makern poltise
evely dhay.” As he spoke he put a package on the table,
Then he went to a big bin and took out another package,
and told my friend to “boil ’em cupful every thlee
hours, then dlink him, welly goo’.” It wasn’t quite clear
how half a gallon of boiled lizards, grasshoppers, and old
coffin nails every day was going to cure an injured hand,
While we were in the shop a few other patients came in.
The Chow examined one, who was coughing like steam
escaping from a safety valve. “ You got welly much
flem,” said the M.D. of Pekin, “welly much flem. You
takem this medlicine, thlee times one day, boil ’em two
hours.” Then he gave the sick man the very same sort
of package as he gave my friend, and took it out of the
same bin. Another patient was a kid who fell off a tree
when after birds’ nests, and punctured himself in two or
three places through landing on a picket fence. After
examining the little chap, the old Chow gave him the
same sort of stuff and the same instructions. He also
charged them the uniform price of one guinea each, and
told them to come again in “ thlee days.” Hindu medicine
vendors also know how to bleed the simpletons who
patronise them. I know a man who had bad eyes, and
gave a Hindu £3 for a tiny bottle holding about a tea-
spoon of powder. The powder did n’t do a scrap of g ood ;
in fact, it irritated the man’s eyes, and nearly drove him
mad for a few days.
* * * *
“Agricola” : When a bushman hauls forth his
receipt for the grey mare he got off Hogan, more often
than not you w pi fi nd the bottom left hand corner torn
and n 0 dllty s t alMp visible. This is a common way of
receipting in the bush. Duty stamps are very scarce, and
ten to one the 15-miles-distant post-office does not pos-
sess one j f you 8 - 0 there. So the receipt is written out
and signed with all formality. Then, both parties con-
senting, the portion where the stamp ought to grow is
carefully torn off. To remove all incriminating evidence,
the seller usua n v lights his pipe with the torn scrap as
goon as possible'.
* * * * *
This is a legend of the Burrandong (N.S.W.)
ld rush of 18 f g The area waB rich> but ver y small,
and the claimants very many, so a meeting was held, and
it was resolved that each person was to lie down, stretch
out spread-eagle fashion, and have pegs driven in at his
extremities. The area he covered was to be his ground,
This answered well enough as regards the men, but one
applicant was a woman. The miners had a chivalrous
reg . ard for women, and felt that it wasn’t the square
thing to publicly stretch a lady out while she lay on the
muddy soil. At last it was decided that she should stand
up, swing round all she knew, and then flop, and that as
much ground as her inflated dress covered when she
flopped should be pegged out to her credit. The result
was satisfactory', as the lady made over £lOOO out of her
claim.
* * * *
A Melbourne man, engaged in the industry of
dropping a brummy ring while walking in front of a
simple countryman, and then offering the find to him at
an a i ar ming sacrifice, was caught in the act, lately, in a
city street. He wasn’t summoned to the Customs Court,
or given an opportunity to explain his action, or asked if
;t was a “ custom of the trade he was just run in and
i oc ked up there and then, for attempting to obtain money
by imposition. He wasn’t in the wholesale line of fraud,
and didn’t work behind a brass plate, and that made all
the difference. Also, he dropped his ring on the pave-
ment; if he had dropped it on a counter the position
would have been altered. Between the man who sells a
bogus ring in the street under the pretence that he
picked it up, and the one who sells a sham ring in a
shop under the pretence that it is 15-carat, there is a great
gulf fixed—a deeper one than that into which the villain
falls when he is thrown off the pinnacle of Anderson’s
tallest melodrama.
THE INK-SLINGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreary ledger, lagging pen,
Drooping forms of serious men
Adding columns in the solemn atmosphere.
O’er the plate-glass entrance door
Grins a motto, gilded, hoar :
“ Abandon hope all ye who enter here ! ”
Glossy-collar’d, radiant-tied,
Meek'of manner, envious-eyed
Of the careless vagabondage of the street,
Balanced on a sober stool,
Training narrow lives by rule,
Weaned, perfectly dejected, by the feat.
O, ye timid, hectored clerk 3
Striving for good-conduct marks,
Surely man is heir to nobler heritage !
Sturdy men of action laugh,
Massive toilers brawl and chaff,
And we patient creatures fill another page !
N.S.W.
W.M.W.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.^.W.
£s6e LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
Best Selected Silkworm Gut. Hand Polished
The “RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is 3d; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d ;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
n 328 -Spairow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 21/6 each
5 x 15, do. do. 26/- ea.
5 x 20, do. do. 31/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 38/6 ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 42/- ea.
No. 329— Bat Folding: Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long 1 handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
Bridles
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book dv De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easv, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition* 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger. Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighhor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Thf, Cuckold, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Pf.rsonal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is Gd.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pp- Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr, Milford’s Mid.
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is> fid Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to al> Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, IS 2d. Dyna-
mos and .Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY*
FOR.
1 BOSISTO’S
u
PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES. J
* LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 vears’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND 7 of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS’^Tf
Mountain Flay. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Ray’s Compound Essence of Linseed for£pughs and Colds
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
Why Take Large Doses
of Nauseous Medicines?
The Homoeopathic Treatment is
mild and unobtrusive in its
effects. Its simplicity makes it
possible for the patient to use
the remedies without his friends
knowing anything about his
troubles.
Homoeopathy
±
rs
Cr
The
Secret
0f...
Health
TO THOSE
IN - -
ILL-HEALTH!
Do you. realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY 7
For a number o/ years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming' disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad *o be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
(Sb Liver Troubles, Vari-
cocele, Rheumatism ;
(Sb Allied Complaints,
Prostatic Affections, Etc., are completely (&b permanently cured by
Patients living at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their co nplaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE KEELEY
HOMCEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
. .. A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated “ Homoeopathy is only hr
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly fn
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more mfliroi
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.” natural
We would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS (IF
WISDOM to any man who will write to— u
THE KEELEY HOMEOPATHIC INSTITUTE,
Cr. Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
Edward L. Keedkt.
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists,
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
i Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
i and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
, mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
\ the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borciigrevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes :—“ Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing proved most excellent during the time I
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.”
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).


mm
niiiiiiiiiiiiii
mu
Influenza is the outcome of a very severe cold, and is dangerous
u not properly controlled, as it is likely to develop into
Pneumonia or Bronchitis. The dangers of these complications
need not be feared if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery be given in
teaspoonful doses every two or three hours, as this powerful
remedy will at once relieve and soon cure the worst cases.
A MOTHER’S LETTER.
/ must tell you that myself and the children have had
Influenza very badly, but thanks to Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery
we have quite recovered. I would recommend it to
anyone suffering from colds.
Mrs. HARGREAVES,
Wharparilla Hotel, via Echuca, Victoria.
r
OUGHS i/e 3/-
OLDS AND & 5/-
ONSUMPTION
61SC0VERY
CoUCMS
Colds
Croup
Consumption
and am.
Bronchial
>NO i
Pulmonary
Affections
of the
Throat,Lungs
and Chest.
m
mmem
=3
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queens G&teTerra.ce
Lor\dor\. 5.W.
UNDER
ROYAL
PATRONAGE
ONE \V/ OF
THE
\ FASHIONABLE;
k\ HOTELS IN /
1 LONDON I
/ NOTED FOR\
its comforts;
CONVENIENCE
" A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.
may have been suffering, even for years, from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anaemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
and you will continue to suffer unless the disorder is treated, as it ought to be treated, by striking
direct at the cause. All the disorders mentioned are due to one cause and one cause alone'; namely
the inability of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to perform the work allotted to them in Nature’s Scheme. Nature will tolerate no irregularity.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from any
of tho disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital organs is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce'
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous; and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel.
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about m it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver.— ln tne liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Twolor three
pounds of bde are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders. ’
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a
curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many dis-
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver and Iby
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural'channels
of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Antemia Indigestion
Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility’
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures enected even when
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co’. Limited
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. ’ rio-i 1
Meg o’ Melbourne.
THE SECOND MATE'S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE brought our old tub over
With lumber, from the Sound—
One sinner jammed and crippled,
A silly bo’sun drowned;
The shipping papers published
These items in their news
As half-a-score of sinners
Got out upon the booze.
Going large in Flinders-street,
Full of Melbourne rum—
All except the bo’sun
Safe in Kingdom Come;
All except the bo’sun
Resting deep and sound—
Seaweed in his whiskers,
And fishes swimmin’ round.
“ Ve go and haf our Gristmass,”
Says Olafsen, the Dane.
“ Ve get as trunk as plazes,
Und never ship again ;
Ve preak der plasted record,
Veall-so preak our leave,
Und gif der plasted skipper
Some tings to make him grieve ! ”
The Sun beyond the Yarra
Went reeling to his bed ;
The lamp-posts danced cotillions—•
The drunkest one ahead ;
And when the Day was ended,
Above the cable cars
And whirling trams, collided
A multitude of stars.
She said she lived at Carlton—
Wherever that might be—
She “didn’t take to sailors
But somehow fancied me ” :
And some strange Dago wanted
To stick me with his knife,
All in the public parlor,
To spill my precious life !
I’ve sometimes found a bottle
A useful sort of thing
To grab where rows are started,
And other whiles to fling;
I swung a full M‘Ewan,
And when they cleared the deck
Meg’s arms were gently clinging—
What ho ! around my neck.
There’s nothing like a shindy
With just a smell o’ blood,
To rouse the latent instincts
Of gentle Womanhood;
When Paris was a village
Of fighting Eskimo,
When London was a covert
.. The Law was written so.
And since the savage nations
Grew civilised and tame,
Below the paint and varnish
The Law remains the same.
The heir of Christian meekness
When missiles start to hurl,
He mostly gets the bottle —
The Pagan gets the Girl!
So Meg and I were lovers
Three summer months or more,
A-billing and a-cooing,
Like dicky birds ashore ;
Her hair was black and wavy,
Her eyes were hazel-browh—-
A pearl of tribulation
\Vas Meg of Melbourne town.
“ You mustn’t go a-roving,
A-roving on the Sea,
But/ chuck the game for ever
And bide, dear heart, with me.”
“ I will not go a-roving,
I'll stay ashore with you,
I’ve known some other women,
But this is Love —and true.”
“ We’ll rent a little cottage
With garden plot and stove,
And all night long we’ll sugar
Our brimming cup of Love !”
She witched me with a whisper,
She snared me with a touch—
Two wives across the water,
They didn’t matter much.
I took a little shanty
Way out in Williamstown,
And Meg and I were married,
What-ho ! and settled down.
And seven bob at lumping
A day I sometimes made,
Yes, seven bob at lumping—
A most ungodly trade.
The story has a sequel,
Most stories of the kind,
In spite of priest or parson,
Are bouo'.t to have, you’ll find ;
For all the planet over,
From Cuba to Japan,
The ancient law was written
Of Woman and of Man.
She “didn’t care for sailors”—
Exceptions prove the rule—
She played the fickle lady,
I played the howling fool;
“ Tliree months without the option”—■
The landsmen know the law ;
I never studied statutes,
And —broke her landsman’s jaw.
I burst the happy dove-cage,
A Woeful deed to do,
But other brutes have done it;
And so, mayhap, might you
If, witched by hair of splendor
And snared by eyes of brown,
You saw good resolutions
Go bung in Melbourne town.
The Lover and his Lady,
The Dove-cot and the Dream,
A little drip of Heaven,
A little sip of cream,
The Jay-hawk and the Pigeon,
Since e’er the World began
“Two women ” spell Gehenna—
Likewise, “ another man.”
The story wears a sequel,
And deep of hull she lies
With maze of spars and cordage
Uprearing to the skies ;
And empty slop-chests for’ard
And empty pockets here—
Oh, sing the same old ditty,
“ The Lover and his Dear ! ”
The brave new winch is clanging
A rusty capstan song,
And hi! ye sons of Someone,
Get up and shift along !
Get up, ye sore-head sinners,
And haul your shore lines home,
To-night we’ll set the watches
Across the Tasman foam.
Oh “Whisky for my Johnny,”
And oh, the steady breeze,
To bulge her snowy tops’ls
And lilt her through the seas.
The cook about the galley,
Importantly he goes,
And from his fleshpots steaming
A reeking fragrance flows.
The sun beyond the Yarra
Sinks steadily to bed ;
The stars in tens of thousands
Shine soberly o’erhead.
And Meg, with hair of splendor,
And eyes of hazel-brown,
Will find her consolation
To-night in Melbourne town.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
BENNO ON THE OPERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BENNO’S confidence in womankind
being fully restored, for some time past
the clerk had been going strong with
Miss Oilly Gwynne. Cilly was short for Priscilla,
and Priscilla filled an inferior office in the pepper
department in Wimble’s pickle and spice mill, next
door. In his more candid moments “our Mr.
Dickson ” admitted to himself that it was some-
thing of a come-down for a man in his position to
knock round with a “ Tom” who packed pepper
for fifteen and a tizzie a week at “Stonkies’.”
But there was much to be said for Miss Gwynne.
She had style, and Mr. Ben Dickson boasted
a fine appreciation of style. She had social pre-
tensions, too, having an elder sister in a comic
opera chorus, and a brother, known as “The
Flash,” who was recognised as one of the best-
dressed “guns” in the metropolis.
True, Cilly’s tastes were rather expensive. She
had a passion for the theatre, and apart altogether
from the cost, it was not an unalloyed pleasure to
take her to the play, since she invariably lost all
conception of Benno’s liberality, his social status,
his qualities of mind, and his charms of person, in
her voluble and foolish adoration of the hero.
But on occasions Benno could be magnificent,
and this was one of the occasions. He shouted
Miss Gwynne to a two-shilling seat at the opera.
More—in consideration of the fact that doors
opened at half-past six, he had gtood her a nine-
penny tea. On the top of that, there were two
tram fares, two ice-cream wafers, and a sixpenny
box of chocolates. It was the night of Benno’s
life. “Straight griffin,” he told Miss Gwynne,
“ there ain’t no one can tell yer uncle ’ow t’ spend
his stuff. It’s scatter sixes with me while I’ve
got it.”
Neither of them had been to grand opera before,
but Mr. Dickson understood “The Valkyrie”
was “class.” He also perceived that the generous
management was giving a great deal for the
money, the performance starting at 7, and ter-
minating at half after eleven. Furthermore,
Cilly, having a sort of family connection with
opera, was naturally eager to see the show, a fact
she had delicately conveyed to Benno by occa-
sional casual references to sundry gentlemen who
were eager to take her—Billy Crib, for instance,
greaser from the butter depbt, and Ned Morrissy,
the lad in charge of the onion plant at Wimble’s
mill. “ But ’avin’ a John o’ me own, I gave ’em
all nay, ” said Cilly, virtuously. So it came about
that Benno suggested a visit to the opera as a
spontaneous idea of his own.
Their seats were in the centre of the gallery,
up under the roof. Benno had the box of lollies
and a pair of battered field-glasses, and he filled
Cilly’s satchel with peanuts. Nothing was want-
ing to make the evening a complete, success. To
be sure, Benno* was not quite at his best in the
presence of a staid and elderly audience, and he
would have been easier in his mind if the pale-
faced, black-haired, young German on Cilly’s left
had been plainer and less polite.
“Wha’s it all about, Benny?’’asked Miss
Gwynne.
Mr. Dickson hated being called “Benny” in
public, but he passed that over. “I don’t quite
get on to it, t’ tell gorstruth,” said he, “ but Mills
ther packer, one iv our ’ands, tells me she’s great
’n’good. Better’n a pantermine, hesez. Sez he
never larfed so much since mother blew up.”
“ That’s bon tosh,” said Cilly, with enthusiasm.
“ Benno, you’re a taw. But what’s come o’ George
Lauri? I don’t see his name.”
“Go hon ! ” Benno was amazed. He chased
through the programme. He even examined the
advertisements, to be sure the comedian’s name
had not strayed into the three-shilling supper.
“ Gor blime,” he said bitterly, “ old George ain’t
in it. They’ve juggled us fer our beans, that’s
what. George Lauri ain’t appearin’.” He raised
his voice for the benefit of the people about him.
There was some tittering. “You’d better see
the manager about it,” said a wire-haired youth
in front.
Benno resented the sarcasm. “If Willie ain’t
good he’ll get his ’ands slapped,” he said quite
loud enough for Miss Gwynne to hear. “ Wonder
why Lauri’s bin took out.” he continued. “Mills
told me he was playin’ Wotan, ’n’ little Percy was
playin’ Siegmund. Funniest he ever saw, he
said.”
Priscilla tugged at Mr. Dickson’s sleeve. All
within earshot were grinning broadly. “Halle-
lujah ! but someone’s been swingin’ on your leg-
end,” said the lad in front.
Benno gasped. Recollections of the frivolous
disposition of the packer dawned upon him. For
five minutes he was silent and depressed. Then
came the commanding officer of the gallery, busily
packing the already over-crowded audience by
hand to make room for new-comers. He went
along the rows at a,great pace, hustling the
people up by inches, and “Mind yer fav’rites !
Mind yer fav’rites !” he cried with the insolence
of an elected person. His efforts pressed Cilly
into closer contact with the poetic German.
Benno resented this.
“Yar-r-r!” he said, “better get under the
’ouse, this is th’ day fer th’ dogman.” The official
grabbed Benno and battled him into place.
“ Dunno whv they don’t lay poison for ’em,” said
the aggrieved cleric.
(Continued on next page.)


A MAN IS AS STRONG AS HIS BACK
A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness, stiffness of the
limbs, sick headache, and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger of kidney
disease, rheumatism, dropsy, and Bright’s disease. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly and
thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
CITY
Mr. J. Bickell, 10 Chappel Street, Sydney,
says: —On April 10, 1899:—“I was a martyr to
kidney trouble; my back never ceased aching.
The pains were, across the lions and down the
thighs, and at times I could scarcely move. I
also had urinary weakness, which was very annoy-
ing, and the secretions were disordered, contain-
ing sediment. My life was miserable, and I knew
that I was getting worse, every day, in spite of
the fact that I used a great many remedies. Mrs.
Mullins, of 49 Hunter Street, advised me to use
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some
right away. This remedy cured me, every dis-
tressing symptom has gone, arid my kidneys are
Strong and healthy.”
On February 24, 1907, Mrs. Bickell says : “For
the benefit of people who are tortured with kidney
trouble, I am pleased to add to the above the fact
that my husband’s cure has lasted. He is quite
well now, and has been during the past eight
years.”
MANLY
Mr. William Bagnall, Storekeeper, Brookvale,
near Manly, says : —“About five years ago I met
with a serious accident; was thrown out of a sulky
and hurt my back. I was so bad I knew that I
had injured my kidneys. I could not get about at
all for a couple of months, and then only with
the greatest difficulty ; and I endured agony.
Every move was torture. I used many remedies,
but nothing eased the pain. Seeing Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, I decided to try
them. After taking one box I noticed an improve-
ment, so I went on taking them. In all, I used
twenty boxes for a cure, and I am now as well and
as strong as ever I was. This did not happen
yesterday, but four years ago, and it proves that
the remedy is genuinely good that I’ve been well
all that time. I consider my cure marvellous, for
lam over 70 years of age. I have lived at Manly
for 50 years, so I am well known, and my word
should carry weight.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes 15/3),
or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St.. Sydney
“ Every
picture
tells a
story.’
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Backache
ryfhgjghjhjhj
‘'Gimme lip, ’n’you’ll hit th’ pavement with
yer nut, sonny,” said the usher, hurrying about
his business.
“P’raps so—p’raps not. Me ’n’ meself ’ud out
er batch iv your sort,” said Benno in quite a loud
voice. Then to Cilly, with a tired air: “These
gazobs what get, proud, ’a’ go round wantin’ t’
mix it with strangers, generally strikes er snag.”
The orchestra came out, and played something
that sounded to Mr. Dickson like the flight of a
thousand kerosene tins down a hill. He listened
in silence for a few minutes, and chen exclaimed
disgustedly :
“Jimmy jee ! what ’re they givin’ us? The
orchestra’s shicker, if yeh arsk me. They’ve got
at Sunday’s beer fer er cert. Why, that ain’t any-
thin’ they’re playin’. It’s jist every beggar fer
himself, ’n’ first man dead pay th’ slate. Strike
me up a pipe, yeh can’t get a hook into this any-
where. ’Tain’t coon song, ’tain’t dance music,
’tain’t ballads, ’tain’t serio ’an’ it ain’t comic.
Start again ! ” he cried, addressing the conductor.
“Shoot oop!” “’Scats!” “ Stop-a de rah ! ”
“ Lie down ! ” hissed fierce voices.
“You know,” said Benno, in justification of
his superior attitude, “me sister Hameliar sings
in the choir at St. Mark’s.” He felt himself taken
by the shoulders in two big, strong hands, and
jerked violently to and fro, till he had a startling
impression that his head was about to be shot into
the stalls. When the shaking ceased, and he
looked back in amazement, he discovered a large,
stolid-looking Dutch frau dumped on the seat
directly beliind,
“Will you make no inderuptions off you
please,” she said, with a calmness in surprising
contrast with her audacity.
“ Our Mr. Dickson ” was paralysed. He sat in
stony silence till the first act was well under way.
He was slowly overcoming his indignation, and
trying hard to make head or tail of the
happenings on the stage, and failing, miserably.
A very fleshy tenor, clad mainly in goat skins, lay
in a most uneasy attitude on an inadequate rock
in the centre of some ruins, making occasional
outcries, the purport of which always evaded the
little clerk. One emotional yell stirred the
audience to its boots.
“Eh, wh-wh-what did he say? What ’id he
say then ?” said Benno eagerly to the man on his
right.
“’Ovv t’hell d’ I know!” responded the man,
sourly, and the frau at the back knocked Benno in
the spine, and said, “ Shoot oop ! ”
Later the large, round tenor, in the course of
a struggle with his emotions set to music, lost his
centre of gravity, and nearly rolled off the couch.
Benno liked that. He laughed rather noisily, and
started to applaud.
“He’s ther funny one. That bloke in ther
carf-skin vest. He’s dead comic,” he said, ex-
citedly, delighted to have discovered something
at last. ■ ■ ■'
“ Shoot oop ! ” said the frau, and knocked again.
“Pud ’im oud! ” commanded another voice.
There were hisses of “Hush !” “Hush !” from
all round the gallery.
Benno was hurt. “Ah-h-h, get work.!” he
said, vehemently.
A stout, fair lady and a wild man of the woods
with profuse black whiskers, joined the corpulent
tenor, and Mr. Dickson’s hopes revived. He
whispered to Cilly his belief that the cove with
the chin whisker was old George Lauri in
disguise, but when the three ranged themselves
at a table, and sang endlessly, his soul revolted
again. He bore up for twenty minutes.
“Blime, send for someone, somebody; they’ve
forgot ’o\v t’stop,” he said, scornfully. “Ring
up ther fire brigade ! Call in ther amberlance ! ”
Then, with still keener disgust, “ They or ter be
shot ! Call this grand operer ! Grand ! Strike
me blue, it’s rotten —fair rotten ! ”
The people at hand rose at him in a sort of
frenzy. They were enthusiasts, and they loathed
this discordant Philistine. The frau behind
avenged the injured ones. Drawing a fat hand
like a shoulder of lamb, she dealt Mr. Dickson a
box on the ear that knocked him end over on to
the people in the next tier.
“ Will you make no inderuptions, off you
please?” she said, composedly, when Benno
crawled into his place, wearing a dazed expres-
sion, and foolishly rubbing his damaged ear. The
clerk was too stunned to expostulate, and Cilly,
who at another time would certainly have espoused
his cause with violence and strong language, was
leaning very much towards the young German,
and trying to create an impression that she was
not acquainted with the absurd person on her
right.
Till close upon the conclusion of the act Benno
was sulky, and occupied himself muttering scath-
ing comments on the Dutch female behind. At
this stage, however, he made a startling discovery.
It was a great truth that should not be suppressed.
He had unearthed a scandalous imposition, and
spoke up like a man.
“Jimmy jee!” he said, “they ain’t talkin’ at
all. They ain’t said a word fer ’arf a hour. It’s
jist jabber they’re givin’ us.”
“ You blighted ass, they’ll fire you out in half
a lick, and serve you good,” said the man on his
right.
Benno rounded on him. “Since yer so smart,
Ned,” he said, “ what’s'ther bloke sayin’ ? Come
now, what’s his nibs gassin’ about? Garn, I like
your sort, kiddin’ yer pleased with ther show, ’n’
all the time yeh don’ know what’s it more’n a dead
hen. There ain’t bin er word in English spoke.
I’ll lay yeh six t’ four on it.”
Had not the curtain come down just then,
Benno would certainly have been ignominiously
ejected. During the interval he explained to
Priscilla, in loud, assertive tones, that the mem-
bers of the company had all forgotten their parts,
and were merely pretending to employ civilised
language. “Jest jollyin’ these goveys, tha’s
how,” he said. “ But they don’t jolly your Uncle
Ben, not once. They orter Be pinched.” He
bought two ice-cream wafers in a defiant mood,
and talked scathingly of the infamous conduct of
the management in deluding an audience, the
infantile innocence of which passed human belief.
“It’s er bilk,” he said. “ This ain’t no play. The
cows ’re maltin’ it up ez they go along.”
Benno was quiet and depressed during the
second act. He gave little attention to the opera.
Cilly’s conduct was filling his soul with gloomy
doubts. The poetic young German was explain-
ing the opera to her in a whisper as it progressed,
and Priscilla inclined away from her Benno, and
towards the interesting foreigner. The clerk had
an uneasy feeling that “the Dago’s” arm wasabout
his girl’s waist, but the press of knees behind
.barred investigation. He thought of his lavish
expenditure, and the base ingratitude of woman.
Twice he whispered to Cilly, but she disregarded
him, bending an attentive ear to the stranger.
“Garn,” blurted Mr. Dickson, “get orf the
kraut hog. Let’s get er word in. ”
“’Scats!” retorted Miss Gwynne, contemp-
tuously.
Benno’s small soul bubbled with wrath. He sat
there sourly, meditating vengeance. If his sus-
picions were verified his dealings with that
bladder-headed Dago would startle the town.
Little did the devoted Dutchman know what
horrors of retribution were saving up for him.
Little did he understand the pugilistic powers
and the grim malignancy of Mr. Dickson.
Benno’s suspicions were verified immediately
the lights went up in the second interval. Ob-
viously “the Dago” was holding Cilly’s hand under
the poor cover of the programme, spread on the
girl’s lap. The righteously indignant clerk tore
the programme away. It was too true ; the hands
of Cilly and the German were clasped affection-
ately. The pale German blinked up at Dickson
with bland composure.
“’Ere, ’ere! what yeh givin’ us?” snorted
Benno.
“ Mint yer pissenes !” said the German, with a
calmness that bespoke depths of stupidity unpre-
cedented even in a foreigner.
Benno struck his rival. The German arose.
There was a scuffle and a sudden uproar. Mr.
Dickson saw the gallery M.C. working rapidly
towards the centre of disturbance, and then the
German’s fist landed with terrible force in dead
centre. “ Whoo-oof ! ” said the little clerk, and
went down writhing in an agony of breathlessness.
The next thing Mr. Dickson knew he was
being rushed down the stone stairs ahead of the
ruthless chucker-out. There was a choking grip
on Benno’s collar, there was an incisive connec-
tion with the rear of his pants, he was leaping
perilously on his toes, his eyes stuck out, he had a
nasty, dizzy feeling, and thought at every stride
that he was about to be precipitated down the
stone flight on his defenceless head.
Benno was rushed into the narrow side street
with such impetus that he collided with the build-
ings opposite, rebounded, and sat in the gutter.
Blind fury seized our hero. His craving for ven-
geance was not to be sated by little deeds. He
circled fiercely, seeking a weapon ; went down on
a stone, and then did a blind, mad act. He
hurled the junk of blue metal with all his force at
the theatre. Fortunately the wall was well built,
and no harm was done.
Rushing back to the entrance again, he was
confronted by a stern, cold policeman pointing a
commanding finger into the middle distance.
Benno pulled up short, gulping.
“ Well, wh wh ” he gasped.
The policeman’s finger became mure peremp-
tory, and Benno picked up the hat thrown
at him, and stole away. He hung about till the
performance was over, and saw the German
courteously assisting Miss Gwynne down the
stairs. When Benno took charge “the Dago’’
raised his hit gravely, and passed on. Benno said
nothing at all. His soul was a black pit of wrath.
On the tram he made an attempt to awaken some
sense of compunction in the girl.
“S’pose yeh ate all them choc’lits I bought ? ”
he said.
“No,” said Cilly, composedly. “Mr. Van
Norden ate ’em all ”
“ ’N’ ther peanuts ? ” said Benno.
“He ate them too,” replied Cilly. “ He’s a
all-right John. So nice lookin’,” she went on
with enthusiasm ; “ and lie’s goin’ t’ teach me
the pianner.”
Benno arose, his eyes blazing. This was too
much. “Is he?” he cried; “is he? Then,
blime, ther govey kin pay yer tram fare ! ”
It was a crushing rejoinder, too cruel perhaps,
but the relentless Benno sailed out without
another word, and took his seat on the dummy.
EDWARD DYSON.
The Three Kings of Death-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the white
Of Maria Light
And the red on Columbia Shoal,
Where the long, clean seas come stamping
in—
Stamping in,
Tramping in,
With slow resistless roll—
Leagues from land,
The Three Kings stand
And levy deep-sea toll.
There’s naught to mark
Their three peaks stark—
There’s never a sign to tell
That a strong tide’s setting on to them ;
And many a good ship’s gone to them
For want of light or bell.
When the fog comes down
Their coastlines drown
Till there’s only the lurching swell.
In the quivering gloom
Of the engine room
Eyes stare at the telegraph—
“ Dead slow ahead ! ” and she’s sweeping in—
Sweeping in, creeping in,
Mist-dews on funnel and gaff.
From the first saloon
Comes a comic tune
And a woman’s nervous laugh.
The harsh bells thrill
Their warning shrill,
And the great rods grip the throws—
Grip them and send them blundering back,
Blundering back, thundering back,
With terribic Titan blows.
“ Hard astern ! ”
The white suds churn,
And the rocks are under her nose.
She’s moving back
To the deep, blue track,
From the Horror there in the gloom,
Where the grisly Kings of Death await,
With eager bated breath await
For a ship to come to her doom—
Oh ! pray to God
That every rod
Is sound in her engine-room.
When you miss the white
Of Maria Light,
And the red on Columbia Shoal,
And the long, lean seas go tramping in,
Tramping in,
Stamping in,
To meet the White Patrol;
Put her about,
And take her out,
Lest the Three Kings take their toll.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing at Daimain, N. S. W., whose portrait
is also given.
“Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
would become so ill I woiild have
to go into a neighbor’s house'
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
•'■r'
//
i
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, s 6 determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
Avac’a Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
COLORED
And Artist
POST
NO MONEY WANTED
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing’ 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards yon can earn a Ladies’ or Cent.’* Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
We take all
We are the
this liberal
your
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
ryfhgjghjhjhj
A DAINTY
GOLD WATCH
FOR A LADY ,
This is one of the prettiest little Watches
that we stock.
The double ease is 9-ct. gold, and is decorated
in enamel of different colors.
The illustration shows one of the nicest
styles. It will be found an excellent timekeeper.
We warrant it for 20 years.
This would make a very nice present for a
lady, one that would be really appreciated.
Other Watches at all prices are illustrated
in the big “ A. & C.” catalogue, and we will be
pleased to send you a copy on request.
“ The Store where Quality .counts” pays the
postage to any address, and should the article
not be satisfactory you have the right to return
it and we will refund your money.
Angus& Coote,
GEORGE STREET (Corner of the Royal Arcade).
SYDNEY,
Opp. the Barometer, Q. Y. Markets.
ASTHMACURE
EHlWAllirS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in espectorati on. Asthma,Nervoos Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT A Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Solri hyo* Chemist,.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price, 43 6d. from all booksellers. Post
tree from Bulletin office, ss.
the
ryfhgjghjhjhj
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DE3ILJTY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions;fejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding' & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness;
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castiereagh
Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURB, Will
forward the same, tree o» charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. fid. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. 6d.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of “Australian
books.
TO BE FIRST
is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not sufficient—merit is required. This is exactly why
stand foremost among medicines —they possess real merit, and have proved
themselves worthy of a permanent position in the family medicine chest,
Trial purchasers become regular users, because they find nothing to equal
BEECHAM'S PILLS for dispelling
BILIOUS & NERVOUS DISORDERS, INDIGESTION,
SICK HEADACHE, LANGUOR,
and other such troubles which arise from a Disordered Stomach.
They regulate and tone up the entire system. The genuine worth of
BEECHAM'S PILLS has obtained for them the unique position of having
the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
THE SALE EXCEEDS SIX MILLION BOXES ANNUALLY.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price l\l\ {56 pills) and 219 {l6B pills).
If Yota wish. to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your •• *
Rabbit iSkins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
■ TO— i -
HILL, CLARK CO.,
SYDNEY.
Henry Skinner,
Ciarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Sltinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TALUS FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Niu.
Public and
ryfhgjghjhjhj
I '*EfnaTraylftT<l»: S
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinnsr Parti a 3
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
PATERNOSTER'S
PILLS BB
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR, .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frse, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con'essions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for fllvsirated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza
G.P.0., SYDNEY .
aggaaasae
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; w.th Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In tSot. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata.
harm- sent: Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
6*v vfc- a-cade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS an 4
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours witheut
incon-
venience.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
* MEN and
WOMEN.
Jr. John Martin, I.D. «*
Consulting Physician in a!! Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
I>R. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be bad from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. od., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 590 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing; chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ecsr been published,
e? ET CT A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
■ fm El EL giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent ROST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ’ (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five hectares on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). ZW Note Address
DR . MARTIN, M.D., "&miey House,” 151 Elizafoeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. -.— HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO KEEP YOU WARM
ryfhgjghjhjhj
ryfhgjghjhjhj
USE OUR
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30/42j m m
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
solejcentB l _ w# & J a LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNK
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
kwoad Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
m
ryfhgjghjhjhj
An Energising Cordial for Men and Women.
ViuJ/iJkS
SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
iJI
0
I
■-t.j
ryfhgjghjhjhjryfhgjghjhjhj
Horse Power MINING WHIM
This appliance is invaluable to Prospectors and
others in the development of mining properties.
It will raise a load of from 503 to 7001 b. from a
depth of 500 ft. The weight of the whole machine
is only 12G01b., and the heaviest piece 2501 b.
Price includes Sills, Sweep Extension Rods, set of
Hand Levers with Castings and Bolts to connect
same, and 3 Shelves for Gallows Frame. Timber,
Rope and Car are not included.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY , ENGINES, and BOILERS .
p
m
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & <SoIe Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c,
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, PuMeys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES anti FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
ryfhgjghjhjhj
FOB. PASTOBAIaIST,
ryfhgjghjhjhj
Write for our FREE BOOK on
TELEPHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM
mn Telegraph
279 GEORGE STREET.
■ • ’
1
m
PULS
-OME7I R^C | NEEF , |N c
C?:U*
Puisometer
Engineering Co*
G
an
REFRIGERATING MACHINERY
Of Improved Design and Construction*
Also, HAND ICE MAKING MACHINES.
A POST CARD WILL BRING YOU CATALOG .
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 263 ceorce st., Sydney
