

m
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
ms
9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— _
writing and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
COUNTRY VISITORS TO THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW are invited by
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BEN I B’ SYDNEY
INTERESTING EXHIBIT OP MACHINERY
At the En<
Machinery Avenue.
. HOBART.
— '
fiadley’s Orient |otel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
*
it
must
*
5
Pine-Apple Brand
*
gfhfg
hfghfghfg
THE BfOYAL
E DISWAN LAMP.
/..«sisi&4
. i
WAN
: !
Economy in Current.
Equabwy of Light.
— \
THE
Edison a im
United Electric
Ligis} Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depfit:
Commonwealth
Btttdings,
Adelaide Str-est,
BRISBANE.
all,
tj u-£c9^
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
COLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
hfghfghfg
Manager
hfghfgh
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL EhUINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
pHAS. BURRELL & SON'S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’BeckettSt., Melbourne.
V.'-
fghfgh
BECKS LAGER
Steamers
supplied
N
L
the
P
&
0
&
D
to
As
Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
CO., BREMEN, GERMANY
Brewed
&
BECK
&
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
Regrd.
s
Trade
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF N '
Crockery, Glassware, E.P .
Ware, Cu tlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists ’ Supplies, &<?., &«
(Wholesale anti Retail).
I
§
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
—Melbourne.
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
mfi innM spa.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
-GX3LLIKT CO.. Agents.
, The Bulletin
Yol. 28.— N0. 1414.]
[Thursday, March 21, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


3XTESW BOOKS.
Grinishavv, Fiji to Cannibal Islands, 9s, post Bd.
Baston, The Evolution of Life, 9s, post Bd.
Mason, A. E. W., Running Water, a novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
r< — n> World of Crime, true detective stories, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
, Elements of Electric Traction, 6s, post" ''
Herbert Spencer’s Essays, R.P.A. Series, 9d posted
Hayward, Science of Education, R.P.A. Series, 9d posted
Great Golfers in the Making-, by 34 champions, 7s 6d n Bd'
Diet, of Technical and Scientific Terms, Is 3d, posted Is 6d'
Marohmont, In the Cause of Freedom, 3s 6d, post 6d.
JUST RECEIVED.
THE FIGHTING CHANCE, By R. W. Chambers,
Author of “ Cardigan," “ Iole," etc., paper cover, 2s 6d ; cloth binding, 3s (id ; postage 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great - ,
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
Fob the Cube of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
□
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE "AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE -
says
<< Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat."
WST HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL. JU
Unlike C°ug'| l Medicines, do not cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement
Thk Practitioner says : —“ Useful in Torisilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailir/ants.”
Sold by ail Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. f
BES~m
THE RED PAGE
PIN KUO’S HOUSE IN ORDER.
ARTHUR W. PINERO is always a
good craftsman. His plays are often
too obvhmsly built upon a formula ;
his plots have frequently too arti-
ficial a basis, his problems too metallic, too
crisp, too aggressively brilliant a solution ;
but his technique is invariably excellent and
satisfying. In The Second Mrs. Tanqueray
Ibsen’s influence caught him and changed
him, and in The Notorious Mrs. Lbbsmith ,
whieh is marred, however, by one “stagey ”
curtain specially designed for the Noncon-
formist conscience, he made himself secure in
hislater method. One remarkable and breath-
less scene in The Gay Lord Quex showed the
assured craftsman at ease among his puppets;
but the great dramatist was not yet. His
lamentable fourth act proved the essential
weakness of the mere technician. But Quex
was in another way a triumph. In this play
Pinero deliberately shattered one dear con-
vention of the English stage ; he proved that
it was possible to write a good play about
characters none of'whom aroused any sym-
pathy from the audience. The same failure
in “staying-power” was betrayed in the
epilogue to Letty—un afterthought to a
cruelly incisive study of a life that is some-
what out of Pinero’s usual range. The
craftsman, however, was shown even in
that deliberately nasty little joke, The
Wife Without a Smile, where Pinero
seized upon the wonderful dramatic effect of
making a doll, hung above his humar.
puppets, the god from the machine, the pivo ;
of their action, the tune to which they danced
But in Ins Pinero had already carried his
method to its bitter and tragic end ; and that
trenchant study of a weak woman was pre-
sented with a nakedness that was more than
tragic, that was almost too horrible for pity.
Iris would not “stage,” but it remains a
piece of literature.
Now he has put his house in order, and
given us the most complete thing that his
machine-made technique can produce. His
House in Order, published by W. Heinemann
{per Sydney Book Club, 2s. 6d ), is certainly
fine play. It was produced in London in
I ebruary, 1906, and was an immediate
success. In thirteen months it has not been
able to find its way to Australia. The
comedy is a four-act flouting of the British
Philistine, in whose eyes wives are merely
created for the purpose of keeping a man’s
house in order. This is the ideal that
Filmer Jesson, M.P., has of perfect domestic
happiness
Pray don’t imagine that I use the expression,
“my house in order,” in the limited sense you
restrict it to. ... The phrase comprises, dn my
mind, the regular, methodical conduct of life
generally, social as well as domestic. When I
ask that my house shall be in order, I am asking,
not only that my luncheon, my dinner, shall be
decently and punctually served ; not only that
this inkstand, this paper-knife, may be found
invariably in the same place; but that every
wheel of the mechanism of my private affairs,
however minute, shall be duly oiled and pre-
served from grit. I am asking that the impres-
sions of home and its surroundings formed by my
son m boyhood shall be such as will influence him
in after years to his mental and moral advantage ;
in short, that I may be permitted to pursue my
public career in complete confidence that nothing
-nothing outside that career—is liable to the
slightest confusion and derangement. That is
what I intend to convey by “my house in
order.”
And, as Hilary Jesson, his brother, re-
marks, “ a precious tall order, too ! ” The
;-tory may be briefly indicated. Filmer
Jesson’s first wife Annabel admirably kept
his house in order ; but she was killed by a
carriage accident, and Filmer married Nina,
the pretty irresponsible governess to
his only son, Derek. Nina proved
herself quite incapable of keeping his
house in order. Hence the summoning
of one Geraldine Ridgeley, Annabel’s sister,
to take charge. (All unpleasant spinster
characters on the modern stage are christ-
ened Geraldine.) Filmer, in memory of his
first wife, is about to open a park which he
has presented to liis constitu'ents, and the
house-party includes the Ridgeley family,
under whose open canonisation of the exem-
plary Annabel the disregarded second wife
naturally writhes. And the husband,
obsessed by his reverence for order, takes
the side of the Ridgeleys. His brother,
Hilary, however, the man-of-the-world type
that is found in every machine-made play on
the modern English stage, openly espouses
the cause of Nina. The Ridgeleys are
drawn very true to type. Hear them on
open-air music :
Filmer : We ought to remember that there are
various kinds of music, to some of which, I take
it, no objection can be raised. There is sacred
music, for example.
Sir Daniel : The whole idea of open-air music,
although gaining ground rapidly in this country.
—music of any kind in the open-air—is contrary
to wha,t I conceive to be the English spirit.
Lady Ridgeley : It brings the sexes closely to-
gether.
Sir Daniel (to Lady Ridgeley): That is so.
Lady Ridgeley : Is a word, it is essentially
Continental.
J*
So, when Hilary persuades the angry Nina
to offer to provide, as a peace-offering, a
fountain for Annabel’s park, the project in-
evitably fails.
Firmer : And the drinking fountain remains,
doesn’t it ? There’s the fountain.
Nina (eagerly) •. The fountain ?
Filmer : Not as a substitute for a band-stand —
absurd !—-but as a thing that is needful; a thing,
as Geraldine reminds us, of absolute utility.
Nina : Which might be made a beautiful thing !
Firmer (nodding his head) : Well—
Nina (with growing enthusiasm) : Instead of a
dank-lookmg trough, a pretty, delicate work of
art !
Filmer (assentingly) : H’m, yes.
Nina : Emblematic of purity and sweetness!
(He nods again.) Filmer! (breathlessly) I may
make that my offering to—-to Annabel ?
Filmer (glancing at the Ridgeleys): I don’t
anticipate—
Nina : A big man ought to, execute it —a
London sculptor. Who would be the best— ?
The Ridgeleys have been looking on and listen-
ing with marked disapproval. Sir Daniel
now comes forward.
Sir Daniel : Excuse me, dear Filmer, but are
you quite—ahem ! —quite certain — ?
Filmer : Certain— ’
Sir Daniel : That it is necessary to add any-
thing to your already stupendous gift to the
town ?
Lady Ridgeley : They will be clamoring for
boats on the lake next.
Geraldine : Or swans.
Filmer : Good gracious me, a moment ago you
were all for a fountain !
Pryck Ridgeley : My dear chap, surely one
may—er —reconsider—
Sir Daniel : Modify—
Lady Ridgeley : In any event, Filmer, such a
“ work of art ” as Mrs. Jesson desires—
Geraldine : A delicate work of art!
Lady Ridgeley : Such a work of art must not
be persisted in.
Geraldine : It would have shocked my sister
terribly.
Sir Daniel : A fanciful piece of sculpture, de-
signed as a medium for the conveyance of water,
invariably includes the delineation of a human
figure.
Pryce : You may call it a nymph or a naiad,
but it’s nothing less than a—
Geraldine : That will do, Pryce.
Sir Daniel : If men and women have a relish
for that form of “ art ”
Lady Ridgeley : There is the Continent.
So Nina, in a fit of exasperation against
Annabel, the Ridgeley-worsliip and the park,
comes down to take her place in the carriage
in a dress that is not at all suitable for the
mournful occasion. In fact, it is—Pink !
“A pretty gown of bright pink”! Ali
Philistia is,staggered. But Hilary attempts
to mediate.
Hilary : After a night’s reflection—
Nina: After a night’s reflection, to dare to
come downstairs —a woman !
Hilary: A woman?
Nina: Having only yesterday been a brow-
beaten, submissive girl ! Inexcusable !
Hilary: There,can be no valid objection to a
girl becoming a woman at any moment she, with
the sympathetic assistance of nature, selects.
But if you will assume, at short notice, and on
this exceptional occasion, the mantle of woman-
hood—
Nina : It shouldn’t be pink, you think'?
Hilary (good - humorcdly) : Exactly. It
shouldn’t be so bright a pink.
But the action of the play begins. The
child discovers in his dead mother’s boudoir
a bag containing four letters—four damnino-
love-letters written by that old friend of the
family, Maurewarde, to the exemplary
Annabel, proving Derek to be his child ; and
Nina, unknown to Derek, discovers those
letters, and sees her way to her revenge upon
the Ridgeleys. She tells Hilary, who, man-
like, jumps to conclusions that do not in-
clude the convolutions of the feminine brain.
Hilary : Then he [the child] didn’t see you
extract the letters ? He was ignorant that they
were in the bag?
Nina: Absolutely. It was empty, for all he
knew.
Hilary : You are sure ?
Nina : Positive.
Hilary: Where is the bag?
Nina :He has taken it to his fa— to Filmer.
Hilary : When Filmer opens it—?
Nina: He’ll find nothing.
Hilary (with a sigh of relief) :Ah ! (softening)
Oh, my dear Mrs. Filmer, what a mercy—a mercy
we can never be sufficiently grateful for—' '
Nina : Mercy ?
Hilary : If those terrible letters had come to
light—what a mercy it is’that they should have
fallen into our hands.
Nina (steadily) : Into my hands.
Hilary (accepting the correction): Into your—
(blankly, struck by her tone) Why, you wouldn’t
—you haven’t the smallest intention of—’
(thecking himself) I—l beg your pardon .. .
But Nina would; and the audience has
every sympathy for Nina. Still Hilary per-
sists.
Hilary : . . . But there is a solitary figure in
the tragical-comical picture of Filmer’s earlier
married life which seems to stand out from its
surroundings, and to cry aloud to you to throw
those letters into the lire cinci to forget their con«
Nina : A sulit iry figure? (foreseeing hiscmsiverj
Who—whose ?
Hilary : Annabel’s.
Nina ( rising and eonfrouting him—in a hard
voice): Annabel’s!
Hilary (continuing—after a brief silence—
quietly) : She has been dealt with, you know.
N ina : Dealt with ?
Hilary: She paid. Her account is balanced.
Two thick black lines are scored under it. The
book s closed.
Nina: Paid! (advancing) How—paid ? In
what way has she paid ? Aren’t you all about to
open this miserable park in commemoration of
her ?
Hilary : Wo ace. And I shall perform my
share of the function, in spite of those letters,
without a scruple.
Nina ( satiHcally): You —you are very chival-
rous, Mr. Jesson.
Hilary ( with a slight bow): lam six-and-
forty. ... And yet I wouldn’t add to the punish-
ment she underwent by indicting a single scratch
upon the image—the false image—those who
loved her, and exalted her, have set up.
Nina : Punishment! All this talk, talk, talk
of punishment, and payment! (unrelentingly)
It’s true, her end was sudden, awfully sudden—
Hilary : No, no ; that wasn’t her punishment.
A pair of runaway horses, an overturned carriage,
a stone-heap by the roadside, death in a flash !
That wasn’t her punishment; that was her
release, (at Nina’s side) Her punishment!
Why, read that scoundrel’s letters again. “ The
past six or seven years,” he says, “ the past six or
seven years have been hell upon earth.” To him,
hell upon earth. Were they pleasanter to her?
What must \they have been to her? . . . Then
the child, the blessing turned to a curse. What a
motherhood ! Conceive it! The bitter tears shed
silently upon the pillow, the inw'ard writhings,
the dumb cries for support; and after a time, the
resuming of her customary duties and of her place,
opposite her husband, at his table. And, once
more, and to the finish, the mask chafing the face,
and the .ceaseless guard over every word and
look and gesture. Punishment!
Nina : You imagine this—invent it. . . . (start-
ing up) Phuh ! you are wasting your sympathies,
Mr. Jesson.
She passes him. He detains her by laying a
hand upon her arm.
Hilary : Yes, but granting that she was on the
point of flying with Maurewarde ; granting it—
what then ?
Nina ( facing him) : What then ?
Hilary : Granting that the strain had become
unbearable, and that exposure and dishonor
would have been a welcome relief—she wasn’t
allowed to take that last desperate step, re-
meniber.
Nina : Not allowed ?
Hilary : No ; she was stopped.
Nina : Stopped ? By whom ?
Hilary : By whom ?
Nina : Who stopped her ?
Hilary ( after a pause) : Your father was a
parson, wasn’t he, Mrs. Filmer?
Nina : Well?
: • • * Did you never learn from him
... did he never encourage you in any of those
simple beliefs that bring peace and comfort to
many people ?
Nina : Beliefs ?
Hilary : The belief, for instance, in the doc-
trine of Divine interposition in the ordinary
affairs of life.
Nina (leaving him and leaning against the
table) : Oh. he may have done.
Hilary (following her and standing before her) :
Well, here was this woman, we will suppose,
entertaining the idea of eloping with her com-
panion in sin, and branding her innocent child
with illegitimacy. . . And' she goes out for
her afternoon drive—alone; to familiarise her
thoughts, perhaps, with her future. What hap-
pens ! She’s saved ; and the boy’s saved. And
the trees in this bare park will shoot up; and
Derek, when he’s a grown man, will walk undei
em, and picture fondly and reverently the mother
who was taken from him when he was a little
chap. Come, Mrs. Filmer! Let us believe, if
we can—if it makes us better, and gentler, and
more merciful!—let us believe that in all this
there was the hand of God !
Nina (harshly): Very well; let us believe it.
(looking him in the face defiantly and measuring
his ivords) Only we must believe equally that
it s the hand of God that has brought those letters
from their hiding-place, and has delivered them
to me.
Hilary : Yes; believe that also. And ask
yourself ask yourself on your knees—whether
they have been given you to use in the way you
propose to use them. Nina—Nina—
* J*
It is interesting to note Hilary’s use of
religion ; he doesn’t believe in divine inter-
position himself—he is a man of the world,
and forty-six ! —but, almost with his tongue
in his cheek, he hits upon the sole argument
that will turn this wilful young girl-wife to
his merciful purpose. “You see,” almost
says Pinero, “ even religion has its uses ) ”
In the end he persuades her to give up the
letters to him ; but in the fourth act a
further outbreak of Ridgeley-isin flings all his
wise resolutions to the winds, and, hotly
enraged at the patient submission of the new
Nina to the persistent bullying of the
Ridgeley clan, he himself shows Filmer the
letters. So the secret is now Filmer’s, and,
withopt disclosing it, he deposes Geraldine,
and makes Nina the mistress of his house, in
order or in disorder.
Filmer : Annabel—so systematic—so methodi-
cal . And yet—she neglected to burn Maure-
warde s letters!
Hilary : My dear chap, you see l Every
system has its breaking-point, when we apply it
to ourselves.
An interesting machine-made play ; bur
what a play Ibsen, or Hauptmann, with the
symbolism of that park in the background,
would have made of it! 6 ’
-•
Barbara Baynton, author of those renv,rl-»km
Bush Studies, has published a new novel, Human
In concluding his frenzied indictment of Wil
Shakespeare (in Jan. Fortnightly) Tolstoy imd
vertently throws op hie brief.
that the older drama, King Leir, from which
Shakespeare got his materials for Lear, is infinitely
the better play, iolstoy, the critic, may be
listened to ; but when he flouts at Falstaff'as a
glutton, a liar and a coward, we have to deal with
a different person, Tolstoy, the relieiai*
enthusiast. The critic credits Shakespeare with
a capacity of representing scenes expressing the
play of emotion.... Such clever methods of ex-
pressing the development of feeling, giving <mod
actors the possibility of demonstrating their
powers, were, and are, often mistaken by
many cntics for the expression of character....
In Shakespeare everything is exaggerated
One sees at once that he does not believe in what
he says : that he invents the events he describes
and is indifferent to his characters: that lie has
conceived them only for the stage, and, therefore,
makes them say and do onlv what may strike his
public.” But the other Tolstoy reveals himself
in an attack, not upon Shakespeare, but upon the
whole modern drama, because it does not
fulfil Tolstoy’s absurd demand; Apparently
he regrets the divorce of the drama from
the church, and postulates for dramatic art
the exhibition of a definite view of life corres-
ponding to the highest religious understanding
of a given time, which, serving as the motive for
the composition of the drama, penetrates, known
to the author-, the whole of his work.” This ideal
he finds lacking in Shakespeare, and therefore
Shakespeare is not great. In other words, Shake-
speare cannot be an artist because he is immoral,
because he does not write tracts. “The subject
of Shakespeare’s pieces is the lowest, most vulgar
view of life, which regards the external eleva-
tion of the lords of the world as a genuine
distinction, despises the crowd, i.e., the work-
ing classes, repudiates not only all religions,
but also all humanitarian strivings directed
to the betterment of the existing order. ...
Since those who could principally avail themselves
of dramatic representations were the powerful of
this world —kings, princes, courtiers, the least of
religious people, not only utterly indifferent to
the questions of religion, but in most cases com-
pletely depraved—-therefore, in satisfying the de-
mands of its audience, the drama of the fifteenth,
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, entiiely gave
up all religious aim.... His dramas... correspond
to the irreligious and immoral frame of mind of
the upper classes of his time and ours.” Tolstoy
would doubtless have thought “ The Light of the
World ” a great work of art, and The Sign of the
Cross a perfect drama. He may yet canonise
Wilson Barrett or the joint authors of our own
particular Parsifal.
The second number of The Native Companion
(Lothian, Melb., 4d.) edited by Bertram Stevens,
confirms the modest and favorable impression
made with the initial issue. The N.C. and The
Bookfellow serve to whet the Australasian lite-
rary appetite for (patience !) the forthcoming Lone
Hand.
Byron hints (writes “Snob”) that authorship
is unworthy of a gentleman, and De Musset is
more explicit on the point. Sp, after all, Byron
need not have been so very angry when his wife
wanted to know when he would give up his bad
habit of writing verses. Possibly, however, he
did not quarrel, with her on that score. Scott
would not have condescended to write if he had
the dirty acres of the Duke of Buccleuch. Lady
Scott said, “ When we want money, my husband
writes one of his rubbishy novels.” Possibly,
again, Scott was not mightily angry at that, for
was he not enrolled in our glorious company?
Thackeray would, apparently, have writ naught
but for losing his fortune. Always a tinge of the
infra dig. idea about liim. On the other hand,
Dickens, the parvenu,, did indeed quarrel with his
wife partly, or principally, because she did not
perceive the greatness of the novelist, and of
Him, as such. Gustave Planche was Buloz’s best
brilliant hack, on the Herne des Deux Maudes, as
distinguished frois men of more or less genius,
like Balzac, Dumas, Sainte-Beuve and Janin.
Blanche had a lump of money left him, and said
goodbye to Bulqz. “Why?” asked Buloz.
“Oh,” says Planche, “no gentleman will write
if .he has coin.” He went to Rome for several
years, and never wrote a line while the coin
lasted. Then he returned to Paris, and backed
into Buloz’s shafts again, as literary cab-horse of
the Revue des Deux Mondes.
The Americans are a practical people. President
Roosevelt has just prevailed upon James B. Con-
nolly, the author of The Seiners, to enlist as a
bluejacket in the U.S. Navy, in order “to do for
it what Kipling did for the British Army.”
Connolly has joined the battleship Alabama, but
will be transferred to the various squadrons from
time to time, in order to gain an insight into
every phase of the American 'sailor’s life. Now,
can’t Deakin prevail upon Brady to serve in the
Australian navy, in order to do for it what .
Pabulum for the youthful author. Last year
England published BGO3 hooks, of which 2108 were
novels and juvenile works. Fiction shows an
increase of 375 on the previous year, but theologi-
cal works confess to a decrease of 37 volumes.
While in England the published price of the
novel is going down, in France, where fiction is
usually published in cheap paper covers, the
tendency is toward an increase in price. Instead
of the fifteen hundred copies usually printed of a
new novel at 3fr. 50, some publishers intend to
print only five to seven hundred copies at-7fr. 50,
more carefully got up, designed for the few hun-
dred choice readers who will establish the reputa-
tion of new authors and keep them in practice
until they are ripe for the popular monster. This
arrangement promises more profit for both pub-
lisher and author.


WHAT ELSE DO I NEED ?
m
m
at
•
ms
,
.
1
■
v.: :
x
\
ft//
e•- ■
«1|
0&
t*>-
G*
*
•N
V.V-l,:
—sSS***^
is
I
ill
1
%|j
1
.id
ll
%
.
-=
i
>%
sss
#
&
\
n
%
■ '~tg
V/
vM.
\
'■%
■■'
T.
zn.
/
■
gw
ip s
e3»Ss
- *j
*o*
f
\
■"Sg'igss
.
■
*
i
wan
4R
ft'..;, ft. ; . ■ ;■:
'
&S M -V‘ ~:
■
’ '
LLI
Every Day she consults “THE BUYER’S ENCYCLOPEDIA,” Lassetter’s General
Catalogue. The New Edition, 1000 Pages, with Illustrations, will soon be ready.
Write now, and mention this Paper, to secure early copy. SENT FREE.
ft
& * V
LASSETTER’S, Cheapside, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
TUCKS DAY, MARCH 21, 1907.


s
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, <&c.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
fgh
HI
fg
HERE’S A NEW HELP
for the oars—a greater help than
has been before invented
I THE ELECTRIC OEM.
/ It does what all other deviceshave
/been trying to do. ’•lt doesmoreL It
r actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE 1.. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ffiEHHM
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR. .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGOESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
m
'i
YA
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat?s f improved high grade ELECTRIC
beets FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
mess, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If_yoii are weak in any way
delay 110 longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Ohlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
GOUGHS, GOLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c, bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with" me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ohlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
hfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Dife, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(MCTUAL) Vor n.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation throucr’a
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call Or write for Prospectus. V. IL BAXTER, Res. Sec,,
h
TO
INCHESTE R FACTORY LOADED
w
mm
Mi
A /
NEW RIVAL
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“New Rival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS
fgh
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over f>o
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, is, Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and Thf, Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron ©f Boccaccio, lleptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3(1. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
tWAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Consult HERR RASSWISSEI (Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Me " ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure *l»e Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. U rinary Troubles, and all Blooa
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 48/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing 1 Powders 6s
Heard Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
*\ LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
fg
Plasmon
distinguishes our '
preparations of i
milk-albumen
from all other foods. *
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient it»
proteld, which 19 required to I
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies 1
this element. ,
Foods mixed with i
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure .
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i j & 2/g.perba3t.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
h
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF . HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
$
/
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as' easy of digestion as maternal milk* and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towhs.
No diarrheea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the "Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods ate re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRVS Ltd., LONDON. » Bridge Sts., Sydney


A cough is a danger signal. You
should heed its warning promptly.
Begin at once, and take regular
doses of
Mger’s
'Cherrif 9eet&ral
X
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in the
tliroat easily passes to
the bronchial tubes,
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
sibly to pneu-
)monia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
the cliest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYEK’S Cherry (
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S. A,
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
fgh
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
From
Leading- Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE. THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fg
His Majesty The
Kinff and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
" New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“ Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY ACENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
oH
m
tmeSKIN
clearsP2SY
TRY IT -
AT OUR EXPENSE .
DAiNTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar of Creme
Simon, Bos of Powder. *nd Cake of Soap. s. ■ on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover postage.
JOUBERT & JOUBERT. Melbourne; CLAUDE IIEALV a CO.. 6.1 Pitt SL.
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBEKT. 519 Wellington St.. Perth. AGENTS. "
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., y., VI
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, lOd.
IRISH
h
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . ,
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
WB
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
f
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send ua yonr name and address and von will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
tlie finest ever fiublißhed, which is of interest to every" rider. This Book contains large handsome Phot o
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; it describes every detail of the n anufacture of a high-
grad- Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class Work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
»fl 11 Til -riir rnrr /inr DflfW y° u will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
«VI In I lie rIICC Hill DUUlYever made by any Cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
liow we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; ho.w we can sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct’from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
STOPTHATPAIN
fgh
"There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age,
fg
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locorriotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last; for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
NO DRUGS. NO PLASTERS. NO ELECTRICITY.
WHAT DOCTORS SAY.—-Our Vibrator is used and
endorsed by many thousand physicians of all schools
of medicine. No matter how much they may differ
in their opinions about drugs, they miite in agreeing
that the Vibrator is a truly scientific apparatus, safe
yet powerful, and of unquestioned efficacy in practi-
cally all diseased and disordered conditions. Dr.
Lemons says: —“ Your Vibrator received, and used
with great satisfaction.”
AND NOW, HOW ABOUT YOU ? You need the
Vibrator in your family. Stop taking- drugs, and let
Nature’s true principles of Stimulation by Vibration
cure you and yours. You will never regret the in-
vestment in a Vibrator. Apart from its wide range
of effectiveness, it is practically indestructible, has
no electricity, no wheels, no cogs or springs, and it
cannot get out of order.
The Price of this, WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., Pitt Street, Sydney.
fghfghfg
£
fgh fg
Unrivalled for the Complexion
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Grand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers
F. WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
fg hfg
Sole Agents s LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Beautiful Home Decorations
»
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” FliOOlt STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, B,orders,
W oodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
* ‘ SAPOEIN ” ALIHMINIHH E\AMIII, gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE fiom* PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in fills climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR JfAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “BAEOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
\ TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
ACS'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: Iff. BEETHAM & SON. Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grtmwade A Go,, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Statue.
Stood a statue in days of old
Marble, and massive, and grim, and cold.
Yet when the sun, in his daily rising,
Smote the stone with a shaft of gold,
Lo ! on the mists of the morning air
Thrilled a wild note of music rare—
Till all the people, flocking together.
Whispered in awe “Some god is there ! ”
“Why should I tell you the tale?” you say;
“Such things belong to a vanished day ;
A quaint old legend enough, I grant, but
How does it fit the present, pray ?”
Only that one girl’s smile may be
Sweeter than sunbeams, at least to me ;
And when they fall on my heart, it wakens
In verse, as the statue in —Now you see !
N.s.w.
F. S. BURNELL.
Fight in My Garden.
The winds all sway and tremble thro’ the dark,
The hollyhock, the bamboo and the peach—
Down to the plane and up into the arc
Throw their long spears and gladiate leaves,
and reach ;
As their shadowy substantialnesses go
And come again, indefinite to the sight,
Leaving no mark upon the thin air, no
Trace on the widespread canvas of the night,
Shall I some night of calm or storm and shade,
N o more than all these airy tracks be seen,
My soul among the trees—my body lowly laid—
And all the winds of heaven sweep between ?
VIC.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Vestals of Bacchus.
Left's raise up a hymn Bacchanalian,
We thousands who’re ever enrolled
In his ranks by a taste that is alien
To the liquors of ruby and gold.
A truce to the drink-sodden chanteys
That swell in his praise to the stars,
Let’s sing to the gracious Bacchantes,
Who smile on us over the bars.
A somnolent passion arouses
With the warm creamy curves that they show
Through the lace of their openwork blouses
And the tight skirts becoming them so.
And we dream of the shapely, round limb in
The filmy hose daintily clad ;
And we’ve all a respect for fair women
Who’ve not a suspicion of pad.
All the fire and the sweetness of drams’ll
Awaken no thrill in our heart
Like the kiss of the radiant damsel
Whose scarlet lips smilingly part,
Like the odor of tresses scent-laden,
Like the breath coming quickly and hot,
From the dark-eyed and ebon-tressed maiden,
Or the warm-hearted blonde who is not.
In the faith that would thrive and not falter.
The god has less power than the priest,
And greatest the girls at the altar,
Where Bacchus himself is the least.
No nectar he pours to enchant is
The lure that his priestesses are—
The frolicsome, rosy Bacchantes
Who press our hand over the bar.
Our song has a moral, and this is
A toast to the girls round his throne,
To be pledged deep in squeezes and kisses
The next time we see them alone.
All liquor their god can decant is
A smaller allurement by far
Than the pert and audacious Bacchantes
Who chain us enthralled to the bar.
Vic.
O. N.
Cave
“ For I would see my vision face to face.” —Theophilb
Gautier.
When the black hours on the wall
Crept like bats the eaves among,
On my heart’s threshold She flung
Echoes of Her faint footfall;
At my gate I heard Her call.
And my soul peered forth on Her,
Evermore the wayfarer.
Through the softly-creaking door
Lo ! I marked the grey-stoled Thing,
Phantom —shrouded, beckoning
Down the long glooms evermore.
With my mistress Fate before,
Hot of foot, and blood aglow,
Swift I sought what I would know.
I would hold Her passionate,
In those hidden eyes to see
All their fearful mystery ;
Gaze into that face, elate,
To behold my sanguine fate.
So, dream-winged, our feet were hurled,
Tapping down the shadow-world.
On the rim of utter space,
Swift I seized the Vision, pale,
Swift I rent the mystic veil
For the secret of Her face,
For ... a dead mouth’s white grimace !
Lo, against my breast there shone,
Coquetting, a skeleton !
M.L.
C. ALLAN MAKEIS.


z:
r
Mis* KELLERMANN
{the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
- Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE-
COCOA
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of. the office, workshop, home, __
' etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food
Amongst liquid foods, CABBO RY’ is COCOA occupies the chief place *
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive eftort.
“A Perfect Food.” —Health
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
COLD STORAGE IN THE HOHE
h h
"..“BRUNSWICK”
THE loss of perishable goods in the sultry Summer
Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be unpraeticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK —|-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
so,e A B e„ts, buzacott & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
THE AGGORDEON for Country Residents.
i
F§.)
n
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Geleste find Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES' PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*! TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
■e>
Bw s
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
71 Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
S'* ■fi.
\fe ft9 Iv 'Sfia ra
lB*' VV 1892 ll* S G2
Estab'
1750.
ROTMEf HAAS
Si
■ EI
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßuccs
S?ECIM. UOIIEUR
Scotch whisky
M
f
m w
m
y>
/>
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 7 *0 VHARS.
By Royal Warrant to
fghfgh
His Majesty the King,
OVRIL
is of great value as a “ Pick-me-up.”
Bovril is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with, the Commonwealth regulations.
W.
fW
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms In South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 9 inches).
-apqgg Black Tips as illustrated are very fashionable.
'/9 JOi £
POST FREE ANYWHERE
SIX SHILLINGS.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Postal
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS , 12/6 . Length, IJ yards.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin’.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
b a
H
HOTEL
MRTROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes fro™
Entrance to Domain and Circular Qucy>
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. -
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars
on application to The Manages.
‘t
IST
1%:.
■
'
w
9
k i t
w
{U * :■»
- ■IU 1
——PM
KN
■
*sbss» **"•*"*!
I
THESE photographs show the warehouses of Messrs. Hill, Dickenson & Co.,
Hardware Merchants, of 99 York-street, Sydney, and John Bardsiey &Co.,
Wholesale Grocers, 280 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. The floors through-
out these warehouses are covered with RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH. A
floorcloth that will stand the strain of a hardware warehouse must have excep-
tional durability. RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH has it.
All Storekeepers.
Agents. . E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY & BRISBANE
RUBEROiO
floorcloth
LOOKS WELL
ON THE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1414.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1907.
Prick 6d.
A PROGRESS REPORT.
The Carruthers (N.S.W.) Government has been pursuing Crick lor some time, with no success. Last week Crick turned on the
Carruthers Government, with a demand that the Law should declare his suspension from Parliament an illegal act. His success was
remarkable, and this was the attitude of the Carruthers Government when last seen.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... .. 013 6
Quarterly ... .. " 0 7 0
P.V se -ndiiig direct to Tin? Bum,win O/lice 'Twenty-Six
b/nUmgs sterling you can have Tire Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jlow to A ddress Betters.
to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
J ai } extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
™ {hf^ ne . SS } e tt ers , (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
meats, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor
out to the Manager. To send them, to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
is i lot a thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
S ™™lt- C>lptwn f° r “ c °Py” Belay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is person may not be there l the official
S/Pccial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
co ' l ’!,f nts . °f this paper are copyright by the pub-
usnei s. lhe right to reproduce or translate any part of
me contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers . 9
The Editor will carefully read and, ivliere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns mi length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
dential lmUmCat ™ nS be re darded as strictly confi-
J-- Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
aaaress is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
jus. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
tor return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. nlaelt and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i-e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
tor as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and,
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
Sout-i Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
lhe Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— lT. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6gi». xllfin.
will be forwarded on application . Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired .
?Ji(T$zzlZetz4i.
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 1907.
PHILP’S POLICY.
Robert Philp—old Bob Platitude—of Queens-
land, lately announced his policy at Townsville.
That policy represents Philp’s bid for a restora-
tion of himself and his party to office, and it
stands up as a pinnacle of solemn warning that
Philp is the same giddy, irresponsible public
ox that Queensland knew of yore. As a promiser
of anything to all and sundry, the harmless,
good-natured ex-Prernier was always above the
average, and increasing years and increasing
failure have not dulled his capacity for being “ in
favor of ” almost everything that is calculated to
bring in a vote. The only thing that is larger
than what Philp calls his policy is the silence of
Philp about how the money is to be found to
carry out his stupendous dreams. In his own
period of office he put on the infamous poll-tax,
which Kidston has abolished, and the income-
which Kidston has reduced, yet these facts
don’t in the least prevent him advocating the
total abolition of the income-tax, and speaking
with great severity about Kidston’s failure to
wipe it out. With the whole income-tax and
the poll-tax Philp had a steady average
of £300,000 or £400,000 a year deficit, and what
sort of deficit he expects to have with both these
sources of revenue cut off Heaven only knows, and
probably Philp thinks it doesn’t matter. ’ He
never thought that anything really mattered. He
is also “ in favor of ” abolishing the dairy produce
tax, diseases-in-stoclc tax, meat export tax and
sheep-diseases tax. He doesn’t sav how his
chronic deficit will look after these are also gone
but again, probably, he thinks it doesn’t matter!
Philp “believes in” a vigorous railway policy
including a transcontinental line, and doesn’t care
a hang where the money is to come from. He
holds that there should be a great road-making
policy, not paid for by the local government
bodies, but supported by a liberal shovelling of
money out of the Treasury, which was always
dead empty, even in the best years, when Philp
was the man in charge. He adds that in times
of drought and depression this liberal shovelling
should go on just the same ; a mighty shoveller
before the Lord is Robert Philp. He proposes
to reduce the landowners’ contributions towards
unpayable railways from 3 to 2 per cent, and
hang the expense ; a mighty hanger of the expense
is Robert Philp. He is willing, in theory, to
reduce harbor dues, and establish old age pensions,
and institute irrigation works on a large scale!
and he says nothing about where or how the money
is to be found. He just “blows” the expense;
an unrivalled blower of the expense is Philp.
lhe cautious Premier Kidston proposes to intro-
™e immigrants at the rate, for the present, of
100 per week ; he reckons that work and land can
f f° f° r that number to a certainty, and
further developments will be left to the future.
Ihilp, vvho, during his Premiership, cut down
assisted immigration from 50 per week to about
seven, says that Kidston’s proposed 100 per week
is a poor, miserable thing, and that the State ought
to whoop things up on a large scale; for whooping
things up on paper Philp has no equal in Aus-
tralia now that Duncan Gillies is dead.
* * • »
Even these things don’t cover the whole of
1 hilp S lavish schemes for making a pint pot give
forth a whole quart of beer, even if the pot is
empty to begin with. He promises to revive the
°os«y Torres Straits steamship service, and to
establish a university, and to create a civil service
superannuation fund. In fact, Philp’s schemes
tor cutting off revenue, and making expenditure
rage like a wild lion in the desert, are almost un-
limited. And then he proposes to “reform”
almost everything—the electoral system, the
social system (not even Boote, of the Worker, is
more la,rge, and vague, and general in his pro-
mises of social reforms” than old Tory Philp),
the liquor trade, the educational svstem, the
Dower House, the Upper House, and, as a final
shout and nourish, he offers a “general policy of
htate progress.” And until one remembers that
t il ilp in office never did any reform, except when
what he called reform meant retrogression
towards loryism, and until one notices that
Jr hilp promises, in a general way, to reform
everything, but gives no details worth mention-
ing about how he is going to reform any-
thing, all these wild assurances are very in-
teresting. The Philp of to-day—that is to
say, the Philp who is out of office and
wants to get back at any cost—is a frantic red
revolutionary without particulars; a man who is
going to shake up matters in general, in ways not
specified; who is going to get everything out of
nothing, to abolish taxes wholesale, to heap
up expenditure gloriously, and to get the money
from sources unknown. Jack Cade and Wat
Iyler and the French theorists of ’4B weren’t
more remarkable than this wild-eyed Philp, who
wants to get back to office under any possible con-
ditions. And judging by past records, the tortoise
won t be a circumstance to the slumbering Kobert
when he gets back to office.
* « »
lor behind all this raving madness there is the
vivid recollection of Philp in office-—not the pro-
mising Philp, with his hair on end through excite-
ment, but the non-performing one, with his feet
on the table, and a general tendency only to wake
on salary day. It is the recollection of a weak
vain drifting, incompetent Tory of the most
amiable and hopeless order. At a time when the
revenue of Queensland was at its very summit—
when it was far higher than it is now—he didn’t
take off taxes ; rather, he heaped them on.
Ihe very taxes he now denounces are mostly
the remnant of those the miserably incap-
abie Premier Philp piled on, in what
should have been affluent days, to stop a
leakage which seemed bottomless. He cut
down to starvation point the Civil Service
salaries which Kidston has struggled to restore.
He cut down almost to nothing theassisted-immi-
gration policy, about which he now complains
with such fury. He drove people by thousands
out of Queensland ; it was under Philp that, for
the first time, the community began to decide
that the Banana State was a mighty good place to
get away from. As regards all the multitude of
things that the rather elderly Philp, out of office
.now says he is yearning to reform, there isn’t one
that the younger Philp, in office, even attempted
to put straight. There were really only two strik-
ing characteristics about the featureless Philp
who once nominally ran things in Queensland’
though in reality he only looked on while things
floated as they pleased. He was an incredible
borrower who took all the loan money that came in
his way, and never had anything particular to
show for it; and he managed to spend on the
ordinary business of government from half-a-
million to a million a year more than Kidston
does. He had the biggest available revenue,
and, at the same time, the biggest deficits in
the btate s history; his shortages were chronic,
and all the cutting down of the allowances
to the poor that he could imagine, and all
the docking of the civil servants’ remuneration
that he could devise, and all the small, mean
devices for taxing the poorest section of the com-
munity that he could invent, failed to keep
Philp’s public works policy out of the pawnshop,
or his revenue and expenditure account out of the
poorhouse. hie was the Mjcawber or Harold
Skimpole of Queensland, the great irresponsible
to whom time didn t matter, and money was of
no account. And round this easy-going incapable
there gathered instinctively all the hard, disre-
putable, cheeky, unprincipled, illiterate boodlers
of tne State. In politics Philp was everybody’s
prey, and everybody’s dog, and everybody’s jest.
Ihere is not one notable act or one reform worth
calling such to Philp’s credit after ten years of
continuous office. There isn’t even a bright
saying to his credit. I’hese ten years constituted
a period in which Queensland got down to
the lowest ebb, and Philp apparently couldn’t
even see that there was anything wrong
Now the elderly flotsam bids afresh for office
asa wturhng repairer of things, who is going to
abolish taxes wholesale, and to shovel out money
magnificently, and generally to darn the conse-
quences as Charles Surface used to do. Possibly
Philp means all he says, but there are two
difficulties in tne way. First, Philp doesn’t
belong to himself; he is the weak and casual
property of Cribb and Leahv and men of that
stamp. And, secondly, Philp was born tired
and in politics he has never known the difference
between a shilling and half-a-crown, and his
capacity for mistaking them both for threepence
and then losing the threepence, was something
that passed human understanding.
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY.
An institution which trained the first three Judges
of the Australian High Court, and which is the
head fountain of education to the two great States
of N.S. Wales and Queensland, is of more than
city importance. N.S. Wales certainly, and all
Australia possibly, can well take an interest in
the well-being of Sydney University; and an
election to its Senate now proceeding gives the
occasion for some discussion of its constitution
*
Sydney University challenges attention by two
things. It is, as regards financial manage-
ment, most admirable ; as regards ideals most
eondemnable. Its money position is as a fine
oasis of solvency in a land where impecuniosity
and financial ineptitude are the general character-
istics of public institutions. The narrow intoler-
ance of its governing body—displayed most con-
spicuously at the time of the Boer war, when the
Senate was, with the utmost difficulty, prevented
from dismissing a professor who dared to be a
philosopher, and not a Jingo—stands as a reproach
to the very name of University. The problem of
preserving the good qualities of financial manage-
ment, and at the same time modifying the system
of government, so that the University may
represent—as all Universities should—the ad-
vanced and new thought of the community, is one
that may well engage the attention of radical
reformers. But it must be approached in a mood
of sympathy and liberality, not with the savage
(and largely unjustifiable) general denunciation
with which Holman, M.L.A., opened the subject
the other day.
* * * *
The reproach hanging to Sydney University is
roughly, that whilst you will often hear of it in
connection with an investment, you never hear of
it in relation to a “movement.” It is no place
for movements. Whilst the Universities of
Europe are the homes of ideas, the nurseries of
political, philosophic and religious regenerations,
whilst even in the Conservative halls of Oxford
and Cambridge are hatched reforms pro-
foundly affecting the thought of Great Britain,
Sydney University practically does not touch
Australian life. It lectures, teaches, examines,
turns out excellent doctors, scientific men, lawyers,
school-teachers; but it inculcates no thought.
Its influence on the community, except in
the direction of routine teaching, is nil. Yet
it has a splendid body of professors, equal
probably to the staff of any University in
the world, and a fine body of students. What it
lacks is “ spirit,” and with that lack it is no more
a University than a superior technical college
would be. That lack may be traced to two
causes :
The governing body is Tory, narrow, and mostly out of
sympathy with the University idea.
The students do not represent nearly as fully as they
should all classes of the community, but are drawn too
much from the children of the well-to-do. There is no
gieat body of poor students, as in European and American
Universities, seeking the advantages of the higher educa-
tion and at the same time earning tfieir daily bread
Also, there is no encouragement for such a class.
Reform is to be sought in the first instance by a
modification of the governing system. At present
the Parliament of the Senate is Convocation. All
graduatesof three years’standing, and all graduates
of other Universities admitted to Sydney Uni-
versity fellowship, are members of Convocation.
But, except when it is summoned toeleotaSenator,
Convocation has absolutely no power and is not
even convened. The Senate is the “Ministry,”
and a most despotic Ministry at that. It consists
of 16 members elected for life by Convocation, and
not less than three nor more than six professors,
four of whom are ex officio members (Professors of
Modern Biterature, Chemistry, Physiology and
Law). Thus, except six, all the Senators hold office
for life, and in a total body of 22 the six have
no power of numbers. Practically the University
is governed by a Senate, elected for life by
Convocation. And Convocation meets only in
Sydney, and members may only vote in person.
Thus the graduates of Sydney and of Sydney
alone elect the Senate. Necessarily the Senate
is an “old” body. Taking Johns’ “Notable
Australians” as a guide, its youngest member is
54, and most of its elected members are over 60
or 70. When men are elected to a body for life
and only drop out when they die, that body must
become old. The University Senate, roughly
represents to-day what Sydney professional men
of 25 years ago thought; and under its present
constitution must always be about a quarter of a
century behind the tunes. Reforms which are
necessary as regards the Senate are :
Tenure of a Senator’s office to be, say, for five years
Election to be by all members of Convocation, voting
personally, by proxy, or by post.
All Professors to be ex officio members of the Senate
and lecturers in the University to have representation oh
the Senate.
Representation of Parliament on the Senate by at least
three members.
That would allow, if not ensure, a Senate repre-
senting the thought of to-day, not the prejudice
of a quarter of a century ago.
* * * *
The method of reform of the student body is a
matter which it is not so easy to suggest. There
is a good deal of cant about letting “the poor
man’s son ” get into the University, which forgets
that the average poor man’s son doesn’t want to ;
and, like many a, rich man’s son, has no inclination
for a student s life. Nor is the easily-suggested
plan of wholesale bursaries at all the complete
remedy. Given a bursary, and still the poor
man’s son may not wish for University life, or,
entering a University, may not be allowed, or able,
to get from it much advantage. Indeed, on the
whole, it would be much better to have a low
scale of fees which would open the University to
a greater number without bursary help than to
divide the body of students into two castes—(l)
the sons of the rich paying high fees, and (2) the
sons of the poor having their fees paid for them
by the State. And, in any case, the “spirit ” of the
University must undergo some change before it
becomes an object of ambition to the poor young-
ster to enter it, bursary or no bursary. At present
it has some of the flavor of a caste institution, a
select body into which you may not enter hap-
pily unless your father is a successful draper or
brewer, or such like lofty personage. That idea
has to be destroyed before the University becomes
in any sense of the word an institution representa-
tive of the youth of the community, and the
change must follow, and cannot precede, a radical
change of the system of University government.
The University should be the natural goal for all
the young thinkers of the community, the young
Socialist, the young Anarchist (of the Spencerian
type, of course ; there need be no bombs in the
lecture-room), the young religious enthusiast, and
that rare type, the young Tory. There ideals,
ideas, prejudices should meet on an equal footing,
be mellowed by study and broadened by discus-
sion to repay the community ultimately in
thought. At present, the Sydney University
gives us many degrees, but little thought.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ditch Ahead of Maoriland.
How long is it going to be before Maoriland sen-
O Jsly asks itself whether it ever intends to make
even a start to get out of pawn ?It has had some-
thing over 12 years of great prosperity, and apart
altogether from its tremendous local government
liabilities, the net result is that at the end of its
last financial year it was just £lO per head deeper
in debt than it was 12 years back, before it had
all this prosperity. Between March, 1894, and
March, 1900, it increased its net State debt
by £20,795,980, and its independent local govern-
ment debt by £3,403,418; and, so far as the
£20,795,980 is concerned, with a small exception
fund in oiSK^he^ffirilSf
issy Jwss w s s* £rf
borrowing was that it didn’t have the money w
settle un W To l V\ j* later on ’ when 3d
left 1S B loan of which trace is
Jett (1863) it therefore attached a 1 p er cent
Tt off Z'■ T? 1 “" (1867) 11 .0
pay off by annual drawings: and its first W
immigration and works loan (1870) was to be
Sff U 1 r , o ' da y> 36 years after, practically
vided^ 016 °r at aS ! i early loan has been pro-
vided for. But Maoriland, which had gone rather
atd hiff 7 d° ‘ he 'Pawnshop in the first place,
nd had regarded the accommodation as quite
AttKch" before i on g g°t hardened.
At March 31, 1906, the accrued sinking funds of
those first three loans, all of them dating back
over 30 years, totalled £1,102,475; and, though
ilaonland has been going irregularly t 0 the
pawnshop ever since, that is every penny of
accrued sinking fund the State Treasury possesses
Ihere m another sinking fund—there are two, in
fact but they are outside the Treasury, and are
more significant than if they were inside The
State has borrowed pretty largely to lend to local
governing bodies and to the Advances to Settlers
lfepai tment; and as a lender it has insisted upon
repayment. It scouted the idea of the farmer
borrowing, and then bearing the yoke of the debt
for.ever. But, while it insisted upon the farmer
getting rid of his Cohen, it has made no attempt
whatever to get rid of its own Cohen ; on the
contrary, it has been getting more and more
COHEN every year. In 1894 it had £38,874,491
of debt; it has since then added £20,795,980
on to its liabilities, and, though it has
paid £21,273,654 in interest, it still owes
the whole £59,670,471, even after allowing
for the small sinking funds before mentioned. In
the past 12 years it has, therefore, paid away more
in interest than it has borrowed, and yet it owes
£20,795,980 more than it did 12 years ago. It has
not received a cent in cash in these 12 years.
Cohen, in fact, has actually got from it £477,674;
and yet Cohen’s bill against Maoriland is now,’
as mentioned before, £20,795,980 more than it was
in 1894. That is what comes of borrowing and
not repaying. Maoriland knows perfectly well
that it is doing the wrong thing ; if it didn’t know
that, it would not insist upon the settler whom it
helps into a farm buying himself out of debt just
as regularly as he pays his interest. The day of
reckoning must come. In the 12 years past Maoi i-
land has about squared things. It has borrowed
from Cohen just about as much as it has
had to pay Cohen for interest; in other words, it
has paid Cohen’s interest with another I 0 U,
and is supposed to have put the equivalent cash
into works of some sort or other, or into scenery
or something. (“Preservation of scenery” is
regularly charged to loan account in Maoriland.)
The time will come when Cohen will want some-
thing that will weigh fewer to the lb. than
I O Li’s but will be worth more in a melting pot.
And it is dead certain that that time won’t come
when Maoriland is prosperous; Cohen will lend
as long as the cow is in full milk and the ewes are
doing their duty vigorously in the matter of lambs
for the freezing works. It will be when something
happens to the cow and the lamb that Cohen will
growa-larmed, and wanthis interest in cash. About
that time Maoriland will have to drop all public
works in order to pay up; and, even then,
with less butter to sell and less lamb to freeze,
the chances are that it will have to slay the cow
and slaughter the ewe, and the slain cow and the
slaughtered ewe won’t last over one year, no
matter how well they are pickled ; and even if
a dead cow is only half-pickled, it isn’t any
further use for butter-making purposes. What it
is going to do under those circumstances Maori-
land had better decide before the circumstances
arrive.
The Three Parties in Victoria.
When Premier Bent opened his mouth and
swallowed Mackinnon and poor futile Kooka-
bueba Peacock there was much congratulation in
Tory circles about the disappearance of the
third party from Victorian politics. The Tory
press rose solemnly, with its ears standing con-
spicuously above its head, and stated with gravity
that the (State had now got back to the good,
sound, reliable British practice of having only two
parties—the people who wanted to get into office
and the people who wanted to stay in. (There
have been three distinct parties in the British
Parliament since 1871, when Isaac Butt com-
menced to lead the Irish Home Bulers, and there
had been three parties, though not so well de-
fined, for very many years before that, and there
are now either four or five parties ; but Toryism is
so far behind with its information that it natu-
rally hasn’t heard of these matters yet.) Then
the Tory press put one ear back and the
other forward, and seriously announced that
things were at last all right with Victoria.
After that it flapped both ears hard, and said
the State was to be congratulated on this new
development, and then it sat down carefully on its
tail. And all the time Victoria is suffering from
the three-party trouble just as much as ever. The
new Parliament will include the Radical party, led
by Pbendekgast; the moderately Liberal party,
with Bent walking heavily in front of it ; and the
dreadful old Tory party of the Upper House,
which is, in most respects, against both the others.
Unless the Tory pfiess is prepared to assert that
the House of Rich Landlords is no part of Parlia-
ment, then the three-party system is as fresh and
as full of cussedness as at any previous date. And
the existence of three parties in two Houses, or
even of two parties in two Houses—one in each
House—is a great deal worse than the existence of
even six parties in one House. No matter how
many parties there may nominally be in one
House, there are never more than two when it
comes to a vote—the party which is in favor of the
Bill or clause or motion, and the one that is against
it. _lt is always possible to reach finality by
coming to a vote; the existence of twenty parties
couldn’t prevent that. So long as the Speaker
has a say when the parties are equally divided,
no human or inhuman ingenuity can bring about
a deadlock. Even if the voting is equal, and the
Speaker, when his casting vote is wanted, proves
to have died in his chair without anyone observ-
ing the fact, the Chairman of Committees takes
his place. But with two parties in two Houses
the deadlock is hopeless. Therefore, all oppo-
nents of a superabundance of parties should cry
out persistently for the abolition of every State
Upper House. The Upper House is an excre-
scence, and a mighty poor excrescence at that. It is
called a House of Review, but it reviews so badly
that it might as well not review at all. Within the
last half-dozen years every State Assembly has
passed measures which failed because they acci-
dentally said what wasn’t intended, or acci-
dentally omitted to say what was intended—arbi-
tration laws which didn’t arbitrate, Sunday-closing
laws which quite forgot to say that pubs should
be shut on Sunday, anti-gambling laws which
promoted betting, and amended Lands Acts


which only led to improvement lease scandals.
And never once did the House of Alleged Review
notice the orifice in the measure. It never notices
anything. It is so complete a failure at its alleged
job that" it has been suggested that there should
be a revising committee of lawyers, to overhaul
Bills before their third reading, and report on the
existence of errors, omissions and discrepancies
which may make them inoperative. Therefore,
the Upper Houses should obviously be sacked for
incapacity, negligence, and sleeping on duty.
And they should especially be sacked in obedience
to the demand for a reduction in the number of
parties. The Bulletin doesn’t believe in the
two-party cry, but there are many who do, and
this paper is willing to make a sacrifice in the
interests of peace. It respectfully offers to sacri-
fice the State Upper Houses in the interests of
peace.
The Victorian Election.
Never before did Victoria experience so tame a
political campaign as that which preceded the
election of its 21st Parliament. That wild inci-
dent at Brunswick, when a hot admirer of the
holy Judkins smote a follower of Anstey over the
head with an iron bar, and then kicked him on
the jaw to emphasise his point; and the row that
Wren made at Swinburne’s meeting, were the
only items that hinted at some little spirit of
earnestness. Nowhere else did the electors
summon up feeling enough to say “Boo” to a
goose, although there was no unusual scarcity of
geese offering, and for the first time for a great
many years the staid dailies did not feel called
upon to print severely dull articles sermonising
the democracy for its alleged reprehensible con-
duct in howling at the eminently respectable, Con-
servative candidate. In many districts there was
hardly any sign of an approaching election, and the
shrill appeal of the anxious candidate was almost
inaudible. All was stale, flat, and unprofitable.
Fat Tom Bent had been cast on the troubled
waters, and the oleaginous calm was terrible in its
intensity. Still, in a silent, uninterested-looking
way Victoria did some good work. It left parties
very much as they were in point of numbers
—Bent’s followers are about 50 or 51 in
number, and Prendergast’s about 14 or 15—
but at least it cast out Sammy Lancaster, the
dreary Tory person from the dirty, inflated
village of Kyabram, and it declared that it
would not have Judkins at any price. The
return of Clothes-horse Bayles is a calamity, and
the reappearance of Kirton is a grief, and the
fresh uprising of old, bald, has-been Gurr is some-
thing of a disaster ; but the election of Judkins
and dull, complacent Sammy Lancaster would
have been a worse than all these three
combined. No new men who seem to amount to
anything have appeared, and some old men who
amount to nothing have reappeared. The average
mental level of the crowd is calculated to make
every good Australian long for the time when
State Legislatures will be obliterated, and one
Australian Parliament and some local governing
bodies will do all the ruling that Australia re-
quires. There are, in fact, all manner of things
to regret, including the return of Frank Madden
and the dreadful upheaval of Henry Weedon.
But so long as Judkins is out and Sammy Lan-
caster isn’t in there will be a bright streak on the
political horizon of Victoria.
The Absentee’s Wrath.
This extract, from a letter published in London
Daily Mail, is a fair sample of the magnificent
lies that are fed to the British investor :
Some little time back you published a letter of mine
calling attention to a contemplated act of spoliation (by
expropriation) of the Peel River Land Cos. by the New
South Wales Government. This project has now taken
a concrete form, and the Government has informed the
company that it requires the property. As you are no
doubt aware, the present Government is controlled by
the Socialist and Labor parties, and their target at
present is the British investor. The Peel River Company
in the past has gone through bad times, drought, and
consequently poor dividends. Now that the period
of fruition has arrived the Colonial Government
proposes to expropriate the property, and on its own
terms. Here is a colony which only enjoys immunity
from foreign conquest through the protection of the
British flag, and yet treats the British investor worse
than the meanest of South African Republics. I, there-
fore, appeal to the Press of this country to show up the
N.S.W. Government in its true colors.
This sort of insult might make a fighting Pre-
mier like the recent Seddon set his teeth hard
and resolve to make trouble, though unhappily it
is more likely to make Carruthers apologise.
Here is the case of a co. which got 312,000 acres
of the best land in N.S.W. .for next to
nothing; which has blocked settlement for
51 years; which has made such a vast muddle
of its property that it has returned only
a fraction of what it should have done; which
is given every opportunity to sell its land at full
value, and refuses to do so because it prefers to
deal with the State ; which has such rosy hopes
of getting far more from the State by arbitration
than its land is worth, that its shares have gone
up immensely at the mere prospect of the trans-
action ; which was allowed to go free of taxation
for 40 years ; and which now claims as the selling
value of the land 2J times the amount on which it
pays land-tax (Id. in the £ land-tax.) In return
for all the concessions the co. has received N.S.W.
reaps only a crop of violent language. That is
the crop Australia always reaps from its absentee.
For its own peace of mind, it ought to get rid of
the absentee in every shape and form, and the
graduated land-tax is one of the best ways of
doing it. Then, for want of any absentee to
abuse us in England, there would be much less
aspersion cast on us in that misguided country.
♦
Anti-Wash.
The American Labor Federation has declared,
as one of the fighting planks of its political plat-
form, “a bathroom in every house.” It is a
significant announcement, and the fact that it
was promptly followed, across the Atlantic, by
the attempted organisation of a Soap Trust,
might have been something more than a coin-
cidence. The Soap Trust movement suggested
the first step in a campaign, akin to Anti-
Sosh in this country, which, under the banner
of Anti-Wash, would rally the old nobility
to the standard of keeping the ‘ ‘ great un-
washed” in their proper dirty places. In
truth, “a bathroom in every house” attacks the
very fortress of class privilege. In almost all
civilisation, the ultimate entrenchment of the
aristocrat has heen the bath-tub. Other things
he might have in common with the herd, but to
wash was to be egregious. From a pinnacle of
cleanliness the oligarchs looked down upon the
dirty mob and said : “Their name is Mud.” So
soon as a class learned to wash it sought political
rights, and began to send men into Parliament,
and to hustle up beside the select Washed, and
to view with all the contempt of their new
cleanliness the Great Unwashed. Thus Liberty
was fostered on soap and nurtured in warm water.
One might stray far along the paths of history
culling facts to show how Class feeling and
Cleanliness were interlinked —from the Homeri
days, when princes bathed and servants didn’t;
observing from Herodotus che scrupulous eleanli-
liness of the Egyptian rulers and hierophants,
but not of the common people; noting
in the Greek and Roman civilisations how
the bath-house became a public institution as
Republican ideas progressed; glancing at the
Teutonic democracies, where all the people
bathed, and the Asiatic despotisms, where,
judging by the religious rites ordained to
mitigate the consequences of uncleanliness, ob-
viously they didn’t. But just as convincing proof
is provided nearer our own age. Observe
any modern country where class distinctions are
sharply drawn, and the line will be found, almost
invariably, marked with soap. The common
language shows it. “The great unwashed,”
“the dirty mob,” “the greasy multitude,” “the
unsoaped,” are all terms of derision commonly
used to express the poorer classes. On the other
hand, political freedom and a general love for clean
linen go together. In Australia, which is of all
countries in the world the most democratic, the
least afflicted with class distinctions, it is rare to
find a house without a bathroom. Sharks cannot
frighten the youngsters from the cleansing sea,
nor a long tale of deaths scare them from the
treacherous brickyard waterhole. Coincidence ?
Rather, to some extent, cause and effect. In the
bath we are all equal, A king may “strip” in-
differently, while a peasant, disarrayed for the
wash, may look regal. Put all in the wash, and
the Brotherhood of Man looks very real. Ameri-
can Labor has got to the essentials of the situa-
tion when it unfurls the banner of the Bath as the
standard of democracy.
The Judicial and Legal Law-Breaking Push.
When Lord Chief Justice Jeffreys of England
had fallen, one of the atrocities for which he was
held up to the hatred of succeeding generations
was the gaoling of a London legal practitioner
who tried to pick holes in a certain Act of Parlia-
ment under which his client was being prosecuted.
The Chief Justice asked the pleader if he believed
that Parliament honestly intended to make the
practice of which his client was accused a felony.
The legal light replied that probably Parliament
did, but submitted that, through faulty wording,
the Act had failed to do what it had perhaps con-
templated. Thereupon the Chief Justice sent
him to gaol for attempting to bring about a mis-
carriage of justice. Judging by some things that
have happened of late in N.S.W., the advent
of a Jeffreys would be a boon. As regards In-
dustrial Arbitration, for instance, some of the
Judges are as much law-breakers as the push
that “deals it out” to Micro in the back lane.
In some respects, they are worse. The push that
fell upon Micro was not in charge of that un-
happy youth’s welfare, while the Judges, who
have made no secret of their hostility to this A.ct,
were in charge of it, and their conduct in using
their positions to defeat the aims and objects with
which the Court was established is downright dis-
loyalty to the Parliament of the country and an
act of treachery to the people whom the Court
was established to protect. When Parliament
passed an Act setting up a Court to deal
with industrial disputes it intended that the
Court should deal with all industrial dis-
putes. But the Courts have decided that,
by making the employees contractors, they
can be removed from the protection of the In-
dustrial Arbitration Court, and that that Court
has no jurisdiction when a fight takes place
between an employer and his contracting em-
ployees. This utterly defeats the object of Par-
liament in establishing the Court, which was to
provide an equitable method of deciding indus-
trial disputes on their merits and to prevent
the community being harassed by industrial
conflicts. Under the new ruling, the Act is
practically dead, as there is hardly any sort
of employee who cannot be made, on paper,
a contractor, and the Parliamentary objective of
establishing industrial peace is defeated. This
kink in our Judges is, no doubt, due to the fact
that they graduate from the ranks of the army of
legal practitioners, and for years it has been the
proud aim of solicitors and barristers to
defeat the intentions of Parliament by finding
some fault in the wording of the Act in
which Parliament expressed those intentions.
That sort of thing is easy to do, even
with the most carefully-prepared document.
The Scriptures themselves, though said to be the
Word ot God and not of man, contain so many
dubious points that in N.S.W. alone something
like 182 sects read them in 182 different ways, and
the minor differences inside these sects are past
counting. And the Judges themselves, who sniff
so bitterly about the alleged “ obscurity” of Acts
of Parliament, often make such obscurity of their
own wills that it takes a whole herd of other
lawyers to decipher them, and make such ob-
scurity of their own decisions that in most cases the
original verdict can be upset if the litigant appeals
for all he is worth and gets a really virulent lawyer.
It is hardly possible for any wisdom on earth to
draft an Act which can’t be virtually cancelled on
the ground of some technical flaw, if those who
administer it devote themselves almost solely to
the search for technical flaws. The only thing is
to get men who will devote themselves to carrying
out the obvious meaning of the statutes, instead
of individuals who fancy that they are paid huge
salaries to defeat the purpose of Parliament, and
to show their blastiferous cleverness by driving
large holes through its intentions.
♦
“ Medical Comforts.”
The public got a chance to know the other day
the sort of “ medical comforts” that N.S. Wales
will provide for it when it gets old and sick and
is driven to find an asylum in a Government
“benevolent” home. About the biggest wine-
and-spirit importing firm in Sydney was “up” at
the Central Court, charged with unlawfully selling
a quantity of Nureau brandy which was “not of
the nature, substance or quality demanded.”
The buyer was the contractor for the supply of
brandy to the Charities Department. He got
the stuff from the importers, and sent it to
Liverpool old men’s home. Upon a sample being
submitted to Government Analyst Hamlet, the
latter reported that the stuff “ was not genuine
brandy, but a white spirit flavored with a small
quantity of the genuine article, colored with
burnt sugar.” To the Court he added,
“Especially would this drink be deleterious to
invalids or old men.” It transpired that
the white spirit flavored with burnt sugar cost
3s. 9d. per gallon landed in Sydney—or at least it
was sold for that to the retailer, so it presumably
cost something considerably less than that to land.
The defence was that the importers accepted the
reputation of the French makers and shippers,
and therefore did not have an analysis made of
the consignment. It was admittedly sold as low-
grade stuff. “We expected brandy,” said the
mouthpiece of the Charities Department. “When
you pay for Nureau brandy, you can expect
to get Nureau brandy,” said the mouthpiece of
the importers. That observation puts the Chari-
ties Department in its place. It only pays for
cheap stuff, and it can only expect to get
cheap stuff to comfort its old men and
invalids with. Even when the whole busi-
ness goes through reputable firms it can
expect no more. There is a demand for an
alleged brandy at a price at which it
is impossible to supply decent grape spirit,
and the reputable French firm supplies the
demand. The Crown Law Department said that,
if it could get at the firm in France, it would
gladly let the Sydney firm off. Not a word about
the Charities Department —the people who called
for the cheap foreign stuff to supply to its old
people and its invalids, and could expect to get
only what it paid for. The magistrate followed
up his humorous observations with a remark
about Sardinia and sardines, and France and
brandy. Its effect seemed-to be that when you
got “brandy” from France, you naturally ex-
pected it to be brandy—even, apparently,_ at
eighteenpence a gallon. That is the Foreign-
trade superstition all over. The foreigner is sup-
posed to be such a superior person as compared
with the mere Australian, and the foreign country
is supposed to be so vastly more productive than
Australia, that the foreign stuff must be the
real stuff, even if it is offered at a price
below what the Australian can supply the
honest thing at. And in that insane belief,
and with the purest Australian grape brandy on
the market at a most reasonable price, such
people as the managers of the Charities Depart-
ment buy foreign stuff at rubbish prices, and
naturally get rubbish. Then they pour the vile
stuff down the throats of their patients, and the
whole community smirks with joy when the
Treasurer says he has so fine a surplus that he will
most likely be able to take a ha’j>enny off the
income-tax.
.—4.
The One Thing Always Wanting.
The Queensland Labor Convention, which sat at
Rockhampton, adopted a huge, vigorous pro-
gramme, in which were included such ideas as
nationalisation of the drink traffic, old age pen-
sions, public trust office, State insurance of all
kinds, State sugar refineries, State-owned coal
mines and iron works, and a multitude of other
items, large, small, and medium. But the most
earnest inspection of that programme—unless the
report that reached this office was very incomplete
—fails to show any resolution to the effect that the
State with about the Biggest Debt per Head on this
Earth shouldn’t borrow any more. And a resolu-
tian about the need for a sinking fund to meet
existing loans as they mature was a perfunctory-
looking thing inserted without discussion in an
obscure corner far down the programme. The
convention went into a multitude of small details
about other matters ;it held that mine inspectors
should be elected by the votes of the miners; that
the State should supply nurses free; that the dust
in coal mines should be allayed; that people
should be allowed to vote at municipal elections
whether they paid their rates or not; and that
the indigent allowance should be raised to 10s. a
week. But it hadn’t the time nor the energy to
suggest how much per cent, the sinking fund
should be —whether it should be £2 or 2d. per £IOO
per annum ; how it should be invested to prevent
impecunious Treasurers getting at it; what
should be done to prevent the Treasurer having a
regular deficit twice the size of the sinking
fund, and adding it cheerfully to the
aggregate debt, so as to make the fund a
mockery—in fact, as regards the question of
freeing Queensland from its chronic state of en-
slavement to the money-lender, the convention
was wholly perfunctory. The sinking fund was
mentioned casually and in passing, because it was
a habitual thing, and ought to be mentioned in a
formal sort of way. Finance is the biggest ques-
tion in Queensland politics, but it seemed to
excite less real interest in the minds of the Labor
conventionists than might fairly have been
aroused by a discussion as to whether the male
flying snake sits on the eggs as well as the
female. And it is always thus. An utter
inability to take any real or living interest in
financial problems is the curse of every State
Labor party, and does more to prevent it being a
national party, and to make the public regard it
as a purely pick-and-shovel faction, than all other
mistakes put together.
The bad luck of N.S. W.’s C’ruthers Government
amounts to a disease. It would fall up a well and
be burned to death if it couldn’t find any other
possible accident. It would probably get drowned
in the middle of Sahara, and if it went to church
it would almost certainly be bitten by a snake in
the collection plate. Consider some of its doings
in the (Jriok-Willis-Bath, &c., proceedings :
(1) It failed to prevent Willis getting away to Africa.
(2) It failed twice to convict him when he came back.
(3) It failed twice to convict Crick.
(4) It decided to give up the pursuit of Crick and
Willis as a bad job.
(5) It failed to convict George M'Nair.
(6) It struggled to convict Bernard Hoskins, and had
no luck.
(7) It tried to prove a case against Charles Bath, but
that languid person with the long moustache lounged
away without a spot on his character.
(8) It tried to pot Juror Brown on a suspicion of having
failed in his duty as a juryman. If it had been an old
lady throwing an oyster at a hen it couldn’t have made
a worse shot at Juror Brown.
(9) It suspended Crick in his Parliamentary capacity,
and Crick dragged it into the law courts, as if it were a
small boy being scruffed to school, and proved to it em-
phatically that it didn’t know its business, and that it
had no power to suspend him in the way it did. Premier
C’Ri'THKRS is a lawyer, and this reflection on his law is
very unpleasant.
And now this Government has decided to have
another shot at William Patrick Oricic
and Nicholas Willis. Heaven only knows
what will happen to it this time, but it is
difficult to suppose that it will strike any new
legal joke. It must have about exhausted all the
possible jokes. Probably it will strike one of the
old jokes over again.
What chance has a Health Department, how-
ever energetic, to protect the public from whole-
sale and retail breeders and disseminators of
disease, if magistrates, when the law has captured
the offender, impose a fine no heavier than that
which falls on the purloiner of a carpet-bag ? Here
is the first serious case tried in Sydney under
the new plague bylaws. The Inspector re-
ported that he found on a wholesale and retail
butcher’s premises—
a tub of putrid tripe and fat on the floor uncovered, a
quantity of putrid sausages, two large baskets of bones,
meat, and fat on the floor uncovered, bullocks’ livers on
a stand Ift. from the floor, a large quantity of bones,
meat, etc., scattered about the floor, which gave out an
offensive smell. A large basket of putrid meat sausages
was also seen, and on the floor were uncovered bags of bones
giving off an offensive odor. A large cutting table was
filthy with fat, &c., and scraps of meat were on it. The
sausage machine was very dirty. Four large tins of fat
were on the floor uncovered, with traces of rats. A cask
of flour was uncovered. Meat was exposed to rats. Several
sucking pigs were in a room at the rear of the shop, and
were creating an offensive smell, while the whole of the
back premises, used for cutting and salting, were in a
dirty condition, fat and scraps of meat were scattered
about the floor, and the sides of the walls and blocks were
dirty and covered with fat.
The butcher pleaded guilty, and Magistrate
Isaacs fined him £5, with £1 7s. costs. Sydney’s
Health Board is often blamed, but what can it
do while magistrates are built on such lines?
John Forrest has put a large foot down, and
guaranteed £7OOO to return 1000 stranded Aus-
tralians from S’Africa at once. He is willing
to let the States wrangle about finding or
not finding their share afterwards. The Bulletin
is a little surprised at John Forrest, for
this is one of the pluckiest and most
sensible things the Australian Government has
done. It is Australia’s duty to bring back its
own stranded old-time emigrants before it pays
out to assist people from other countries to be
immigrants, and the proper attitude for the
Australian Government is to do that duty and
blow the States. Forrest has blowed the States
like a man and a good Australian.
♦
S.M. Herald seems to have got a genuine fright
judging by a recent leader on “ The Future of the
Pacific.” All the same it can’t speak its mind
plainly ; but wobbles like this between our Cullud
Fellow Subject and ourselves :
If India and China spill the increase of their hundreds
of millions over the Pacific the white man will have his
hands full. It cannot be denied, of course, that through-
out a vast area the brown and yellow man can alone
successfully meet the needs of tropical agriculture.
It is because he can justify his place in the islands and
upon the northern half of this continent that he is reach-
ing for place and power, and how is he to be controlled
or denied? That is the great conundrum for the white
man. The Briton finds his dilemma sharpened by the
fact that so many Asiatics are fellow citizens in the
greatest Empire the world has known.
The Herald begins in a genuine panic, and then
it remembers that “ the brown and yellow men
can alone successfully meet the needs of tropical
agriculture,” which is a monstrous fiction, though
“Mr. James,” perhaps, doesn’t know it. Still
it is the correct thing to say among the calico
gang with which alone “Mr. James” is ac-
quainted, so “Mr. James’s” paper must say it.
Asa matter of fact, the vast majority of the
brown and yellow men on the earth do not live
within the tropics. Hardly any of the Indian
coolies who go to Fiji were born within the
tropics. Only the very smallest corner of Southern
China is within the tropics. In addition to
nineteen-twentieths of the Chow empire, and half
of India, and a good deal of Burmah, all Japan,
Afghanistan, and Beluchustan, most of Arabia,
and all Syria and Asiatic Turkey are non-tropical,
and their people have no qualifications to chase
agriculture in Northern Australia that the white
doesn’t equally possess. In fact, so far from the
brown or yellow man being more capable of agri-
cultural or any other kind of labor in a hot
climate than the white man, the very contrary
has been proved over and over again. As for the
Empire and its citizens, they can be left to then-
own devices. They don’t concern us, and if the
Herald is disposed to worry about them it should
do so in the seclusion of its own home.
«,
From an old Indian officer :
Re the wail of the Methodist missionary in Sydney that
Fiji is falling back into Paganism. He says there are
now 30,000 “ Hindoos,” and they are increasing at the
rate of 3500 a year, while the native Fijians are decreas-
ing by 2000 a year. No wonder ! When the Fijian was
simply a cannibal savage, and the chief lived much the
same sort of life as the rest of the tribe, he might be a
murderous tyrant, yet he couldn’t eat or drink much
more than any other man. But v\ nen he became a pillar
of the church, had to dress in store clothes, live in a
white man’s house, and keep up his position as a native
gentleman, the tribe found out the difference. It was
the difference between a French baron of the
12th century, who had to keep on fairly good
terms with his vassals to make them fight
for him, and his descendant in the 17th century,
whose exactions in the way of feudal dues and corvees
were only limited by the vassal’s power to pay. But the
Fijians are not as tough as the French vilains were ; and,
instead of making a revolution, they die. The great
sugar monopoly has, however, taken the question of
The Gold of Kyabram.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A farmer from Kyabram told what was being' done up
there for foreign missions. “I devoted one acre of my
crop to the fund,” he said. —Melbourne Argus (6/3/ ’O7).
I know that queer old fowl who flaps his wings
across the sky,
And with his proud tail-feathers wipes the whole
world in the eye ;
I know his class; I’ve worked for it—the Lord
deliver me
From this, the servant of the Lord, his generosity !
The Hayseed in his blindness wallows in the
cheap romance
Of reef and palm, of far green isles where dusky
sinners prance;
He follows on the track of guile with sinful,
sweated quids,
To see his name in print, and shake black sinners
off the grids.
To Bill, this silly, weeping talk of souls is just a
nark—
To Bill, who works the Hayseed’s fields from
dawn to creeping dark ;
He has to take his fifteen bob “ and found,” for all
his needs —
To keep a blessed nigger-bloke in calico and
beads.
At Kyabram they never hear a word of “Little
Bourke” ;
They know not of the “Little” streets, where
wild, white people lurk ;
Their trouble is the colored cuss, his black and
tarnished soul,
And for his crowned eternity they pay a sweated
toll.
At Kyabram the big boss votes for eighteen hours
a day.
And shares his guilty gold to pave a gloomy
nigger’s way
To reach the pearly gates, where white and
haloed nigger meet,
While shameless, lost, white women curse down
every Little street.
Come off, ye vassals of the Very Good—come off
the grass !
Do half your duty by the white man ; let the
nigger pass !
Come off, and pay me fair and square to do my
share o’ work,
And keep your balances to help the crowd in
“Little Bourke.”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Having’ seen a few stage Venuses, Tin-: Bulletin comes
to the conclusion that they are mostly elected to Venus-
ships by cannibal votes. They’re all good, meaty speci-
mens, and suggest that a cut off the loin ora spare rib
would suit a dinner party in the New Hebrides.
The pastoralists of Australasia are now
commencing to understand the value of spraying
whether for disease or for the eradication of
obnoxious weeds. There are millions of acres
absolutely valueless on account of growth of
prickly pear, brier, gorse, lantana, blackberries,
etc. This ground can easily be cleaned by the
use of a well-organised spraying plant. The in-
troduction of the Tyree Spray makes the opera-
tion very simple, and comparatively at low cost.
All that is necessary is a few sprays, with one
man in charge and a few lads as assistants. A
strong solution of arsenic is mixed up in a barrel;
the machines are charged and the lads direct the
sprays on to the vegetation. In a few days the
plant dies, roots and all; and as soon as it is dry it
can be burnt off.*
For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison’s phonographs and products.*
Don’t neglect a cut or wound. Blood
poisoning may result. Apply Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm and all danger will be avoided.*
population into its charge, and replaces our black Fijian
fellow-subjects with other fellow-subjects from the East
Indies; and our Indian fellow-subject is an object of
peculiar dread to the missionary, who puts the case thus :
“ This is going to kill the work of the Church in Fiji, and
unless we make special efforts to save the situation, we
shall see the Orescent of Mahomed displace the Cross of
Christ in the Pacific." He is quite right. Islam is
the most captivating of all black men’s religions,
and the European missionary can make no head-
way against it. It’s a wonderfully simple doctrine.
There is only one God, and Mahomet is his prophet,
and Heaven is a fine place of grossly material joys.
There is nothing else except that all men are equal—
which must be very comforting to the common Fijian.
That doctrine of equality has converted to Islam whole
populations of low-caste men in India, where you may
any day meet the Moslem missionary on a scraggy old
pony, with two or three disciples in attendance. He will
stop anywhere where he can get the smallest of audiences.
He has not much to say—the Confession of Faith, and a
chapter of the Koran ; sometimes, if he has a good strong
voice, he begins with the Call to Prayer, then says his
own prayers aloud, and preaches. In fact, he practises
all the well-known revivalist dodges, of which the white
preacher is far from having a monopoly.
♦
Genus Homo—species Syndicatus.
Australia will come out of the European mail
business, a-nyhow, with some valuable experience
on the subject of Private Enterprise Syndicates.
When our brother man decides to have a Govern-
ment on the deep shell, his first step is to
form a Syndicate. Private Enterprise always
contemplates public robbery in the Syndicate
guise. Having formed a Syndicate, it seeks
the Concession. When the Syndicate seeks
the Concession, it is armed with immense
power of wealth. It would take a very
smart man to count its millions. And it
has generally a benevolent desire to “give
employment.” If the Syndicate does not get the
Concession promptly, it usually threatens to with-
draw its untold millions (that “untold” means
more than you think it means) from the country
and leave it unemployed. (This rouses the Tory
press to fierce and terrible remarks about how
capital is driven away through bad legisla-
tion.) By these threats the Syndicate often
gets its Concession. Then the untold millions
vanish into the region where there is no arithmetic,
and the Syndicate hawks its Concession round for
what it will bring. All going well, the Syndicate,
having by-and-bye raised some capital, calls around
on the State which is interested and asks for
assistance, or for some more Concession, or for a
modification of the conditions of the original Con-
cession. There is not, in The Bulletin’s memory,
a single case of a Private Enterprise Syndicate
being satisfied with its original Concession, and
not wanting more. To want more is the chief
characteristic of genus homo, species syndicatus.
It wants more at birth and to the last days of its
decrepit old age. Having got more, the Syndicate
is sometimes satisfied; but rarely. Usually it
wants yet more. A State, when it is dealing with
a Private Enterprise Syndicate for the supply of
a public utility, must always take into account
not only what the animal will want now, but
what it will want to-morrow and the next day.
Usually in the end it resolves itself, so far as the
State is concerned, into a game of “heads I lose,
tails you win.”
The Maoriland squatter, excepting the portion
of him that lived in old Canterbury, has always
had a tendency to lay it down as a fixed rule that
his employees must not perpetrate children.
When Canterbury started to break up there was
one thing that distinguished the newcomers from
the real old wool barons like the Tripps, Dennis-
touns, Forresters, Wilsons and Osbornes, and
that was their advertisements for married
couples. The old aristocrats said nothing about
children, and if there were any, they were wel-
come. The parvenu late-comers always specified
“no encumbrance.” And one of the latter gang
has recently come into ugly prominence in an
inquest on a boarded-out infant in Auckland.
The father and mother were “married couple”
on a sheep station, and they told the coroner that
their employer would not allow them to have
more than one child on the station. The father
had never seen his little baby, not even when it
was dead. The mother was confined in an Auck-
land institution, and because the shepherd king
would not get his money’s worth of work out of
her if she had an infant to feed and tend, the
helpless little mite was boarded out from birth.
Very naturally it died, and then the law wanted
to know things. Maoriland is not only a
Christian country, but the majority of the
squatters are devout supporters of the Anglican
Apostolic Church, and read the lessons and
printed sermons when the incumbent cannot get
round. It ishard to say whoisthemore deservingof
scorn and hatred in the present case—the bowelless
squatter or the spineless father. One would have
thought that this curious parent would have made
an effort during the time the child was on the way
to get some other employment where he might go
on two legs in an erect position, and be free to in-
sist that his baby should receive the maternal care
it was entitled to. But the average station hand
in Maoriland, especially if he dates from the olden
time, is a subservient worm, who in the past re-
garded the other animal in knickerbockers and
terai hat as something more than human and
but little less than divine.
A weary wrangle over some 7000 acres of inferior
land in the Riverina district of N.S.W. has
struggled one step further through the legal maze.
Some few years ago one O’Keefe was granted
the land as a pastoral holding in the form
of a preferential occupation license. Having
sprinkled a few sheep about the property,
the lessee was startled one day to find that
the Lands Department had quite forgotten
his occupancy, and had thrown open the land
for annual lease. Various parties squatted round
O Keefe’s sheep, and he pitched on one Malone
to argue with. The Demliquin Land Board fired
Malone off the land, but the Land Appeal Court
restored it to him. About this time O’Keefe
died, but his family took up the battle, not
against Malone, who disappeared from the
case, but against the State. The Full Court
decided against the family O’Keefe with costs
in a luminous judgment that sent lawyers and
parties out of court in a dazed frame of mind.
The C.J. laid down the law thusly: The dis-
possessed 0 Keefe had been granted an occupa-
tion license. The statutes clearly showed that
the management of waste State lands was in the
hands of the Legislature, which had delegated the
■power of granting these licenses, not to the
Government, but to its servant, the Minister for
Lands. Whatever right O’Keefe had to spread
his sheep over this particular portion of the land-
scape wasacquiredfromtlieMinisterforLandsin his
capacity as a servant of the Legislature, and any
redress O’Keefe might have was from the Minis-
ter for Lands in that capacity, not the Minister
for Lands as a member of the Government.
Therefore the O’Keefes hadn’t a chance of suc-
cess in any action against the Government of the
State. If they insisted on Edward VII. paying
damages, they must attack that potentate in some
other way, and if they won the case the same old
State Government which wasn’t liable would have
to find the money. Mud is translucent compared
to it all.
4
At Ballarat (Vic.) a man named Andrews has been
for a good while detained in gaol because he can-
not find sureties that he will try to support his
wife and children. It seems a pretty mad ar-
rangement. What the law obviously wants, in
the first place, is to get the wife and children sup-
ported ; so it puts a man where he can’t do what
it wants done. And in the second place it wants
sureties that the man will support his family;
but it puts him where he won’t find sureties even
if he looks for them with a rake in one hand and
a magnifying glass in the other. Ballarat
municipal councillors have taken the matter up
and are pointing out that the man says he is quite
willing to do what the Law says it wants done, if
it will let him out where he can do it; and if
it isn’t done the Law will have to hump a large
responsibility in case the wife and family starve,
as they seem to have a good chance of doing.
John Wren made a display of himself at Haw-
thorn (Melb.), the night before the polling, by
creating a disturbance at Minister Swinburne’s
meeting. It was the old, worn-out device of
waving a cheque for £500, and calling on the
Minister to prove a statement that he never made.
Wren said Swinburne had accused him of brib-
ing members of Parliament, and challenged him
to prove the statement, offering £500 to the
Mayor for charitable distribution if the charge
were proved. The Minister repeated several times
that he never said the thing that Wren was
raving about. When Wren tried to make a
speech at the other man’s meeting he was pre-
vented, and then his hoodlums tried to storm the
platform, but they met with a stern resistance, in
which many of them got badly bashed with
sticks and fragments of chairs. Wren him-
self received abrasions and contusions, and
was hustled to the back of the platform.
Later on the Wrenites found their idol, and,
hoisting it on their shoulders, carried it into
the street probably to some retreat where the
Toteman could shout liquor all round. Wren’s
proceedings amounted almost to a record fo;
cheek and gross bad manners. He came to Swin-
burne’s meeting with a written oration in his
hands, and before anyone was fairly aware
of his presence he was found on the platform
starting an oration, and generally conducting
himself as if it were his hall, and his
advertised meeting, and as if he, and
not Swinburne, were the candidate. Victoria
had an election on hand, and the people had met
to listen to the views of the most prominent man
in the Bent Government, and Wren, law-breaker
and pony-racing sport, tried to seize the occasion
as an advt. for his unlawful business. In England
a petty racing man who tried to take possession
of any Minister’s meeting in such a fashion woqld
have finished the evening in the lock-up for a
certainty. The sooner the Victorian Labor party
gets right away from Wren, the better for it.
It isn t enough to say it hasn’t had any dealings
with Wren. The case calls for a definite an-
nouncement that it won’t have any.
♦
“ Itan ” also prophesies :—
The prophecies of “Caber” (B. 3/7/’07) concerning'
Premier Ki dston s certain defeat at next general election
in Bananaland must have been based upon the penny
trumpetings of the Brisbane Tory press and the intempe-
rate attacks of Boote’s Worker. Kidston, for one thing
has more of the provincial papers with him than even
Morgan had, and more than Philp the last time the
country was foolish enough to give him a majority.
Then Denham has drawn no followers worth mentioning*
from the MoRGAN-ites, save Tolmib, the disappointed
man at the last Cabinet reconstruction. In every elec-
torate there is a plethora of Kidston candidates offering,
and, as a rule, there is no such anxiety to drag around’
the banner of assured defeat. Already selections have
been made to carry the “ no-borrowing” flag-men who
have already given good support to the Government
either as Laborites or Morganites.
“ Caber ” doubts O’Sullivan’s chances for Warwick.
Well, he won the seat at the by-election against the
strongest local man available, Barnes (who, by the way
would not even own Philp, but stood as an Independent)’,
and since that time the Warwick representative has been
made a Minister of the Crown. Why Warwick should
suddenly turn and embrace Philp is not clear,
seeing that ever since separation it has returned
democratic men—men of the Arthur Morgan type.
“ Caber " forgot to state that in none of the four by-
elections, since Morgan received such an emphatic
mandate from the people in 1904, has a candidate been
found to fly the tattered colors of the Opposition,
although Paull for Charters Towers, as an Independent
sat on Philp’s side of the House. The other Independent
returned during the period referred to, Colonel Rankin
(Burrum), has now decided to follow Kidston. How on
earth “Caber” can interpret the present position to
spell Kidston’s downfall has me down. My own opinion
is that the people of Queensland in a vast majority are
still pointing to Philp and saying “ There’s Belshazzar ! ”
Until “ Caber” assures me to the contrary, I will hold
the opinion that he is one of Bob’s few—very few—public
barrackers.
♦—
Dear Bulletin.— The good effect of the rational
provision of the N.S.W. Liquor Law, which
makes it compulsory to close up all public-houses
on an election day, was noticeable at the last
Federal general elections and State by-elections.
The bad influence that liquor used to have on the
ballot-box disappeared. There is another evil
agent affecting elections—sectarianism—which
might be dealt with in the same way.
Why not close all churches at election times
and thus prevent political issues being affected
injuriously by sermons and clerical exhorta-
tions ? It would be necessary, of course,
to take precautions against sly grog—I mean
sly sermon shops. And that could be done easily
enough. As for “ election time,” that might be
defined by the Act as the date between the issue
of writs and polling ; also it might be provided
that, on any priest or parson making a political
speech m his pulpit, that should make it election
time within the meaning of the Act in regard to
his church from that date until the day after the
general elections next succeeding.—Vours, &c.,
F.R.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose."
Theatre Roval. “ Robin Hood.”
Palace. “Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
ExHißrriON Ground Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mr. Hopkinson."
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal I .
j “ East Ljme ” (27th),
Masonic Hall Carrie Haase Concert.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. Dreamland.
—
Australia’s boss circus, the Wirths’, look-
ing like a fragment ripped from the Arabian
Nights, with its white tents, its scores of colored
lights, and its weird menagerie of freak animals
and wild beasts, unrolled its wonders to the
Sydney public, at the old stand, on Monday night
last. It was to have opened on Saturday night,
but, as herein anticipated, Providence bucked.
However, all things work together for the good of
those who patronise the box-office, and the
result of the delay was that the little in-
equalities that usually accompany a first-night
performance were absent. The whole vast
machine was properly on the rails, and worked
smoothly as a 100-guinea watch. The Wirths are
getting very gorgeous in the costume department
in their middle age, and the crowd of performers
that gets into the ring at once looks like Mark
Tart’s summer sale and Stewart Dawson’s window
rolled into one. The lion lies down with the goat
(holding his nose as he does so), the tiger rides the
horse, and the giraffe mounts the elephant; the
gorgeous lady Phillipina bestrides what seems to
be a wild horse at full speed, and somersaults and
gyrates on his back as he flies ; the contortionists
tie themselves into true lovers’ knots, and alb to
the accompaniment of much music. Then,
without a note, without a sparkle about
him, quietly, and much less obtrusively than
the fellow who rolls up the carpet, enters
Hugh Patrick Lloyd. In fact, he steals in, like
the thief in the night, and climbs on to his elastic
cord in a surreptitious manner. Then something
goes wrong with gravitation. His feet twinkle
along the flashing, oscillating rope in a marvellous
way. He sits on it, he dances on it, he turns
somersaults through paper rings on it, he stands
on his head on it, and reels and revolves and
whirls about on it in a manner that leaves his
audience broken all up. The great charm of
Hugh Patrick Lloyd’s performance is that he
seems to be doing it all for the fun and pleasure
of Patrick Lloyd and to the overwhelming amuse-
ment of Lloyd. There are some other things
worthy of detail, but space forbids.
THE LATE EDITH MOORE (LADY
FRANCES WINTER), formerly of the
Australian Variety and Operatic Stage.
Bland Holt departed from Sydney Royal,
on Saturday, amid a flourish of hautboys and
sackbutts and other more famihar instruments of
music. “ The Mother Goose ” pantomime was to
come this week to the Royal with all the glories
of a record season in Melbourne thick upon
it; goose was a seasonable Christmas dish, and
may prove just as welcome at Easter. But
a feature of “Mother Goose” is that the
charming chorus girls swing right out from
the stage, and their pink legs soar over the
bald heads of the stalled oxen and make them
blush prettily. This makes certain seats in the
stalls extra-special valuable, and is a Eeature.
But the architecture of Sydney Royal doesn’t
allow of the pink legs spreading over the bald
heads. So “Mother Goose” goes to Her Majesty’s,
and “Robin Hood,” which has no such blushful
interest, is to be transferred to the Royal.
# * *
The Brough - Flemming Cos. comes to
Sydney Palace on Saturday to play “Mrs.
Goringe’s Necklace.” The Brough - Flemming
combination is always welcome in Sydney, and as
Mrs. Goringe’s gaud hasn’t been seen here before,
it will also receive the extended hand of apprecia-
tion. The Palace has been carefully dusted for
the occasion, and the gleam of the front door
amounts to a radiance.
** # *
“ The Kelly Gang,” at Sydney Criterion,
ends this week (thank heaven !).
** * *
The next aid to heart disease that Wonder-
land City man Anderson will spring on the public
will be a ship on fire at sea. The terrified
passengers and crew will be brought ashore on
lines shot from the lurid wreck to the beach.
A vessel has been purchased, and will in due
time, which is next Saturday night, anchor
off Bondi, and the wreck and conflagra-
tion and heroic rescues will eventuate—all for
sixpence. It’s a shame to take so much
for so little. But in case people of tender con-
science think they are defrauding the manage-
ment, let them spend another half shilling to view
Leonore White, the Californian Venus. This
lady’s statue done in gold is in the Millionaires
Club in New York.
The Jessie MacLachlan co. arrives n«i
ney from America on March 27 II! Syd '
Town Mall on March SO? 7 ’ The SSL*
includes this trip, Douglas Yonn/f! c °mpany
Miss Rose Seaton, the English reciter
Zil gl Z e T th6r f lerI er P leasan * series of^S
from Wonder and Fairy Land” in t a >
Hall, on Saturday afternoon at “pi
addresses are highly entertaining to the lS
folk, and anything but wearying to the We!
ones. The same lady will rive IIS
remtal in the same hall at 8 p.m. on the evening
latefon! 1 16 ‘ Partlculars mll be announced
** * *
Charles Leonard Fletcher having come
back, and the Bicknells having gone on,°there is
more variety in the Tivoli show than there was a
week a go when it was mostly a songandanre
matter. The Bicknells have whirled under various
managements in these parts, but they are new to
the Tivoli, which signifies its feelings in the usual
manner nightly.
** * *
Mr. Laurance Godfrey Smith put the ivory
roof on his reputation as a pianist with his second
recital, on Saturday night, at Sydney Y.M.C.A.
hfill. Chopin, Scarlatti, and Macdowell were inter
preted by the capable youth, in musical language
(for the elect), brilliant, tender, grand, just as the
composers desired. Anyway, the audience,
which had come through heavy rain, wished
the mek>dy to go on indefinitely, and acted
as it it had brought its mattress with it and
that after twelve it meant to take encores’lying
down. Miss Rosina Buckmann, Mr. Henri
Staell, and Miss Violet Balmain aided in making
the concert a roaring success.
** * *
Miss Carrie Lanceley’s benefit concert
comes off on Saturday night at the Centenary
Hall. Mr. Laurance Phillip’s magic music will
assist.
* * *- *
The Willoughby-Ward Cos., at Melb.
Princess’s, is getting a more intelligent approval
for its “Mr. Hopkinson,” which is now played on
straight lines, than it got for its previous
comedies where a foreign element of song-and-
dance was introduced. There are no interpolated
variety turns to break the continuity of R. C.
Carton’s wit and satire. Hugh Ward’s perform-
ance of Hopkinson is too profusely vulgar in
speech and extravagantly vulgar in action, but he
doesn’t make the young man quite impossible
by inviting the Duchess of Palotta to join
him in a topical ditty and a cakewalk. The
gilded ex-clerk of the groceries that Ward
puts on the stage reminds one of Dickens’s
“ young man by the name of Guppy ” in an aggra-
vated form ; whilst George Willoughby presents
the Earl of Addleton as a mere lumbering vehicle
for pains in the stummick. Nevertheless, the
proper shape of the story is preserved, and the
general effect is very humorous.
On Friday night Miss Palotta is to be
benefited. One would have preferred to see her
placed in a more naturally suitable position for
beaming upon her admirers, but in any character
she must be a charming subject for “a managerial
courtesy,” anyhow. And, on Tuesday night,
Nemesis, in the form of relentless Eliza Dibbs,
will overtake Mr. Hopkinson for the last time,
after which the company goes to Tasmania.
** * *
The forthcoming appearance of George
Musgrove’s Grand Opera Cos., at the Princess’s,
promises to be an event of such magnitude that
The Bulletin has not hitherto ventured to break
the news gently in an official manner. Unofficial
announcements state that the newly-arrived Ger-
man principals and the glorious Australian
chorus will sing the first opera of the season on
Saturday (30th), and that the top note in the scale
of prices will be golden.
* * *
Persons who intend to drop into the
Royal during the last nights of Anderson’s season
had better look at the advt. ere they drop, lest
they strike another programme than the one they
sought. “The Squatter’s Daughter” will em-
brace a squatter’s son—Lord bless the squatto-
cracy !—for the last time on Friday. After that
comes a brief revival of the tearful drama com-
monly known as “Camel” in Royal circles, fol-
lowed on Wednesday by one consecutive perform-
ance of that mirthful four-act play, “East
Lynne,” or “Weary Willie.” In these old and
trusty attractions Miss Duggan will appear as
chief mourner, and Melbourne will see her for the
last time (for the present) through a blinding mist
of tears. There are perhaps a few hard-hearted
men who happen upon “East Lynne” by acci-
dent, without the least intention of weeping, but
these are ever the first to go out and drown their
sorrow between the acts. By the time the cur-
tain falls every eye in the audience has been
wetted.
*# * *
The Town Hall is again getting busy. This
(Thursday) afternoon Miss Una Bourne will give
a matinee recital as the result of her brilliant
attack on the pianoforte last week. To-night
Madame Sherwin makes her first re-appearance
in Melbourne this journey, after a prolonged tour
of Tasmania, where her voice was born. The
songstress brings with her Arnold Gange, basso,
and Clement Harvey, the pianist; and her con-
certs will be continued next week if General
Desire gives the necessary order. On Good
Friday night the Philharmonic Society will devote
its best musical energies to a performance of
Spohr’s “Calvary,” an oratorio which has not
been heard in Melbourne for 12 years.
** * *
All the things that are at the Melbourne
theatres will pass away and give place to some-
thing new for Easter. At Her Majesty’s, there
will be only a sense of emptiness when these
remarks come to publication, the panto, having
concluded its remarkable run last Monday. But,
on Saturday, the spectacular splendor of “Parsi-
fal,” which came to light in Sydney a while ago,
will be staged at the Williamsonian theatre.
Local expectations concerning “ Parsifal ”
seem to be rather mixed in ideas. The
advertised fact that it is a romantic, symbolic
mystery play, written by the Rev. T. H. Taylor,
doesn’t make the matter any clearer. But every-
body knows for certain that the mystery was an
excellent business speculation in Sydney, and a
curious public is waiting to rush in and solve the
problems, if possible.


Rheumatic pains are promptly relieved by
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
h
96 Queen-street, Woollahra, Sydney,
Messrs. Fisher & Co. 7/12/’O6.
Dear Sirs,—Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials
for a teacher of Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled
as a Tonic to invigorate the whole human system. To combat the after
and weakening effects of Influenza I have found FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE invaluable to set me up good and strong. I write the above
to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary consideration
whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest
Medicines on earth.
Prof. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police
of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me, LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TONIC,
Fisher’s Phospherine
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6-
Sole Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the Opera House there has lately been
nothing newer than the admirable Charlenes,
who made their first appearance weeks ago, and
are just about to leave. Subsequent turns have
been returns. Brinn, Cassie Walmer, likewise
the lady with the snakes and the damsel rifle
shot were the latest re-arrivals up to Saturday
last. Three more changes in the bill are due this
week, and some special arrangements for Easter
are probably in course of construction.
** * *
In view of the approaching Bun Festival,
the management of Dreamland lays extra stress
upon the value of its shilling ticket, whilst the
directorate of Princes’ Court suggests that true
happiness is attainable by a two shilling con-
cession ticket, which admits to all the side shows;
and at the Hipp.xirome, in Exhibition-street, a
furious brass band seems to have added another
big drum and two more pairs of cymbals to its
previous uproar.
Miss Carrie Haase, the young Melbourne
reciter, who has the charm of sweet peculiarity in
her face and style, is to have a farewell benefit at
the Masonic Hall on Monday next.
** * *
“ J.G.” sends a theatrical item from Mel-
bourne :
It was a scorching day, but from the St. Kilda pier the
blue-green waters of Hobson’s Bay looked cool and plea-
sant.
Upon the pier a few fishermen were patiently dangling
their lines. A few other persons, including some ladies
clad in white summer costumes, were lounging about on
the pier, watching the waves and the yachts and the
shipping'.
Presently a dispute arose between a couple that were
seated on a plank near the end of the pier. The lady
after a wordy conflict hit her partner several heavy blows
with her parasol, and shivered its frail handle to*atoms.
Then with a shriek she suicided head first into the sea.
Instantly there was commotion on the pier. Women
shrieked and fainted. Men yelled, and ran and threw
ropes into the water.
The man that was hit by the suicide’s brolly tore off
his coat and plunged to the rescue.
Then a couple of fishermen jumped in, followed by a
portly policeman, who leaped, helmet and all. Bowing
boats in the vicinity turned towards the scene, and the
people in them pulled frantically, and bellowed, and
caught crabs, and turned somersaults.
One boat, however, did not attempt any rescue work,
but stood off about 100yds. Notwithstanding the jeers
of the people on the pier, the men in this vessel calmly
stood by a camera fixed in the bow, and seemed to be
taking snapshots of the incident.
But as soon as the suicide was rescued, the camera
boat darted in. The half-drowned woman jumped into
it from the pier steps and, before the dripping policeman
had time to take her name, or to formally arrest her,
she was at a safe distance and taking off her sodden
skirts.
“Thank you very much,” said one of the occupants of
the boat. “At our next Biograph display the splendid
films taken to-day will be on view. You will find the
show well worthy of your patronage, and the prices are
only three, two, and one.”
The rescued “ lady ” was lighting a good-sized pipe.
“ Damn me eyes,” said Policeman X 206, “ if ever I seen
such impudence.”
*****
Adelaide Hippodrome, which started as
an entirely open-air show, though later it pro-
vided some kind of roof, has closed for the winter ;
it says it will open again next October, thus re-
versing the practice of most Adelaide shows. The
Royal has played “ Home. Sweet Home,” for over
a week, scoring a cheap-priced success. Sidney
Howard is a manly and unconventional sort of
hero, and the support is good. Leslie Harris has
alternated between the Town Hall and suburban
towns. One realises in him a great pianist
wasted ; but then there are plenty of pianists,
and very few humorists like Harris. The Tivoli
and the buckjumpers still fill their respective bills,
the Exhibition has given an evening of bright-
green song to the glory of St. Patrick, and the
Town Hall saw a farewell concert to the plucky
and capable “Lady Kitty,” who came from Mel-
bourne to join the Adelaide Critic, married
Alfred McKain, its editor, supported him and
herself during his long final illness, and now is
going to London to tempt fate as a journalist.
** * *
On February 28 a paragraph appeared in
The Bulletin about the highly-respectable
Corrick family and a biograph. The moral was
that the family was particular about what kind of
biograph it had dealings with, but all the same it
seems to have given offence. At any rate there
has reached this office from Perth (W.A.) a
vigorous telegram signed by parties (presumably
legal parties) unknown to The Bulletin. It says
the paragraph contained “untrue allusions” and
“must be denied next issue.” There are no
further particulars in the telegram, and whether
the untruth lies in the statement that the girls
were told not to look at the thing, or in the story
about how the son was told to turn the handle fast
and get the show over, or whether it is all untrue
and no one in the family ever had any biograph,
isn’t explained. Anyhow, the whole story is
hereby withdrawn, abolished and obliterated, and
if further details come along any part of the yarn
that is specially incorrect will be withdrawn in
detail, or the yarn will be altered in any way that
will give satisfaction, or it will be fitted on to any-
one else, or any blessed thing will be done with it.
The Australian Government having taken
over the Meteorological departments, N.S.W.
Premier Carruthers, with a prompt snarl, an-
nounces his intention of not letting it have the
siteof the Sydney Observatory. He proposes to use
that for a Mint, it being understood that the newly
coined sovereign likes fresh air and a wide out-
look. But it seems that the Australian Govern-
ment can have the site if it wishes, with or without
Carruthers’ assent. Clause 51 of the Australian
Constitution gives the Commonwealth power for
the acquisition of property on just terms from any State
or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parlia-
ment has the power to make laws.
If the Federal Observatory has to start on a new
site at a different elevation merely so that
Carruthers may be nasty, it will mean that, for
purposes of comparison with future records, all
the records of the 50 years’ splendid meteorological
work already done in Sydney will be rendered
just about useless, and Sydney might almost as
well have never possessed an Observatory. But
what is that compared to Carruthers’ joy in being
mean and small and nasty to the Australian
Government ?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ada Ward’s way-back connection' with the Australian
stage has been considerably mis-stated by sundry para-
graphists. In her actress capacity she paid three visits
to this country, and only the first one was satisfactory.
She was then —in 1877, or thereabouts —one of the leading
ladies of Fred Lyster’s co., and her best success was
scored as “ The Lady of Lyons,” to which her fine,
incisive voice and her forcible, scholastic delivery of the
stilted lines were \.vell suited. Beturning to Australia,
she fell ill, and, after “resting” on a sick bed, she
rewarded the devoted attentions of Hugh Fisher by
marrying him. He was a good-looking, but not at all
notable, actor, who had accompanied her from S’Africa.
Convalescent Ada and her sickly husband went back to
London, and thence to South Africa, where it was poor
Fisher’s turn to be laid up. A year or two later he died,
his wife being at that time back in S’Africa, after having
battled again on the English stage. A woman of
great pluck was Ada Ward, and, like most enterpris-
ing actresses, she over-rated her talents. In 1888
she paid a third visit to Australia under the mistaken
impression that she was a star attraction. She got sadly
disillusioned when she made her first appearance at the
Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, in a gloomy melodrama.
The engagement of Ada Ward, from Europe, was the last
hope of a moneyless management. She failed to popularise
the unfortunate “ Aleck ” Theatre (afterwards converted
into Her Majesty’s), and, after trying a few changes of
bill, the star lady ceased to twinkle. Later in the year
she got a short engagement with Williamson, Garner and
Musgrove to play the lurid, villainous partin “Hands
Across the Sea,” at Melbourne Boyal. The drama ran for
12 weeks—Melbourne boomed in 1888 —and Ada Ward
was able to pay her way back to England. Fortune had
never been very kind to her as a professional stage-
player, so she turned to the companion line of business,
and started off as a professional convert to Christianity.
She should make good money this trip.
Ada Ward says of the “ Sign of the Cross ” that it has
“ dragged many souls into the pit” (bottomless, not bob)
and adds :—“ I have statistics to show the misery caused
by this play.” Will Miss Ward kindly post these statistics
to the Financial Editor of The Bulletin ? He takes an
interest in statistics, which often come in handy for his
Wild Cat Column.
On one of her visits to Australia Ada Ward—once
actress, now' preacher and drum-banger—left in the care
of a Melbourne manufacturer a lad whom she had picked
up in a London alley and adopted. He is now master of
a business of his own in the saintly city. Unlike many
women who love small fluffy dogs, Ada, in her
unregenerate days, had a corner in her heart for children.
In fact, considering how large that corner was it seemed
almost superfluous to convert Ada.
“S.”: Carton’s comedy, “Mr. Hopkinson,” as pre-
sented by Ward, Willoughby and Cos. at Melbourne
Princess’s, is a cheerful little show, but! submit that the
performance is riot a great deal like the play. Happily
cast, “Mr. Hopkinson” would be a very spirited and
sprightly farce. In the present combin-
ation only one performer quite fits her
part, and that is Miss Scaife as Eliza Dibbs.
Hugh Ward’s Hopkinson, although perhaps
the best thing he has done in comedy, is
over-acted. Points are strained, and vul-
garisms are stressed as if they called for a
particular effort on Hoppy’s part, whereas
these things are quite natural to the
animal. The Duchess; a part that would
fit such an actress as Miss Florence Sey-
mour like a glove, hangs loosely on the
amiable and airy Palotta, who makes the
lady nice, but misses the Vere de Vere
flavor entirely, and gives no hint of the in-
tense culture (society style) that should go
with Carton’s Duchess. The two society
Johnnies are angular and graceless, and a
lot of interest is slurred over as a result
of their failure to get quite into the
picture. Smart society’s lamentable lack
of respectability begins to stale as a comedy
motif, but Carton’s work is so far ahead
of the bullocking farces we have been
sampling lately that one is grateful for it,
even though it is somewhat pinched in the presentation.
The comet thai the cables allege will presently bump
this earth arrived at Williamstown (Vic.) the other
evening—or a lot of people thought it did. There was a
concert in the municipal gardens, with a display of fire-
works to follow, and the rockets, etc., had been casually
bestowed under the band platform till they were wanted.
The pestiferous small boy, nosing around as usual,
spotted them, and applied a match to a Boman candle to
see if it would go off. It went off all right. So did the
boy. So did the rest of the illumination. The band was
in the middle of a nocturne in Q major when the uproar
commenced; then somebody shrieked “The comet!”
“ The comet! ” and those who didn’t faint galloped head-
long through the nearest gate or over the fence. The
casualties included three garments with holes in them,
two men slightly singed, three women prostrated with
shock to the system, and a small boy suffering from an
overdose of joy.
J. C. Williamson’s Cos., when appearing in Hobart the
other week, scored a good advt. at the expense of the
character of the local Theatre Boyal. Business manager
E. H. Major was summoned for overcrowding the house
on the first night of the season ; and he pleaded in defence
that he had admitted no more people than could find
seats, but that many of them were bound to stand up in
the gangways in order to see the show. “ The architec-
ture of the theatre is so bad,” said Major, “that a large
percentage of the audience prefers standing to sitting.”
The Bench practically accepted the excuse by fining the
management only 7s. 6d.
“ 0.K.” : In the sacred name of Art, this is lodged as a
protest against a par. re Lalia Miranda, contributed by
one “G.T.” to “Poverty Point ”of March 7. The well-
meaning libeller of Lalla stated that it was she—O cruel
error ! —“ who 15 years agone sent Melbourne crazy with
« After the Ball.’” He, or she, is confusing the brilliant
young daughter of David Miranda with another soprano
singer of the period, viz., Isabel Webster. It was Miss
Webster who misapplied her then promising voice to a
sweet, but utterly undramatic, rendering of the maudlin
ditty aforesaid—a ditty which in later years was sung
with admirable “ music ’all ” expression by Charles
Godfrey, at Eickards’. Godfrey, the original cockney
interpreter of “ After the Ball,” revived memories of the
lamentable Melbourne popularity that Miss Webster had
given it. But to charge Lalla Miranda with the musical
offence ! Such songs were repugnant to her taste and
foreign to her operatic method. She was trained for
grand opera, and was a recognised exponent of the
lighter florid arias before she went to Europe and
established herself as a prima donna.
“Spring”: Was much surprised to find that “The
Kelly Gang,” at the Criterion (Sydney), degenerates into
a sermon, or hymn, or something, instead of maintaining
to the last a bold front of gore, popgun, and defiance.
The most admirable points about the real Ned and his
little brother Dan were their utter inability to sermonise
and mouth copy-book homilies. They were desperate
and ignorant bushies who went the total boar. Great,
daring criminals, who remain hard and bitter right
through, attract the admiration of heaps of people
(who never bumped up against them) much more
than those who lift up their eyes to Heaven in the lasc
act. It looks fine and powerful and dramatic to step
over the Great Brink with a snarl. It conjures up an
interesting interview which will later take place between
the Overlord of Sheol and the snarler. The gentleman
with the prong and the live coal in his eye-sockets
thoroughly appreciates the soul that conies to him
snarling, and is wont to give it one of the softest
jobs in his factory, for he remembers that it was
snarling and growling, and poking borak at the
angels, and audibly commenting on the leak in the roof
of Paradise, that brought about his own sudden removal
to a kingdom of his own. Therefore, why should Ned be
sent forth meek and mild-like? Undoubtedly there is
only one place that will take him in after his career of
crime, and Mr. Nick will be sure not to like him, and will
send him off to the most blistering- portion of his realm,
and forget all about him. I know what terrors these big
Civil Service bosses are for forgetting about the poor
wretches who are sent Out Back, and are not frequently
under their notice.
“Melb. Frederick Beard has been fetched from
Birmingham (England), and is appointed musical con-
ductor at St. Pat’s (Melbourne), to introduce the Grego-
rian Masses enjoined by Pius X., instead of the familiar
Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, Weber, Gounod, &c. In a
lecture, he has just been saying that lady organists ought
to be swept off the board, and it may be imagined what
boiling water on an ant-heap that is when the fact is
stated that a general rule in Melbourne Catholic churches
is to have ladies for organists, from St. Patrick’s and St.
Francis’s downwards. Beard is in some disfavor with
the local musical profession through his robust display
of conceit. He has taken a patronising tone with
regard to music in Australia, finding it much better
than he expected, and so forth. Well, the land of
Melba and Crossley may patronise a Frederick Beard.
Beard comes of an intensely musical Catholic family.
His mother’s people, named Smith, furnished the whole
choir of a church for forty years. One of her brothers
was Signor Fabrini, a distinguished opera singer—real
name Smith. Another married Florence St. John, at
some period of her career, and did well in Gilbert and
Sullivan Opera, as Lithgow James.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : How the public rushes the wild,
woolly western dramas from Amurrika ! Note the suc-
cess of “ The Scout of Fort Meade, specially written for
Mexican Jack on the Story of his Life,” and picturesquely
produced at the Broken Hill Hippodrome. I suppose
Mexican Jack comes all the way from Wollongong. When
will some of our own play-writers produce plays of the
plains, mysteries of the mountains, tragedies of the
tablelands, comedies of the coast? I suggest a few titles :
“The Boundary Bider of Barringun,” “The Yokel of
Yantabulla,” “ The Prince of Pooncarie,” “ The Men-o’-
Milparinka,” “Tossed at Tibooburra,” “The Drovers of
Dandaloo,” “ Winnie of Wanaaring,” “ The Eulo Queen,”
“The Maid of Menindie.”
THE NON-UNIONIST.
Mr. Tommy Bent has gone to London.
ENGLISH VARIETY ARTIST : “ Take it from me,
Buskin, we're seen the end of the music-'all
strike. That's Tommy Lent , the Victorian
Lion Comigue! ”
Signs of the times. Broken Hill now keeps three
theatres going—the Hippodrome, where Wild West
drama and variety are presented; the new Theatre
Boyal, held by the Jack Harris Vaudeville Specialty Co. ;
and the Crystal Theatre, where the pantomime of “ Cin-
derella” is being played. Lately Alfred Tennyson
Dickens lectured twice on “The Life and Works of
Charles Dickens ” to very thin houses in the Town Hall.
The Barrierites don’t take much lecture in theirs.
When Gertie—charming name, Gertie —Millar sued a
London post-card publisher for putting her pictured head
on the body of a nude lady and “got left,” the decision
spread dismay among the unobtrusive mummeresses.
The irrepressible “ Belle of New York,” Edna May, said
she was “thunderstruck.” She said that she. herself,
had been a victim of the post-card fiend. “ What dis-
gusted me most,” she added, “ was a picture card repre-
senting me as a dreadful young person sitting on a rock
by the seashore pulling on my stockings !"
“Louis Bayer” writes: “ K.”(B. 14/3/’O7) discusses my
new opera, “ The Golden West,” and my misfortune of
possessing an accent. I arrived in Australia in 1873, a lad
of 17, just from the first quarter of University life. My
accent may be strong, but the “Bed Pagan” of The
Bulletin has paid me the compliment of placing my two
contributions to your paper on the “Bed Page.” As an
Australian citizen I give place to none. My second son
was one of the first to join the Naval Militia, and, like
their father, my sons are proud of Australia, and ready
to fight for it. So far, lam the only writer of Australian
opera, dramatic or comic, and I beg to point out to “K.,”
with all due modesty, that during the Warrnambcol Ex-
hibition, when “Pinafore,” “Pirates of Penzance,”
“Mikado,” “ Girofi6-Girofla,” “Trial by Jury,” etc.,
were performed three times a week, “Muntcbaka”
simply swept the board, and still holds the record
for the largest takings in the Western district.
In quoting the finale to “ Muntchaka” “K."
does me a serious injustice by omitting two
lines, which really are the key to the whole, and before
damning a man with faint praise, “ K.” ought to attempt
to be accurate. The libretto to “ The Golden West ” is
taken from life —steers and all —and, after carefully
studying the libretto of other comic operas, I am not
ashamed of mine. This does not mean much for the
libretto, and I regret that, although 1 have made every
effort for the last 20 years to get someone to write a
libretto for me, no one has come to the rescue. Hence
my humble effort. One thing I may claim. I am the
pioneer of Australian opera, and may better men succeed
where, according to “ K.,” I have failed.
“ Wang ” : Melbourne suburbs now own a street
musician who takes contributions in empty bottles.
(That’s the “ Poverty Point ” way of putting it. The
“Business, Bobbery, &c.” way is that Melbourne has a
bottle-ho man who pays for the bottles with melody).
Notwithstanding some solemn official an-
nouncements to the contrary, it is still asserted
that Premier Bent is going to get married after
his arrival in England. The lady, it is said, will
follow him thither at a discreet interval of five
weeks.
Reported by cable that Dr. Elliott-Smith,
a Sydney graduate in medicine, has been elected
a Fellow of the Royal Society of London. He
took his M.D. at Sydney ’Varsity in ’95. In July,
1900, he accepted the Professorship of Anatomy at
the Cairo Medical School, and now he has got the
highest distinction, the F.R.S., Lond., that a
scientific man can aspire to —a distinction that a
large proportion of the outlanders our Australian
Governments and Universities import would give
their ears to possess.
The Australia For Australians (A.F.A.)
Society wishes to state that J. Blumenthal, of
“ Bombala, ” Enmore-road, Marrickville, Sydney,
is now secretary (owing to large increase of
members) for N.S.W. The society asks members
in other States who are willing to act as secre-
taries for their respective States, and who are
ready to spend a little money on printing, to
communicate with Peter Lalor, 353 Church-street,
Richmond (Vic.).
Senator Neild’s argument in a recent
Sunday Times, that George Reid, in paying him
£350 for his Old Age Pension report, had only
done what Robertson, Parkes, Stuart, and Dibbs
did with members of Parliament who acted as
commissioners, mis-states the fact that led to Reid’s
downfall. Those other Premiers certainly paid
members who acted on Commissions, but they did
not beforehand assure Parliament that theyVould
not pay. That is what Reid did, and it was more
because he deceived the House than because he paid
that Parliament sacked him.
Joey Carruthers, N.S.W.’s yelp.ng little
Premier, had his usual snarl at the Australian
Government last week. It was when he heard
that acting-Prime Minister Forrest proposed to
help stranded Australians in South Africa to
return to their native land. Carruthers didn’t
say that it was a good and kindly thing to do, or
anvthing like that; he just snarled that there
was no need for the Australian Government to
interfere. He had, he alleged, already made
arrangements to bring back stranded N.S.
Walers —and, of course, when they were provided
for, nothing else mattered, and there was nothing
for Forrest to interfere about. Curiously enough,
nobody seems to have heard about these alleged
arrangements of Joey's till Forrest moved in the
matter, and then Joe yapped immediately.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is unequalled for
cuts, bruises, and sprains.*
Lovers of Australian success will rejoice to hear
that Mr. George Hudson, whose Eumenthol Jujubes have
attained a world-wide fame as a remedy for bronchial
troubles, has been awarded the Certificate of the Incor-
porated Institute of Hygiene (Devonshire-street, Harley-
street, London, W.)for the purity and quality of his pre-
paration. This certificate is a jealously guarded treasure,
good for one year only, when it may be re-applied for if
the standard of the preparation has not deteriorated.
The certificate Mr. Hudson forwarded to this office, and
which we have seen with our own eyes, and not those of
another, is dated January 10th, 1907.*
At a recent Beastly Sunday Afternoon in
Melbourne, a red-faced parson, who had just re-
sumed his seat, was approached by a reporter who
inquired his name. The parson jumped up, waved
his arms to the multitude, and cried “ Here’s a
reporter who doesn’t know who I am. My name’s
the Rev. T. S. B. Woodfull.” Woodfull was no
less indignant than his master, Juddy, who
orated at great length one night a few months
back, and then was shocked by the approach of a
suave scribe who calmly requested his name.
Juddy nearly fell. “ Judkins,” he gasped. “What
initials, please?” inquired the reporter, blandly.
“W.H.,” said Jud, his forehead purple with
indignation, “haven’t you heard of me before?”
The reporter looked puzzled for an instant, and
confessed he hadn’t. Jud looked like a hard-
thinking man for the rest of the day.
TO ADELINA’S LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Muse of smoky gleaming music halls
Help me to write this “ pome ” 1
Carry my thoughts to red-plush sofa-stalls 1
Let dazzling visions come
Of thee in light blue tights,—spangled,—entrancing 1
In artificial woodland grottos dancing 1
Adelina 1
See, for a moment, brief, cease thy twin legs
From evolutions frisky 1 —
See, still I sit, though thirst my lips for pegs
Of Scotch or Irish whisky 1—
Fast held,—on thy plump figure, and blithe manner
Feasting my eyes,—smoking a long “ Havanner ” 1
Adelina 1
Yet, though thy curvetings in rapture hold
Thy servant, ne’er so humble, —
When o’er thy beauties rare the curtain’s rolled
I yawn, and do not grumble 1
I love thy' dance, —but I can live without thee
Thy leaping legs are all I love about thee 1
Adelina 1
vie.
ARCHBALD LEE.
A HYMN PLAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By that great church in Collins-street he stands—
Old, threadbare, stiff—and drones slow, pious airs
That put to shame the martial German bands ;
And he, just like his fiddle, needs repairs.
A melancholy life, you think, and meek ?
Not so ; great faith hath he to play and pray
That hymns and coppers pave his weary week
For one big burst of beer each Saturday.
VIC.
L.E.


Deafness, Head Poises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention froin your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements :
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
tlHE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W,
fgh
HOLIDAYS are Delightful
if you have a ♦ ♦ ♦
...CAMERA...
OUR “ FAVORITE ” Camera (Latest Pattern) is an excellent instrument, at a
Moderate Price. It has a great range of movements. These include Triple
Swing Front, Triple Swing Back, Rising, Falling, and Cross Front, Rever-
sing Back, Triple Extension, Leather Bellows, Wide Angle Movement and Revolv-
iug Turntable, Behind Lens Time and Instantaneous Shutter with Speed Indicator
fitted to Camera front, giving speeds l/15th to l/90th sec., also Time Exposures,
Three-fold Ash Tripod, Double Book-form Dark Slide with Double Rabbetted
Shutters. BECK Symmetrical Lens with Iris Diaphragm.
Complete Outfit: Half-plate, £5 55.; Whole Plate, £B.
We keep Large Stocks of Photo Supplies
and High-Grade Cameras.
HARRINGTON & CO*, Ltd*, 386 George St*, SYDNEY,
and 93 Queen St.. BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
HE (fiercely): “That I would die for you
willingly you know.”
SHE (with emphasis): “ Not for certain!”
“ S.” : Gold flows no longer in abundant
streams through Westralia. On the Golden Mile
there has been a gradual setting down to normal
conditions. The environment of life on the fields
has improved, but wages, though still good, are
no longer phenomenal, nor is there any longer a
possibility of achieving a competence by under-
ground gold-dealing. The steady supply of
workers from oversea has more than overtaken
the demand, until, in addition to the permanent
army which seeks work as a pretence and knows
it not when found, there is a large residue, float-
ing from mine to mine, willing to graft, but
unable to lay its hand on any but casual employ-
ment. In the towns there is not quite enough
employment—professional, commercial, mechani-
cal, or laboring—to go round. Even when a man
steps into a billet he finds that the pay does not
provide so many comforts or leave so large a
margin for saving as in Eastern Australia. If he
doesn’t discover the fact, his wife does.
For the purpose of this true story he
may be called Johnston. Johnston was in a
fair way of business in Brisbane, and became
engaged. The wedding was fixed, and every-
thing was in readiness. But the engagement had
been a long one, and Johnston had gradually
cooled off, though he lacked the courage to men-
tion the fact. His feelings became so bad that
he sold his business, and fled on some thin pre-
tence to Sydney, where he took steamer for San
Frisky. His vanishment aroused comment, and
the jilted girl and her mother inquired with
steadily-increasing bitterness at the door of John-
ston’s mother. They began to say things, and to
say them very loud. In course of time they learned
that the new address of Johnston was Kingston,
Jamaica. When they heard this they told John-
ston’s mother that they trusted Johnston would
marry a negress, that being all he was fit for.
They returned next night to retract, and say that
they didn’t want any respectable and perhaps
pious negress to be linked to a monster like
Johnston. The night after that—which may be
called the third night of the new series of nights
—they heard of the earthquake, and they came
round to say how glad they were that Johnston
was dead. Later they called to suggest suitable
epitaphs for Johnston, such as “Gone to his long
hob,” and the like. Then came the dreadful
news that the house in which Johnston was stay-
ing had fallen down, and everybody was killed
bar Johnston. He was uninjured, and had even
saved his luggage. After that his ex-girl and her
mother gave up calling.
The barrackers for Private Enterprise
always assert that the State cannot manage any
big undertaking so well as a private company,
and this cry was raised as usual when the purchase
of Adelaide’s dreadful pie-stall trams was worked.
Before the Tramways Trust took over the business,
the management of the trams was the most awful
thing on earth—far worse than the antiquated
system itself. The stopping places were wherever
a female raised her brolly on high. Sometimes
there were groups waiting on each side of a street,
necessitating two stops for their collection. If a
dot appeared on the horizon down a side street,
the driver always suspected it of being a possible
passenger, and waited until it resolved itself into
a human, who frequently turned the corner and
proceeded gaily on foot. The cars, and the urchins
who collected the fares and retained a fair per-
centage, were always filthy, and the rate of
progress was left to the driver’s indiscretion.
Now, under public management there are fixed
stopping places at street corners only, and a time
limit which saves ten minutes in what was pre-
viously half-an-hour’s dreadful journey. Also the
fat old lady with ten parcels, who appears on the
wrong side of the line 40yds. from the street
corner, waves an enraged ’breller in vain.
* • * •
U.S.A. decides not to put the date of
canning on its embalmed meat. Perhaps the
desire is to avoid as much as possible the appear-
ance of a human tombstone.
** * m
‘‘Hiphen”: I have a complaint to make
against the Trustees of the Vic. National Art
Gallery. I went there recently with a
friend (our only excuse is that we had
nowhere else to go—there being no Wren
fight or pony races on). My friend and
I wandered round for fully ten minutes
admiring the canvases. I could hardly
get him away from that heavyweight
one, “Noah descending Mount
Ararat with the tabloids of the
Law.” I preferred the other big
5 un “The Brigands,” in which Ned
Kelly is shown holding up a squat-
ter. The Australian tone appealed
to me. We wandered through
several other rooms, but there was
nothing to come up to those two ;
the rest were all much smaller. At
last my friend gasped and clutched
my arm. “ Hull-o ! ” he whispered,
excitedly. He pointed to a little
picture over which a curtain was
hung. Stealthily we made our way
to it without any appearance of
indecent haste. What was behind
that modest curtain? “One of
those French gems that there was
so much controversy about,” he
suggested. There was a lady
within a few yards, so we
waited till she should go.
She caught sight of the cur-
tained canvas, blushed
deeply and moved on. With
trembling fingers my friend
drew the curtain. “Okehamp-
ton Castle, by Turner, 5 ' is what
we read. A pile of dilapidated
buildings with a man shooting white rabbits in
the foreground ! Hang it all, have the Trustees
no consideration for the feelings of others ?
* * * *
“ Percole ” : The wisdom of “ Kati-Kati ”
in his “ Facts ” (B. 14/2/’O7), causes me to remark
in a voice which, though dulcet as that of a sing-
ing angel, rings out with a clear, crystal convic-
tion : “Pooh ! you are not the only one who can
write like that.” Listen to me:—
Enjoy life while you can, for when you can’t you won’t
be able to.
Empty stomachs make the most sound.
The rule with regard to eating is one of punctuation :
When you are full, stop.
The race is not always to the swift, but the chances
are a hundred to one that it is.
What’s the use of getting up in the morning when you
have only got to go to bed again in the evening ?
What’s the good of going to bed in the evening when
you have only got to get up again in the morning ?
A stitch in time saves nine ; but, notwithstanding this,
I have never y 7 et seen anyone put in only one stitch.
As the world is round it can never come to an end.
Many hands make white work.
Many men are moral because they lack the moral
courage to be immoral.
» * • *
Allowing that cheap tea may be moie
essentially pernicious than a threepenny beer,
there is still the question whether the food given
away with a glass of intoxicant is nearly so
desirable as the article given away with a
pound of tea. A Sydney man states that
the other morning he noticed one of the
carts of a local butcher standing outside the
door of a pub. In the front of the cart there
was a collection of meat from the interiors of
slaughtered beasts—liver, lights, and “chitlings”
—piled high around the driver’s feet. On in-
quiring as to the why and wherefore of this gory
mass he learned that it was an ordinary load of
material for “ counter lunch,” since when he has
lost his appetite for the burnt offerings of Boniface.
He prefers to drink on an empty stummick.
* * * *•
Why suffer from rheumatism when one
application of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm gives
relief? For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
OBLIGING.
SMALL BOY (to desperate motorist): “I docs all me repairs wiv this screw ’ammer. Til loan
yer it if yer like! ”
The recent attempt to burst open the
strong room of the Bank of Australasia at Narra-
bri (N.S.W.) gave a philosophical Australian
girl her chance to shine. She went into the bank
as usual in the morning to dust the overdraft and
polish the handle of the current account. Then
she found that burglars had been there before her,
and had clawed about a ton of bricks and mortar
out of the wall of the strong room, and left them
in a heap on the floor. She recognised that bur-
glars weren’t her business, and the strong room
wasn’t her affair, but she was responsible for the
tidiness of the premises. So she hastened to a
partially-dressed manager, and asked where she
would put the bricks, and that being the first the
partially-dressed manager had heard about there
being any bricks, he gave way to excitement, in-
stead of keeping calm like that cool, strong Aus-
tralian girl.
“ W.” listens to the story of Jumeel:
“ Aha ! ” said Jumeel Muacassa. Jumeel is an alien, a
swarthy Syrian, who dispenses fish-and-chips in Little
Lon., Melbourne. I met Jumeel on a Monday night, re-
counting', for the 743rd time, his prowess on the previous
Saturday. At midnight on that day, six of the dominant
race came into Jumeel’s shop, and ate vigorously. “They
got no money,” said Jumeel; “they tella me I shout.
Ar-r-r ! ” With a growl, he stuck a newspaper cutting
under my nose. It related how Jumeel and his trusty
squire, Hamud Hud, leaped at the throats of the six to
prevent their escape. How did Hamud feel ? “Frighten’,
by-a Cripes ! ” Hamud said, looking as happy as a bung
eye and a bruised lip would let him. Hamud had need
to fear, for four of the Dominants got him to the
floor. Not so with Jumeel. “My wooda-heap,
by Gee-gor ! ” he says, pointing to a pile of jagged,
serviceable timber. Jumeel’s ancestors wielded battle-
axes under Saladin. With a 2ft. box block, the Assyrian
came down like a wolf on the fold, and the white race
was outed. “ You see that-a room ? It is full of six men;
by hell, I make it full of firewood ! ” For Jumeel, after
breaking loose with the club, turned himself into a
muscular cannon, and from the wood-pile near the door
hurled mighty fragments of timber at the howling
marauders. So the women on Greek roofs flung tiles at
Pyrrhus—the Easterner has a genius for house-lighting.
“I fetch-a the police,” says Hamud; but by the time
the police arrived, there was only a heap of eucalyptus
and sauce-bottle in the shop. Jumeel again referred
to the newspaper report—“ The constable said that
there could be only two places to which the men
had run—the morgue or the hospital.” They were
found in the hospital, with bandaged heads, and were
promptly shifted to the lockup. “ Aha ! ” Jumeel cried
again, as a weedy youth strolled in. “ You wanta fish-
and-chip? You gotta money'?”—and he glared at the
wood-pile. The youth paid, “ How much of the yarn is
true?” I asked the youth. “Lawd knows,” he said,
“ but the blokes was in court all right with their ’eads in
towels. You pretty good fighter, Jumeel?” “By
Jimma!” said Jumeel; “what about Beel Squires?
What ? Aha !" Hamud Hud’s sound eye glittered.
* * * *
A casual Australian has struck a series of
casualties through being too casual. June 4th,
last year, saw him at a darnce at “ Cion,” other-
wise Clontarf, where he met a “skirt.” The ac-
quaintance progressed so rapidly that on June 9
they were married. The lady said she was 21 and
refused to have her father present at the ceremony
on the ground that he was a drunken brute.
Undeterred, the bridegroom accepted thesituation.
Things went on for a few months, and then he
fell ill and lay for four weeks in hospital. On
his discharge he found his consort had not re-
mained faithful, and his married life ended there.
Now he lies under committal, an infuriated mrent,
who doesn’t drink as alleged, having chargea him
with abduction on the ground that his five days’
acquaintance of a year ago was under 16 when he
married her and not quite 17 when he lost her.
However the case goes, the casual youth is likely
to eat a peck of dirt and trouble before his domes-
tic arrangements are straightened out.
* « * *
Even at Christchurch (M.L.) the truth
slips out sometimes. Recently a badly-spelled
pork-butcher’s sign read—
FRESH PORK SAUSAGES.
OUR OWN MOKE,
DRIFTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There is a tendency on the part of our younger
members to drift away. ...We are not going to stop
the drift by copying the examples set by the Church of
England and the Presbyterian Church... . We are
losing our most earnest and spiritual-minded people.
The Baptist Church and the Church of Christ are
becoming enriched by those. If it is worth while to
stop one drift, we ought to try and stop the other.
—Victorian Methodist parsons, debating a resolution in
condemnation of dancing.
The lugubrious Methody parsons are in a dilemma ;
They are stuck on its horns in a manner that’s very dis-
couraging,
For the Washington Post and the Polka, that don’t seem
to them a
Domain where the De’il with his pitchfork goes busily
foraging,
Are cursed and accused and condemned with most wrath-
ful correction
By the smug, sanctimonious adherents—who help the
collection.
There are holes in the Church—there are two, with a
leakage alarming
(Yea, how vast is the leak on each side the collection
plate witnesses);
Some dance into heretic folds with a grace that is
charming,
But appals those who know what becoming decorum and
fitness is;
While others, grim, gaunt, and morose—the religiousest,
raptest—
Take their daughters (and dollars) away to be grabbed by
a Baptist.
No wonder the Methodies falter in sad indecision !
Will they let dancing devils come in ? Can they swallow
Terpsichore ?
(Sweet pagan, dishevelled and fair!) Can they risk a
collision
With the Hard-shells who frown on the dance—tough as
nails, hard as hickory ?
Whichever they choose, the collections are frightfully
mangled ;
Were Methodists ever so cruelly, hopelessly tangled?
VIC.
L.
THE L.M.S. SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Do you know of your own knowledge of acts of im-
morality on the part of these native teachers ?—I have
already laid information against certain native missionary
teachers of the London Missionary Society. These men
went to different villages and stole three women, two
single and one ,iii&rried.” —Evidence of W. E. J.
Buchanan before the Royal Commission on British
Papua.
Traders are we, and pander
To the brown ones of the Lord !
We, the lights of the L.M.S.,
With our tons of copra stored.
Out from cold Britain we hasten
To the land of palm and vine ;
And our native preachers chasten
With the kiss of the concubine.
Not for us, English missions—
Where the beasts of the back streets die ;
We care not to save the Innott,
Under his Polar sky.
Proud hall and house of cedar,
By a white beach near the Line ;
And the suh on the cay and the coral,
By the grove of the concubine.
Not for us, York or Poplar—
Unpicturesque places these ;
Our souls lust for the Tropics—
For the lazy, susurrant seas ;
For the jungles of flame and perfume,
For the scented nights benign ;
And we chasten our native teachers
With the prisoned, brown Sabine.
Not for US, Slums of London,
Where the white beasts rot and die ;
Christians are we of prudence,
And we haste to a warmer sky.
With nasal psalm and psalter,
We seek for a heavenly sign—
And the Lord to our native teachers,
Gives the ravished concubine !
Q.
MARTIN LUTHER.


ft
Every Man Ought
to Have One. X* X 5
A♦ ♦ ♦
Dress
Jacket
THERE are few men to whom one of
these Jackets is not a necessity. If
you are going to a card party—a dinner-
club —dance, etc., this Dress Jacket is just
the garment. It is comfortable—semi-
dress, and always in good taste.
Made of fine Dress Twill with Silk Roll
Collar and Facings—ready for service.
COAT ONLY, 42/-; COAT and VEST, 50/-;
TROUSERS, 18/6; FULL SUIT, 68/6.
PEAPES and CO,, Ltd., OUTFITTERS,.. .
309-311 George Street, Sydney*
“ C. 8.” : I must emphatically protest
against following statement in B. (7/3/’G7): —
Sprawling, busy, unkempt, bone-mill-haunted Foots-
cray, in Victoria, where they are always boiling down
something aged and horrible.
Whoever wrote that has never been in Footscray.
At present it is the most go-ahead centre about
the Vic. metropolis. In it are factories of all
kinds, with the exception of—let it not be for-
gotten—bone mills. There are such establishments
on the eastern side of the Saltwater River, but that
is not Footscray, it is the city of Melbourne. No
one will deny that Footscray is “ busy,” but I defy
any one to prove it is “ unkempt ” or “ sprawl-
ing.” Its streets are well drained. Beside the
sewer channels, there is a big underground drain
traversing the city—it is a city—from the western
to the Astern boundary. The thoroughfares
are even, and more than fairly passable.
Certainly, there are artificial manure fac-
tories in the place (superphosphate works),
but there is as much difference between
superphosphate and bone-dust as there is
between The Bulletin and the S.M. Herald.
Footscray possesses more industrial wealth
than an y other municipality in the State—Mel-
bourne, of course, excepted. It has three papers,
four banks, four State and several denominational
schools (including two colleges and a Girls’ High
School), five railway stations, a mechanics’ insti-
tute and a citizens’ club, a benevolent asylum (in
which there are no inmates), two cricket grounds,
a number of public gardens, dozens of churches,
37 pubs, six business thoroughfares, a work-
men’s settlement, and no unemployed. Politically
it is equally progressive. John Hancock was its
member till he died. His successor was Sam
Mauger, who represents part of the place now
in the Australian Parliament; Jim Mathews,
Labor M.P., looks after the remainder. Foots-
cray rejected John Madden. When Geo. Reid
came to Footscray the people yawned at his jokes,
and he vowed never to visit the place again. On
second thoughts, I believe it was Greid, or one of
his bottle-holders, who wrote the statement com-
plained of.
* • * *
“ Hamer ” : Young Australia knows a few
things, and his inventions are many. An after-
school crowd, near my window, decided to play
“marriages,” and picked upon a resentful
10-year-old as principal male performer. He
raised loud objections, but his sister, who
had suggested the game, shut him up with
all the authority of a mother-in-law.
His objections, however, seemed
to give her a brilliant idea, and she
announced that it was to be a
“forced marriage.” She appointed
the second biggest girl as the re-
sentful ’groom’s mother, and asked
her, with vigor—“Now, missus,
what’s your son going to do about
my daughter?” The daughter,
who might have been four years
old, seemed to enjoy the game, and
when the resentful ’groom was duly
married, she was much the more
willing of the pair for the kiss which
the girls announced was necessary
to complete the ceremony. Finally,
when the happy man was told to
march off arm-in-arm with his bride,
he broke into rebellion and com-
mitted a violent and unprovoked
assault upon his wife. That pro-
bably suggested an arrest and a
trial; but my tea-bell rang.
Judging by the tale Evelyn Bradford told
the judge and jury at Sydney Central Criminal
Court last week, the killing of her husband,
Edwin Bradford, which took place on the morning
of December 3, last year, in the dismal suburb of
Suiry Hills, was a positive boon to the com-
munity. It seems that before her marriage
Evelyn had belonged to what is known as the
oldest profession on earth—the others were only
trades. Edwin came along and took her out of it.
After the first blush of love’s young dream had
worn off, Edwin proposed that she should return
to the profession, as she could thereby make more
money in one week than he could acquire by hard
toil in a month. Which showed that Edwin was
not a first-class worker at any time. She declined,
and Edwin seems to have resorted to moral
suasion and boot arguments. Whenever the un-
fortunate woman failed to supply him with the
things he considered necessary to a gentleman
who lived on his wife’s degradation, Edwin seems
toha vesuspected her of leanings towards virtue and
a cleaner fife, and then he resorted to hoof demon-
strations and the waving of a knife. One of his
playful tricks was—according to her story, which
was partly corroborated and totally uncontradicted
—to hold his asset down on the sofa by the neck,
and see how close he could go to cutting her throat
without actually doing it. The night of the row
he was. performing anew variation of that trick,
and she wrenched the knife from his hand and
slashed wildly to save herself from being choked.
Her aim was good, and E. Bradford sank down
and died in the most appropriate place—the
gutter. A jury decided that his widow was not
guilty of murder, but convicted her of manslaughter,
anti strongly recommended her to mercy on
account of the hideous treatment she had received.
And the Judge sentenced her to two years on the
ground, mainly, that that would give her time to
get away from the traditions of her old life. Pos-
sibly that was cornmon-sense, but for killing E.
Bradford the woman doesn’t deserve a minute’s
gaol. It should have been called justifiable
homicide.
* * * *
1 No external application is equal to Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm for sore muscles or swollen
joints.*
“ J.” (from Melbourne): So many people
are looking tenderly after our morals and our
conduct nowadays ! The other day a Melbourne
City Councillor (one Davey) spoke of the Eastern
Market, saying: “I object to the shooting gal-
leries, to the bowling saloons, and to the class of
people attracted to the market by these games.”
Scenting a paragraph, I sought Bill, who runs a
rifle-gallery in that palace of amusement in
Bourke and Exhibition streets. I told Bill what
Davey had said. Bill would not grant an
interview ; he was too choky and spluttery ; and
all that he could say was—“ Lor-blimy ! ” He
repeated it like this : “ Lo-o-or-BLiMY !” Later
in the week it was my misfortune to listen to
Judkins. I came out, endeavoring to tell the
atmosphere what I thought of that pestilential
microbe. And all that my hoarse throat could
rattle was—“Lor-BLIMY!” Even now I can do
no better than that. I enclose Is. in stamps as
the first subscription to a Lorblimy Society. Let
us all say it —loud. Let us vote for no Parlia-
mentary candidate who will not incorporate Lor-
blimy in his platform. I feel that under a Lor-
blimy Administration this stricken community
might be happy and at peace once more.
* * * *
“C.M.G.”: Don’t imagine all the long,
diversified jobs are in the hands of the cocky’s
employes. Sometimes the town rouseabout has a
lingering day’s work that is full of variety. I’ve
heard the complaint of a young German who took
a billet as attendant on the two fat ponies of a
local celebrity some time back, and found the
position embraced a large range of duties, includ-
ing gardening, boot cleaning, washing-up, knife-
polishing, and window-cleaning. He was also
dog escort, tile-scrubber, chimney sweep, wood-
cutter. valet, potato-peeler, general messenger,
and nurse. In his capacity as nurse he had to
attend to a bed-ridden grandfather, and occasion-
ally mind an infant. He was even called upi nto
assist with the washing and work the mangle, and
when there was nothing else in particular for him
to do ne was put to the task of teazing old woollen
material to make flock mattresses for the servant’s
bed. His duties kept him going from daylight to
midnight, and the wages were 9s. a week and
keep. The German held his billet for five weeks,
and then the mistress sent for him to bite the
tails off three fox-terrier puppies. The German
was willing to cut the tails off with an axe, but
apparently there is some virtue in biting, and
when Hans obstinately refused this office he was
told he had prejudices superior to his position in
life, and was sent packing.
WHAT DO YOU THINK l
“I often think she thinks you think it.”
“ Yes, and I think she thinks I think you think
I think it.”
“ Flinderino ” writes :
Sydney’s fleet of small sailing craft has considerably
diminished of late years. Thirty years ago the ketch and
small schooner had the bulk of the coastal trade to them-
selves, but they have had to make way for the steamer.
The “mosquito” fleet of the seventies included some
nicely-named boats. Here are a few: —Dairymaid,
Settler’s Friend, Maid of Australia, Peterborough Lass,
Uncle Tom, Drover, Wallaby, Native Lass, Schoolboy,
Village Maid, Shamrock, Rose and Thistle, Peacock,
Peahen, Star of the East, Little Pet, Au Revoir, Lady of
the Lake, Maid of Erin, and Polly Hopkins ; also Terngal
Jack, Go-a-head, and Root-Hog-or-Die. Three, at least, of
the above-mentioned craft are still in service, namely :
the Settler’s Friend, built on the Clarence River in 1866 ;
the Uncle Tom, built at Hobart in 1853 ; and the Lady of
the Lake, built at Melbourne in 1864.
* * * *
“N.L.”: My humane friend Adamantios
Krabopolous was greatly aggrieved at the b. M.
Herald’s notion that the lobster of commerce is
boiled to death (noted in Bulletin 7/3/’O7).
xjgh !” said Ad., etc. “Then we feesh-vendors
all are guilty of cruelty ? It is not so. We treat
the lobster tenderly—place him carefully in the
fresh water he is not used to, which drown him.
But not in a hurry. Oh ! no. Sometimes it take
an hour. Then, when he is nice an’ steef, d r ectly
after dyin’, we plunge him in water at boil,
an’ his tail, which has already curl. up, become
tightly f eex in the way so esteem of your Herald.
Would they have us so unmerciful as boil him to
death before he have time to say his .prayers?
Never, surely. Besides, if placed alive in. boilin
water he kick so mooch that he dislocate his limb,
an’ people like not the lobster that is so.
***...■*’
No one who takes Angler’s Emulsion will
ever complain of the taste. It looks and tastes
like cream and is certainly the most palatable of
all emulsions. There is nothing equal to it for
coughs, bronchitis and all lung affections. In
three sizes, of all chemists,*
BABIES ARE OFF.
A Melbourne fancy goods warehouseman tells a local
reporter that dolls are not in much demand nowadays.
Is this effect of “the empty cradle”?
MAMMA: “Do you think Katie would like a doll
for her birthday, Mona, dear? ”
MONA: “ Oh, no, mamma. You know smart
little girls never have them now.”
“Snell”: The Bulletin printed, the
other day, a set of verses on “Man,” presumably
by a woman, in which the nobler animal was
derided with a fine affectation of scorn for his
ignorance of the softer sex, and the ease with
which the simple little maiden of to-day pulls his
wretched leg. That is all true in a measure.
There is nothing more easily deluded than man
(except woman), and there is nothing readier
with delusion than woman (bar man). My com-
plaint is this : Here is one of the she-sex setting
out to tell us how woman monkeys man, and we
prick our long ears, and sit up, expecting an
insight into those profundities which, we are
told, make woman an eternal sphynx. And what
do we get ? Nothing (alas!) but the bald accusa-
tions that man has been hurling at his spare rib
since the dawn of Adam, backed with a cheerful,
cheeky assumption to the effect that the male
person is all ass from ears to heels not to have seen
these things for himself. The fact is man, ass
though he is, is rarely so big an ass as woman
thinks him, and in ninety cases out of a hundred
the woman who bamboozles us is bamboozled her-
self in thinking we don’t know we’re bamboozled.
Illusions, delusions, deceit, gammon, and prevari-
cation, they are all part of the game, and the
average man knows it, though he does not always
consider it policy to tell the lady, when she says
she loves him, that she ought to be prosecuted for
seeking to obtain matrimony under false pre-
tences.
* * * *
“The great material prosperity of Vic-
toria ” is said to account for the fact that last
year the marriage census was the highest for
16 years
The Sydney District Court Bible is still
struggling to clear itself from the aspersion of
having been licked by a small dog that a lady
witness was carrying under her arm. The accusa-
tion struck it two weeks ago, and the volume has
been vindicating its character ever since. And
still witnesses look askance at it, and smell it
anxiously for traces of dog. By the way, when
the Bible Was first introduced into courts as a
means of attestation, it was not kissed ; the wit-
ness merely placed his hand on the cross on the
Book’s cover. That was the form of oath-taking
from the sixth to the sixteenth century in Britain.
Kissing the Book was adopted at the Reformation
time, partly as a protest against what was regarded
as the old Papist system. But the microbe hadn’t
been invented then, and in an undrained century
like that a bag of germs, more or less, hardly
mattered.
‘ ‘ Give over that
row,” growled the
Sydney pauper
patient, turning a
withered hook nose
to a neighboring bed,
where a whining
derelict moaned corn-
pi aint. “You're
treated as a king
compared with how
it used to be long
ago. I lay under this
very roof fifty years
gone by, and I
wouldn’t doubt but
it’s the same bed, or
anyway it’s in the
same place. Me and
my father wor took
in a fire and put
in here for
serious dam-
ages the ole
ma n petered
out, and I saw
him carried out
of the bed ye’re
in leastways,
it wor in the
same spot.
Nurse shifts the
screen near ye,
and ye whine !
Why, man, in
them old times
the coffin-
makers used to
come in and
measure us days
afore we pegged,
allowing an inch
and a half for
the stretch. And
usedn’t they go mad
when one of us gob better !
Regular I’d be woke up by the cry, ‘Who’s
going? Got any dead or dying forme? And
well I remember a pasty-faced undertaker
who never passed without hitting me on the
ear because I wor holding out. I know our nurse
isn’t all she should be, but, man, if ye wor here as
I wor, fifty year ago, ye’d know the difference.
Now, ye’re let die peaceful, and if ye don’t like
to see her shifting the screen over to ye, and
making the death-bed ready so’s to have her work
well forward, all ye need do is to shut yer eyes.
* » * *
“ Bow ” tells this yarn
“The garden was dried up, full of grass-seeds —and
regrets!” she hissed into my ear as the train rumbled
suburban-wards ; “ and Lottie, whom I had not seen for
years, said she would like to go to the beach. We went
down about nine ; there was not a soul about, nothing
but a stray dog, and a heap of old wreckage. Lottie and
I talked and talked. We spoke of things there in the
dark that we would never have mentioned in the lamp-
light. She told me all about her last engagement, and
what a brute he was ; and she described all her trousseau,
every bit of it! She told me the plot of her last story,
and what the fiend of an editor had said about it,
and how she had a chance to get on at the pan-
tomime if her legs got fatter. And, of course,
she told me not to breathe, but it was quite
true, the new maid they got had been a house-
maid at the hotel. She said she could swear to her.
And she wore a thick veil every time they went out. We
simply howled over it. She used to g'o to school with his
wife. We talked for a long time after that. There was
not a soul to hear, we thought. And then what do you
think happened ? The wreckage sat up and struck a
match. It was a man, and he had heard every word we
said. Next time I want to have a real heart-to-heart
talk I will retire to the pantry under the stairs, and put
a ‘ Back in 15 years ’ notice on the door. No more beach ‘
confidences in the dark for this infant.”
* * * *
A Geelong (Vic.) undertaker advertises
that he has a patent for lowering coffins into the
grave. The new device does away with the old
system of lowering by hand, whereby the
deceased sometimes cocked up at one end, and it
can be regulated to any speed required. But
surely, when the departed has a mere 7ft. to go,
and only intends to do the trip once, the question
of speed hardly enters into the case ? Even if the
deceased was rich, and the mourners want to get
back to read the will, they can make up on the
return journey any time lost in the lowering of
their friend It is just a question of making the-
horses gallop like Sheol, and only allowing the
mourning coach to hit the ground once every two-
fathoms or so.
* * • *
This is the moral attached to the recent
disappearance of a Sydney official. If your cash
is very short, and your books are one long fake,
stick to your billet. Don’t be beguiled away by
the offer of another billet at a much better salary.
Stay on like glue, and keep your eye on the cash
that is short and the fake that is long. It is like
having a corpse buried in your yard. While the
yard is your yard, it doesn’t matter so much, but
if you remove and the yard becomes somebody
else’s yard, you can’t tell what may happen.
Many a man has had to refuse promotion worth
£500 a year because he had done a steal worth
£400 in all, and couldn’t afford to have a new
man fooling round with the skeleton buried in the
back-yard of his ledger ; but these chances are all
in the game.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
“CONSCIENTIOUS SCRUPLES ’’—One View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne telephone authorities have great diffi-
culty in maintaining a Sunday service, due to the con-
scientious scruples of the female employees.
The lass who works the telephone
Has got a Johnnie of her own,
And on the Sunday afternoon
She sallies for a furtive spoon
Where ti-tree blooms and wavelets play,
Down Sandringham or Brighton way ;
And she secures a weekly show
To flirt and frivol with her beau
Through conscientious scruples—O !
The bosses daren’t scorn the belle’s
Sincere religious principles.
While others work the sounding wire,
She’s pictured singing in the choir ;
But gaily dressed and puffed with pride
She revels in a hansom ride.
Toil on the Sabhath ? Oh, dear, no !
The office due respect must show
For conscientious scruples—O !
vie.
S.
If marriages in Heaven are made,
Will pastors tell in language meet
How ’tis the weddings are delayed
By failing yields of wool and wheat ?
Since good crops cause the men to wed,
And weddings drop when there’s a dearth,
’Twould seem to be more fairly said
That marriages are made in earth.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
BruntoiTs Scotch Rope Hayward-s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’o English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank op Tasmania :
Dividends Writ- To
and Divi- ten Re- Re-
Profits. dend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Auy:., 1901..£13,497 8 p.c. =£5943 £5OOO £2554 £105,118
i|eb., 1902.. 8,040 8„ ~ 5943 2697 107,815
Aug., 1902.. 8,906 8„ „ 5943 2963 110,778
* eb -> Inno" 8,788 8 »> »» 6943 ~ 2845 313,623
1993 • 12,63110 „ „ 7428 5203 118,826
leb., 1904.. 11,646 10 „ „ 7428 —421 S
U K-, 904.. 12,635 10 „ „ 7428 5207 128,251
* eb - 12.791 30 „ „ 7428 - 5303 133,614
Aug-.,.1905.. 11,532 12 ~ „ 8914 2618 136,232
~ , „ Premiums on New Shares.. 8508 144*740
1906.. 11,298 12 p.c. = 9450 971 577 145 617
13 ’ 811 12 .. .. 9450 1000 3361 148:978
l'eb., 1907.. 14,564 12 „ „ 9450 2000 3114 152,092
This is a remarkably fine result; only, in considering the
size of the dividend, it has to be remembered that the
reserves now exceed the capital. Yet even on the basis
01 capital and reserves combined the return is among the
best; on that basis the profit shows up as follows:
Aug., 1903 ..£9 18 0 p.c. Aug., 1905 ..£8 7 7 pc
Feb., 1904 .. 818 11, ~ Feb., 1906 . 71710 P
Aug., 1904 .. 911 0 „ Aug., 1906 .. 9 6 0 ”
l'eb., 1905 ..9 9 8,, Feb., 1907 .. 914 10
The-remarkable spring of the past 18 months is no doubt
due to—O) the high price of money in Europe, which
has resulted m very high exchange rates, Australian
banks having ceased to quarrel on that point ; (2) high
metal values, which have given Tasmanian mining fields
a boom ; (3) in a very small degree, the increase of settle-
ment, owing a little to the cutting up of estates, but far
more to the high prices of products. In short, Tasmania
las practically had nothing to do with the improvement •
its legislation has had nothing at all to do with it. The
improvement has taken place, in fact, in spite of local
disabilities. Some further particulars:—
, T Feb., ’O6. Feb., 'O7.
Notes and Bills .. £55,825 £55,967 Inc. £149
Deposits .. 1,591,553 1,606,661 Inc., 15,108
Liquid Assets .. 716,265 587,509 Dec., 128 756
Advances.. .. 1,206,180 1,350,334 Inc., 144’154
Premises .. . ... 30,971 38,326 Inc.| 7,355
The increase in the advances may come out all right • all
ttie same, advances if made on the basis of present high
prices are risky. Of course the bank may save itself by
demanding large margins ; it has yet to be seen whether
it has done so or not. For the present, certainly every-
thing in the garden looks lovely. But, as the liquid
resources only represent 35 per cent, of the liabilities to
the public, any further large expansion of the advances
is not desirable under present conditions.
* * » *
A g Tte:-Mutual Life Association of Austral-
Added
„ . Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses, off. Fund
1896 ~ £197,722 £97,286 £41,912 £10,530 £47 994
1897 .. 208,576 102,635 41,676 9,832 54’433
1898 .. 216,197 100,088 42,502 6196 67 411
1899 .. 233,525 83,348 44,117 4,301 101'759
1900 .. 244,076 111,442 50,183 4,202 78 249
1901 .. 268,334 112,552 53,571 6,130 96 081
1902 . . 287,399 123,926 56,026 2 200 105*947
1903 .. 322,329 133,102 57,508 2,059 129*660
1904 . . 308,581 145,012 61,661 1 733 100 175
1905 .. 314,649 159,843 62,200 2,005 90*601
1906 .. 332,672 164,199 60,069 1,796 106^608
This highly respectable old office, which is generally sup-
posed to have rather too many cobwebs about it has
4b “ s in the matter of income got back to where it was in
1903. That certainly isn’t saying much ; but it has at
least the consolation of knowing that, if a good deal of
the slump came through a tactical blunder it
was honest to the end and didn’t attempt to dis-
guise what it had done. In short, when it assumed
a lower rate of interest in valuing its reserves, the policy-
holders found that their bonuses had shrunk instead of
grown for the last period. That was startling ; a lot of
people assumed that the office had been losing its monev
somewhere. As a matter of fact, it doesn’t affect the
real interest earnings whether an office assumes that it
wiH earn 2| per cent, or 5 per cent. Except in this way-
that the office which assumes that it is going to earn 5
per cent, will pay away more in bonuses, and so weaken
the bonus-earning value of the office for those that con
tinue to be members. What the M.L. A. really did was to"
strengthen its position, but it did it in a way that was
capable of being badly misunderstood. Still, it looks as
though that trouble were over now.
Tlig M.L.A. s expense rate has been too high
yearS * bUt iC has , been Readily improving of
; Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1897 ..£l9 19 7 percent. 1902 ..£l9 9 10 per cent
1898 .. 19 13 2 „ 1903 .. 17 16 0
1899 .. 18 17 10 „ 1904 .. 19 19 7 ”
1900 .. 20 11 2 „ 1905 .. 19 15 4 ”
1901 ... 19 19 3 „ 1906 .. 18 1 1 ”
But the improvement has really been better than that
shows, because the proportion of new business has been
increasing, and new business costs the money On this
basis, this society shows up fairly well among the offices
in what may be called the second class. Assuming that
renewal premiums cost 7 per cent, of their total to
collect, and annuities 3 per cent, of the consideration
money, and assuming that the balance of the expenses is
the cost of the new business, then the new business cost
159 4 per cent, of tlfe first year’s premiums. This
looks (and is) heavy ; yet, on the same basis, the new
business of the Maoriland State Life Department cost
201 per cent, in 1905, and of the Widows’ Fund 193 per cent
last year. (These offices are somewhere about the same
size as the M.L.A.) In 1896 the M.L-.A.’s own new
business rate On this basis was no legs than 216-2 per
cent., and in 1905 it was 180-7 per cent., exclusive of the
expenses Of the quinquennial investigation made in the
previous 12 months. But though this shows a very sub-
stantial improvement, 159 per cent, is still too much.
Even the City Mutual, which hasn’t the prestige of the
M.L A.-, shows a rate of only 123-6 per cent, on this basis.
On the other hand, the M.L.A. holds a larger proportion
of the business it gets than most offices. Yet even its
lapse rate is far too heavy. The money Australians waste
through paying one or two years’ premiums and then
dropping the policies is appalling.
The society’s interest earnings are a shade under
t i l A Au^ raban average ’ wbich ma y b e taken to be about
A. 4 ys. dci :
Interest Earned on Mean Funds
m 11 Per ° ent - ’• £i 7 4 Per cent.
1898 .. 4 14 11 „ 1903 ..470
1899 .. 410 0 „ 1904 .. 4 7 1 ”
1900 ..4 9 0 „ 1905 4 7 2 ”
1901 ..4 8 9 „ 1906 ..475
Certainly, good interest is never to be despised (when
you are looking at the matter from this point of view
anyway); but the first consideration as to life insurance
funds is safety. Hence the great and growing* regard for
comparatively low interest-bearing public securities as
life-assurance assets. But, unfortunately, this societv’s
comparatively low earnings do not arise from large in-
vestments of this sort. Here is the proportionate
distribution of the assets in this and one or two other
societies:—
r> 1,1 - - . A.M.P. M.L. State.
Public securities.. 23'9 26-6 20-9
Mortgages.. ... 49-5 43-5 54-3
Freeholds .. .. 15-9 4-7 g.j
Policy loans .. B'6 20‘5 17-3
Cash, &c 2-1 4-7 4-4
The M.L. A.’s freeholds represent too much. Perhaps they
are of some extra value for advertising purposes ; but the
public associates big insurance buildings with American
methods these times, and Amei-ican insurance methods
are wearing crape for the present.
Ihe Emu Bay Railway Co.—railway in Tas-
mania, office and most of the shares in Melbourne, de-
bentures in London and elsewhere, prospects largely in
oheol:
Pre- Deficit
Ord. Debenture Loss liminary (Goodwill
and Capital on and Items not
Pref. and Accrued Busi- Debenture Beckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. ness. Expenses. Assets).
1598.. £263,061 . £1395 £104,404
1899.. 298,410 £106,150 5078 £39,055 148,537
1900.. 337,172 200,000 9181 61 157,779
1901.. 360,000 205,234 8078 165,857
1902.. 360,000 : 205,039 4255 170,112
1903.. 360,000 210,052 4881 174,993
1904.. 360,000 214,866 4703 179,696
Profit.
1905.. 360,000 214,668 3828 175,868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9191 166,677
Of the £360,000 of share capital £lOO,OOO is 8 per cent,
preference, of which 4 per cent, is cumulative, and, no
dividend having j'et been paid on this, £27,207 is
now outstanding. But ahead of even the preference
capital are two creditors—(l) The Emu Bay and
Mt. Bischoff Bailway Co., from which this co.
rents part of its line, and to which it has under-
taken to pay £10,370 a year ; (2) debentures representing
£200,000. At the end of 1904 the position was so hopeless-
looking that ordinary £1 shares stood at Is. 3d. and pre-
ference (also £1 paid) at 2s. 6d. During 1905 two im-
provements occurred: one in ordinary business, the
other in the relations with the E.B. and Mt. B. B. Co.
and the debenture-holders. Under the new terms
made with these people it was agreed (1) That the co.
should pay the first £7500 of revenue in excess of working
expenses to the E.B. and Mt. B. B. Co. ; (2) that the
next £7500 should go to the debenture-holders for
interest; (3) any surplus remaining should be paid to
these two until their claims are satisfied, any shortage to
be made good by the issue of debentures. This re-
arrangement held off the debenture-holders, and by the
end of 1905 ordinary shares had recovered to 3s. and
preference to Bs. During last year, when a further
improvement in business was reported, there was a
considerable demand for the shares, and ordinaries passed
ss. and pref. 13s. 6d.
People who paid these prices took a remarkably
optimistic view of things. Last year’s profit was certainly
£9191, after paying full interest and rent, and setting
aside £3291 for “ depreciation and provision of rolling
stock.” But ahead of the ordinary capital, at anv rate,
stands the £27,207 of unpaid pref. dividends, £5000” of de-
ferred interest and rent, the pref. shareholders’ right to
£BOOO a year, and £36,125 of preliminary expenses, which
the directors are gradually paying off out of revenue.
There is also an accumulated profit and loss deficit of
£30,552, apart from the accumulated rights of preference
shareholders. On the other hand, the traffic figures
unquestionably show a fine improvement:—
Available
for Bent, Proportion
, Interest, Expenses
Working Benewals, to
Earnings. Expenses. &c. Earnings.
1899 .. £24,548 £14,786 £9,762 60'2 percent.
1900 .. 26,625 17,475 9,150 65'7
.1901 .. 39,005 25,957 13,030 66 ; 6
1902 .. 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 ”
1903 .. 40,818 23,264 17,554 57
1904 .. 42,365 24,382 17,983 57'5
1905 .. 50,829 24,731 26,098 48'7
1906 .. 60,170 26,654 33,516 44-3
But the line serves what at present is mainly a mining
district, and the phenomenal prices of metals have pro-
duced the usual boom there. Something' in a small way
is being done by the V.D.L. Co. in cutting up land into
farms ; but there is little profit ahead of a railway co. in
that traffic, especially when the co. is loaded with very
heavy goodwill items. No doubt, as soon as it sees a safe
£4OOO a year ahead of it, theco. will start payingits pref.
holders the 4 per cent, for which they have cumulative
rights ; but it has a great deal of back trouble to get rid
of first, and the expenditure on the permanent way and
rolling stock is not likely to diminish with age either
so that the progress in shifting the back trouble is likely
to be slower than even the present figures suggest.
* * * *
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co. :
Writ-
T , „ Trade ten De-
July, Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. licit.
1904 .. - - _ £l9!
Jan Re '
oull t serves.
1905 .. £8,858 £2,782 50 p.c. = £2,816 £1715 1,354
Premium on new shares, £6094 .. 7 448
1906 .. 27,679 10,276 110 p.c. = 10,180 4000 10,671
Premium on new shares, £18,084 .. 28 755
1907 .. 32,325 12,051 76£ p.c. == 12,543 2347 34’139
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate
only. A dividend of 2s. per ss. share and a trade bonus
of 6s. per hogshead were distributed during the year-
now a dividend of Is. lOd. per share and a bonus of 6s’
per hogshead are to be split up, and what they mean
in the aggregate can only be estimated, though the total
amount of the dividend mentioned above should be
right. For the previous year the dividend was ss. 6d. per
ss. share; the total worked out at 78 per cent, for
the capital as it stood at the end of the year, but
the table shows the real return. Of course there
is the premium to consider: the ss. shares
issued during the year cost the shareholders 30s.
Yet even counting the premium capital in, the return is
close up to 13 p.c. The brewery business in Australia is
supposed to be in a bad way ; even the £lOO first mort-
gage debentures of at least one concern are selling down
to about £42. But these Co-operative figures throw a
new light on the matter ; they show what is still possible
when a brewing co. doesn’t have to buy business (there
is probably no sort of business conducted on more
absu.-dly extravagant and unbusiness-like principles than
breweries have been), and when it doesn’t have to carry a
great quantity of deadweight pub and goodwill on its
back. Further following this phenomenally successful
concern’s progress as at January 31st each year
, 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital £11,262 £13,815 £l7 842
Beserves .. .. 6,952 21,319 46 681
Debts (overdraft, &c.) 5,907 14,632 6’048
Buildings and plant .. 15,597 34,191 40’367
Book debts . . .. 6,783 11,396 16 431
Stocks .. .. 1,424 3,071 5!097
Cash, &c 317 1,108 5’676
From the cost of buildings and plant, £8039 has already
been written off for depreciation ; and an unknown
amount spent on repairs has been charged direct to
profit and loss. That looks very satisfactory. On the
other hand, book debts are mounting up ; the provision
for losses last year was £4ll. This item will need watch-
ing. Brewing pays ; pub-financing, as a rule, doesn’t—
it isn’t the right sort of pub that calls for help of the
kind. And, anyway, this is a brewing co.
* * * *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Syd.)
Net To Be- Be-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1901 £4305 \ Jjg- «P’ C ’f _ £27,726
Dec., 1901 8844 6 „ „ 6000 £2844 30 570
June, 1902 2147 Nil 2147 32*717
Dec., 1902 ;; ;; 3000 j _
June, 1903 6859 6 „ „ 6000 859 28 729
Dec., 1903 5516 6 „ „ 6000 28’245
June, 1904 7438 6„ „ 6000 1438 29683
Dec., 1904 5685 1 0,, ~ 1500 J m
June, 1905 6102 ] ££■ « » » g£j2
Dec., 1905 5879 6„’ ’’ 6000 30 849
June, 1906 5382 6 „ „ 6000 30291
Dec., 1906 9650 6„ „ 6000 3650 33,881
The bulk of the reserves consist of a reserve fund which
moves up and down without explanation, though the
movements have probably something to do with uncom-
pleted contracts. The profit and loss account takes no
heed of these movements, and shows these profits
June, 1902 .. .. £4410 Dec., 1904 .. .. £6169
Dee., 1902.. .. 2859 June, 1905 .. .. 5201
June, 1903.. .. 6392 Dec., 1905.. .. 5934
Dec., 1903.. .. 5971 June, 1906.. .. 6237
June, 1904.. .. 4868 Dec., 1906.. .. 8111
Whichever list you take, the half-year’s results have been
extra good ; to some extent that mav be on account of
the motor-launch department lately added to the works.
The extra money is handy, wherever it comes from ; still
it’s rather a mournful reflection that for its better profits
a co. with such facilities as this one possesses is probably
dependent upon the fitting-up of the little insects that
flit about the harbor. The amount taken out of revenue
to provide for depreciation isn’t mentioned ; it is, as
usual, merely mentioned chat provision has been made.
Capital is £200,000, of which £50,000 is preference ; and
£148,300 is owing on debentures. Until higher Protec-
tion arrives—along, perhaps, with a breed of better Aus-
tralians—ordinary shareholders must view this £198,300
of capital standing in front of them with some appre-
hension.
The Sydney Cyclorama Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1897 .. £589 Nil £44 £545 £4638*
1898 .. 291 Nil - 291 4929
1899 .. 175 Nil 175 5104
1900 .. 196 Nil 196 5300
1901.. 371 Nil - 371 5671
1902 .. 630 Nil 253 377 6048
1903 .. 388 Nil 388 6436
Loss.
1904 .. 57 Nil 6379
Profit.
1905 3 Nil 3 6382
1906 .. 209 Nil 5648 943
You never know your luck. Formed in 1888, this co.
started business about the middle of ISS9, paid half-a-
crown a share dividends within a month or two, and
another Is. in the first two months of 1890 ; and then not
another cent. The weary years crept on, and in 1902,
as there was clearly not another dividend in “ Jeru-
salem,” “The Battle of Gettysburg” was put on instead.
But there was no more lasting profit in blood than in
piety. Then came an offer from the Sydney Ice Skating
Rink and Cold Storage Co,, which eventually, towards
the end of last year, signed a lease for 20 years at £lOOO
a year, with £5OOO payable within-12 months as ingoing. -
Also the new co. had the right to buy the whole pro-
perty any time within five years for £25,000, including
the just-mentioned £5OOO. It is on account of the last
provision that the Cyclorama directors have written the
property down to £25,000, which meant writing- off £5648
(including £lOO commission). Wherefore the "directors
make the cheerful remark—“ It is proposed to pay divi-
dends half-yearly.” The £5OOO to. bo received will wipe
off the mortgage, and, after paying expenses, the £lOOO
a year will admit of a 4 per cent. div. with care ; while if
the sale option is exercised, with the little cash now’in
hand an even £1 per share should be available, after pav-
ing all expenses of liquidation.
* * * *
The Australasian Mutual Live Stock In-
sou, ance Co. (Melbourne)
Deficit
(Goodwill
Carried not
r D ~ „., , to reckoned
Dividends. Reserves, an asset).
1899 £471 Nil £471 ■ £1750
1900 492 Nil 492 1258
1901 519 Nil 519 f,;;; 739
.... —„ Reserves.
1902 758 Nil 758 19
1903 771 Nil 771 790
1904 839 Nil 839 1629
1905 908 20 per cent. = £686 222 1851
1906 1145 18 „ „ 686 469 2310 '
1907 1810 26f ~ „ 1283 527 2837
Half of the dividend is held back to increase the capital
and chat means extra security to the insurer ; moreover’
the co. deserves to have the - melted butter of approval
poured over it because, having bought a business it
“ passed ” a dividend for many years till it had removed
the paper asset of goodwill from; its books and provided
something substantial in the way of reserves. The in-
crease of business which this sort of thing merited has
arrived; —
„ . 1903. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Premiums £3719 £5519 .£7568 £7303
Interest, &c 151 201 250 299
Claims, &c 2332 3888 5635 4696
~ p.c. of premiums 62‘7 70 4 74'4 64‘3
Expenses 768 923 1037 1062
„ p.c. of premiums 207 167 137 14-5
In four years premiums have doubled. Yet the
foreign co. pursues Australian business with great ardor
even along this narrow byway of insurance, and catches
a good deal of it. Just what excuse the Australian makes
to his conscience for feeding the foreign co. that insures
his horse and his cow Heaven alone knows—he hasn’t
earthquake and the conflagration hazard to fall back upon
in this case, anyway. There are people who think it a
dreadful thing to “ scare ” capital out of the country, yet
regard it as quite the proper thing when they themselves
send it away in an envelope. This co.’s capital and re-
serves are represented by cash or bank deposits., so
there can’t be any doubt about its assets.
* * * *
The Perth Benefit, Building, Investment
and Loan Society (Westralia):—
Dividends Added
(exclusive of to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. interest). serves, serves.
1900 .. £1025 7£ per cent. = £lO4l £75
1901 .. 1273 7| „ „ list £92 167
1902 .. 1378 7\ „ „ 1487 - 58
1903 .. 1632 n „ „ 1569 63 121
1904 .. 1887 74 ~ „ 1636 251 372
1905 .. 2017 7f „ „ 1799 218 590
1906 .. 2177 10 „ „ 2375 392
The profit is really the amount available for bonus, after
paying 5 per cent, interest on capital; and the ’lo per
cent, is the bonus declared. But neither interest nor
bonus is paid out at once ; it goes on accumulating until
the share is fully paid. In all £B3 4s. paid in by instal-
ments, spread over eight years, has produced for the £lOO
shares which have matured during the past year
£l3B 3s. 9d. This is a result that makes one’s eyes blink.
What the borrowers pay can’t be told for certain from
the published accounts ; borrowers are called “advanced
shareholders,” and their interest is mixed up with their
repayments of principal. Apparently the matter stands
like this : “ Profit,” as above, £2177 ; plus £llB7 paid for
interest; plus £682 expenses; plus £6B interest, &c.—
total, £4114. The mesn of the advances was £40,820," so
the interest and fees appear to average £lO Is. 6d. per
cent. Whether £lO Is. 6d. per cent, is a fair thing for a
man to pay for assistance to build a house in Perth, The
Bulletin doesn’t know; if it is, then Perth must be a
shockingly precarious place, and What’s-his-name, the
State Premier (one can’t be expected to keep track of
Westralian State Premiers), ought to be ashamed of him-
self for borrowing more money to put into a State with a
capital like that.
The Warwick Butter and Dairying Co. (Q.) : —
Bonus
to Written De-
Loss. Dividend. Clients, off. licit.
Dec., 1902.. __ noon
June, 1903 .. £lOl Nil _ _ 40,,
Dec., 1903.. 161 Nil _ 59V
June, 1904 .. 112 Nil _ 703
Profit.
Dec., 1904 ... 506 Nil __ 497
Loss.
June, 1905 .. 433 Nil 339
Profit. Reserves
Dec., 1905.. 1610 8 p.c. = £99 £332 549
June, 1906.. 789 8,, „ 134 £546 491 167
Dec., 1906.. 1058 8„ „ 166 568 491
The co. made a trading profit of £569, and a profit of £489
out of the sale of property ; total £lO5B. It reconstructed
thV^fi« y K and re ' valued the asset, with the result that
the £568 shown above was written off. The factorv i».
anH Sfc K Uo^ lon leaves the co - with an overdraft of £Zm-
and, besides amounts owing for cream (reDresenlert «»'
the other side by amounts due from agents or butter in
has also trade creditors for £1042. As the paid
capital »s only £4145, the debt is too heavy and P the
at V the n 6 b6en k6Pt dOWD t 0 50r 6 P er cent -
AND M ° ONTA MINING AND
1902 ’ £29° 957 dividends. 6 ” B ems.
19nl £ «9’qoo ni N,l ‘ £24,973 £11,652
J™ 62,999 2J percent. = £B,OOO 22,469 44182
1905 51 «5a ft » » 8 - 000 20 > 760 15,940
1906 160 ” ” 8,000 20 ’ 646 38 - 648
UO6 160,122 25 „ „ 80,000 27,972 90,798
B « t “ ™ nn J“Br the eye down the profits column the
ettect ot the fire which occurred at the mine in 1904 has
to be remembered. The expenditure on this account is
shown here
Fire Profit and Fire Expen-
Expenditure. diture Combined.
1904 .. £78,368 .. £78,856
1905 .. 66,256 .. 117,610
1906 .. 15,453 .. 175,575
That shows approximately how things would have gone
but for the fire, though production was interfered with
in the early part—in other words, revenue was affected
as well as expenditure. The eo., by the way, pays 12J-
per cent. (ss; per share) for the first quarter of this year.
Wallaroo and Moonta costs, &c.:—
, . 1904. 1905. 1906.
Mining costs .. ..£4115 7 £42 16 8 £54 10 9
Smelting costs .. 13 18 5 17 6 8 16 15 10
Profit (smelting ore).. 4 510 11 18 9 17 7 2
Cementation costs .. 14 4 8 23 3 3 25 211
Cementation (salt water leaching) costs are exclusive of
smelting and shipping (£7 175.). Total costs, outside the
cementation department, were £72 11s. per ton as against
£6l 11s. per ton in 1905. But in considering those costs
two things have to be kept in mind—(l) wages are paid
on a sliding scale, which last year involved a bonus of 15
per cent., representing approximately £35,000 ; (2) this
eo.’s fine copper is worth usually' about £3 more than
■standard copper.
>«!• * * * *
Union Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd., has a
name longer than most of its ore shoots. One Charles
Hill, “ mining engineer,” reports on the shows, which
are the old Yudanamutanaand Umberatana mines (S.A.),
once held and worked by English companies. They' are
80 miles north-east of Lyndhurst railway station, on the
Port Augusta-Oodnadatta line. Hill (whose report is
peppered with statements like this: “ Mr. Greenwood
[the vcdor] informed me,” and “Mr. Greenwood assures
me ”) saw a lode 60 chains long and 150yds. wide, and
men bagging 20 per cent, ore therefrom. No. 6 lode is
100 ft. wide and 800yds. in length. “ Here there were
four men cracking and napping the formation on the sur-
face, and picking out the best ore preparatory to sending
it to smelters, and what they had bagged would yield
fully 20 per cent, copper. The surface of this hill was
like a new metalled road, with these men running over it
and breaking the ore up, 15 per cent, ore being left.
There are thousands of tons of ore here worth fully 6 per
cent, that would pay handsomely ; I may say hundreds
of thousands of tons, with the smelters close at hand.”
The facts as to all these Umberatana shows are soon
stated. The Daly is a big quartzite and kaolinised hill,
carrying thin, rich veins of malachite, azurite, and red
oxide—a stockwerk which would probably pay to con-
centrate. The Sir Dominic was worked for many years
by an English co., which drove a tunnel 140 ft. at
a point only 40ft. below the crown of the hill,
cutting a 60ft.-wide formation, yielding traces of copper.
At a lower point in the hill another tunnel was driven
150 ft. The Yudanamutana, the Wheal Frost, and Wheal
Gleeson are smaller shows than the Dominic or Daly, and
there is no wav of identifying- these with Hill’s report, as
he calls them No. 1, No. 2, and so on. The country west
of Yudanamutana and towards the Freeling Heights was
always worth prospecting, but certainly there is little in
the shows around Umberatana to justify Mr. Hill’s boom
report, which was apparently founded in the main on
the assurances of the interested Mr. Greenwood. The
shows are worthy of a prospecting co., but not of a great
capitalisation and a boom ; and the names of the people
connected with it look as if it were to be another news-
paper mine full of large lodes of skite.
» * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for February was
134,1930 z., making the production for this year
296,4310 z., against 296,7920 z. for the first two months of
1906, a shortage of 3610 z. Compared with 1905 the
shortage is 23,0540 z.
* * * *
The first quarter’s Westralian divs. for 1907 tot
up £435,813, against £504,051 for the first quarter of 1906, a
decline of £68,238. The main cause of this is the poor
showing of Great Fingall, Perseverance, and Gwalia. The
div. payers this year have been Oroya, £90,000 ; Kalgurli,
£75,000 ; Great Boulder, £65,625 ; Associated Northern,
£52,500 ; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Fingall, £37,500; Persever-
ance, £35,000 ; Hainault, £6500 ; Black Range, £5438;
and Cumberland, £2OOO.
To the end of last month Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie,
had produced 30 tons 18cwt. lqr. 131 b. of gold, avoirdu-
pois.
♦ * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) has started opening out at
1250 ft. The first 3ft. west was worth 84s. a ton; and
14ft. of driving maintains the same value. The general
average of the mine is about 605., so the lode at the
deepest point tried is better than,the average. Opening
out at 1350 ft. will be started immediately, as the plats
have been cut. The shaft has been temporarily stopped
at 1410 ft. Mine has five years’ ore in sight, and prospects
are so favorable that it looks the best investment in the
Westralian market. The net profit in sight, unless all
estimates of ore are wrong, is about 180 s. per share, or
nearly 80 per cent, of the current market quote. This
is a long way better than any other mine shows. The
next quarterly div. of 7s. 6d. a share is payable on Apiil6,
and will absorb £45,000. The co. is steadily earning 10s.
a quarter profit, so a year-end bonus is practically
assured. As a further thing in its favor, Manager Moss
calculates his ore values on realisable contents, and not
on assay cc-tents.
» * * ■
G. P. Doolette, the lucky Adelaide tailor who
got into the Westralian swim very early, has been re-
visiting the goldfields, and has been taking options whole-
sale. Latest to be announced is North Fingall, Day
Dawn ; his others are at Southern Cross, previously men-
tioned. Of all of them the North Fingall looks the most
hopeless. It was long-known as Creel ’s, and was once under
option to the Great Fingall, but was rejected. Unfor-
tunately the Fingall reef splits both north and south,
and, out of some 167 acres held by the big co., only 24
acres have been gold-yielding, And nothing payable has.
been found close around. North Fingall, Fingall Associ-
ated, West Fingall, East Fingall, Great Fingall South,
and Great Fingall Southern Blocks, not to mention Tren-
ton, Kinsella, and Murchison Associated, have all proved
failures after 12 years of testing and an enormous expen-
diture of rnone3' and energy. Doolette’s chance of
making a rise out of working the North is microscopical,
though he may, of course, make something out of sell-
ing it.
* * * «
Norseman district (W.A.), which has been
severely hampered by scarcity of water, and was
threatened with total collapse, has, like the rest of
the goldfields, had splendid rains, and there is enough
water in the dams to last for months. Tenders for the
first section of the railway are ta be called immediately;
and, as a result of this, many old mines are being re-
opened, and the output is bound to increase. The Mara-
roa mil! is crushing ore from development only, as no,
stoping is allowed during the option period, so no aver-
aging can be done. The erection of the 10-head mill on
the Lady Miller, now an offshoot of Hampton Plains
co., is to be pushed ahead ; and there is a possibility of
the mill on the Princess Royal being restarted if develop-
ments warrant it. Several small shows are being ex
ploited, and they may pay with improved facilities.
* • * *
Great Ophir, Da vyhurst (W.A.), is Still in trouble
financially, and the erection of the plant is conse-
quently at a standstill. Dentists Trott and Rodway, of
Adelaide, who extracted most of the money to finance
the show, are getting restive, and no wonder. There
appears to have been g-eneral muddle in connection with
the plant, and endless delays have occurred. This
lack of system may ultimately wreck the concern.
There is a big low-grade lode on the property, and,


if everything were properly managed, the mine would
probably pay; but as things have been done, an early
collapse was inevitaDle. There is enough ore in sight to
keep a mill going for months ; further, the oxidised ore is
very- soft and free milling, and costs would consequently
be very low. It is another case of wrecking a good, or
at least a fair, mine through sheer mismanagement.
* * * *
Red Hill (W.A.) has transferred its affections
and plant to the Higginsville district, half-way to Norse-
man, and has started operations there on the Sons of
Erin leases. A quartz reef on these leases has been
proved, at, a depth of 80ft., to be gold-bearing over a
length (with a few blanks) of over 2000 ft. ; and its width
is .from ]Bin. to 24in. The 2000 tons of stone crushed
from these leases by the vendors gave an average yield of
18£dwt. The-ore in reserve is estimated at 6000 tons.
The general average is estimated at Bdwt. to lOdwt., and
this grade of ore is expected to pay well, as at Red Hill,
though everything was unfavorable and dear, inclusive
costs only reached 18s. 9d. per ton. The vendors accept
15,000 shares in payment, and are to receive £6OOO in cash
out of the first profits. If there are no profits, there will
be no cash. It seems to be a good deal for the co., as it
has precious little to lose and everything to gain. Capital
of co. has been increased to 115,000 shares to carry the
business through.
* * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, must tell its tale
before long, as the erection of the plant cannot be much
further delayed. This plant is unique in its way. The
cyanide vats consist of a lot of old oorrugated iron tanks,
that will probably' leak, if not burst, when filled. Manager
Hocking professes to be quite satisfied with his mine and
its equipment, and is to “knock spots” off the scoffers
who deny' the existence of thousands of tons of 9dwt.
ore. Directors are evidently not too anxious to knock
the bottom out of the mine, and are not hurrying up.
Possibly they retain recollections of what happened to
Bonnie Charlie and other departed wild cats once the
fatal battery got a move on. It will soon be seen how
the Junction stands the test.
* * * •
The recent changes in connection with the Black
Range Co. (W.A.) are confusing. First there was the
Black Range Co.—Hans Irvine’s co., which isn’t the
Oroya-Black Range, though it’s a neighbor. This original
Black Range Co. was in 8000 .-hares. From June Ist to
August 31st —three months—it had a revenue of £19,011,
which cost £5462 to produce ; profit, £13,549. It then re-
constructed under the same name, but in 80,000 shares.
Of these 80,000 shares 5000 were issued for the Kohinoor
leases ; the purchase price included £BBOO cash. After
working these leases awhile, at a profit of £1765,
the Black Range Co. floated them off to the
Black Range Kohinoor Co., taking share for share
(72,500 Black Range shares have been issued, leaving
7500 in reserve). The Black Range Kohinoor Co. owed
the Black Range (December 31st) £lO,OOO. Between
September Ist and December 31st the new Black Range
Co. worked its own mine at a profit of £12,678; it got
£22,151 worth of gold at a mine cost of £9254 and an office
cost of £319 ; and in the next six weeks it got £6383 gold
at a mine cost of £3559 —profit, £2824. But the costs
included £595 spent on machinery. It is a good start.
The Kohinoor leases are about three miles from the Black
Range, on the other side of the Oroya-Black Range and
the Sandstone. The parent Black Range Co.’s immediate
future is bright; profits, with the new machinery, should
jump ; but the district reefs are erratic, and the man who
gets in at top prices is bound to wear a worried look
before he is finished.
-* # * *
Round about Black Range (W.A.) owners are
showing a disposition to sell out; under present condi-
tions they can only' get rich crushings spasmodically, and
they tire of that, and rich crushings have also a bad habit
of coming to a sudden end. Melbourne mining men have,
however, done well out of Black Range hitherto, and
another good-looking property', the Merlinga Marley, is
in a fair way to go to a Collins-street crowd. But the
public will have to watch Black Range closely', and not
take much for granted. Westralia, outside a few well-
proved deep mines, is so patchy that the game of work-
ing your own lease is about as reliable a source of income
as following the tips in a sporting paper. A crushing of
several hundred tons at Boogardie, two or three miles
from Mount Magnet, just put through the State battery,
gave the heart-breaking return of 2idwt., and another
show, onl.v a mile off, panned out 4oz. to the ton. Yet
the next crushings may' give just reverse results.
w * ft *
Block 14, Broken Hill, is improving its metal
recoveries, the present 64 per cent, of the lead and 43 per
cent, of the silver being slightly above the average for
the past six months. But the mine,is still depending
largely on its prolific carbonate bodies, which are appa-
rently a long way from being depleted, though no esti-
mate of them is feasible. It is pretty certain that, all
round, the ore reserves below the 200 ft. level will have
largely decreased at the end of the current six months,
as the 600 ft. development has now been proved beyond a
doubt woefully inadequate to balance extraction. Very
little ore has been found by development work carried on
above that level, and the continuation of the lode at the
700 ft. as yet exists only in the hopes of the shareholders.
As repeatedly pointed out, the mine figures never justi-
fied anything like the price to which the shares were
boosted.
* ft * '
It looks as though the Zinc Corporation can’t
see profits in the Potter process, which it has been trying
on the British ; for the two pans are now being used as
granulation vats—an awful indignity to put upon them—
and the Oattermole (or Ballot) process is being given a
show. Considering the tremendous boom with; which it
arrived, the Zinc Corporation is about the coldest frost
Broken Hill has struck up to date.
* « • *
Operations at the British, Broken Hill, now
cover a very' large area of ground. Although
the management failed to land its big fish at the
800 ft. level, several small catches at the other levels
have kept the basket pretty full. The development work
recently started in King shaft (which is on the Junction
lease, close against the British boundary), whence com-
munication has been made with the ore bodies underly-
ing into the British ground, forms the connecting link
between the main workings on Block 15 and Marsh shaft,
adjoining the Junction North. It is suspected that a
strong eastern vein traverses the stretch of country com-
prised between these two points. The British has already
tapped this between Blackwood and Howell sections, and
the Junction has also proved eastern ore shoots.
* * * *
Misfortune has persistently followed the Broken
Hill Junction since productive work was resumed.
Whether the mine or the management is responsible
cannot be satisfactorily determined ; there are opinions
both way's. But the bald fact remains that only once
this year has the mill been able to put through 1000 tons
of ore in one week. With the exception of that one
week, round which a halo is gradually adjusting itself,
every period has been marked by some misadventure or
“ I-wasn’t-ready " kind of episode; and the output, in
view of the quantity of ore exposed, has been very small.
* * * *
Cangai Coppermine (N. S. W.) has a unique record.
It has no place on the share-market; to half the mining
men in Sydney it is but a name—the other half don’t
know it at all. But it is employing several hundred men,
it has created a township, and is paying its five proprie-
tors handsome dividends. The most interested man of
the concern, a tailor at Grafton, is drawing £llOO a
month, and the others (among whom is Sam See) are doing
handsomely. The mine is situated on the upper reaches
of the Clarence, near the better-known Walter Scott, has
a good plant (all paid for out of the earnings of the mine),
has made its own roads and bridges, and employs no gilt-
edged officials. Moreover, it has several years’ work in
sight, provided metals keep at anything like a respectable
price.
* * * »
The finest surface show on Cloncurry (Q.), and
probably in Australia, is the Argylla freehold. An
enthusiast named Dr. James Robertson estimates ore in
sight to contain £8,000,000 worth of copper, but, as the
deepest hole is 6ft., the glowing optimist’s figures are
open to hilarious doubt. The Argylla outcrop is over
2000 ft. long by 50ft. wide—small holes have exposed
breasts of red oxide 3ft. and 4ft. wide, and a trench cut-
ting the lode for nearly all its width has exposed high-
grade ore in seams over all the length of the working.
The Argylla has been freeholded for 35 years or so, and
its undeveloped state is an answer to any man who wants
to abolish labor conditions on mines. Coats, the cotton
people, owned the Argylla, the Just in Time, Diagonals,
Rainbow, and Chinaman, and six other freeholds, includ-
ing the Dobbin and Crusader. The five first-mentioned
freeholds have been floated into a co. styled the Queens-
land Copper Freeholds, Ltd. The Argylla in itself is the
certainty of a great mine, if ever a certainty was con-
tained in a surface show, and the Q.0.F., Ltd., should buck
into shaft-sinking, and not talk of developing “at
leisure.”
* * * *
Queensland Exploration, Ltd., if it hurries,
should be the first produoer among Cloncurry mines,
seeing that its property will be the terminus of the railway.
The Freehold smelted an average of 23 p.c. ore for six
years, but transport blew it out. Present developments
really niean the making of a new mine, as old workings
practically collapsed. If co. has a good management
(of which there is no certainty) developments and
smelter construction should keep step with railway pro-
gress, and that would mean production in 1908. But the
secretary, Mr. C. Dunlop-Comrie (mind the hyphen), says :
“The co. enjoys the advantage that its freehold areas are
free from labor conditions, aiid can, therefore, be deve-
loped at leisure. ” * ‘ Leisurely development” wi th copper
at £lO9 !
* » * *
Queensland Exploration Co.’s freeholds are
good enough without examiner Stewart’s careless boom-
ing of the Lady leases. Says he: —“ One such enrich-
ment exposes almost pure red copper of 81 p.c. over a
width of 26ft., while a second shows carbonate ore of 39
p.c. over a width of 80ft.” Now, surely Mr. Stewart
doesn’t mean that there is 26ft. wide of 81 p.c. ore
and 80ft. wide of 39 p.c.? Yet plenty of people will
read it that way.
• 9 -» ft
During February 18,559 tons were crushed at
Gympie(Q.) for 93580 z., or a shade over lOdwt. per ton.
Dividends totalled £7658 and calls £2972. The chief
difference, when compared with February of last year, is
that calls are £2457 less. Chief producers were—Scottish
Gympie, 7800 tons for 23760 z., or 6dwt. 2gr. per ton
(average monthly return last year was 38000 z., so that
February shows a drop of 1400 oz.); No. 2 North Columbia
and Smithfield, 238 tons, 17730 z., or 7ioz. per ton ; No. 2
South Great Eastern, 5420 tons, 1361 oz., or sdwt. per ton ;
No. 1 N. Smithfield, 980 tons, 10520 z.; S. Glanmire and
Monkland, 1344 tons, 4220 z., or a shade over 6dwt. per
ton. Dividends were—No. 2 N. Columbia Smithfield,
2s. (£4800); No. 1 N. Smithfield, Is. (£2400); S.
Scottish and Oriental, 3d., from sale of machinery.
The decrease of 1400 oz. in the Scottish return and the
No. 2 S. Great Eastern’s return of only sdwt. per ton
make things look serious for the field. No. 2 S. Great
Eastern has hung up 20 of its 80-head of stampers, and
unless extensive and intelligent prospecting be carried
out the crushing power will have to be further reduced,
and, of course, further labor dispensed with. No. 2 N.
Columbia and Smithfield has picked up the slate country
north of the crosscourse. So far all its gold has come from
south of this crosscourse. S. Glanmire and Monkland is
having some patchy returns from the floors, which it is
prospecting 200 ft. below the main slate country.
* * * «
The resurrected Peak Downs (Q.) sends out its
first accounts. Of course, they throw no fresh light on
the chances of the old mine. But luck has been on the
co.’s side so far. More than what has so far been spent
on cleaning and straightening things underground has
been got out of the old furnace bottoms, and from pre-
cipitates recovered during the unwatering of the mine ;
the leached copper had fastened on to the tram rails, &c.,
and was shovelled out, 96 per cent, pure some of it. So
far £l6lB has been realised, £2750 or £3OOO is expected
next month, and £7OO worth is on hand. Including the
first £lOOO of purchase money and flotation expenses
(£1056), total expenditure to the end of last month was
£6652. A 100-ton smelting plant is going up, and should
be blown in before the end of next month. The
co. is in a modest 32,500 shares of 10s. each, 20,000 of
them paid to 6s. The property (freehold) cost £3OOO
and 5000 shares —£1000 has been paid ; vendors hold
bills for the balance. The management has yet to prove
itself; but the mine gives better prospects than perhaps
any other old abandoned show in Australia. It may do
some people good just now to remember the circum-
stances of the abandonment. The co. (1862-77), on a
paid capital of £33,333, had a good time. In a few years
£115,250 was paid in divs. Then copper boomed. Big
advances were made against shipments. A div. of
£lOO,OOO (300 per cent, on the paid capital) was declared.
Suddenly copper slumped horribly. The co. was panic-
stricken. It was left heavily in debt to the bank on
account of the excessive drafts against shipments. It
lost control of itself and liquidated, and, on liquidation,
found that things weren’t half so bad as it thought, since
it had about £60,000 to cut up.
• • • •
A busy crowd has been whipping up Molloys,
and the papers have been filled with puff pars. One
paper—the dear old S.M. Herald, of course—had its ear
bitten so badly by the bulls that it had to give the bears
a chance, so it let “ a leading Sydney investor” talk.
“ The last return was 43 tons of copper. Allowing, as he
did, £6O a ton profit, this gave £2580, which, he
said, fell far short of paying, expenses.” Clear as
mud, that £6O a ton profit is really a loss 1 That sort
of thing is rubbish ; but, for all that, the bulls have
a hard case. Their yarn is that the co. is making
a yearly gross profit equal to 12s. per share, and that it has
credit balances of about £78,000. But that profit has
come from rich picked ore from comparatively shallow
workings, with the copper market touching the sky-line.
A great deal of the cash has been raised by the sale of
shares to build a railway, &c. To reckon this money as
equal to so many dividends is absurd. “ The railway
will enable lower grade ore to be treated by saving the
cost of freight. ” Even if, as alleged, Molloy paid £BOO in
a month for road freight over 17J miles, a decline of 1
per cent, in the value of the ore would more than coun-
terbalance any saving in freight the railway would make.
To those who think Mt. Molloy is going to smelt 10 per
cent, ore for years to come, and copper is going to average
£lOO, the shares must seem dirt cheap. To those who
reckon up that even at 6d. a month it will take over four
years to get capital back, the market value of shares must
seem quite sufficient.
» * * *
Bendigo is thinking over a suggestion that a
group of deep mines on the Kew Chum and Victoria line
of reef should amalgamate altogether, or jointly pay
costs of sinking one shaft below 3000 ft. The idea finds
all the more favor because the present winding machinery
at two of the mines is not capable of working properly
below 3000 ft. Rather than go to a heavy outlay to re-
place the old winding plants on four deep mines, some
shareholders suggest pooling the interests below 3000 ft.
of the Victoria Quartz, Great Central Victoria, Victoria
Consols, Lansell’s 183, and the Ironbark. It is unques-
tionably the proper thing to do, and if all the mines were
amalgamated, and four of the shafts used for ventilation
only, while the fifth went down toTophetj Bendigo would
benefit by saving a great deal of the capital now wasted
in deep sinking.
* * * •
The tributors at Victor’s Quartz,. Woods Point
(Vic.), ended their career amidst as much puff and smell
as comes from a 10-h.p. petrol motor car. They had drawn
HOOoz. from 1850 tons dug out at the No. 3'level; and
when their tribute was nearing its end a lot of hungry
birds that had been waiting for the worm hustled round.
They picked up shares freely, and had got a great many
before they started to wonder where they were all coming
from. Some said from Woods Point; some said speckers
were selling. Then there was much choice swearing heard
on the Block and down Queen-street when suddenly
the tributors threw up the claim, six w r U ahead of
the due date of the tribute I To all appearance they
had picked their block of stone as clean as a crow does a
bone. Now those who mopped up the shares have to
provide funds to deepen the shaft and open up a fresh
block. A cheery report from visiting directors early in
the year may have helped the buyers to make up their
minds. Anyway, if Wood’s Point has scored this time
(though that is an impenetrable mystery), it only makes
up for the loss at the time of the former debacle.
* * * *
Carter’s Deep Leads (Vic.) is like a dog with a
nail can on its tail. It is barked at by the big dogs, and
yapped at by the little curs, many of whom deserve to
carry the tin can themselves. From these people it
hasn’t had a fair deal. There is no great difference be-
tween its prospectus as issued in London and that of
some of the big-dog shows, protected by sacred names.
Dovetailed in Carter’s! prospectus was a bit of Lindgren,
which had served to garnish another gutter. There was
also the old story, trotted out on scores of prospectuses,
of the wealth won from the Madame Berry mine. If the
tone was flamboyant, so also has been that of a host of other
deep-lead boomsters, from the Financial Times along
to the Statist. Moreover, Carter’s has some fairly
shallow ground that could be worked at a tithe of the
cost of the big deep-leads; yet, because it uses some of
the flam that others have served up, it gets as many-
kicks as a match football. Is there not as much chance
to hit on good gold at Marong as there is at Moolort ?
On that score, Carter deserved to have a run for his
advertisement, just as much as his big brother. The
Financial Times lectures Carter’s directors, too, for
not being a board of mining experts—the same
Times that has for months extolled the Loddon
Valley, the Moolort, and kindred shows. Yet, if
it looks at the directorate of those concerns, it
won’t find much mining talent, and even less deep-lead
wisdom, there. Bewick, Moreing and Co. are the big-dog
engineers; but they haven’t shifted the universe since
they have been in Victoria, though they have had no
stint of Bull’s cash to help them. Carter’s certainly
didn’t deserve support, for it relied on second-hand
figures when it should hare gone' for good Victorian
experts, and built up or abandoned its show on their
testimony. But it wasn’t for the deep-lead boomsters to
throw that stone.
* * * *
Melbourne directors have odd ways of looking
at things financial. Here is the Murchison River (Tas.)
Silver and Lead Co., with an acknowledged overdraft of
£2245, and sundry creditors for £1329; yet the board takes
heart of grace that “ the financial position has materially
. improved.” The directors even express pleasure that
they have been able to arrange an overdraft to avoid
making calls. Most people express pleasure when
they get an overdraft wiped off, so as to escape
heavy interest and risk of trouble from an insistent
bank manager. Not so the Murchison River Co.
Last six months it broke 4671 tons of ore, got £6306 from
sales or advances, and had to make calls totalling £1653.
True, money was wanted for the Oonah plant, but the
solid fact stands that the ore in sight is only 16,000 tons,
so it is not easy to see how the co. is going to get on to
- the div. mark unless more ore is developed. The
manager, moreover, writes that he isn’t going to specu-
, late as to ore reserves; all he says is 16,000 tons in
sight. The directors, nevertheless, say : “ As the ore
body is opening up well, there is every reason to believe
that the mine will have a long life and the co. a pros-
perous future.” Just as well to set those two statements
side by side. You can take your pick between the man
on the spot who won’t go beyond 16,000 tons, and the
directors who talk vaguely of a long life and a prosperous
future.
* * * *
Barrambie Ranges (W.A.) hung fire when on
the float fr.om Peacock’s office in. Melbourne, but it got a
clean bill of mining health in the end, and so went off.
This was 18 months ago. Since then, the public’s palate
has been tickled with 3oz. reports, as driving at 100 ft.
went on. There was talk at shareholders’ meetings of
rich specimens bagged, and of the need for an extra-
strong Chubb safe to keep them in. After one 3oz. crush-
ing came No. 2 clean-up. This panned out at under loz.,
whereupon the spec.-seller got up and hit Barrambie hard.
In the calm that has followed, it can now be asked—
Had shares any right to go so high? If the mine is a
Soz. proposition, yes. If it is a loz. “go,” no. Then
commonsense comes in and asks how many 3oz. shows
there are in Australia? One thing that went to make up
the market was the reserve of rich bagged stone. Where
' is it ? Manager Aldridge still says it is a 3oz. show. The
. market does not believe it, or shares would not be below
20s. Should Aldridge prove right, the bears will have a
hot time. If he cannot maintain a 3oz. output, he will
have the hot time.
South Caledonia, one of the Anderson’s Creek
. (Vic.) litter, has got to the end of its financial tether
before its battery has had a chance to speak, and the
24,000 ss. shares will have to be added to in some way.
There was only £312 to come in when the books closed at
the end of February, and the co. then owed £822,
including £7OO advanced by the most interested share-
holders. The co. never had enough money, and a good
deal of what it did have it wasted through cutting water
where it expected to cut reef. As a well the South has
so far been a prodigious success. The co. is now close up
to the stone, and, though, it is never likely to be big
enough to pay well, having gone this far the co. might as
well go another shilling or so per share farther.
* * * *
Lady Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), is installing
more powerful winding gear, also a new battery alongside
the mine, thereby doing away with the old system of cart-
ing stone about 300 yards. Directly the winch is in
place sinking will start, so, by the time the battery is
ready, at least two bloqks of stone should be opened up
—a long way better policy than the old one of working
out one block before sinking for another. Public opinion
of the new policy is shown by a steady rise in the price of
shares, in face of calls. With North Nelson, Lady Nel-
son, Lord Nelson Extended, and the Economic (formerly
New Bendigo) all working, the chances are in favor of
St. Arnaud being something more than a one-mine town
in the future. Luck must be bad if one at least doesn’t
develop satisfactorily.
• * * •
The Economic, formerly the New Bendigo, St.
Arnaud (Vic.), has the old shaft unwatered and repaired
to about 650 ft., with about 50ft. to go to reach the bottom
of the old workings. Unwatering has been delayed
through the shaft being blocked with tailings, put down
the mine for “mullocking” purposes many years ago.
The mine gave a large output in St. Arnaud’s palmy days,
and that is the hope on which the present co. builds, for
costs have been cut fine since the previous abandonment,
* * * *
One of the “ sweet ” things of the Daylesford
(Vic.) boom of last Christmas time was the Ajax No. 1,
promoted by the Sewell-cum-Flowerday combination.
Work done to date is represented by a hole 20ft. deep,
and the co. is already on the call list. Shilling shares are
forced on the market at 3d., and buyers stand off. The
Ajax is about the briefest and most busted Victorian
boom on record.
* • * •
South Woah Hawp, Ballarat East, is to be
given another chance. At 1100 ft. the usual “ promising
lode ” was met, but went underfoot. Money was needed
to sink under it, but calls did not come in, and 18,000
out of 25,000 shares were forfeited. These shares are
■ now being taken up at 3d. each by speculators, who are
prepared to go down another 100 ft. and then drive west
a bit. Another ninepence a share should do the needful;
and, though Woah Hawps are ticklish property, the pre-
sent proposition is worth this much risk.
G.H.E.: Sorry can’t give any special mining
“tips.” What we know we print Fraser : Regard it
and its neighbors as quite hopeless. The Rising Sun is
one of those mines that you get an official paragraph
about in the papers about every third day. Such pars
are, as a rule, very good signals to the outsider to stay
out Commerce: C.B. of A. pref. shares can get no
more than 4 per cent. div. ; ordinaries take all profits
beyond. Just at present, however, there is a deficit
estimated at over £1,150,000 waiting to be made good out
of surplus profits Subscriber : Will try.
* * * *
J. Earle Hermann writes :—“ A writer in
Bulletin (31/l/’O7) incidentally infers that there is no
great abundance of iron ore in Australia, and, therefore,
no room for export, if present and future needs are con-
sidered. Well, Mr. J. B. Jaquet, A.R.S.M., geological
surveyor, in his monograph on ‘The Iron Ore Deposits of
N.S.W.’ (1902), dealt specially with 16 districts inN.S.W.,
and estimated the minimum quantity of iron ore in sight
ac 59,317,000 tons. As 500,000 tons of pig-iron per annum
would supply the present Commonwealth and Maori land
requirements in all descriptions of iron and manufactured
iron, N.S. Wales alone could meet the consumption for
many years to come. The ore beds near Cadia are
declared to be almost inexhaustible. Tasmania is proved
to be remarkably rich in iron ores, the deposits on the
Blythe River having attracted the attention and
admiration of the world’s iron and steel experts.
Referring to the enormous deposits of specular hema-
tite and magnetite in the Cloncurry district,
Queensland, Mr. R. L. Jack, in ‘ Geology of
Queensland,’ says: ‘ The most striking features of the
country are mountains of pure specular and magnetic
iron ore.’ Extensive rich deposits of iron ore are authori-
tatively located in many districts throughout South
Australia and West Australia. The industry is, of course,
in its infancy, but when we begin with unmistakable
determination and success to manufacture our own iron
and steel from our own valuable ores, there will he left
little room for doubt as to the inexhaustible character of
the ore deposits. The iron ore deposits in the United
States, Great Britain, Germany, France, Russia, Austria-
Hungary, Belgium, Sweden, Spain, Canada and Italy are
visibly contracting, and it will yet be Australia’s privilege
and profit to supply not only home requirements,
but to figure conspicuously in meeting the
iron ore, iron and steel wants of the world.”
As to which simply these two remarks— (l) It is doubtful
whether one-tenth of the deposits are suitable for smelt-
ing; Jaquet wouldn’t commit himself to an opinion.
(2) It is a fool of a country which is satisfied to do the
poor business of exporting pig-iron in order to provide
foreign countries with material for great industries
which the fool-country itself ought to have.
• * • •
“ C.C.D.” : Re Horseshoe (Cloncurry) flotation,
and recent remarks concerning it. Fact can be easily
proved that ore shipped from the Horseshoe to southern
smelters never went under 27 per cent. Vendors (who,
by the way, only receive one-tenth, and not one-fourth,
of the shares paid up) sank a shaft 45ft. deep on payable
ore near the middle of the outcrop, but were flooded out.
Outcrop, which carries ore (rich and poor) all over, inter-
mixed with gossan and quartz, will average a width of
50ft. for over 600 ft. long; and it doesn’t require 30 per
cent, ore to pay in a proposition of that size. The Horse-
shoe does adjoin the Daisy, which scrip was rushed by
local men, who ought to know what they are buying.
Melbourne people have decided to float Horseshoe into a
co. apart from the Celestial.
*,* • *
“C.H.T.”: Metz, the township across the
gorge from Hillgrove'(N.S.W.), has had'an up-and-down
career. It commenced its existence in 1889, Mr. “ Jack ’’
O'Neil being practically its founder, and its most pros-
perous time was during 1892 and the earlier part of
1893. Things then began to slacken off, until, in 1900,
death apparently ensued. The male population deserted
almost en masse, and Metz became known as a village of
grass-widows and children. The two pubs, after
struggling along valiantly, closed up in gloom and
despair. Matters remained in this state until 1904, when
antimony began to rise in the market. Thus Metz
gathered itself up out of its ashes, and to-day has a
population of 500.
* « • •
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These tw > plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
« . ■ ft * *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company is
building a complete, plant for its , claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; al7 inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
5 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H. H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multi tubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoonsto carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
. Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Engineer, of
Dunedin."' [B]
* * * *
The Insurance Spectator (London), of Ist
October, 1906, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited “ Throughout its whole
career the Colonial Mutual has shown a rate of progress
that is, to say the least, remarkable in even the bulky
annals of insurance.”*
* * * *
As shewing the estimation in which the “Card”
Concentrator is held, we may mention that two of the
largest Broken Hill Companies have removed the tops of
all other Concentrators and replaced them with “Card”
decks. N. Guthridge, Ltd., Sole Licensees.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * » *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
•* * ♦ *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
■* * » •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
te * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co.', Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st. ,74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. . Eustace Bennett; Manager.*
* * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral riv'ited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enonnous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * *'•'*”■*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* . #
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * • •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
• * * *
Commonwealth.and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * • #
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*


Hotel
A ustra/ia -
BATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel Is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea. with
11 : Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are; spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
HALF -A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them, also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-ALITES
“San” : Re the bullock’s habit of wilting
away when made to work alongside a bull. I
! venture to suggest that it is the silent contempt
which the bull has for his degenerate brother that
causes said relative to droop like Little Eva and
become a withered flower. The same thing is
plainly shown with poultry. Let a capon be
ever such a giant, he is thought very little of by
his family, and is invariably sent to Coventry.
This so humbles the capon that he loses the cour-
age of his convictions, and is glad to chum up with
the chickens. He will run errands for them, and
take them around, and scratch for them better
than their old mother can. And the old hens don’t
seem to mind, as it takes a lot of responsibility
off their shoulders.
AN OBSTACLE.
PARSON : “ Come, sign the pledge like a good
fellow, and be a new man.”
S WAGGIE: “ An’ what’ll I do wid me — hie—nose?”
Darling Downs (Q.) is wondering whether
it can’t grow its own hops. Two years ago V. C.
Redwood, of the Toowoomba Grain Exchange,
obtained 200 young plants through the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture. They grew to
a height of 16ft. or 18ft., and yielded each from
21b. to 31b. of hops of fine quality. Now the
same man is giving Maoriland flax a trial.
• * * *
“Hawkshaw” : You say (B. 7/3/’O7) “as
for John Moran he doesn’t seem to have a friend
anywhere.” I have closely watched snakes feed-
ing both in Zoos and otherwberes and I never
saw any evidence of sliming. “Veldt” says he
saw the cat “sitting” slimed one side. That’s
rot; snake would have killed first and prepared
afterwards. “Shingle” says re possum “it was
slimed all over.” Now I will ask, right here, what
he slimed for? Was it that the food should be
nicely covered with grit and other rubbish ? A
bushman friend of mine brought in an Bft. speci-
men of diamond snake (not 30 miles from Sydney)
and my boys caged a fine big rat for the snake.
The company present talked slime very learnedly.
I wagered there would be nothing of the sort.
Also I bet the snake would bite with its poison
fangs. I won in both instances. When satisfied that
the rat was dead the snake uncoiled, moved round,
and took the rodent in head first, DRY. In 20
minutes all was out of sight. In my opinion,
the poison aids digestion, and dissolves the
bones. That is why snakes eat only what they kill
themselves. The only animals I know that slime
are the confidence tricksters, and the wowsers
wowsing for women votes to afterwards rob a poor
man of his beer. Mine’s a pint, please, wdthout
slime.
• * » *
“ S.R.” : I enter into the heated contro-
versy between “ Tarboy ” and some other people
as to whether it will pay to conserve “ bush hay ”
against the drought that always happens, merely
to remark that-the late Jimmy Tyson had several
silos which had not been touched for 15 years, and
our last big drought cleaned them out. Tyson
claimed, in spite of the long wait, that his stacks
were a good investment. But perhaps “R.H.P.”
will say that Tyson was a solvent man, and could
keep money stacked up idle. It was that sort of
thing that made and kept him solvent. Archer
Bros., of Gracemere (Central Q.), also built silos,
and stored up some hundreds of tons of hay.
Both “Tarboy” and “ R.H.P.” ignore the fact
that during the recent great drought hundreds of
thousands sterling were spent in feeding
starving stock in the West. I lived in
Rockhampton during the greater part of
that big drought, and the amount of
fodder—compressed hay, chaff, bran, &c.—which
passed through Rockhampton was staggering.
The Denhams (Digby D.’s co.) practically held a
monopoly of the trade, and must have made a
small fortune out of it. “Tarboy” and “R.H.P.”
want us to believe that it will pay the squatter to
wait for the drought, and to bring his fodder
thousands of miles by rail and steamer and then
pay famine prices in addition. Take “ Tarboy’s”
figure of 10s. per ton. (I would like the contract
at the price.) At 5 per cent, compound interest,
money doubles itself in 15 years. At this rate
Jimmy Tyson’s stacks cost £1 per ton. Wiil
“ Tarboy” or “R.H.P.” state whether they could
deliver bush hay (or its equivalent) to any out-
back station in drought time at anything like £1
per ton ? That is the crux of the question.
* * * *
Willaura, the centre of south-west Vic.’s
Closer Settlement, is an object lesson in several
things. Originally a one-horse show, sur-
rounded by big estates, where a few bound-
ary riders crept after sheep, it has become
one of the finest wheat-producing areas in
the State, and is growing Australian men
and women as well. So far, good. But
when the progress association recently ap-
plied to the local council to drain the low-
lying township, it transpired that one
man owns practically the whole place.
The State arranged for Closer Settlement
farms, but the same old landlord still scores
in the township, where the farmer’s busi-
ness is done. A deputation of the towns-
people lately waited on the land-owners,
seeking to buy land for a cemetery and
for a recreation reserve. In the latter
case the price asked was prohibitive, while
the land-owner refused to discuss the idea
of a cemetery, as its presence would spoil
his land from the syndicator’s point of
view. So Willaura remains a town with-
out sanitation, without a reserve, and
without a cemetery, and A ictoria’s fool of
a Land Act gives the people no power to
acquire them.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : The large lace
(Jew) lizard has a terrific aspect when,
with his great yellow mouth open, his
body flattened as big as a dinner-plate, and
his frill out, he sits up on his tail to face
a terrier. I saw a battle last lialf-an-hour
once. The dog, yelping constantly, would
dart in and grab the Hebrew lizard gingerly and
toss him feet in the air, and he maintained the
piteh-and-toss business till the lizard couldn’t rise
to the call of time. These lizards are cheeky cus-
tomers, and will chase a boy for yards. Being of
a greyish color, they are difficult to see in the
bush among the dry leaves. I have often found
them burrowing holes in soft, dusty places. I
presume these were to lay their eggs in.
* * * *
Down Monaro (N.S.W.) way they grow
some big turnips. The committee, while revising
the Bemboka show schedule, had its attention
dragged to the fact that six turnips were too
many to specify in a bunch. It was stated that
six Monaro turnips would till a cart. One man
said he had grown them 3ft. in circumference,
while another swore that he had raised them as
large as the chair upon which he sat. The meet-
ing then depopulated itself.
* * •* •
“Poor Hawk”: There was married, a
week or so ago, in the N.S.W. back-blocks, a 21-
year-old white girl to an Arab camel-driver.
Business took me to the scene of the ceremony.
Here is a list of the company :
Bride, white Australian girl.
Groom, Arab camel-puncher.
Parson, Wesleyan.
Hostess, half-caste aborigine.
Host, ditto.
Best man, boss camel-driver (Afghan).
Bridesmaid, half-caste Chow
Guests, Afghans, Indians, Ar’-bs, Syrians, half-caste
aborigines, and full-blooded blacks.
After the wedding, night was hideous with music,
songs and dances, in the tongues and feet of
about ten different nations.
* * • •
The efficacy of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm
in the relief of rheumatism is being demonstrated
daily. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
“Paul Cupid”: Have read “L.O.P.’s”
reply to my “genuine offer” (as the persons who
give watches away for nothing say) to take him
into partnership if he could only secure that swift
tiger snake that he alleged outran a live cattle-
dog. I now see there is more money in backing
“L.0.P.” himself after reading his evidence to
the end. I take it that he delivered himself of
these last remarks while in an untrained condition.
If he is willing, I’m ready to subject him to a
course of training in colossal prevarication, under
the tutorship of an Anti-Sosh person, a fire-eating
sectarian person, and an editorial daily paper
person, and then back him to lie, in a general and
promiscuous fashion, against any Ananias in the
universe.
A BUSY MAN.
MISSIS: “ That’s the last Decker I’ll give you. I’m sure you could find work if you'd only look.”
LONE WANDERER OF LON STANDING: “No time for that, mum; takes all me time looking
for grub.”
“ Jay ” : I have been reading in “ Abori-
ginalities ” for some time past about snakes and
their extraordinary swiftness when pursued.
Now, I worked with a surveyor for about six
years in various parts of the country, and have
found snakes in a great many awkward places—
in scrub, in long grass, on ledges of rock half-way
up a cliff, on top of a precipice, at the bottom of
a precipice, and in clear, open country; and never
found one quick enough to get away from mb.
Also, never found one that would attack. Its sole
object on seeing me was to leave as fast as pos-
sible, and that wasn’t faster than I could shove a
truck. Once I was trying to catch a horse in a
paddock ainid a lot of fallen timber and scrub.
Took a short cut to head off the horse (which did
not want to be caught), jumped over a fallen tree,
and while in mid,air saw about:sft. of black snake
just about where I must alight, I came down
with a howl, one foot each side of the snake, and
even then he didn’t attempt to strike. He merely
streaked out for home in the usual slow and tor-
tuous fashion of snakes. I was badly scared, and
took some time to recover. By
that time the snake had a good
start. Then I got a stick (more
time lost) and set out after the
travelling streak of gloom, and
killed him. If the horse had been
half as easy to catch as the snake I
wouldn’t have become nearly so
tired as I did. I have seen snakes
after being struck show a little
fight, but have more often seen
the wounded snake still trying
pathetically to light out for home
at a steadily decreasing number of
miles per hour.
» * •
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Met
three young amateur swaggies to-
day, inback beyond Benkergenol
(N.S.W.). They had the look of
the Rocks push on the wallaby.
One carried an iron pot, one a toasting fork,
and One • wung a huge hurricane lamp. I was
informed in return for some cheap tobacco (I
always carry cheap tobacco for giving away) that
the lamp was not used on moonlight nights. On
dark nights it was probably used to scare away
bunyips. I do hope that they didn’t get bitten
by the savage sheep of this part.
“Philo” ; Discussing the subject of Dr
Klaatsch s alleged discovery of the missing link
a man from the Richmond River (N S W 1
2SV W b e V b ° y l he had 1 ° ften
speak about an aboriginal freak said to be well
known by early settlers in his district. It had
(said the man from the Richmond) no head or
neck, but (he averred) there was a hole in the too
of the trunk, where the neck should have com
menced, and through this orifice (he stated) it
took in its rations. The blacks (he informed me)
trom superstition or something, one day emptied
the monstrosity over a cliff, and it was spoiled I
expressed my unqualified disbelief, but the man
from Richmond River remarked that it was
“Gawd’s struth.” He also made a liberal offer
to be struck dead on short notice if his story
wasn’t true, and he said his colonial oath.
“Cict”: Re “G. Mac’s” “simple and
sure cure for bridle-breaking horses ” (B. 17/l/’O7)-
“Mac’s” advice is ; “Put the brumby’s head into
any old bridle, tie him to a post with his tail
facing a dam with Gft. or 7ft. of water in it, and
he’ll fall in.” You’re wrong, “Mac”—a long
way. First, only a strong bridle will stand the
strain necessary to give the nag a backward im-
petus that will carry him wrong side up into the
tank that “Mac” has cunningly planted behind
him. Then if “Mac” can tie a horse anywhere
within coo-ee of a dam containing 6ft. or 7ft. of
water —yes, or even Gin. or 7in. either —without
said brumby being fully aware of the dam’s
proximity, that nag must be dead. Any bush-
man will tell you that a horse will spot the pre-
sence of water when a considerable distance off,
and that he is a water-smeller of no mean order.
Lord Brumby isn’t such a fool as to fall into a
dam which he knows is immediately behind him.
Of course, if “ Mac ” proposes to tie up the horse
first and then dig the dam after-
wards, I have nothing further
to say.
ALL TO SUIT THEIR CONVENIENCE.
All the slaughtermen employed at the Freezing works
in Canterbury (Maoriland) are on strike, and killing
operations are at a standstill. —Daily Paper.
THE COW: “A rise in wages! What a little
thing to quarrel about. And I’ve got to wait
while they settle it.”
THE WEARY LIAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His eye was glazed, his beer was drunk,
And likewise so was he ;
, And in his hand he held a chunk
Of bread —which was his tea.
He told me tales to raise my hair,
And feebly cursed the flies.
And well he knew I was aware
His narratives were lies.
He told a dark, unhallowed tale
Without the slightest zest,
Of how he’d fought an awful gale,
And how he’d done his best
To save the ship and all he prized,
And how he worked alone.
And, as he talked, I recognised
The liar’s monotone.
. .if.'.'
As one who wearily recites
A legend or a prayer,
He told some yarns of tribal fights,
And gazed in blank despair
Whenever he forgot a word—
. Which happened frequently—
And made me hate his most absurd
And listless perjury.
It did not profit him a bit
To tell the yarns to me,
Swearing to them by Holy Writ
i-, And all Eternity.
But, like a shepherd in a smock,
Who to the fold draws near,
He slowly drove his wearied flock
Of lies into my ear.
What made his jaded btain invent 3
The stories that he told ?
Was it a book he had been lent ?
Or one he had been sold ?
These were the gliding thoughts that fled
From each mild circumstance,
As from their graves he sadly led
The ghosts of old Romance.
VIC.
KODAK.


THE OLD
Flßfl.
To a Busin(;ss Man the
statement that an Old-Estab-
lished Firm turns out a Better
and Cheaper Product is a
truism.
Sfjjgp® s *
m
mp
%Si>
Choice Whole Pearl, 2 Different
Colored Sapphires and 16 Dia-
monds, £l2 12s.
The stamp of Old Customers’ continued approval has MADE
it an Established Firm.
WHY IS THIS?
Experience has taught the short cut to success. The Old
Firm has been down most roads. Been there before. Then, of
course, Capital counts. Cash buying shows on cost tickets.
Output influences, too, as Big Buyers Buy Best. Reliability—
After three-quarters of a century you feel a Firm can be relied on.
3 Different Colored Sapphires and
8 Diamonds, £7 18s.
1 Olivine, 2 Opals and Diamonds,
£8 Bs.; 1 Emerald and Dia-
monds, £25.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
HIS NEEDS.
REV. GUMM: “Do you recognise your greatest
need, my pore brother ?”
RED CHARLEY ( sentcntiously): “Beer.”
REV. GUMM (shocked): “But when you've had
enough beer?”
RED CHARLEY: “ Hambulance! ”
“ Agricola ” : “ Gilrooney’s ” statement
(B. 28/2/’O7) that in his youth he used to murder
inoffensive black magpies, and palm them off on
the Chows as crows, has converted me into an ani-
mated and incredulous interrogation point. Even
after plucking out the few white feathers in the
wings, I want to know how he could have ac-
counted satisfactorily for the red eyes of the
magpie. Also, even a Chow would want to know
what the crow had done to his beak to polish it
down so fine, and wonder whether lie had left the
hook on the nail behind the door at home to keep
it from wearing out. But perhaps “Gilrooney”
chopped off the incriminating head, and sold the
rest to a Chow who didn’t know there were any
black birds in the bush except crows. Even so,
there is a slight matter of difference about the
legs, for the magpie is a runner, while the crow
progresses by hops, but perhaps a Chow wouldn’t
notice that. He generally doesn’t notice much.
Chows in this district used to pay well for wombat
galls, but it was necessary to bring along the two
ind feet of a freshly-killed wombat before any
deal was made. They knew then that they were
most likely getting the real article.
“Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You
may just as well fill it with the purest spirit avail-
able. Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimu-
lant and best tonic known for mind or body.*
The cocky’s child has weird escapes as
well as weird accidents. Not long since, the
infant offspring of a N.S.W. selector balanced
itself carefully on the edge of a large tub of water,
and fell in. Then the selector’s two cart-horses,
which were mooching about close at hand, wan-
dered across and drank all the water from off the
top of the child, and didn’t drink the child, but
just left it in the tub, wet, scared, astonished, and
howling.
» * * »
“ Lindy Lou ” : A Bulletin par. re horses
malting for home hit me in a sore spot, which I
thought had nearly healed over, and made it all
raw again, so that I flinch at the mere smell of a
horse. A couple of months ago I got bushed —
properly bushed —and didn’t even know in which
direction to go to strike the fence. It was pitch-
dark and I could see nothing in front of me but a
camp-out. However, a great vacancy where I
store my meals urged me on, but I seemed to get
no forrarder. Then I remembered the yarns
poured into my capacious ears by bushmen, of the
way in which their horses had brought them out
of awful messes when the owners had trusted to
their instincts. So, resisting my inclination to
head for the Southern Cross, I dropped the reins
on my steed’s neck, and he set out due north at a
brisk walk. After half-an-hour he struck a track,
whereupon I lifted up my voice and called him
blessed. But it only led to a waterhole, where he
swigged hugely and went on. Four times that
night did he find the waterhole and swig hugely,
by which time I had ceased to call him blessed.
When daylight came, I saw slip-rails less than a
quarter of a mile away.
* * * *
Illuminating remark from the Gilberton
(Gilbert River) correspondent of a North Queens-
land paper, who evidently hasn’t a notion of the
size of the thing he has run against:—
It would not surprise me a bit if the Gilbert went
straight for secession. The Commonwealth has put its
foot down on the opium trade, and, as a result, the dusky
maidens have deserted the whites and have taken up their
abode with the heathen Chinee. Well, what else were they
to do ? But what about the poor forsaken swain ? I sup-
pose he will take up his bed and walk, for what is home
without a m other ?
Evidently the white can’t get opium, but the
Chinese still can. It leaks into Australia some-
where along those unprotected northern coasts,
on to which the Malay proa occasionally drops
also the Chow himself.
* * • *
“ Spring ” : Scientists, philosophers, keen
reasoners and kerbstone wiseacres all go crash
when a man comes
along with a pinch
of common-sense,
born of experience.
A horse attached
to a tip-dray, in
Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, had suddenly
realised that he
was being sweated
and over-driven,
and absolutely re-
fused to take up
his burden. Then
came the schemers
with their schemes
—city buslimen
who related many
expedients, fat old
gentlemen who at-
tempted to lead
the erring moke
on the straight,
hard, bullocking
path with a cheer-
ful pat and a
shrivelled apple ;
and old and young
maids who asked
the carter whether
the sudden open-
ing of their gamps
in the gee-gee’s
face would have
any good effect.
Most of the
schemes were tried
without avail, and
the traffic was
blocked, and the
moke smiled a
smile of victory.
But he smiled
too soon. A
weazened-up,
alert, little old
man, who had been
thinking and not
skiting, picked up
a handful of sand,
and, stepping to
the horse’s head,
held out his closed
fist. The wily beast
thought it was an-
other bribe in the
shape of a carrot,
and held out his
snifter unhesitatingly. Then the alert little
man threw that fistful of sand up the steed’s
snorter, and just stepped aside in time to escape
the wild rush of the tip-dray, which travelled at
a great bat towards the horizon, with the cunning
neigher pulling all he knew and blowing hard.
• * • *
“Paul Cupid”: In reply to “F.C.’s”
query as to why glass can be cut with a pair of
scissors if held under running water, while it
cannot be done if the fluid is stationary, I most
respectfully beg to say that it can’t be cut any
better under the former than the latter, and only
semi-occasionally under either. A pair of scissors
doesn’t cut glass at all—it just breaks it off, and
perhaps it will break where you want it, and
perhaps it won’t. Another good plan is to file a
nick in the edge of the glass, place a red-hot iron
to the nick, and then draw the iron along
wherever you want the glass to crack, and
it will crack somewhere else. Another excellent
way is to get any serrated edged tool—that’s
what the directions say—and by using plenty of
spirits of turpentine while sawing, the glass can
be cut into many shapes. It can. I’ve tried it,
using plenty of spirits and much execration, and it
invariably went into many shapes, but they
weren’t the shapes I wanted. The best plan when
you want to cut glass personally is to get the
counter-leaper to do the job for you before you
pay for the goods.
• * • *
Did you ever see a petroleum well ? The
workers at these wells never have consumption or
any form of lung trouble. If they catch cold
they take liberal doses of crude petroleum and it
never fails to cure them. Angier’s Emulsion is
specially purified crude petroleum combined with
the hypophosphites. There is nothing equal to it
for coughs and lung affections, and it is pleasant
to take. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
A SAVING CLAUSE.
THE PEST: “I ain't frighten’ of yer fer all yer bloomin' size. I’ll fight yer fer five quid a side
if yer’ll on'y train down to me weight?”
“GOING DOWN BELOW.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh l it’s pleasant to be present when the people that you
know
Are a-laughing and a-chafling, for they’re “going down
below ”;
When they’re strolling on the platform full of gaiety and
mirth,
Seeking comfortable corners for the journey down to
Perth.
Yes 1 it’s pleasant to be present when the friend you’re
seeing off
Is departing for the seashore, and is going “ like a toff.”
From his lordly smile and haughty style you’d think he
owned the earth
When the ticket in his pocket is a First Return to Perth.
There is wriggling and there’s giggling and goo-gooing
galore
Amongst the smiling damsels who are swarming round
the door;
Pretty faces, sweet grimaces, modest blushes, poses vain,
Tell the captivating hero he is wanted back again.
There’s a rushing and a pushing to the carriage further
down ;
There’s a “ Glad to have the pleasure to have met you,
Mr. Brown ”;
And a satisfied and gratified elector bares his pate
As he does a bobsy-curtsv to the Minister of State.
There are others, maids and mothers —mothers now or
soon to be ;
There are crowds i f happy youngsters off to paddle in the
sea;
And they yell their admiration for sweet “Molly Riley
Oh,”
Mixed with frequent .equisitions to the guard to “ let
her go ’’ 1
But the measure of your pleasure doesn’t fill and over-
flow
When your mate is sick and needy, and is going down
below.
No ! it isn’t very pleasant when you know that on the
train
Is the true and trusty comrade whom you’ll never see
again.
His work is done, his race is run ; with feehle steps and
slow
He totters to the carriage that will take him down below;
And you shake his hand in silence ; and a loyal mate has
gone
To find a final refuge in a graveyard by the Swan.
W. A.
TOM BEASLEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in ; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bull: The Bulletin reckons it has one ideal
contributor—which his name is Frank Henty. (1) He
usually sends good stuff. (2) He types it clearly. (3)
He doesn’t roll it or fold it, but sends it flat in a big
envelope. (4) He doesn’t send letters along with it. (5)
He pays the postage. (6) Go thou and do likewise.
When we are struggling with a heap of stuff, and want
the satisfaction of seeing the pile diminish, the legible
stuff is always read first. The most illegible thing gets
to the bottom of the heap and often stays there for a
long time. Then it passes along. The Red Page man
sees it, and says he isn’t feeling well that day. The
financial editor observes it coming, and fixes his eye on
an intricate balance-sheet. The sub-editor passes
it to his assistant, and in the end it is read
by parties unknown Ripley: “ Seasons ” declined
after much hard think L.J.V. : “Fair Coun-
try ” just on border-line —wrong side of line
Spawler : A crude tragedy N.F.S.: N.S.F. (poetically).
Juvenes: Justmanufacturedpathos...GeorgeWarner:
Too small by a long way Kaolin : Getting tired of the
diverse occupations lies —and truths ; especially the
truths Carbon: Advertise in some paper that circu-
lates in the localities where Professor Hampton was best
knowm, state full particulars, and try to get into corres-
pondence with either his relatives or friends Paddy-
melon : Don’t feel inclined to say anything sympathetic
about the birth-rate method which meant sending for a
casual, ignorant, amateur midwife, who was rewarded with
“ a setting of eggs or a clucking hen.” That system
used to vastly encourage the death-rate too Veldt:
Thank you: you deserve (and get) our gratitude
but not the year’s free paper. That only goes to
clergymen who, on moral grounds, have The
Bulletin kept off a School of Arts table. ..G.H.K. :
“Long Drive” too long or too thin or something
Bunyip : There is no demand—absolutely none—for the
person who is looking at the fire and thinking, in verse,
of the days gone by. BLOW the days gone by 1 R.C.:
“ Leagues of Ears” 1 Had she as big ears as that?
W.F.L.: Idea unsuitable. Can’t say when the other two
will be published... .Eungella: “Sheep” only a bald
statement of hairless fact.. ..Rice F. : Quite believe “ it
has never appeared in print before.” It won’t appear
now either Goff : We don’t undertake to reply to
paragraphs. There would be a whole page of “Corres-
pondence” if we did Proteus : Verse about your
private affairs uninteresting... .Phyllis: They almost get
there, but in the end they fail to arrive Rufus R. :
Rather dull bit of description Tell Tit: Too much
tobacco juice in your yarn C. Doyle: Letter only a
reproduction of one that appeared in the morning
papers F.R.: You are quite wrong in saying
that Garran believes a Federal graduated land-tax
unconstitutional. He holds the exactly opposite view—
F.C.: Brisbane Telegraph’s absurd ignorance isn’t worth
all that space Woodsman : Well, you are out of step
with the regiment on that point. All other countries of
the earth believe in re-afforestation.... Comet: Received
catalogue of acquaintances, who are worse beer-hogs than
those of Winton (B. 28/2/’O7). Hope you’ll change your
company Quien Sabe : Schoolboyish E.M.L. (M.L.) :
Good subject, too stiffly handled... .Joper Macjurgle :
“ Study ” slim and superficial... .Lausanne: “ Price we
pay” unsuitable... Simplex: Simple, but not skilful
enough Poetscorner: Remember, this is a family
paper...,A.Z.l. : A good incident, but needs firmer
treatment. ..Quan: It’s an “assault,” legally, to even
point a gun at another ; the law isn’t such an ass as you
think : sometimes it prefers to “ get there ” by a subter-
fuge Bondi: Thanks for clips.. .D.K. : (1) Thanks ; con-
firms what we have already printed to show that the Jap
means to monopolise China ; (2) verse hardly up to the
mark V. Long: Thb Bulletin has defined its position
as regards Socialism times without number. If you want
a direct answer to your question, “ Is The Bulletin in
favor of ‘The control of the means of production, ex-
change and distribution solely by the State ?’ ’’ No. It
doesn’t favor, for instance, the control of Thb Bulletin
by the State.... Four Nine One (Adelaide): Brief yarn
about the death of the good little boy with sang in the
choir killed dead Chas. A. W. : Don’t want jokes cut
out from other papers Pompey : Seems to have no
definite beginning, and not much end... .K.A.S. : Will
hardly P.A.S.S Felmore: Not enough interest
Blister : Tired of the person who got quickly tired of
32 different occupations Comet (Vic.): Wiiat did we
ever do to you to make you send us those two poems?....
p.C.K. : The B. has discussed the rabbit microbe
in all its bearings; and, anyhow, the microbe is not
going to be let loose. We have that on the highest
authority W.R.B. : A pale little cynicism
Wurrym : You’ll have to condense a lot more. No room
in The Bulletin for half a column talk about the some-
what silly language of a Perth Labor League Coolwa :
Willing to hurl any insult at the short-postage fiend, but
he’s not deserving of your poem Clericus : Send to the
ash-heap.... Omar Keyhole : Well, one of them isn’t quite
so bad as the other.. . .Kid : “ After the Quarrel" hasn’t
a hope J. A.: There is no rule in the case. If a country
exports more than it imports it may mean (1) that it is
poor and in debt to foreigners ; and the surplus exports
go to pay interest, in which case it may be (ci) that the
surplus is large enough to pay interest and leave some-
thing over towards principal, and that the country is
getting out of debt, or (b) that the surplus exports are
not large enoug'h to cover all the interest, and that the
debt is increasing. Or the surplus exports may mean (2)
that the country isn’t in debt, but is very rich and is send-
ing surplus wealth abroad for investment. Similarly an
excess of imports may mean (1) that the country is
getting into debt, and the surplus is bought with
borrowed money, or (2) that the country has great in-
vestments abroad, and the surplus imports represent
interest received. Then (a) they may not represent all
the interest; some of it may be re-invested abroad and
the rich country may be thus growing richer, or (b) they
may represent all the interest and part of the principal,
and the rich country may be eating up its savings and on
the back track to poverty. There is no general rule ;
you must learn the circumstances of each case Unsuit-
able : Enja.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS,
S.F. : What have you ever seen in this paper to make
you think we would publish a bad, crumpled pencil copy
of a female head, labelled “ Faith”?... .F. Brodrick :
Most hopeless.. ..J.J.A* : You can’t draw a comet
Miss B. : “Sold Out” is a truly remarkable—almost a
shuddersome—drawing.
“Douglas T.” : On a settler’s homestead
out here (Wakool, Riverina) may be seen any day
about the door a young kangaroo, a lamb, two
butcherbirds, a magpie, and a dog, all living m
harmony together. On waking m the morning, it
is nothing unusual to find the kangaroo looking
in at the open door, with the weird expectancy
expression on his face. Milk is what he is, weirdly
expecting. Mrs. B. Bird, when not whistling or
pursuing the nimble grasshopper, amuses herself
stalking the wily flea on the back of the (log, to
that animal’s great gratification. Mr. Butcher B.
and the magpie are inseparable, and play at
“pull devil, pull baker,” with a strip of meat, in
the most engaging manner. These two birds
roost on the same branch, and their morning
hymn is a revelation in the way of whistling.


THE MODERN SPHINX PROBLEM.
that Anounced in the world’s press that by 1910 the Japanese navy will have twice the effective strength it showed at the beginning of the war with Russia. Also rumored
that at the present rate of progress by 1910 the German fleet will be equal to that of Britain in new and up-to-date warships,
lhe total army of Australia numbers 20,421 of all ranks— mostly of a poor standard of efficiency.
THE SPHINX: “SOLVE MY PROBLEM OR DIE.”


NOT OUTLAWED.
Such milk. If it be found free of 1
added water and deleterious pre-
servatives, is allowed to pass and
to be sold for food, although It
may contain a thousand times 1
deadlier poison In the shape of
living organisms, the tubercle
bacilli.—‘‘Age,” on Pure Food Acte
Milkman: ••ft's all right, boss.
Them ain't deleterious matter.
Them’s on'y microbes.”
BIBLE IN STATE SCHOOLS.
One correspondent states that in
his district the fact that children
not desiring to stay for religious In- .
struction are allowed to play outside
during the time devoted to that exer-
cise, has a bad effect upon those
who stay. —Methodist report.
Oood Man : “ If It were not for those
children enjoying themselves out-
side, I'm sure this child would be
quite happy.”
NOT BEER-TIQHT.
No abuse in the sale of liquor was
meant to be suppressed more vigorously
than Sunday trading ; yet this section
Is found to permit the very practices
which It desired to make Impossible—
" Age," on the upset sections of the
Licensing Act.
The Licensing Act won’t hold water,
or even beer.
John Wren, In his use of the
Vic. elections as an advertising-
medium, ran foul of Minister
Swinburne with more £5OO
challenges.
Thomas Bent, in his devotion to
duty, dentes the rumor that he is,
about to take a long holiday.
His Duty :•• Don’t mind me. Per-
haps we both need a rest.”
Dr. Berry. Prof, of Anatomy at Mel-
bourne University, complains of the
dearth of corpses for anatomical study.
The Bulletin thinks it might be able to
put him on to the whereabouts of a
whole party of them.
The Wesleyan Conference has decided
that dancing Is not " inconsistent with
Christian propriety,” the Rev. Dr.
' Morley going so far as to believe
“ that there were many excellent people
who would get very much nearer to
the Throne than himself who danced
without any compunction of soul at
all.”
This insidious modern tendency will
stop at nothing short of corybantlc
high priests of the Wesleyan Church.
And here are depicted Wesleyans dancing with “no compunction at soul.”
POLITICS AND OTHER TRIVIALITIES.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales
has been promoted to the rank of full admiral.” —
Gable. In this connection full admiral is an
empty title.
For a speck of a place, Beechworth (Vic.)
is doing pretty well. Its little public school has
already produced two Rhodes scholars—Behan,
the first, and Rivett, the last—not to mention
High Court J ustice Isaacs.
Alex. J. Fergie, who died recently at
G-lenferrie (Vic.), aged 56, was a son of Robert
Smith Fergie, the first free man to work as a
printer in Sydney. Alex., who was also a printer,
But in 30 years, chiefly as a reader, in the Vic.
Government service.
The name of dead and gone Ebenezer
Vickery cropped up again the other day in the
N.S.W. Land Court, when his appeal against a
decision of the Parkes Land Board was dismissed,
and his deposit was ordered to be refunded. The
fact that the deposit is safe amounts, at least, to
something.
S. Australian Parliament lost one of the
men it could least spare when W. P. Cummins
died, the other day. A straight Liberal, he stuck
to his course when Jenkins, the party’s leader,
deserted it; and when Price arrived he gave him
generous support. That helped Price a lot with
S. Australian farmers, for Cummins was one of
the best-known of them. He had been in Parlia-
ment 10 years, succeeding P. P. Gillen, Kingston’s
Lands Minister, who died suddenly at a Cabinet
meeting.
According to Dr. Holtze, of the Port
Darwin Botanic Gardens (where they have a
nursery for tropical and sub-tropical plants, and
no present use for the offspring), Dr. Thomatis,
the North Queenslander who has been producing
anew variety of cotton, is shortly going a wiry to
Africa. Holtze visited the quaint old doctor fttjd
found his place a wilderness. Like a lot of other - *
Continental experimentalists, who will spend
seven years pursuing a vegetable “cross,’’Thomatis
doesn’t know what to do with the reptile when he
has caught it.
Dr. Adam Jameson, recently killed at the
age of 47 in a S’African railway smash, came to
Westralia in charge of an immigrant ship in 1884,
and practised there till ’93. Then he physicked
for a while in Rome, but returned to W.A. in ’97.
In 1901 he became Legislative Councillor for the
Metropolitan and Suburban Province, and later
on Lands Minister in the Leake Cabinet. There
he caught the eye of Governor Lawley ; and the
latter, when he was appointed to boss the Trans-
vaal, had the doctor made Transvaal Lands Com-
missioner in 1903, and he held the position until
the advent of the Botha Ministry. Dr. “Raider ”
Jameson was his cousin.
Mr. Reuben Keirl crops up too often in
Vic. affairs. Not long since Tommy Bent was
forced by stress of public opinion to re-consider
his appointment of Reuben to the position of a
sort of stray lecturer in; the State employ,
and now Boards of Advice and teachers are
crying out because Keirl has been given the
free use of State school buildings to run
his gramaphone entertainments. Other
showmen have to hire buildings for
their business, arid' everybody wants
to be told why Reuben Keirl is given
such a big pull on his rivals. It
would be useful to know whose protege
.Reuben is.
N.S.W. Labor member M ‘Garry has a
pedestrian record— he once covered the 24 miles
from Juneeto Wagga in five hours. Also, last
State elections, he walked his boots to the uppers
canvassing Queanbeyan electorate.
“Charlie” Hayes—secretary of Sydney
Exchange— goes on a trip to England, accom-
panied by much press gush—a good deal of it de-
served. He ought to interest England as an
Australian-produced sample of the characteristic
Englishman. To see Charles Hayes on a Sunday
out for a drive after dinner (a colored man
driving), his rubicund face shining in plump bene-
volence through a frame of white side-whiskers,
his white waistcoat bulging over an intensely-
respectable-sized stomach, his black hat tall.and
glossy, his ivory-handled umbrella firmly clasped
(m all weathers), is to se'e’John Bull personified.
Albert Cherbury David Rivett, M.Sc.,
who has won the Victorian Rhodes scholarship
this year, ‘is a member of a remarkably gifted
family of the right type of Australians—the type
that never produces CS.M.G. or Js.P. He is the
eldest son of the Rev. A. Rivett, of Albury Con-
gregational Church, a sturdy Radical. During
the Jingo fever the reverend talked against the
Boer war so valiantly and so uncompromisingly, in
and out of the pulpit, that he emptied his church
in record time, and became an expert in the
dodging of missiles as he walked abroad. The
Rhodes scholar, barely 21, only entered at the
eleventh hour, under pressure from his professors.
His sister (Miss Helena Rivett) has just gone to
Calcutta, under the auspices of the London Mis-
sionary Society, to shed light on the brown
heathen at one of the leading scholastic institu-
tions of that city of the Black Hole.
Pat M‘Nally, 82 years of age, rode the
mare Carrie at the Condah (Vic.) races the other
day. Carrie bolted, fell over a wire fence, and
threw M‘Nally, “ who escaped with a few
scratches and some loosened teeth.” Pat is
probably the first man to lose his teeth in a
steeplechase at the age of 82, unless Methuselah
fell off the cave bear in the Nod Cup.
“Stony”: A wealthy, inconsistent, Pie-
bald Australian, living in one of Melbourne’s
highly-decorated suburbs, has taken to himself a
new wife, who is the mother
of two half-white aliens
by a previous husband.
The new Pa, who is a
pillar of Anti-Sosh and
Discolored Australian
society, doesn’t acknow-
ledge the unfortunate
children, but says that
he and his wife have
adopted them. His anti-
White-Australian ideas
don’t go the length of
allowing him to be
proud of his wife’s pre-
vious marriage to a
nigger who, so far as
I know, was quite an
honorable and respect-
able nigger.
Trevisa Clarke, the visiting
representative of the new English
mail 1 syndicate, is the British
Johnny in excelsis. Tall, fleshy,
clean-shaven, and with a delicate pink
cheek like the blunt end of a baby, there
isonly the absence of an eyeglass and che
grey-hair to differentiate Trevisa from
the dude of many a Blanolt melodrama.
Further, he dresses the part in broad-
checked tweeds and is everywhere accom-
panied by his bath, a weird structure of
yellow tin that looks a cross between an elec-
trocution chair and an up-ended cradle.
Trevisa says “To be shuah, haw haw, deah
boy,” at frequent intervals, but all the same
seems to be one of the finest bluffers who
yet hit the land where Carruthers stands
as the boss of all bluff.
Recently there was enrolled, as a
plain, new, fresh cop in the police force of
an Australian city, an ex-captain of one of
the Australian Cohentingents. He received
the Distinguished Service Order, and was
afterwards A.D.C. to a Governor.
“G.T.” writes
John Alexander Dowie, just dead in Zion City, was a
striking example of what “neck” will do for a man.
Knew Dowie at the old Tabernacle in Fitzroy, and
remember the night when the brethren met at the Tab.
as a Band of’Ope. It was ’Lijah’s intention that night
to denounce Fitzroy publicans generally. But Bung had
friends at hand, and when the Prophet got fairly
warmed on the subject, and was vigorously cursing the
wine that mocked and the other stuff that raged, the
light blew out. There was a rush of deacons to the
meter, but some unregenerate person had removed the
meter-key. Then, to add to the trouble, the fire-buckets
in the gallery were overturned, and while the Band of
’Ope grope 1 in its pocket for matches, arid put a hand-
kerchief over its best bonnet, ’Lijah said the Benedic-
tion, and assisted in guiding the meeting to the door.
The cable which announces Dowie’s death shakes our
faith in prophets, for no mention is made of the rushing
noise of a great wind or of the Chariot of Fire.
George Warnford Lock, figuring in the
matrimonial market lately, was boss over the
Lucknow mines (N.S.W.) some years back. He
was an able mine manager, but his despotic ten-
dencies provoked endless friction. The miners
he thought bad, but the mining laws he thought
worse, and when he shook the dust of Lucknow
off his feet he trumpeted like an elephant at
pretty nearly every-
thing Australian. He
has been nigger-driving
in India and the Malay
States since.
AGRICULTURE.
We don’t plant apple-trees in the morning and get
apples in the evening.—Bent.
Well, anyway, we plant cabbages in our youth
and get funny onions in our old age.
“F.”: Saw a striking figure at Sydney
Railway Station on Thursday. Florid, white-
haired, white-bearded, and active, Edward
Alexander Rennie, ex-Auditor-General of
N.S.W., now in his 87th year. He remained in
harness until well over 80, and now enjoys the
evening of life, rurally, at Ashfield. George
Reid left no stone unturned to shift Rennie when
the old man spoke disrespectfully of the great
sham surplus that was made by charging the year
with only six months’ interest on a great part of
the public debt, but Rennie wasn’t under any. of
the stones that Reid turned over.
“Suss” : Strolled into Melbourne Tem-
perance Hall one night to hear the election address
of a Tory candidate who has been triumphantly
returned. Here is a bit of him, which I took on
the back of an envelope:—
Well, ladies and gentlemen, hi am glad that water
conver-conser-vation is being dealt in along proper
means, which I think in this connection as also hi ’ave no
doubt do ypu all, ladies and gentlemen, that is to Mr.
Swinburne, who, as you hall know, ’as taken on his
shoulders this very honerus task, and ’as, hi might
venture to say, done it well. Thanks to ’ini, in a little
w’ile droughts will ’ave disappeared from this fair conti-
nent, a thing wich hi think we may hall shake ’ands on.
And there was an hour and a half as that.
Something having to do with the amount
to be invested in Consols, or other gilt securities,
is said to be the reason Henniker Heaton fails to
blossom forth as a baronet. The Clarkes, Coopers,
Samuels, and other Australians, planted their
£50,000 or £100,000 when asked,
and thus
Bart,
a day.
guaranteed that the next
would have three meals
THE OLD MAN’S JUSTIFIABLE WRATH.
“Well, Billy, how do you like your mother getting
spliced, and having Dave for your stepfather? ”
“ Oh, I don’t care; but the old man would go off if
he was alive."
After the royal Edinburgh had been shot
at and wounded while picnicking at Clontarf,
Nurse Annie Miller, who had been one of Florence
Nightingale’s pupils, nursed him for three weeks
at Sydney Government House. Later on, the
close-fisted patient opened up sufficiently to give
nurse a gold watch. Miss Miller, who never
married, died on March 12 in Melbourne.
Here is a copy of an amusing letter written
by lovely Norman Bayles, M.L.A., to the Auto-
mobile Club of Victoria, under date 4th inst., and
duly displayed upon the notice-board of that
club. The plaintive appeal, set out on State
Parliament House letter paper, ran thus, gram-
mar and all :
“ The Secretary, Automobile Club. Dear Sir,—You
will have noticed that the Government proposes to bring
in a Motor Bill. As you know, lam a ‘ Motor Man ’ —the
only one in the Legislative Assembly, I believe. As this
Bill is soon to come on 1 feel that it would be greatly to
the advantage of all motor men that they should have
someone who can speak as an expert when the Bill is
brought forward. As I am debarred from hiring any
motors, conveyances, etc., for election purposes, I
have nothing but to rely on my friends and sup-
porters to help me in this direction, under these circum-
stances I am reluctantly compelled to ask if any
member would be so kind as to help a fello;v motor-man
on election day with his motor. —Yours very truly, Nor-
man Bayles.”
Think of Lovely Norman (laughter), the motor
wise man (loud laughter), airing his expert
knowledge of motor smells (interruption) before
an Assembly of which he has declared himself to
be the only member who motors 1 (Groans, fol-
lowed by roars of laughter.)
“It. Mac.” complains ;
“ Henry ” (B. 7/3/’O7) allows his enthusiasm concerning
Our Bill to overwhelm his accuracy. Squires was not
working for a railway contractor at ss. per diem prior to
his advent as a “coal eater.” He was navvying on J.
and A. Brown’s Minmi-li exham railway. Furthermore,
Squires never worked in a pit in the Newcastle dis-
trict. Bill never entered a coal-mine until Pelaw-Main
(Maitland district) was opened. He was not one of the
most hefty coal-hewers in Newcastle or Maitland districts;
i.e., rightly regarding a hewer as a pick-man. But Bill
is absolutely' the best machine-man in Australia. Be
even blew to smoke the two Yankee machine experts im-
ported by Brown Bros, to show the local product how to
do things. Indeed, William was about to enter into a
contract with a Westralian coal co. as expert
machine-man when he changed his mind and
launched into the pug. business. Am very doubt-
ful about the support Squires would receive in the
very remote contingency of William being a Senate
candidate. The heavy champion is looked upon very
coldly by the ultra-unionists in mining circles. His big
deeds in the mining arena were accomplished before a
tonnage-rate was adopted in Maitland district; and hard-
headed miners consider that they bad a very depressing
effect upon the scale adopted. Had there been no Squires
there would be higher wages on the field.
The Gippsland Anti-Socialists, the week
after the last Federal battle, rushed about with a
confusion like that of Babel, all talking at once,
to find some means of showing Wise’s friends that
ex-Half-Premier M ‘Lean was, in spite of his
defeat, an overwhelmingly popular man. A
statue of Mac was projected. Several statues of
Mac were projected. A fulsome “illuminated
address” and a presentation of plate were projected
in addition to the statue. A minimum subscrip-
tion of a guinea was to be fixed—contributors
to be invited to the presentation banquet.
But the guineas didn’t come in, and, after a
wordy battle had raged round half-a-guinea,
the banquet boiled down to a cup of tea
and the subscription simmered down to ss.
Then it began to be feared that there wouldn’t
be enough admirers present to raise a decent
cheer, and an alarmed committee suggested that
the thing should be just an enthusiastic meeting,
and that the public be admitted free without
refreshments. However, although it was felt
that it would be a terrible thing if “our late
esteemed leader” fell completely flat, it was
decided that the committee would perish in its
tracks before it reduced the subscription money
below half-a-crown. And there is to be no statue,
but Mac is to have his portrait painted by a
Gippsland artist—a gifted child of the forest
whose name this paper disremembers just now.
Bents fondness for recalling domestic
incidents of his past seems to be spreading to the
other Premier Tom—he of S. A. Price, the other
day, foregathering with an old political opponent
at a country institute, told the audience that one
night, when party feeling was running high, he
dreamed about that opponent—dreamed that
they came to blows. The fiery Welshman let out
an ugly left; “and then I woke up, and found
that I had given Mrs. Price a black eye.”
Victoria’s T. Bent poses as a man of great
literary tastes, and when he wishes to appear par-
ticularly erudite he either misquotes a gag or
two of Shakspeare’s, makes a vague mention of
Campbell’s “Pleasures of Hope,” or gives quota-
tions from his favorite poets, who were the song-
makers of the Roaring Fifties. He threw this
sample at his constituents, the other night
They gave up their holes and went off, Jack Jolt,
And soon left the field in despair ;
Then many a nice little nugget of gold
We afterwards got out of there.
It was Bent who seconded Premier Patterson in
his bitter and ignorant attack on Clarke’s “ His
Natural Life,” in Vic. Parliament, years ago,
and Tommy never gives the smallest hint of
knowing that there have arisen any poets in Aus-
tralia since the men who wrote digger doggerel
half a century ago.
Captain William Kenney, of the baths,
St. Hilda (Melb.), has died, aged 86. He was
born of a seafaring family in Essex (Eng.), and
went to sea when 14 years old. He got his
Captain’s “ticket” when 21, and his father set
him afloat in his brig Nancy. In 1851 he was
wrecked off King Island, but managed to make
Hobson’s Bay, with two others, in a 14ft. open
boat. A little later the Nancy was condemned as
unseaworthy, and Kenney got the notion of turn-
ing it into a swimming bath. He first beached it
at a spot close to the present site of Kenney’s
Ladies’ Baths, at St. Kilda, but afterwards floated
it off, and scuttled it where it now rests, on the
north side of St. Kilda Pier. For years Mel-
bourne took its daily swim in the vessel’s hold,
and the “bathing ship” was a very popular
rendezvous among the pioneers of the latter 50’s,
and 60’s.
An old inhabitant reminisces :
William Carrington, mining pioneer, passed out in
Central Queensland recentljq with the experience of 80
winters thick upon his head. When a young man he de-
serted an English ship at Melbourne, and went gold-
digging. He and his partners used to clear as much as
£2OOO a month in their best days, but they often knocked
the lot down in one night’s gambling. Carrington was
at Peter Lalor’s side during the Eureka Stockade fray,
and was wounded. On one occasion, at Ballarat, a miner
close to Carrington refused to show his permit to a
policeman. The officer was descending the shaft to argue
the point when his revolver went off and shot the miner
dead. The trooper got so near to an extempore hanging
that the rope was actually round his neck, when Car-
rington and another miner effected a rescue with much
eloquence and some risk, and the limb of the law
didn’t climb the limb of the tree as he fully ex-
pected to do. Carrington was on the Palmer during the
early rushes, and he got so much in the habit of rushing
that there were few new fields in Australia, Tasmania,
and Maoriland on which he didn’t take a hand.
Old “Dr.” Allen, one of the Holy City’s
alcoholic street-identities, has been sent to gaol
for having no visible habitation, by a worried
J.P. who didn’t know what else to do with him.
The doctor is a man of education, judging by his
English, which is better than that of the average
“prominent citizen,” but when harried by the
young devil-urchins of the streets his remarks
would make the ear of a hardened bullock-
puncher fry with shame at the realisation of his
own incapacity. The learned ancient begged his
way, thinly disguised as a wax-match vendor, but
he made pathetic attempts to sustain a fiction
that he was an agent for English magazines. He
would shuffle up to a man in the street with his
few matches and mumble, “Have one of these—
very handy ! That damned English mail is late
again, and I can’t get my magazines. Must do
something to tide over the time.” If refused, he
would shuffle off, with purple language rumbling
like a train in the tunnel of his beard.
A REQUIEM.
[FOF THE BULLETIN.]
Toll the bell and clang the cymbal,
Dowie’s dead ;
Zion’s captured, and another’s
At its head.
The mantle of Elijah hangs
At rest;
While moths its once prophetic folds
Infest.
The garish wings forlornly lie
Together,
While unbelievers clamor for
A feather.
But up above the skies there’s
_ Such a row,
And \yihg6d ones are laying
Odds on how
Eternal peace will linger
In the blue,
When ’Lijah No. 1 meets
No. 2.
VIC.
D. M. RAY.
DOWIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elijah’s gone, his dupes declare
To harp it with the heavenly crew,
By which the silly souls infer
That he could dupe St. Peter too.
B.
SCARCELY KNOWN FACT
DANGEROUS FOES OF OUR HEALTH
UNVEILED.
Most people are ignorant that the destruction
of the teeth is principally due to the action of
microscopically small organisms (named bacteria)
in the mouth. It is to be regretted that this fact,
so extraordinarily important to health, is not
generally realised. The family doctor should
explain to his patients, the teacher to his pupils,
and the parents to their children that care must
be continually bestowed upon the mouth so that
these microscopic creatures may not effect their
work of destruction.
Microscopic Picture of Mouth Bacteria, all most
dangerous to health.
The teeth are of superlative importance in the
preservation of health, so that it is one of the first
duties of life to know how the teeth may be pre-
served. The teeth must be cleaned morning and
evening with the antiseptic liquid dentifrice Odol,
so that the microscopic organism may not be able
to develop.
Odol' is the first and only preparation for
cleansing the mouth and teeth which exercises its
antiseptic powers not only during the few
moments of application but continuously for some
hours afterwards. Odol, as has been scientifically
proved, penetrates the interstices of the teeth and
the mucous membrane of the mouth, to a certain
extent impregnating them, and thus securing a
safeguard and preservative for the teeth such as
no other dentifrice can provide, not even approxi-
mately.


It isn’t a Shop, it's an Institution!
30000 Customers Served Daily at the New Palace Emporium
w
a?
3 §
m a Va
w
ill
r
m
!■ |,i,il Ml J l
1- ill 11> Bi!< 1 1
m
"i Vi!'
m
‘Mb
IIMII
fa fa ltd
ISS&
iPm
rrn
a
mi
m
Mi i
§ f ” 1 JHI
L>- : SMN'
' £2*
m
W£i 2?
fh±M
%
8s!
m
sp»«
r
*?s>*
B
.
!
ami
jHjgijSs
■ i ■.
iiiiiiilii
:
Si
1
sat
» I
s
Pi ; :
i
.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,'ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS, SYDNEY N.S.W
fg
A Game for RADICALS and ROYALTIES, for PALE-
FACED DENIZENS of CITIES, and RUDDY-CHEEKED
DWELLERS on the COUNTRY SIDE; for PEERS and
PEASANTS-; for MAIDS and MATRONS ; for BEEFY-FACED BOYS and SWEET-EYED GIRLS. The game for
promoting HEALTH and HAPPINESS, and for KEEPING THE DOCTOR OUT OF SIGHT.
Be Wise, Buy your Tennis Goods at
ANTHONY HORDERNS* Famous Low Prices.
OtNCtT
a:
htcc
«■««»««
a'
H. .
No. 488—Slazenger’s The E.6.M.
Ayres* Celebrated Lawn Tennis Racquets—
s. d.
Central Strung, the Ladies' favorite 24 0
The Champion, the victorious Tournament Racquet (No. 484)... 19 6
No. 3, a reliable Racquet _ ... ••• 8 0
The Sandown, best Racquet in the market at the price ... 8 9
The Handicap, a splendid Club Racquet, thoroughly well
made (No. 483) ... ... ... ... ... ••• 12 6
The Al, a beautiful Racquet, closely strung with good white
gut ... ••• 14 6
Cork Handle Racquet, strung with good white gut 16 0
Can Spliced, same principle as cricket bat handle 19 6
The Victoria, closely strung
Full size Racquets
Children’s Racquets
2O 0
5 0
... 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 9d, 4s 6d, 5 6
Slazeng'er’s Lawn Tennis Racquets
The Whitehouse...
The E.G.M. (No. 488)
The Doherty (No. 48i>)
The Pastime
The Demon
The Renshaw
The Court ..
The Player
La Belle ...
Tennis Court Marßers-
The Duplex (No. 482)
patent strung, vellum bound shoulders
Racquets Re-strung-
Ordinary ...
Central Strung
25 0
27 6
32 6
18 0
18 0
13 6
12 0
10 0
7 6
19 0
16 6
The Eagle...
Tennis Tape Court Lines, with Staples ... 7s 6d, 12 6
6 6
7 6
ffifflffiffiSB
ifiiil
rH
ra
Ptm-m
sMm:
Ekll4iJ+lM±B
H+rJ
■th
rr
No. 484— Ayres’ The Champion.
No. 487
hfg
No. 485—Slazenger’s The Doherty.
LAWN TENNIS POSTS. s d
Ayres’ Championship, with Iron Fittings, complete (No. 489) 63 0 pair
Ayres’ Cyprus, portable Iron P.osts, with Iron Fittings ... 36 0 ~
Ayres’ Premier ... ... ... 40 0 ~
Portable, in two pieces 5 6 ~
LAWN TENNIS NETS.
Tarred, 42ft. x 3Jft 5s 6d, 7s
Steam Tarred, Canvas Top i.. 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d
Steam Tarred, Canvas Top and Wire, 42ft. x 3|ft. ...16s 6d, 22s 6d, 28s
LAWN TENNIS BALLS.
Grey Regulation, uncovered, stamped “F. H. Ayres” ... 8 6 doz.
TerraCotta, stamped “F. H. Ayres” ... 8 6,,
Club, covered 9 6,,
Regulation, covered 11 6 ~
Cyprus, covered 12 6 ~
Wimbledon, covered..l3s 6d doz.
Ayres’ Championship
Covered Balls,
stamped “F. H.
Ayres” 16s 6d ~
Slazenger’s covered ...16s Od ~
Slazengers uncovered 9s 6d ~
Patent Grip Bacq.net
Press (No. 486) 2s.
Iron Markins’ Pins, 2/9 set.
These Pins may be left in
the ground, thus clearly
defining the divisions of
the court.
Racquet Presses—
Central Grip (No. 487),
Pine, Is ; Ash, Is 9d.
Racquet Gut ... Is 8d hank.
Racquet Oil, two bottles in
box, Is.
Hr!
+ !
□ j
i
RKBH
s i
FRH
fit
ino. 456.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY
N.S.W,


Elijah Dowie was formerly a prophet.
Now he isn’t much loss.
South Melbourne Councillor Strangward
has discovered that in the local Free Library
there is only one Australian work—a book of
Henry Lawson’s. Not even a Nikola story by
Guy Boothby!
President Russell Sinclair, of N.S.W.
Engineering Association, in his recent presi-
dential address:—
It is better for Australia to train its own engineers
rather than rely upon the arrival of those of other coun-
tries. Its own students start with a knowledge of local
conditions, and however expert the imported engineer
may he, he has to unlearn and relearn a great deal.
The Bulletin cheerfully presents this to the
Herald for use in its next appreciation of John-
son.
There were some curious items about the
disastrous holocaust of every car on Bent’s pet
Brighton-St. Kilda electric tramline. Apparently
the Railway Department couldn’t afford a safe
for its money, for some £30 in gold, silver, and
copper—the evening’s takings—were in a drawer
in the manager’s office, and were reduced to a
lump of mixed metal. Bent took the disaster as
a personal loss, and almost wept as he was driven
by the ruins next morning. As a matter of fact,
the fire would be a comparative trifle but for one
thing—the old, tiresome importing habit. The
carriage frames were not destroyed, and the wood-
work can be quickly re-built out of Australian
timber, but the electric apparatus—armatures,
field coils, etc.—must be got from Amerjca. One
wonders at times what sort of incompetent abori-
gines humanity would be if every country had
stuck to the importing craze as persistently as
Australia has done.
FAMOUS BEAUTY PREPARATIONS.— Valaze
—This Dainty Russian Skin Food needs no introduction.
It is used from one end of Australia to the other. It is a
toilet essential to the woman who values her good looks.
Valaze gives to its every user a clear, radiant complexion,
extracting all impurities from the skin, and making it as
soft and sweet as that of childhood. Guaranteed not to
encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d and 6s. jar (contain-
ing three times the quantity); postage 6d. Rusmo Hair
Killer, a Russian preparation for instantly removing
superfluous hairs from the face, neck, and arms. Leaves
no after trace. Cannot harm the most sensitive skin.
Widely used in European Beauty Circles. 5s. ; posted,
under cover, 5s. 3d. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore
Cure, a certain remedy for coarse skins, drawing the
pores together, and clearing away blackheads like magic.
Dr. Lykuski, the Russian Discoverer of Valaze, makes this
preparation. It is endorsed bj' the medical faculty.
2s. 6d. box, posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, most sooth-
ing to the skin, contains no alkali; prepared from
almonds and rare herbs. One cake lasts thrice as long
as ordinary complexion soap, 2s. cake ; posted, 2s. 2d.
Valaze Skin Lotion, for greasy skins. 2s. 6d. bottle,
postage 6d. Valaze Face Powder, purely herbal, con-
taining no bismuth, lead, or mercury. Shields the face
from wind and weather, 2s., posted 2s. 2d. All these
preparations sold by Chemists everywhere, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 158 Pitt-st., Sydney, and
274 Collins-st., Melbourne.
DYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY is with-
out doubt the best institution of the kind in N.S.W. All
the best books are received by post from the publishers,
in more than adequate quantities, to meet any demand.
At other libraries it is found that members have often to
wait weeks for a popular book, but Dymock’s supply the
books asked for at once. Country' members may have a
parcel of eight books exchanged as desired for the sum of
£2 12s. 6d. p.a., or £111s. 6d. for six months ; city and
suburban members, two books and two magazines daily
for the sum of £2 2s. p.a., or £1 5s. for six months;
one book and one magazine, £1 Is. p.a., or 12s. 6d. for
six months ; larger parcels and shorter periods at propor-
tionate rates. Every section of literature is represented,
including Fiction, Travel, History, Reminiscence, Belle
Lettres. All volumes are clean and fresh, each is covered
in a neat green cloth. Write for catalogues to Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Cough Cause Removed. —When the cause of a
cough is removed the cough is rightly cured. But beware
of the remedy that stops the cough but does not remove
the cause. A cough is simply a nervous spasm that is
natural when the respiratory tract is inflamed and con-
gested. It’s the condition of the membranes that should
be changed. When they cease to be irritated there will
be no cough. Senior’s Black Currant Balsam will change
the condition quicker than anything you can take. It
contains no dangerous drugs and is pleasant to take.
Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Obtainable every-
where. Prepared only at Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-
street, Sydney.*
Says London Daily Express :—
A great reform in British manners is pressingly needed.
It is a complete abandonment of that particular brand of
supercilious pride which has caused us to be more hated
by foreigners than all our other faults. The people call
it “ side.”
Now that Bent, thanks to the run of good
seasons, has been returned with an overgrown
majority he skips off for a picnic to Europe. If
he be in search of political enlightenment he can
find it right here by applying himself to, say, one
bottle of D.C.L. Whisky per week. No occasion
for Premier Bent to go all the way to Scotland
for the Whusky of the Wise, when it can be
ordered from the nearest grocer.*
AP>
TAKe
</ * c,
&
#
#
MISS ESSIE DAVIS,
Late with MARK FOY’S, Sydney, has taken a
Leading Position as Dressmaker with
GEORGE & GEORGE, LTD,,
OP MELBOURNE.
All Orders forwarded to her hy her many
clients will receive prompt attention.
All Orders should be addressed, the Firm.
ft
Goutez et Com par ez
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
3
1 “eRAV^MEmS”
lish
Are: the Ideal Fabrics
for
R/VI INCOATS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 19, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Into this holy season of Rtohetneht has cotne
ttluoh postponement. The Seventeenth of Ireland
Celebration was postponed for a week, a lot of
private gambolling on green laWns Was post-
poned, and regatta fixtures were unfixed;
Also vessels’ departures were put off; craft
put their beaks outside the Heads, smelt
the weather, and ran back to shelter.
The rain it raineth every day, and at night it
delugeth, and it slusheth in between. An old
sailor of my acquaintance (he now does up
gardens) says we’ll have five weeks of rain. For-
tunately man is fallible as a weather prophet.
At Federal Government House three Governors
and their consorts are in residence, mostly
Weatherbound. The Northcotes arrived last
week, and now the Stricklands and Chelmsfords
are there.
Lady Northcote will be at Home on Thursday
—a business homeness, to discuss the Australian
Exhibition of Women’s Work.
Mrs. Maud -Jeffries Osborne has been down from
her husband’s station for a spell, to sample
“ Robin Hood ” from the coign of the circle! Her
once twin star, Julius Knight, will probably
never again revolve on his wonderful legs round
anyone with so many graces as M.J, I shall not
soon forget the memory of Maud Jeffries, Maud
Amber, and Nance O’Neil, as they stood together
in long-tailed shining robes, opposite a long
mirror in a friend’s house. Three Americans—
and such Americans, goddesses from the hurried
land of Canned Beef !
A boy reporter, in a Lord Fauntleroy suit, who
is doing the Thaw trial for an English paper, lets
himself go in a mush of sentimentality, and
writes of the “ baby-girl wife ” giving her evi-
dence in a straightforward, simple, artless style
in “ babyish-lisping ” accents. After recounting
the awful incidents in the Room with the Mirrors,
counsel asked Baby Face, “ What was the effect
upon Mr. Thaw when you told him this ? ” She
replied: “He rose from his seat and came round
to where I was sitting, and, placing his hand on
my shoulder, he looked deep into my eyes, ” &c.
The “artlessness” of the actress! In that
agonizing moment she can use on the jury the
emotional detail of the Merely Sarah Jane
novelette.
Here is a newspaper description of Thaw (the
United States degenerate who shot Stanford
White) entering the court: ‘‘His figure is most
ungainly, and he shambles. As he walked the
feet crossed each other and the knees knocked
together.. ..ne thrust forward his unsymmetrical
head... he covered his face with his ugly fingers
with their short nails.” Now where was Thaw’s
tail 1
The farewelling of the Bland Holts was made
a long and tender function by the huge audience
that put out tentacles, so to speak, to hold the
principals back, and a ton of flowers must have gone
over the footlights. Early in the afternoon people
were waiting in the wet wind on the wet pavement
to seethe last of the’Olts for the season. Mrs. Bland
Holt goes to England to see her people, and to
throw rice at the wedding of her younger sister,
but the co. will go on its playfulway. “Seven-
oaks,” the Holts’ high-walled home in Darling-
hurst, is now occupied by Dr. Storie Dixson.
In addition to the Dibbs and Gaden golden
weddings of last week, there was that of Mr.
James Fairfax. The S.M. Herald staff cele-
brated the jubilee by presenting the head of the
firm with an illuminated address, which said
many things about charity and philanthropy and
kindness to employees—things that had a rosy,
sunset hue about them. Associated with this
recognition was a gold card-case for Mrs. Fairfax,
and a clock —rather suggestive of the flight of
time that is so poetical when it doesn’t happen to
ourselves. Editor Heney, feeling nervous and
holding anxiously to the globe with both feet,
said many appropriate things in a ten-minutes’
speech, although the matter was staid enough for
a Herald leader on the alarming prevalence of
dust in the streets. The old man responded with
some difficulty in a voice that wasn’t really broken,
though it was considerably bent.
Mr. Geoffrey Fairfax and his wife left for
London last week. Mrs. Geoff’s looks ought to
knock the English flat.
Miss Violet Mount is again in Sydney, and is
to throw in a note or two at the Philharmonic on
Thursday. She will sing Eve, in “The Creation,”
to Andrew Black s Adam, the disastrous apple-
biter. Lady Northcote and the Chelmsfords and
Stricklands will be present, so the evening ought
to be a melodious and peachy one.
i^ n< iwr ier be set rolling. This one on the
16th May, in aid of the Mater Misericordise
Hospital, in Willoughby Road, North Sydney.
(Ihe inquiring pushite pauses in front of the
name, and guesses, after deep thought, that it
means “Miserable Mother.”) The ladies’ com-
mittee, which has the ball to bowl, agreed to pro-
vide the supper and to collect for all other ex-
penses. President is Mrs. Dalton ; Mrs. Hepburn
and Mrs. Lentaigne are vice-presidents; Mrs.
Sinnott, Mrs. C. Tayler and Mrs. P. Leahy are
hon. secs., and Mrs. D. Kelly and Mrs. Phipps
are hon. treasurers.
The men with the barley in their whiskers who
run the annual show at Tentertield did a bold
thing, and offered a prize for the best lady rider,
to ride astride. Competitors were numerous—
also spectators. From this you might think that
ienterfield is a skittish place. But it clearly isn’t •
it always sends Mr. Solemn Lee, the Minister for
Works, to speak up for it in Parliament, and
quite a lot of people in Sydney who have to listen
to him call him Mr. Dismally.
Members of the Sydney Cricket Ground are
piucking up spirit Cricket is off, cycling is stale,
football nas fled to other grounds, and this pre-
sent match is the last lawn tennis tournament to
be held at Moore Park. But a substitute has
been found. Some reckless people are going to
risk their lives in a croquet tourney on the
Cricket Ground, and it is to be an annual fixture.
The members are quite excited over it, and the
members’ roll threatens to burst. The Governof
is patron, and there’s to be a championship for
singles and one for couples, and another for
doubles, and goodness knows what else.
The Arthur Lassetters and Mrs. Lassetter
(senior) leave for England next week. Colonel
Lassetter, by the way* a few months ago stuck a
sharp fountain pen several times into the City
Council about “Dirty Sydney*’* The Council
stuck back furiously, but the letters of the Colonel
had some effect, for a few days later you might
eat your granose biscuit off the roadway in the
neighborhood of the post office, if you preferred to
dine on all fours with your food on the pavement.
Spite of the rain many Sydney women are doing
a lot of fishing. The fish seem to be looking
eagerly up into the rainy world for bait. Red
bream and whiting are plentiful at Pittwater.
The Learoyds (the wool people), Miss Edith
Manning, and some-men are down there hanging
the worm in the ocean that Byron wrote about.
MadameDegen entertained, last Sunday, thirty-
two Woolloomooloo youngsters at a launch party,
rain or no rain. Herr Kretschmann, the music
maker who looks the very double of the typical
German Santa Claus, stage-managed the function.
I saw some beautiful trousseau frocks the other
day. The bride-elect who is to wear them is a
Miss Coward, of Eorbes, a member of a sheep and
grass family. The bridal gown was a bewildering
lot of cascades and billows of chiffon, lace insets
and satin. Then there was a ripping dinner
dress of ruby crbpe de chine, buckle of same stuff
on the corsage, and kimono sleeves. Nearly every
frock has kimono sleeves. I was going to have
them myself, but just then I read about how the
Jap. Government reduced Lefcadio Hearn’s
salary, and told him to live on rice, after he be-
came a naturalised Jap.
Madame Masseran, the famed figure-fixer, has
arrived in Sydney on her usual Easter trip, and is
staying at the Metropoje.
The late Mr. James Marks, who didn’t look a
bit like dying, left over £31,000 to his widow and
four children, and other relatives. Mrs. Schute
and Mrs. (Dr.) Watson of Orange, his two
daughters, get each a beautiful humpy and con-
siderable coin, and his daughter-in-law, Mrs,
Herbert Marks (one of Sydney’s very best lookers),
also takes a mansion.
Concerning provision for girls : Sydney pro-
fessional men (and others, for aught I know)
are securing their daughters’ future as far as they
may by insurance. When a girl-baby is born, it
is now the fashion for her father to insure her life,
cash to be drawn by the child at 21 or at the
father’s death. Certain spinsters in Sydney
society, whose fathers didn’t leave more than
enough cash and property of their own for their
funerals, are keeping up appearances (smart
appearances, too) on their insurance money.
Mrs. Bancroft, who was a Miss Moses of Ryde
is back in Sydney, staying at the Australia, with
her mother, and looking a pathetic figure in her
widow’s outfit. It’s a trying garb* especially if
loss of weight and an expression of sincere regret
go with it. The two Moses girls were as smart
as any Sydney could show. They both married
abroad a few years ago. Captain Bancroft was a
son of Sir Squire Bancroft, the actor.
If the German Emperor’s daughter takes after
her Pa, the Australian child actress, Wanda Rad-
ford, won’t have much to teach her. Seems a
queer story—the ten-year-old child teaching the
fourteen-year-old flapper how to act. Wanda has
a German mother, who prattled to her in the
Frankfurt sausage language in the youngster’s
Adelaide days, and both have been abroad, mostly
in Germany, for two years. So the phenomenon
teaches the flapper to act. Meanwhile, the
flapper’s imperial father acts without being
taught. Sometimes he acts the deputy-Provi-
dence, and sometimes he acts the cheerful ox, but
he seems to act something most of the time.
Those jolly-good-fellow people, the Fred Ship-
mans, are back in Sydney from the Maoriland
Exhibition and their four lawsuits. It’s only fair
to add that they were victorious in their law-
suits, and gloriously successful in their Exhibi-
tion side-shows and their MacLachlan and Narelle
concerts. Mrs. Shipman tells that Mabel Tali-
aferro, who was here with the Collier Co., has
made a fine and dandy marriage in New York to
a multi-millionaire njvmed Fred Thompson, who
owns Luna Park and the Hippodrome. He
and a collaborator are writing a play for his doll-
sized wife, in which she will ride a bare-backed
horse or some such. Anyway she is to be an
equestrienne star. It is to be hoped that when she
is mounted somebody will tell the horse that it
has got someone on its back.
Scotch Jessie MacLachlan opens here towards
the end of the month —no doubt to the joy of the
Highland Society. Which reminds me that that
important thistle of the Society, Dr. Taylor
Young, and his Mrs. are making what they
intend to be a thousand miles tour in an
automobile. A friend who passed them out-
side In verell tells me that when his Red Slayer
ran by, the doctor and his' chauffeur were both wrig-
gling under the motor, looking for its appendix,
whilst close at hand was an old donkey cart, and
under the donkey, which wouldn’t go, was its
owner lighting a straw fire. The lady in the
motor and the lady in the cart were exchanging
sympathetic glances. This is funny, but it’s not
true —except by an extraordinary coincidence.
Am sure I saw a picture illustrating the joke in
an American paper. “Sisters in Affliction” it
was called.
The beautiful Count Peretti, &0., who once
bloomed at the French Consulate in Sydney, has
returned to France from San Frisky. He was
much too fine to be wasted on a city that is now
mostly scrap-iron and potsherds.
From January 1 to December 31 Sydney
musicians just manage to make the appearance of
an existence. Good Friday night is the one evening
in all the year on which they can accumulate a
trifle of wealth. And that is the night on which
the Town Hall authorities raise the rent some-
thing awful. Poor music-makers will have to pay
£57 10s., and the usual figure is under £25. The
Centenary Hall folk, influenced by this blood-
sucking example, are charging thirteen guineas.
Which reminds me that the fin® soprano bird,
Miss Lanceley, will make her final appearance
with Andrew Black, at the Town Hall on Good
Friday night.
Great excitement over the Uni. Senate elec-
tions. There are offering Miss Macdonald (of
the Women’s College), Mr. Leverrier (a brother
of the pianiste), Dr. Maitland* and Mr. A. G.
Ralston. Odds on the last-named are short.
Miss Eugenie Duggan will be back here Easter
Saturday to play “The Village Blacksmith”—
not that she will be the blacksmith, but she will
supply the feminine interest to the story of the
brawny person who hooked the honest perspira-
tion from his brow.
A Sydney barmaid took a huge number of votes
in the balloting for the Queen of Wonderland
City competition, but the Tivoli star, Gracie
Grahame, got ahead solidly, and her coronation
will occur to-morrow night.
A gorgeous, new rendezvous for Australasians
has been called into existence in London by Mr.
Stewart Dawson. He has been occupied at it for
nearly two years. It is built of fine, white Port-
land stone, and is in the best part of Hatton
Gardens, Reading, writing, and tea-rooms, with
the leading Australian and Maoriland news-
papers, guide-books, telephone, stationery, postal
facilities and attendance are free to the visitors
from these parts. And the S.D. firm cordially
invites visitors to refreshing tea and the run of the
rooms from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Jewel show-rooms
are also in the building, but the tea-lapper, paper-
reader, and letter-writer will not be expected to
buy. Still if he, or she, does, criminal proceed-
ings won’t follow.
Marie Hall, the violiniste—in the front rank of
the tribe —is coming here presently. This is
stale news, of course, but it points this talette.
At her farewell recital in London a new con-
tralto appeared. Miss Mary Stuart. Up to three
years ago Miss Stuart had no singing voice at all,
and she was making a reputation as a piano
soloist, when she contracted an illness that
made necessary an operation on her throat.
The specialist who speared her told her
she might develop a voice. For two years
she nursed even her speaking voice; then
one day, trying over accompaniments, she began
to sing like Clara Butt. She proceeded to
train, and is now taking two steps at a time up
the ladder of successful song. She is a dolly of
6ft. 2in. Her case ought to make operations on
the throat fashionable. There’s a difference
between gaining a great voice and losing your
appendix.
That somewhat pinchbeck hero, Baden-Rowell,
has had a bad time over an alleged ancestor.
8.-P. has, in writing and speaking, always
claimed John Smith, who is said to have partly
founded Virginia 300 years ago, as his direct
ancestor.. That was before Virginia became
a convict colony and ceased to be respect-
able. Smith was a stout soldier, and the
first figure, for some years, in the province. At
a dinner at the Savoy lately, 8.-P. waved his
John Smith pedigree in much the same way as he
did his sword at Mafeking. He even gave a bust
of John Smith, “ composed” by himself (8.-P.),
to the State of Virginia. A copy of a paper
containing the waving of Smith by the hyphened
hero was sent to the president of the Virginia
Historical Society, and that cold, courteous
gentleman, who would seem to have authorities
and proofs and dates for vitals, writes'to the',
Saturday Review protesting against the claim.
John Smith, he says, was never married, and
there is no proof that his brother or sister left
issue, Also, that accurate, cold person points out
that John Smith’s will is still extant at
Somerset House, and the testator makes no
mention of wife or child or nephews or nieces.
He also challenges the Heralds College to show
cause why it has allowed 8.-P. to claim this extra-
sized Smith and to bear his arms. Of course,
there is always the possibility that the President
of the Virginia Historical Society is biassed by
hatred of Baden-Powell’s amazing hat, which
emotion might lead even a respectable man into
devious courses.
It is suggested, to cope with the craze of youth-
ful English society misses for marrying chauffeurs,
that the legginged, goggled driver of the thing that
smells should be called plain “carman.” But it
won’t work. Think of the Society woman’s joy in
being able to mention the family chauffeur to the
motorless She. For such joy she must pay some-
thing—and a daughter, after all, is such a little
thing to sacrifice.
So necessary is a fancy-dress when you go a-
journeying on a liner, that you can no more afford
to forget it than you can your deck chair. Every
woman takes along a fancy costume on which she
has thought long thoughts, and for which she some-
times gives a long price. Each reveller is desirous
of taking the prize. Some men also take fancy
costumes along.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
The weather prophet in this benighted land has no
consideration for vice-regal folk. He deluged them on
arrival, has half-drowned them on every conceivable
occasion since they have been here, and has now rendered
the roads to Gabbinbar, and the lawns thereat, so im-
possible, that once again the garden party is postponed.
A scheme for turning the garden party into a diving
contest amid the flower-beds was abandoned, after
serious consideration.
Mr. Harry Mullet is due to footthe bill at thematrimonial
altar, on Wednesday, with Miss In ellie Johnson, of the Bur-
nett. The scene is to be All Saints’, and the wealth, fashion
and ancient lineage Of Bundaberg are arriving by the
dozen for the event. Dr. Alex. Marks follows suit on
Easter Saturday. His bride, a pretty daughter of the
Emerald Isle, is due to arrive from the bogs the
previous day. Yet another doctor takes to himself a
wife on the 20th, in the person of Dr. Ross, of Townsville.
Miss Connie Scott is the other half of the contract.
Doctors have been rushing things of late.
The Cat Club held its annual meeting on Saturday
evening, 16th inst., when a great revival took place. A
credit balance and a full membership made everyone
feel good, especially as this time last year there was talk
of shutting the doors owing to financial straits. The old
committee, with Mrs. Joey Bell as president, and Miss E.
Dickson as secretary, went back unopposed, and every-
thing seems to have settled down nicely until the next
show of claws. Miss Kidgell, from Sydney, is the newest,
brightest, freshest kitten on the members’ list.
The first day of the Patricks’ meeting, at Ascot on
Saturday afternoon, was a sort of informal opening of
J?® f a * on ’ but fair patrons are still away (most of
them, at all e\ ents) at the seasii e, and frocks and frills
were mainly left-overs from tl j London season. The
weather was muggy and steamy, and vaguely sue!
gested washing-day with the lid off. Mrs. Cecil Palmer
and a white gown sprayed over with roses, and a roof
piece in which the same flowers were largely in evidence
Was the best-turned-out woman present. Miss Coowr
Wore white, with a touch of pale blue, while Miss
McDouga. sported a touch of heliotrope. The Chief
Justice was also present.
Yours Affectionately,
AKLNEHL


YOUR NEXT HAM 1
Buy the Q.M.E. Brand for a change
—any good grocer will supply you.
Equal to ANY brand of English
Ham —sweeter —more tender-
juicy—with a flavor that is
all their own. Make up
your mind to have the •
h
best Ham your money
can buy and let it be
a Q. M.E. They
cost no more than
the ordinary
kind.
HAMS and BACON.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
fIADAriE MASSERAN Corsetlere,
of Melbourne, bejys to inform her
clients that she will be at the
HOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY,
From FRIDAY, 22nd MARCH, to THURSDAY,
4tn APRIL, both days inclusive.
roRTHtJJTVNICIJVG
SEASON
«r
o
$
$
a
a
Os>
o,
as
D
A
V<2
r\.
I^s
Cors
vf<>cl
e:
Ask For
iVS,
to His Majesty King Edward VII.
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
UPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may- be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
,Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Sb Go.
Lombard Chambers,
07 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
tockjnet
®ress
jyjORE than one Smart and Effective Costtime has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers* A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 18, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
A picnic-looking crowd motored and cabbed its
way out to Clayton, last week, to help the Talbot
dame turn the key in a big airy Home for
Epileptics that is in the last stages of completion.
A beaten copper archway inside the porch
announces it as the “Talbot Home,” and the
charitable governoress has put much energy into
the collection of funds for the movement. Mr.
James Mason gave the ground—a large and valu-
able property. Lady Sydenham Clarke worked
like a Trojan for it before her departure, and from
the very origin of the scheme, years ago, the name
of white-haired Alice Henry (Melbourne press-
woman, now Professoring and speeching in
America) shines out like a masthead light for
indefatigable toil. There is plenty of ground for
a farm, and for chicken-raising or any other old
work, and there is also an incipient orchard—very
incipient as yet.
The Institute of Domestic Economy that is
going to revolutionise the servant-bothered
homes in Victoria, was declared open by Lady
Talbot on Saturday.. The Institute will certificate
its students. So far, the pupils are girls who are
aiming at competence to manage their own homes,
rather than at securing employment from other
folk; but the reassuring fact remains that they
will be equal to either destiny, and qualified to
struggle with the vast orb of the kitchen stove on
their own or anybody else’s premises.
Premier Bent, as money-giver, spoke some, and
floundered about in crude speech. The dowager
Janet, who has been working like a Trojan, spoke
up warmly for the keenest worker in the move-
ment, Miss Vaile (“ Rita ” of the Herald), who
has battled for this scheme for years. . The
students made tea, and served it with cookies
they had manufactured in the morning. There is
quite an established luncheon at the : rooms every
day—well patronised by folk from the Law Courts
opposite. The rooms are the old. Crown .Law
offices, rescued from appalling dinginess by cute
re-decoration and artistic furnishing. The furni-
ture is made in Australia mostly, out of gum-tree
and beaten copper.
A lot of serious young men reporters got a
shock lately. The College of Domestic Economy
has started operations in Melbourne, with a cer-
tain Miss Sands, a Technical College graduate
from Sydney, presiding. The college sets out' to
supply a type of woman calculated to make this
earth a heaven below. Any normal female can
enter it not knowing beef from mutton, and leave
it a chef. Naturally at the head of such an insti-
tution the press boys expected something of the
Abbess order—or at least a starchy person of com-
manding appearance. What actually floated on.
their vision was a charming young person in her
early twenties, a long-tailed cap, fascinatingly
goffered, set on a curly head. Whilst she calmly
supplied data for their note-books, the dazzled
brotherhood appeared to be making only one
unanimous note —“Isn’t she a peach !”
The Collins-street pavement seems a few sizes
too narrow for the important promenades of Herr
Pinschof since he acquired the new name of
“ Von ” from his Emperor of Austria. It is now
Consul Von Pinschof, if you please, a brother in
the Foreign Office at Vienna having arranged the
matter for Carl in Melbourne. A “ Von ”is prac-
tically the German equivalent for a K.C.M.G.,
and one is expected to lay due stress upon the
additional term. The distinction extends to the
family, of course; therefore this is a suitable
moment for converting “Madame ” Pinschof into
Frau Von Pinschof, which disposes of an absurd
inconsistency m appellations. The mixing of
prefixes in tiie Pinschof family—Herr, Madame,
and Miss for popper, mommer, and the girls—has
been something of a joke for years past. And, by
the way, why don’t English-speaking people call
all foreigners Mr. or Mrs. or Miss? When John
Bull goes on the continent of Europe he has to be
content to be Monsieur Bull or Herr Bull, or what-
ever the local term may be, and the idea is a good
one. Our system works fairly well for a little
way; we know that a Frenchman is Monsieur
and a German Herr, and we know a Senor and a
Signor. But who does know for certain what to
do with a Russian or Turk or Greek ? Is he Mon-
sieur or is he one of the common Herr-ed, or what
is he? Should we call the Turk Pasha, and
address the Russian vaguely as Prince or Nihilist
or Samovar, or what ?
German joy at the arrival of the Teutonic opera
co. expanded itself into a serenade outside the
Grand on Thursday night. It provided a unique
entertainment for all the Grandites and for a
huge crowd of German and other folk, who
thronged Spring-street. The opera company
filled the balcony of the drawing-room, and at
the conclusion of the serenade, the huge, sonorous
voice of the giant, Herr Greder, thundered out
in answering thanks. Herr Greder is stage-
manager and chief basso of the company. His
voice is a bottomless pit of sound, and could
almost be'heard at Richmond.
Afterwards there was supper within the hotel,
and Beer—a cask of beer that stood naked and
unashamed save for a flimsy decoration of ribbon
round the jovial embonpoint of its waist.
“ Prosit ” punctuated the clatter like gun shots,
and sudden bursts of wonderful chorus finished
with the tremendons “ Hoeh ! Hoch ! Hoch ! ”
George Musgrove and a small dinner party were
drawn into the whirl. There were Norman
Menzies and his petite Dorofchy-Vane wife, the
recently-returned Colliers, and Rupert Clarke and
Lawyer Purves. Men with magnificent voices
sang songs with the alacrity and unaffectedness
of schoolboys, and huge grown-up citizens cast
themselves headlong on the waters of emotion and
sentiment in a way that no Englander could be
capable of.
The prima donna of the company—the Elsa of
“ Lohengrin is a big, fair, beaming American,
of German family. There are two Americans in
the group. In Wagner opera not only the voice
but the type is of importance. Elsa will quite fill
the bill. She is a magnificent woman, with an
exquisite profile and sweet expression.
The Staughton widow gave, at the Mansions
the other day, a cosy little luncheon party.
The table was all roses. The thing now is not to
have your florist send up cut flowers and a girl,
but the “scheme” is daintily, solidly planted in
baskets—big baskets, little baskets, middle-sized
baskets—and they are planked right there on the
spot, every hostess being entitled to use her own
discretion as to the placing of the baskets. Thus
she escapes the tyranny of the girl with, the cut
blossoms.
A kitten talks engagingly about the folly of
other cats. She says : “ First time.l took a sea
voyage I thought it ripping. So would anyone.
There were six men on board to every woman
under fifty. But this trip was vile. Most of the
cats were over thirty. You know the type-
pastel frocks, with all-revealing,, half-concealing
chiffon yokes, over-tight corsets, and red-gold
hair (fearfully expensive; but so effective).
A Veil, these creatures were all seasoned sailors —
many-seasoned !—and they had their own wicked
way for a time. When we juniors had suffi-
ciently recovered to be capable of flirtation, we
found them in triumphant possession of every
male in the saloon who wasn’t old enough to be a
husband—their husband, that is. However, we
routed the autumnal beauties. We challenged the
youths to early deck-games, and made rendezvous
near the bathrooms. There the foolish ones had an
opportunity of seeing their over-night ideals with
hair and rose-bloom off—and chin-straps and
skin-foods on—and comparing us with them.
Great success ! For the rest of the voyage they
were treated like mothers by the boys—like
grandmothers by us girls.” Alas ! for, the grass-
widow 1 The budding spinster is becoming cute
enough tp beat her at her own game.
Miss Alice Chapman, a Vic. portraitist, has
been exhibiting a ' painting of one Councillor
of Prahran. It is a, faithful likeness,
and otherwise a capital piece of work. And the
frame is just sumptuous. But why, oh ! why
should time and art be devoted.to the glorification
in oils of a suburban councillor, even if he has
been a mayor in the dark and half-forgotten past ?
Butter would be a more suitable preservative
medium. One never meets a town councillor
who cquld , stand the search-light of personal
criticism above the knee. In rare instances, their
legs are impressive; but their municipal counten-
ances—never !
The very latest kind of club for the society
woman is the Ailment Club. If she be addicted
to indigestion and she join The Dyspeptics, she can
compare notes with her sister members as to the
curative virtues of hot water, raw minced steak,
&c. A successful case of appendicitis can co-
mingle with those who have also been through
the surgicalmill, and gleefully enumerate the num-
ber of stitches in her wound, and state the exact
measurements of the missing portion. Every dis-
ease has its little clique of adherents at the club.
There is no longer any need for the woman with
“ symptoms ” to be ashamed of them, or to seek,
in vain, a sympathetic audience. All she has to
do is to find her level—-in other words, her club—
and glory in her infirmities. Audience, sympathy,
fraternity, and any number of interesting prescrip-
tions await her.
The “Mother Goose” goslings positively
worship Florrie Young. She plays with them
while she is waiting for her cue—talks to them,
chuckles with them, amuses them. With the
threatened break-up in view the children enthu-
siastically put together their sixpences and bought
her a casket. The presenting of it was a great joy.
Florrie gave a party in return at her rooms on
Saturday afternoon.
The tall daughter of the Jam Hoadleys took
unto herself a short husband, last week, amid
much flower-scattering and girly gaiety. An
extremely tall sister, and a friend to match, sup-
ported the bride. They carried props—no, Empire
staves —which flaunted glorious crimson carna-
tions and waved crimson streamers.
The car conflagration is a really serious matter
to our sex, and still the authorities go about
preening themselves on the fact that the new cars
will presently be running. No amount of new
cars can possibly repair the damage done to at
least half-a-dozen most promising flirtations.
Promising pairs used to make an exhilarating rush
to Brighton and saunter to a moonlit pier, there
to commune on the tariff and things. The fire
stopped that, and so consumed quiteaheapof hopes
as well as cars. There will be new vehicles, of
course ; but, by the time they are running, the
male half of the flirtation will have found another
girl, and the suspended idyll will never resume
business at the old stand. They say the trouble
was incendiarism. Probably it was the Other
Girl who did the dreadful deed.
Have you ever worked on one committee?
Have you by chance been on two at the same
time ? It makes one gasp to discover the over-
whelming number of charitable societies that
Lady Talbot has been closely connected with
in Victoria. Last week all the committees of 40
societies rose up to call her blessed, and
thank her for her cheerful aid. The smile was
turned on to its full when she received those
farewell thanks. She was thinking less of what
she had done, perhaps, than of the fact that she
was now relieved from doing it. Even a little
work on 40 societies must become a bore.
The neglected Masonic Hall was glorified into
a drawing-room for the occasion. The Combined
Committee wore its most rustlesome frock—the
one that sounded like dry leaves in autumn —and
its featheriest hat. There was not one cheap
brown frock or one brolly clutched in a serviceable
cotton glove amid the whole crowd of charity
ma’ams ! The now pale and pensive Chief Judicial
dame (all the Madden clan rolled up) spoke her
little piece sweetly and voiced the farewell.
Clever Una Bourne is back again—just as
simple and old-fashionedly pretty as of old, but
taller (in deportment, anyway), and cleverer than
ever. She roused a fairly big house to wild
enthusiasm at her concert on Thursday night.
Power and firmness have been added to her deli-
cate touch.
Poor old George Turner looks grave and grey
these times. His better half, on the contrary,
adds to the gaiety, of Riversdale Road, Hawthorn
(the locality of the present Turner domicile), by
the frank juvenility of her toilettes. The main
points of one of her favorite costumes are fluffy
pale-blue .frock and pink straw hat wreathed with
roses. The dark coat and skirt and toque of old-
rose worn by the buxom dame’s attendant daughter
or niece is in quaint contrast to Mamma’s
girlishness.
J. D. Law,’ general manager of the Bank of
Victoria, the qther‘ evening hosted a welcome-
home party to his pply son, Dr. Charlie Law, just
back from foreign parts. Law junior, unlike his
grave financial, dad, has always been addicted to
amateur theatricals. Tall, personable, and suf-
fioientlv equipped with gifts and graces, the young
Australian received much encouragement in Eng-
land to set his face stagewards, but, resisting the
temptation, stuck stoutly to his work as a mental
specialist.
The Caledonian Society gathered a Gaelic
horde at the Town Hall on Wednesday, for the
avowed purpose of fostering a love for the
national music of Brose-Land. Programme, per-
formers, and audience were mostly Scawtch, and
were perfectly satisfactory to each other. But a
slim lassie, who sang coyly of kisses in the rye-
field, went close to reconciling Australians even to
haggis.
Evangeliste Ada Ward had quite a smart audi-
ence at her first soul hunt. She rewarded it with
some magnificently declaimed prayers, and ultra-
ecstatic invocations. Spiritual game was shy,
however, and the picturesque Diana of the
Salv’army didn’t run down even the slowest devil.
But the well-trained Harmy cadets were gathered
in with great slaughter. Ada’s arraignment of
the theatre and its evils was highly dramatic.
Listening to Ada’s melodious voice, a little
marred by long use, and observing her gorgeous
hair, now just a shade less radiant than of old,
it is easily understood that she should prefer
her present prominent role to mamma parts in a
stock co.
Premier Bent leaves us for a period, taking
Mrs. Bleazby and grandchild Nancy along. Our
Boeotian Bent takes himself to alien parts for the
second time in a quarter-century. By the way,
the Premier’s only child—stout, motherly Mrs.
Bleazby aforesaid —tells her friends that she can
never harden herself to the point of enjoying
newspaper jokes at Pa’s expense. The elderly
Bluffer, at all events, has the knack of keeping
on the right side of his home comforts. His
daughter, grand-daughter and niece all swear by
him.
Young Australia is apt to let his own rightful
plums drop into the mouths of outsiders. A
number of dilatory johnnies should kick them-
selves on learning that the eldest daughter of the
late Mr. McKell (McKell and Speedie), whose
will was lately proved at £BO,OOO, has met her fate
outside the Commonwealth. She is a pretty,
bright, dainty girl and a clever one—a M.A. of
Melbourne’Varsity, but the right man delayed his
coming in Australia, so she went forth with an
aunt to see the world. After a short experience
of Yankeedom, she wrote home that she nad not
met a “gentleman ” since she left the Common-
wealth and did not expect to do so till she got to
Ireland. Next thing, she was engaged to a
Californian.
Local suffragettes mean to make a splash
shortly. In order to drag their cause into the
glare of the limelight, one of them is going to
break the law. But not in a vulgar, police court
fashion. A champion of her sisters’ rights is to
refuse to pay her incpme-tax, and see if Mr.
Prout Webb won’t make her a public heroine by
distraining on her gcods, and causing her some
inconvenience. Then the Leg. Council will be
asked to show cause for such action, while it
refuses the intrepid lady a vote. Miss Vida
Goldstein is tipped as a probable starter for the
Bailiff Stakes.
The theatres were packed to overflowing on St.
Paddy’s night, and The Narelle, in the Town
Hall, sang “Donald A’Boo”and other exciting
songs to a wildly-enthusiastic crowd. Outside,
the crowd was a little over-enthusiastic. An
official tried to put up a “ House Full ” placard
and close the doors, but found he had to
reckon with warm, holiday-making Irish blood.
Black helmets bobbed up from nowhere, and soon
a good old shindy was in full swing at the head of
the steps. More police came to the rescue, and,
after a fine swirl of green and a billow of caubeens
and language, things settled down. But sure, it
was a beautiful St. Patrick’s Day.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide:—
Professor Mitchell, who has been peering learnedly at
Europe, returned to Adelaide with his wife the other
day. He superintends some fearful and occult branch of
learning at Adelaide ’Varsity, and can tell you exactly the
cause of prawns or kings or any other circumstances.
During his jaunt in Britain Professor Mitchell went to
some learned carousal at Aberdeen University, where he
was permitted to gaze on the august countenance of
Edward VII. Then he went back to London and pub-
lished a learned volume on the “ Structure and Growth
of the Mind,” being urged thereto by consideration of the
shape of the Imperial cranium.
Others just returned, whole and sound, from the Old
(and decrepit) World are the Tom Scarfes and their two
small picture-children.
Gadders to the old Ma Land multiply with quite a fear-
some rapidity these days, and the Island seems to be
growing unduly popular. Adelaide’s great and sudden
K.C., Josiah Symon, whose wife left by the Common-
wealth several weeks ago, grabbed a Parliamentary recess
and a ticket to Britain, and jumped on board the Bremen
last week. The principal object of the Symon trip is to
deposit Symon junior in a naval school. Fashionable
bolters of the near future include Mrs. Evan Kyffin
Thomas (of the Register clan), a tall, youthful dame of
considerable charm and grace, who goes on a brief visit
to her relatives in the city of Babylon junior. Miss
George, head-mistress of the Advanced School for dam-
sels, also tears herself away to England in April, for the
ostensible purpose of attending a conference of that weird
organisation, the League of the Empiah.
The new Dutton steam-launch begins to justify its
existence by gathering together a sassiety party and
dashing up Spencer’s Gulf in search of excitement and
rocks. His genial Excellency is the chief capture. Other
guests include Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ayers, Mr. and Mrs
Herbert Rymill, and one or two others of the Great
Elect. (The Elect are quite different from the Smart
Set, which is merely a crowd that plays Bridge on
Sundays.)
The populace trekked up in large quantities all last
week to take a private and invited peep at the pictures
of those clever dauberesses, Misses Rose McPherson and
Bessie Davidson. The number of sales already achieved
by the two artists is something of a hall-mark in itself
in this State, where the beautiful banner of economv
Waves in the breeze. The Exhibition shows a refreshing
dearth of the fearsome grass and cow landscape, so preva-
lent in most local art shows, and even the übiquitous
“ still life ” is only represented by one or two excellent
studies. The figure work is fine, and there are some
delicate little bits of Parisian streets at night, and scenes
in quaint French villages. The most strikingly oria-inal
work is that done by the enterprising pair in Tangier
depicting snake-charmers, and other weird Moorish
clergymen and celebrities.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
\ LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
pea
&O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Ha geo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Atistraliai
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-, Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order On London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
Hundreds of grateful people testify to the
magical power of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm over
rheumatism. For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
fg
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS > S g Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINT
If the British Government is wise, it won’t
allow the miniature Duke to open the new Parlia-
ment of the Transvaal. The Boers are mostly big,
whiskered men, and they would be half-inclined
to call the little heir-apparent “ Sonny.”
What makes the general public wild with
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade is that he always
bowls a “ wide.” A bowler will often get slogged
through sheer hard luck, and yet attract sympathy.
But Wade never seems to be on the wicket at all.
In brief:—
Budkins
Judkins
Jehadkins
Jehovahkins
March 16—Mudkins.
Queensland Labor Conference has prac-
tically declared war on Kidston, and unless the
branch leagues have the sense to withhold vote-
splitting candidates the chances of the Tory Philp
seem to be rosy. The Trades Hall faction will
certainly do its best to cut off Queensland’s nose
in order to spite Kidston’s face.
Joe Cook, whose cocksureness has not yet
recovered from the shock of the last Federal
elections, informed a Parramatta women’s meet-
ing, last week, that the saintly G. H. Reid was
defeated by a combination of Catholics, gamblers,
Protectionists and drunkards, and that only the
most energetic action will save Carruthers from a
like fate at the coming elections. The unhappy
Joseph then sat him down surrounded by a feeling
that he was quite an ornament to his country.
California, bullied thereto by President
Roosevelt, yields the point about allowing Japs,
who are often grown men, in its State schools
along with white children. In return, certainly,
the State gets the advantage of an agreement
limiting Japanese coolie immigration. But there’s
no reason why it shouldn’t have both the right
to keep further Japanese out and to keep the ad-
mitted ones out of the white children’s schools.
America, in its worship of trading interests, is
losing its national ideals.
“ D.A.” : I have it on good authority—an
applicant, who “thinks he will get it ” —that the
N.S.W. Government is about to appoint an addi-
tional factory inspector, said applicant being ad-
vised and piloted by two Ministers. He has
reported to the Public Service Board for “ exami-
nation,” which consisted of a few formal questions
as to birth, age, &c., but nothing as to qualifica-
tions for the important position he seeks. The
billet has not been advertised in the usual way.
Yet, with the advent of the P. 5.8., political
influence was to have been killed !
PATRIOTISM.
To deliberately propose to break in on the course of
Australian prosperity with a great industrial war in
order to coerce the pastoralists in the old ruinous man-
ner is an act of such perversity as to amount to actual
wickedness. —Argus on Australian Workers’ Union
manifesto re shearing rates.
FAT'S CHAMPOIN : “ Oo, you naughty man! You
’orrid, wicked criminal—’ow dare you try ter
upset Australia's prosperity? ”
Varney Parkes, Jacob Garrard, Sydney
Smith, and several other of Henry Parkes’ old
beasts of burden threaten to return to N.S.W.
State politics. The men named did fairly well in
Kolitics while last in harness—they were either
[misters or members of the Public Works Com-
mittee—but they threw away cash in other ways,
and hadn’t much when they were bowed out.
Syd. Smith has made a good recovery, financially,
since.
The first time an Australian Government-
resumed the land of a private individual was in
the case of a German named Schaeffer, who came
out a free immigrant, and was granted 140 acres.
by Governor Phillip. Schaeffer went in for
tobacco growing, and the seasons and plants and
seeds were against him. He bartered the 140'
acres for 50 acres nearer Sydney, and then, being
still a failure, he took to the bottle, or rather the-
keg, and the Government determined to buy him
out. It practically ordered him off, with compen-
sation amounting to about £1 an acre. The bitter-
irony of the case was that the compensation was.
paid in rum—2o gallons at about 50s. a gallon—
and when Schaeffer had finished drinking it he-
was worse off than if he had met a land agent.
Thirty years later, Schaeffer’s 50 acres were-
worth £lOO,OOO.
Melbourne Argus related this interview
with a gentleman who got a fracture of the skull
and another of the jaw because he didn’t believe
in Judkins, and seemed not at all ashamed of the-
kind of people who supported its candidate :
“ Vote for Anstey,” said I, “and you will be voting for
freedom, good wages, fair hours, and the sanctity of the-
marriage tie.” “Hear, hear!” said the crowd, and
“No, no!” said those who were drinking pony shandies,
in the corner. “ You all know Mr. Anstey,” said 1,,
waxing warm ; “you all know Mr. Anstey to have the-
general welfare of the people at heart, and to be a man,
who has never stooped to stir up sectarian strife.”
“Sosh !” said one of the men with the pony shandies..
" Wowser !” said I.
“ Wowser yourself! ” said he.
“ The lemonade’s gone to your head,” said I.
“ He’s a better man than Anstey, anyhow,” said he.
“ Who ?” said I.
“Judkins,” said he.
“ Puss ! ” said I.
“ Pup !” said he.
“ What sort of pup ?” said I,
“ Yellow !” said he.
“ Wowser 1” said I, and walked indignantly out of the-
bar.
Just as I got outside the back door I heard someone,
running behind me. I turned round, and it was the-
Judkins supporter with an iron bar in his hand. He hit.
me over the head and I fell. Then he kicked me on the
jaw, and I think I went to sleep.
Queensland Lands Department is backing;
up the Commonwealth in its struggle to keep-
Australia white. It recently issued regulations,
providing that any alien desiring to select or
acquire land must, before lodging any application,
or document in connection therewith, apply for a.
certificate that he is able to read and write from
dictation words in any language the Minister for
Lands may direct. But as disaster and Philp.
may strike Queensland some day, the provision-
making the language European ought to be nailed
tighter on to Queensland than a mere regulation,
can fasten it.
The S.M. Herald is quite mad at present
on the subject of importing people. On the-
Defence question it says :
If our Military Council is to be of service it must have
some degree of independence. Officers must be able to-
speak unreservedly, their views must be received with
some deference, and their course of action facilitated.
For this purpose there should be two Imperial officers as
members of the council.
It gives the show away. We must have Imperial
officers because their views will be received with
deference, and “their course of action’’ will be-
“facilitated.” The Australian’s views may be
better, and his course of action sounder; but good-
ness and soundness don’t count —only the fact,
that the officers are imported is of any value.
Vic. Premier Bent still gasps for air, after
reading the letter of Yernon A. O. Thomas.
V.A.C.T., whose scheme The Bul-
letin outlined a while ago, wants,
permission given to a shindykit to
annex the Yarra water-power at War-
randyte and Horseshoe Bend. (Board
of Works engineer Thwaites proposes,
to weir the river lower down.) Very
Atrocious Concessionaire Thomas
says that the gross return to his.
shindykit would probably be £53,000-
a year-net return, £45,000, or 30 per
cent, on capital. He wants a license
to take the people’s river for 50-
years (net return for 50 years,
£2,250,000). However, Violently
Aggrandising Capitalist Thomas ap-
parently recognises that he won’t
get the concession, for he now puts
forward a suggestion that if the
municipalities shove him aside and
do the thing themselves, he should
receive (here is where Bent got it
in the wind) either £90,000, or else
£4OOO for expenses, and one year’s
gross revenue from the scheme when
in full work. The letter of Vigorously
Assertive Cove Thomas is at present
shedding a lurid light in one of
Bent’s pigeon holes. By the Way, a
Bulletin contributor propounded
the whole Thomas scheme a number
of years ago, and never thought of
asking for £90,000 ; all he demanded
was payment for his paragraph.
Once more Australia shows
Britain how to do things. The new
Patents Bill to be introduced this
session into the House of Commons follows the
principle of the Australian Act, that locally-
granted patents must be worked locally or they
won’t hold good.
One of the most telling Protectionist
speeches heard in Sydney for a long time was
delivered by Storey, M.L.A., at the send-off to
hatter W. Anderson :
If Mr. Anderson will take my advice he will not ask for
any increase in the tariff. His is an enterprising- firm,
but Australia is full of other enterprising men, and, the
moment the tariff is raised, they will enter into compe-
tition with him. If he acts wisely he will ask for no
further increase.
That is to say, if the tariff is raised there will be
more hat factories and more work for hatters.
The people of Australia will get hats cheaper
than they do now. Therefore, there will be less
profits to be made out of hats by hatter Anderson.
This is the catastrophe of Protection as set forth
by Foreign-trade hatter Storey.
HI YAH!
Major Karri
Davis, of erst-
while S’African
notoriety, being
entertained
.lately by his old
school (Scotch
College, Mel-
bourne) ex-
plained, in a
Jingo speech,
the little part he
took in making
the name of Aus-
tralia popular
in South Afri-
ca. Two or
three other
parties whose
brothers are
doing fairly
well in S.A.
look on ap-
provingly.
Vic. Police Commissioner O’Callaghan
doesn’t see any need for trained medical women
to supersede, or even to assist, the police in
carrying out the provisions of the Infant Life
Protection Act, as he is “hopeful that the
increase in infant mortality from 7'B per cent, in
1905 to 10’9 per cent, in 1906 will be found to be
■ only temporary.” The Bulletin devoutly hopes
that the wooden-headed O’Callaghan will be only
temporary. The trouble is that all the transient-
ness on earth would hardly be sufficient to make
O’Callaghan as fleeting as he should be. The case
of a man who hopes that death is only temporary
■calls for strong measures.
Bent’s Ministers, Swinburne and Boyd,
.as well as the Tory press, were much annoyed at
what they called the factious and unwarrantable
■opposition to their return for Hawthorn and Mel-
bourne respectively. But they had only their
party to blame for the trouble. The Fat.man, who
iis on several suburban rolls, may vote only once ;
•but he can choose the district where he thinks his
vote will do most good—or harm. If Swinburne
and Boyd had been unopposed, Fat, not being
wanted where he lived, would have used his vote
•to “down” some Labor candidate in a suburb
where he happened to have a stick or two of pro-
perty. So Labor put up candidates against Swin-
burne and Boyd to keep those gentlemen’s friends
•employed in their own constituencies.
The burning of the rolling stock of Bent’s
■electric tramway at Brighton (Vic.) draws atten-
tion again to a blunder as old as the oldest rail-
ways and as new as the newest of them. Every
■car was burnt; but the machinery and the track
were uninjured, and had it been possible to borrow
cars from the companies at Essendon, Ballarat
and Bendigo, a fair temporary service could have
been speedily organised. But the gauge at
Brighton is the Victorian sft. 3in. railway gauge,
while the private co.’s use the N.S.W. 4ft. BJin.
It doesn’t matter much in this instance, but it
will matter a lot when the arrival of a hasty and
unmannerly enemy makes the swift transporta-
tion of troops and war material across Australia
a matter of urgent necessity.
An elector, who is a lot more optimistie
than the circumstances seem to justify, writes
from Brisbane
“ Caber ”(B. 7/3/’O7) has not got the correct grasp of
things in Queensland. His pessimistic forecast is sadly
lacking in foundation. All the members who were re-
turned as followers of Morgan three years ago, with the
exception of Denham, Tolmie and Bouchard, are standing
as supporters of Kidston at the forthcoming elections.
The fact that the Ipswich Workers’ Political Organisation
nominated Ryott Maughan for its plebiscite—he hav-
ing been a solid supporter of the Government during the
last Parliament; and that, the Warwick W.P.O. intends
giving its cordial support to O’Sullivan; to say nothing
of there being no Trades’ Hall opposition to Kidston and
Grant, in Rockhampton, or, so far, to Airey in the Flin-
ders ; all go to show that the fight is to be a straight
battle between the Government and the Philp party.
Those in the political know have a firm conviction that
Kidston will come back with a larger and more cohesive
majority than had Morgan.
That anaemic leviathan, S.M. Herald, re-
cently said in a leader that it was right and
proper that Australia should grow its own bishops
instead of importing them, and it went nearly as
far as to say—it solemnly hinted, anyhow—that
Australian bishops might almost turn out to be as
good as the imported article. In another leader
in the same issue it said that on no account must
we make our locomotives in Australia, as they
were wanted in a hurry, and Australians should
never make anything which they could import
without due deliberation ; that we could get them
cheaper elsewhere; and, besides, we could not
make them at all; and then again, it would
be wrong if we did make them, even if we could,
as it would be a violation of the principles of
Freetrade. To the ordinary mind, it would
appear to be better horse sense to make our
locomotives in Australia, and import our bishops,
if we must import something; but the Herald
knows more about bishops than The Bulletin
does.
“ J.R.” : They have talked out the Woman
Suffrage Bill in the House of Commons, and the
result has been received with a gasp of relief.
Says the cable :
The Times asks what India would think if women
largely controlled the Empire.
Poor old Times ! Much India cares ! It is pretty
well used to petticoat government by this time.
It got on fairly well with an Empress more or less
vague and shadowy, for 40 years or so. Besides,
there is nothing strange or new to the Asiatic
mind in woman rule. The second Mameluk
Sultan of Egypt was a woman, and in
India itself there has been a succession of
Begums ruling the native State of Bhopal.
Indian tradition and history are full of
heroines, like that Central Indian Rani who
braved the power of Akbar, and was killed at the
head of her army. Some of us, too, can remember
the Rani of Jhansi, who fell in ’57 leading a charge
of cavalry. Zenana missions notwithstanding, the
idea of skirt government is quite familiar in
Hindustan.
The excruciating pains from corns or
bunions may be avoided by applying Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm.*
The Judkinsite who bashed Anstey’s can
vasser over the head with a crowbar atßransS
(Vic.) for saying Anstey was a better ChnSn
than Judkins was not reasonable. He should
have bashed the two candidates simultaneouslv
to see which would reach heaven first As it l’
the relative merits of Anstey’s and
Christianity is still a moot point. ™ BS
Vie. Full Court last week upheld the view
taken by Dwyer P M that Bent’s Licensing
Act enacts a good deal more than it intended*
Ihe decision makes it legal for an ordinary hash-
founder or tea-and-scone purveyor to send out for
any liquor his customers may desire, but if he
holds a wine license he may not do so—nothin?
alcoholic except Australian wine may be drunk
on his premises. Also his customers may not
themselves bring any other liquor in to their
meals. Ihe effect is that there is a large slump
in the demand for Australian wine licenses and
there are plenty of other slumps that would be a
good deal better for Australia.
Essendon (Vic.) Council begins to experi-
ence the usual trouble with the “ private enter-
prise ” co. to which it conceded the right to run
trams and light the streets. The profitable part
of the undertaking—the tramway—being com-
pleted, the co. now shies at the unprofitable or
only moderately profitable, portion of the job
and, while electrically lighting a few of the main
streets, wants the Council to light up the rest of
the suburb until the co. can see dividends in the
work. “ The co. regrets its failure to complete
its contract, but a Conservative policy is being
followed because the risks are so great.” The
Bulletin wasn’t sure before this what a “Con-
servative policy ” was. Now Private Enterprise
admits that it is for a contractor to carry out just
as much of a contract as suits his pocket. In
short, the Conservative policy is the confidence
trick in a silk hat and a broad waistcoat.
Adelaide Tramway Trust has taken over
all the business of the one large and six small
concerns which have hitherto supplied the city
with locomotion, and has ordered a year’s oats
and other victuals for its horses. Active work in
electrification is expected to begin about next
Christmas. It is understood that in settling
routes the present rival and double-banked lines
will be cut about without mercy, and Vested
Interests are howling like Anderson’s “ Face at
the Window ” at the prospect of finding them-
Belves left out on a backwater, so to speak. The
only really important point yet raised is that the
City Bridge, which carries most of the North
Adelaide traffic, will have to be widened.
CONCERNING COMETS.
“A comet is often composed of harmless gas that would
not affect the inhabitants of this planet.”—BARRACH on
comets.
The Bulletin receives the following cable from, its
manager at Mars : “ See no comet approaching
you, but discovered one coming from your
direction; answers your astronomer's descrip-
tion exactly; fast fading into obscurity;
probably a falling star."
“ Croweater ” writes :—
S.A. does not stand to gain much over Price’s deal with
Deakin, but the Sydney papers are already consumed
with the fear that the Commonwealth may lose ljd. if it
relieves S.A. of the “ great white elephant.” Now, geo-
graphically, the N.T. is more Queensland’s, and
just as much N.S.W.’s or W.A.’s, white elephant
as it is S. Australia’s, and S.A. only took it in as
an act of charity when the gigantic infant was
left on the doorstep. If the Commonwealth takes
it over, the Commonwealth naturally pays for improve-
ments ; that is, takes over the debt which has been in-
curred in its development and administration. So much
for the “advantages” S.A. is to get from the deal.
These are all outweighed by the fact that the proposed
route of the transcontinental railway loses to S.A. all
the trade which it has hitherto hoped to obtain. If the
railway is built past Anthony’s Lagoon and Birdsville,
N.S.W. and Queensland will tap the Territory trade,
whenever it becomes considerable enough to make it
worth their while, and S.A. will get left very much out
in the cold. But Price looks at the question from a
national standpoint, and is addressing meetings appealing
to S.A. to do likewise, and S.A. will do so, despite Moate’s
schemes and Great Central State leagues. But what
chance would he stand of persuading the Ma State, with
its G. Reid, its Carruthers, its Telegraph and its Moan-
ing Herald to sink selfish interests for national welfare?
Not one in a million, judging by Ma State’s attitude.
Price is a bright spot in a dark and dreary expanse of
selfish and interested State politics, and deserves as much
praise as Deakin has got, if not more.


Ronisch
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
Pianos
with a re-
cord Hard
to equal.
THe i r
sterlin g
qualities
are well-
Known.
“They
stand like
rocks.”
Come and see our
new models.
Catalogues Free.
Sole Agents
Paling'*s
338 George St.
Sydney
63
When you
require
Any
Musical
Instrument
Buy it
at
Paling’s
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling &r Co.,
Limited,
339 George St..
Sydney.
84
Paling’s
Violins
We Hold
very large
stocks of
Violins at
Cheapest
rates.
The
Students’
Model,
£1 -11 -6.
Complete.
Send for our illus-
trated Catalogue.
Strings and Fittings
for Every Musical
instrument.
Paling'*s
338 Ceorg'e St.
Sydney
69
T
V.l (C T~>* C.
| N | w
JJL
S&
ER
y p o\*
MA/y
PA WATER)
sg* plat 3PRin<>
6 v r
> • W"*
LANDS
. DM( t
(V “
5m c
The MODERN
HOSTESS. &
** I give you ‘ KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water lirm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
The Showman’s
Money-MaKer!
FS
ILdlson
Projecting . . .
Cinemato graph.
The advantages of the Edison Cinematograph are completeness, compactness,
portability, accuracy and ability to project steady and brilliant pictures.
It can be operated without any previous knowledge of the art. It gives
brilliant results, and is equipped with reels that hold from 1000 to 12,000 feet of film.
It is fitted with a stereopticon attachment for showing standard size lantern
slide.
It will outlast any other machine on the market.
It does its work perfectly all the time.
Price
Write for Full Particulars.
£27 lOs
50,000 Feet of New Films in Stock to Select from.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
My
Opticians,”
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE ST
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Makesyou look manly A Wonderful Moustache Producer.
Before
1
Jtfter
It will work wonders for your moustache.
It is a hair producer—the only genuine
moustache grower—and it has been doing its
good work for over 20 years.
PRICK 10/6
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney,


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class 0. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents; Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
PILES AND LIVER COMPLAINT.
A Young Man’s Experience and the Wonder-
pul Results Attained bt Using Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the liver is clogged by the inactivity of
the kidneys and bowels it becomes torpid, and
fails to filter the bile from the blood, thus pro-
ducing biliousness and a general impairment of
the digestive system. The tongue is coated, the
head aches, digestion is imperfect; there is
aching of the limbs and back, feelings of fullness,
weight and soreness over the stomach and liver;
the eye becomes yellow and jaundiced and the
complexion muddy, the urine is scanty and highly
colored, and the bowels irregular, costiveness and
looseness alternating, and frequently the precur-
sor of inflammation and piles.
Mr. W. L. Davies, 320 Yictoria-street, Darling-
hurst, Sydney, writes :—“For a great number of
>
W. L Davies.
(From a Photo.)
years I suffered from
biliousness and liver
complaints, indeed al-
most from boyhood,
but some four years
ago it took a more
decisive effect, causing
dizziness and languor,
depression on rising
in the morning, and I
also suffered from in-
digestion and con-
stipation. The various
remedies I tried gave
only passing relief, and
so acute became the
costiveness that in-
flammation set in, and
piles were the result.
I read of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills and thought perhaps they
might prove more beneficial than the other
medicines I used. So I purchased some, and
persevered, deciding to give them a fair trial. In
the course of a week or two I felt better in myself,
and gradually I seemed to overcome my troubles.
Finally, I may truly say, I was entirely free from
my ailments, and ever since I have never been
without a supply of your pills in the house, and
on the first indication of any of the symptoms a
dose or two puts me right. I heartily recommend
your remedy, and you have my full permission to
use this.”*
Legal Notice.
In the SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
No. 28 of 1907
Matrimonial Jurisdiction
In forma pauperis.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE.
Between
JANE ELIZA MORRY, Plaintiff,
and
ARTHUR MORRY, Defendant.
To
ARTHUR MORRY, of Toowoomba, in the
State of Queensland, Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that Jane Eliza Morry of
Cochrane Street Paddington in the State of
Queensland Laundress has commenced an action
against you Arthur Morry in His Majesty’s
Supreme Court of Queensland by petition bearing
date the thirteenth day of February 1907 praying
for a decree that her marriage with you be
dissolved and by writ of the said Court dated the
fourteenth day of February 1907 which Writ is
endorsed as follows : —“ The plaintiff’s claim is for
a dissolution of her marriage with the defendant
Arthur Morry.” And the Court has authorised
and ordered service of the said Writ and petition
herein by the insertion of this notice once in each
the Toowoomba Chronicle newspaper published
at Toowoomba in the State of Queensland the
Queensland Times newspaper published at Ipswich
in the said State and The Bulletin newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New
South Wales. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that you are required within thirty days
after the insertion of the latest of the said notices
inclusive of the day of such insertion to defend the
said action by causing an appearance to be entered
for you in the said Court to the said action and in
default of your so doing the said Jane Eliza Morry
may by leave of the Court or a Judge proceed
therein and judgment may be given in your
absence.
Dated this fourteenth day of March, 1907.
BERGIN & BERGIN,
Solicitors for Plaintiff,
Victoria Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane,
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASCR
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO P
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 1
RVATiVES.
St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYPNEJ,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The audacious interference of Jack Wren, the
Law Breaker (with a mob of ruffianly myrmidons to back
him up), at a Melbourne election meeting, the other
night, was deeply tinged in its results with the color of
what is termed “ sport ”in Wren circles. The leader of
the ugly gang that rushed the platform on behalf of
the Tote-man was Dick Kernick, a pugilist whom Wren
put up to “fight” Bill Squires, at the Exhibition Build-
ing, last year. And Wren’s medical attendant, who
issued reports of his damaged condition after the event,
is Dr. Edgar Barrett, one of the stipendiary stewards of
Wren’s Richmond pony meetings.
* ■* * •
One Victorian bookmaker broke out in a wildly
original manner over the V.R.O. Champion Stakes, offer-
ing 2to 1 that no one could pick the last horse. The
novelty of the thing appealed to punters, and they waded
in cheerfully, a huge proportion of them naming
Dividend. When the race was over they found that they
had backed the right horse, but at the wrong end.
* • -* *
A curious coincidence is that the Poseidon
(Vic.) gold rush begins to fade away just when Poseidon
the race-horse meets with defeat.
Something had evidently gone wrong, and the
solid foundations of the Universe were plainly breaking
up when the Sydney paper placards announced that the
Fremantle(W. A.)team had defeated the N.S. W. team. But
when it transpired that it was an unholy licking by 119
runs, breathing became difficult, and it was not till it
was further ascertained that it was only a defeat so far as
concerned the first innings, and that in the N.S.W.
secopd innings Waddy and Hopkins had accumulated 111
and 126 respectively, that calm was restored. Still, it was
quite bad enough, and there are not wanting cricketers
in Sydney who will make all the capital possible out of it.
The chief feature of that match at Fremantle was the
success of the crack bowler on both sides. Westralian
Selk brought about the N.S.W. first-innings collapse
with hie seven wickets for 45. On the'Cornstalk side
Minnett did excellently, bagging three for 15.
* * * •
There was no grade cricket in Sydney last
Saturday. By the time play should have started abso-
lutely every wicket, barring that of Waverley Oval, was
under water. The competition will resume this Satur-
day and end the same afternoon, so in all probability
Paddington will be premier club for the season. If this
happens, the smiles on the faces of Noble and Trumper
will be a danger to navigation.
• * • *
Sterling little Waverley cricketer Sydney
Gregory receives £634 28. 9d. from his benefit match.
The total takings were £743 19s. lid., but the expenses
climbed to £lO9 17s. 2d.
* * * 9
Senator, Jawbone Neild, who formed a Citizens’
Vigilance Committee or something to squelch the N.S.W.
Cricket Association, and who fell out violently with his
own offspring, has graciously consented to be mollified,
and last week, at a mass meeting of about ten, he was
restored to the presidency of the concern after an
affecting ceremony. When the meeting had pocketed its
handkerchief Neild announced that, as they were powerless
to hurt the Association, and as he couldn’t see any busi-
ness to do, they would adjourn, and the gathering
dissolved in a vague sort of way like salt on a wet day.
» •* * #
J. R. Mackay, who had been showing glimpses
of his Australian form in the land of Chow and veldt, did
not get to England with that S’African team after all.
The powers that be decided that he had not been in
S’Africa long enough to hold the residential qualifica-
tion, and he was dropped with a surreptitious sort of
thud. '
Dr. A. D. Kearney, sometime singles tennis
champion of Victoria, N.S.W. and S. A., is dead. “Gus”
Kearney was one of Victoria’s most successful tennis pro-
ductions. He achieved his success mainly by his adroit-
ness at the “ tossing ” game. Rice, Gaden, and others of
his chief opponents were adepts at the slashing hard-
hitting game, but they invariably succumbed to Kearney’s
imperturbable defence. Ball after ball he would return
high in the air, to fall just inside the service line, making a
brilliant reply impossible, and all the while “ Gus” waited
for his exasperated opponent to make a weak stroke in
reply. The last time he won the N.S.W. Championship,
the spectators grew tired of the accuracy with which re-
turn after return would lob almost on the same spot, and
made audible comments, but to no purpose. “ Gus ” con-
tinued to toss them back with the same maohine-like pre-
cision. Bad luck dogged Koarney these latter days, and
he died in Alfred Hospital.
* • j* •
The second-sighters, who have of late been
revealing what is likely to happen with regard to the
sculling championship of the world, received a severe set-
back on Thursday night when Durnan arose and, across
the ruins of dead marines, made an “ important an-
nouncement” to the effect that he would return to
Sydney in November and row Charlie Towns, or whoever
may then be champion, for £5OO and the title. It is
understood that if Charles Towns does succeed to the
title, he will “take on” Webb, of Maoriland, and Dick
Arnst, at present of Shark Parade, Parramatta River
(N.S.W.). That is, if they can raise at least £3OO as a stake
—which figure is the lowest for which the champion-to-be
will condescend to give anyone a licking. Durnan left
for Canada Monday last; the Towns brothers are still in
Sydney.
* * * *
Maryborough (Q.) is shouting all round. Little
Bananaland’s eight-oar crew for the inter-State contest,
at Adelaide, in May next, consists entirely of Mary-
borough lads—the crew that recently easily defeated the
Brisbane and Commercial Rowing Clubs for the champion-
ship eights of Queensland. Maryborough has a factory or
two, and the crew comes almost wholly from the factory
hands. Yet the Preetrade papers are quite sure that
factories breed nothing but poor weeds, and talk of the
“stunted operative.”
• • * *
George Horder, who is, without a doubt, the
fastest Australian cyclist on the track at present, has a
challenge out to the whole of Australasia to race him either
publicly or privately, on the track or the road, any dis-
tance, for any sum from £5O to £5OO. Mr. Horder an-
nounces that unless this challenge is accepted by some-
one he will claim the championship of the Continent, and
as champion proceed to the U.S.A. to take part in the
six days carnival at Salt Lake City early next season.
This sounds very fine and large, but just after Mr. Hor-
der’s somewhat bombastic notice was made public an
unobtrusive red slip was issued from the office of
the League of Wheelmen, and among other things it was
mentioned that G. Horder is disqualified for life. The
League is still the governing body in N.S.W., and, accord-
ing to the international agreement this disqualification
stands good all over the white man’s world.
* » * *
The N.S.W. League of Wheelmen continues
the work of butchering off the morally-decayed cyclists.
E. Leseberg has been booted out of the sport for life on a
charge of having placed a board studded with nails where
it would do most damage in one of the Prospect-Sale
(Vic.) road races. F. Hoepner, of Westralia, and M.
Rossini (not the musical man), of Italy, are also sus-
pended during the pleasure of the Council for alleged
complicity in the same low-down outrage. By the end
of the year the League will have got the bulk of the
rotters out of the sport—whether there will, be any sport
left is another question. Anyhow 7, the League is right.
* » * -*
When Frank Birtles got back from the W.A.
desert he said he would wait for Lennie and Warren who
are riding from Perth by the coast route. When Lennie
heard of it he remarked that if Birtles cared to throw
away some of his loading they might consent to his
travelling with them, but he would have to hustle as
they were flying very light. So Birtles waited at
Widgiemootha for these fast men who were flying
light, and as they didn’t appear to time he flung away
about half a ton of luggage and started on his own. A
correspondent writes that Birtles is a very quiet indivi-
dual who literally obeys the Scriptural command of
limiting his conversation to yea and nay. He is taking
voluminous notes, sketches and photos, of what he sees
on his travels, and is said to contemplate that sensational
book spoken of some weeks ago.
* * * *
More woe in Cycledom. The Australian
Cycling Council and N.S.W. League of Wheelmen have
now placed on the doomed list the names of J. Arnst,
D. Wyatt, O. Baker, H. Mehrtens, and B. Campion, all
found guilty of collusion at Christchurch recently. North
Canterbury League fined them £5 each, and the M.L.
Council, after reviewing the case, added 12 months’ dis-
qualification. There is an inclination to nip the amusing
business in the bud as far as Maoriland is concerned.
* •* * *
Owing to the wind and wild rain squalls cricket
and horse-racing were suspended in Sydney on Saturday.
The sailing men, however, came out, and so did the
enthusiastic followers of the sport, and the swimmers,
who had to get wet in any case, also carried their pro-
gramme through, although the rain destroyed the gate.
Naturally, the most important event of the
wintry afternoon was the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s
last race of the season, which decided the destination of
the Rawson Cup and the championship of the club. Only
four started ; the fifth boat, Broekhoff’s Rawhiti, lost so
much time taking in reefs under Parbury’s wharf as to be
unable to reach the starting line in time. This was a
pity, as it was an ideal day for the splendid craft. The
starters were Awanui, Bona, Oulwulla and Scotia. Of
the four Oulwulla was the only one not reefed down. Bona
was beautifully rigged for the weather. Saxton’s Awanui
streaked away to the front, and just off Chowder Bona
hoisted a spinnaker, which was promptly ripped to shreds.
Awanui carried a jib topsail and then got out a small
spinnaker, and simply flew through the water. Scotia
also got out a spinnaker that endured. Into Manly Cove
they dashed, and the wind and wild waves tossed them
about like corks, Oulwulla at times being quite invisible.
Rounding the mark. Oulwulla’s foresail disappeared, and
Scotia’s jib vanished. Crossing the Heads, Awanui’s full
sheet was a source of trouble, and Bona caught the flyer
on a long port tack. Then Scotia’s starboard shroud
carried away, and the yacht dropped out of the contest.
As Awanui got right into the ruck of the heavy seas roll-
ing in through the Heads, its cross-trees slipped round,
and the canvas slid down considerably. After a struggle
the head sail was got off, and the Awanui headed for
Middle Harbor to effect-repairs, leaving Bona and Cul-
wulla to divide the honors. The big yacht finished over
21 minutes ahead of Oulwulla, but the time allowance
reduced this to 9min. 37sec.
» * * ■*
Bona having won the Rawson Cup three times
in succession, the trophy now becomes the absolute pro-
perty of Mr. Bin nie. For the championship of the club,
prior to_ Saturday’s race, Bona and Rawhiti had scored
three points each fora win, and Oulwulla four points
with two seconds. The third second scored on Saturday
gave the Oulwulla six points, and made it the champion
yacht of the club for the season.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron also held its final
outing on Saturday, and, spite of the savage gusts that
swept out of the inky sky and made great holes in the
grey-green water, there was a remarkable absence of
capsizes and so forth, most of the boats being under care-
fully calculated storm rigs. The first heat saw Vera,
under its ballooner streak away to the front, and lead the
way to Taylor Bay in spite of the efforts of Scot and
Australian, which hoisted their spinnakers. Facing the
wind and rain Vera faded rapidly, floundering along in an
almost hopeless fashion. Almost immediately after
rounding, Alert, which had run into second place,
filled up. At the easing of the sheets Violet,
was in front, and, staying there, won the heat, with
Scot, Zena, and Vision behind, in that order. Australian
never had a look in, carrying too much canvas.
Donnelly’s chances were ruined by getting tangled up.
with Mona, and for a time it looked as though the pair
would drift on the rocks together. Mona was disqualified,
and although Donnelly was driven all it was worth some-
thing again went wrong with the gear, and by the time
the boat got going once more the race was practically
finished. In the second heat Crescent, in the hands of its
builder, gave nothing - else a chance, and won with ease.
In this heat Oweenee capsized off Bradley’s. The final
brought out eight, and a hard race it was. Scot and
Zena clapped on spinnakers. Vision’s crew came to grief
off Bradley’s, in exactly the same spot that Owneenee
had turned over-in: the previous heat. Crescent again
led to Taylor Bay, but on the beat Evelyn went to the
front. On the reach, however, it was again beaten by
Crescent, which won by fiOsec., with Evelyn and Maritana
second and third.
« * * *
When Cecil Healy won the 100yds. cham-
pionship of East Sydney Swimming Club at Rushcutters
Bay (Syd.), Saturday afternoon, amidst wind and pouring
rain, in 67 4-ssec., he broke the Australian record. The
previous official best was Dick Cavill’s 58sec., made in the
same bath Jan. 16,’04. The world’s record for the dis-
tance is 57 3-ssec., and was made by C. M. Daniels at
Richmond, England, June, 1906. Healy , was well paced
by Alick Wickham, who during the first part of the race
swam splendidly, but started to crack up towards the
finish, and was eventually beaten by about 4yds. As a
matter of history, Cecil Healy once before, in the same
bath, on Nov. 26, ’O4, covered the distance in what is
now record time, 57 3-ssec., but, as he was not in cos-
tume, the figures were disallowed, and Cecil has never
managed to travel quite so fast since.
* * » •
The ladies’.section of the Melbourne Swimming
Club held an alleged “women only” show at Hegarty’s
ladies’ baths, St. Hilda, on Saturday afternoon, under
favorable weather conditions. The carnival was con-
spicuous for the presence of the local brass band (sup-
posed not to look) and several prominent swimming
fellows, who'disc'overed it required athletes to deal out
tea and cake —any old excuse serves when there is a
select mass of feminine beauty on view. Out of the
water, many shapely girls covered their dripping
forms ip uncomfortable clobber, and said things.
The 120yds. championship was a mere scramble at
half-way; the start was uneven, and Connie Sten-
nett stayed in front all the time, and won. The
100yds. championship winner, Hilda Bradley, was beaten
by a tpuch, and Dolly Cooper, half a length away
third, lodged a protest. Time 2min. 12£sec. Lady
Talbottle objects to the admission of men, but they get
there all the same.
* • * *
At St. Patrick’s Sports (Melb.), run on Satur-
day last, Kenny M‘Crae won the 100yds. Amateur Handi-
cap, off B£yds., in 9 4-ssec. The “ Old Chap ” (old for a
ped.) defeated favorite Billy Riddell by yards. Some 16
years ago M‘Orae gave champion W. T. M’Pherson a
terribly hard go in the 440yds. Australasian Champ., at
Sydney, covered in 52sec., and won by a yard.
‘ * * « .
Three cars have already been nominated and
entered for that Reliability Test from Paris to Pekin.
The nominators are De Dion Bouton firm, two ; Cental
Co., one tri-car. The last is an amazing item of news.
Looks as though some worthy Frenchman had been
imbibing absinthe.
• * « *
Down in the gloomy, dreadful Gaiety Athletic
Club (Syd.), on Saturday night, young Yankee bruiser
Webber put up an exhibition of courage and endurance
worthy of a better cause than the loser’s end of the gate.
Tom Jones, of Waterloo (Syd.), slogged and bashed him.
Also he plugged and jabbed him, and fell on him and beat
him, covering him with contusions and abrasions ; but
still the Yankee lad pounded steadily away, and strove
for a knockout. After 10 rounds of this one-sided business
Webber’s seconds saw the hopelessness of the struggle,
and threw in the towel from a sense of humanity.
* • * *
Hugh Meeghan, of Melbourne, met Sydney
bruiser Ned Murphy at Wren’s Stoushing Pavilion, Mon-
day night last. In the beginning, as it says in Genesis,
Ned made things interesting by continually poking his
left in his opponent’s eye and swinging his right to the
body. Meeghan crowded in and hustled considerably.
He didn’t land many blows, but those he did get in made
a deep impression. By the third round Meeghan was
nicely warmed up and had got the range. Then Murphy’s
real troubles began. He was smitten sometimes thrice
in rapid succession, and every one of them a marker.
Murphy staggered across the ring, and was followed up
punctually and floored repeatedly, till, in the fifth
round, he went down four times, and spent 31 seconds on
the floor in all. But he came up for more damage, and
got it in such profusion that the referee stopped the fight
and declared Meeghan winner.
* * * •
Although colored fighter J. Johnson had the
bad luck to strike no decent scraps during his stay here,
his Australian trip was not a financial failure. The
two “fights” he did have were much better from a
financial than from a pug. point of view, and he and his
manager had close upon £4OO in their joint pocket after
paying all expenses. And Johnson never even got his
nose smitten though he smote his manager’s nose, and
his manager, who was dreadfully damaged, had him
arrested, and fined £5. The row was over the settlement
of accounts, and the departing nigger, whose refresh-
ment bills here were very large, departed in a halo of
recrimination.
* * »
Colored fighter Johnson’s proposal to meet two
Australian fighters “one down, t’other come on” style
in one evening brought out ex-Maorilanders Jim Griflin
and Tim Murphy with a rush, and with an eager expres-
sion on their hard, fist-worn countenances. Both are
hard hitters, and James isas slippery as a Canterbury eel.
Tim has had hard luck of late, but if he fought up to
his old form Johnson would have to hustle so considerably
to out him in 10 rounds that the colored man would, in
all probability, be a soft snap for the agile Griffin in the
second part of the disturbance. However, conjecture is
waste of time. Johnson suddenly realised that he had
been talking through his neck, and declined to meet
Griffin and Murphy. It is. time Johnson went. His
inability to live up to his magniloquent talk grows
wearisome.
* * * *
At the Melbourne Cyclorama, now an athletic
pavilion, a long programme of stoush was staged on Mon-
day night last week, before an audience that literally
choked the great rotunda. First Pony Dodd whipped
Bull Williams in ten vigorous rounds; then Fendy
accounted for Davis in another ten rounds. After that,
Oripps v. Nelson, started its eventful career. Arthur is
champion middle-weight; Nelson is champion welter and
has the cleverest brace of dukes in the game. Expecta-
tion ran high and was gratified with 20 rounds of un-
common slog. Nelson got a boshter just where his chin
finishes that put him down for nine seconds in the Bth,
but he came up, saw the round through, and staved to
put many dents in the champion’s dial. In spite of
Cripps’s weighty advantages, Nelson was there at the
finish, and his work had been so clever that “Draw !”
would have been hailed with rapture. The referee gave
the battle to Cripps, however, and the howls of derision
shook the roof.
* » * *
“Snell”: The experience of the Olympic
Athletic Club in Melbourne demonstrates with graphic
effect how the landlord scores. When the Olympic took
up boxing, the game was very low down all along the
Yarra. The contests that came off were mostly run in
wretched little halls under miserable rnnHitiAna j
poor “gates." The
-building, which is like a large brick tunnel up-eJdld
Railleries around it, and put on attractive contests The
public was caught, and boxing began to boom' S
management, although unkindly criticised in
men™T™ 8 excellent compared m2
ments. This success meant coin to the landlord who
realising his opportunity, invited competitors to s’lin in’
and bid for the Gyclorama. The result is that tho^. 0 ’
All t th the d >iff ° f e r s takes over the establishment 0
All the advantage of the conditions the Olympic create]
pass S es o out? landlordin the Shape ° f re thTchb
••* « V
The recent controversy as to the best way of
su rf-bathing safe around Sydney ended in the
usuai way-silence and inaction. Only Manlv Council
did anything ; by ordering a boat capable of riding the
8 ’ 1 k ™ ade a practical effort to grapple with the diffi-
,P ut at Bondi, according to several correspon.
dents, there are parts of the beach that are veritable
death-traps ; but, although it is weeks since this informa.
tion was published, there is no sign of even a notice-board
being erected to warn strangers that the localities are
dangerous—that », more dangerous than the rest of the
unsafe beach. 1
* # # #
The big chopping contests at Adelaide show
are always very popular items, and sometimes an extra
entertainment is thrown in. At the recent show a
thick-set little axeman had made the mistake of com-
mencing with an insufficiently wide cleft, and, as he got
into the heart of the standing log, it was evidently worry-
ing him. A long-nosed individual kept drawing his atten-
tion to his initial error, and offering inexpert advice
which acted as oil upon the troubled flames of the
chopper’s feelings. He suddenly dropped his axe and
smote his adviser upon his tempting nose, which spurted
gore most picturesquely, then resumed his hopeless task
with renewed energy. The smitten one departed, hold-
ing his damaged portion, and returned with the
“ foorce,” who looked severely at the offender and then
resumed the majestic languor of his way.
THE KING OP THE PUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yer torks ov Reid an’ Deakin,
Yer torks ov Tommy Bent—
Big blokes wot’s allers speakin’
Fer pie in Parliament;
But ’ow dus them an’ Worrall
’Elp ’ard-up sportin’ men
With skite an’ wind an’ quarrel?—
But that’s not Jackie Wren.
Wren, Wren, Wren,
Ther Push’s faithful fren’,
Ther Collin’wood Conundrum, ther king ov mokes an’
men;
So long s Jack’s tote is geein’,
There’s ’ope fer yer an’ me in
Them divvidents killected by ther champ ov champyins,
Wren.
W’en blokes carn’t git er tap in,
An’ things is lookin’ blue,
Some tugs starts bunny-trappin’
An’ ’un tin’ kangaroo.
But ’bout the clubs ov Wren-o
U 6 likes ter tike our stand,
Yer carn’t kid blokes like Benno
Ter chise things on ther land.
Wren, Wren, Wren,
’Oo’s troo to workin’ men,
’£’s got er bag ov shekels, but ’e spreads it now an' then ;
’E grasps ther siteration,
Sez “ Now, wot about me station
On ther sunny plains ov Ascot ? ” Gripes, that’s Wren,
our Wren.
Now, wot good dus ther growlin’
Ov blokes like Jud. an’ Bent, '
Ter stop ther gyme by fowlin’
Jack down in Parleement ?
There’d be a boom in bettin’,
An’ werk fer all—an’ beer,
Ther Simple Life, no sweatin’—
If Wren wos Preem-e-ear.
Wren, Wren, Wren,
Ther Push’s only fren’,
Ye’re er boshtcr, ye’re er bonza, ther king ov mokes an’
men ;
On top — that’s where yer place is,
Runnin’ scraps an’ pony races,
Ye’re ther savyer ov yer countree, so ’ere’s to yer, Good
Old Wren.
vie.
LOUIS ESSON.


This Very Fine
Gent.’s Lace
Balmoral for
16/6
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather —all at
the one price. You : ll find no boot in Australia
give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles—in this and all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Postage Charges —When remitting add these charges to cover
*7* postage —Victoria, 1/-; other States, 1/6.
BEND FOR THIB FREE BOOK. —We have a booklet called “ Shoelight"
that illustrates and describes all our footwear for man, woman
and child. We post it free anywhere—write for it.
LEEMINC’S BOOT STORES,
109 swanston St., Melbourne^
AND AT VIC.
1 (EL 3 Errol St., Nth. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
hfg
[ It is nice to do the
j necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how
thoroughly it cleans.
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
h
Medic* Ur, «ls«
3i locked leaf.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
EXPERT OPINION
w ON MIRACULiJM
The Dunlop Rubber Cp
of Australasia Ltd
Pebruary 19 th. , 1907.
The Secretary.
Mlraoulum Co.. Me 1 0 ou rnt.
Dear Sir.
1 have thoroughly and severely tested the
sample of Mlraoulum supplied, and find it 18
perfect as a puncture atop, closing large holes
(made with a Knife and file handle) immediately
with the loss of almost no air.
i am convinced that Mlraoulum Is quite harm-
leee to rubber, rather helping to preserve It.
1 also found that the sample stood unchanged,
at a heat of 200° F., which temperature is not
likely to be reached in a travelling Motor Tube.
Mlraoulum is easily washed ‘Off with water,
and It does not lift patches which have been
properly applied.
fours faithfully,
Chemist to Dunlop Rubhwr*grrnr
MIRACULUM
is recognised by Cyclists and
Motorists as a Sure Puncture
Stop. All dealers, or at the charging- depfits :
MELBOURNE—266 Latrobe St.,
SYDNEY—ISB Castlereagh Street.
Bicycles, 4/- (posted, with injector tin, Vic. and
N.S. W. 6/3, other States 6/8). Motor Cars from 30/-
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
fm
111
ill'}
THE GOLDEN KING.
:m B.£'; i.: }(5 si '■
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
BanKers
Victoria and Royal Banks
fgh
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King of Sport " newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly
Address: 44 King of Sport/* Collins St«, Melbourne*
■
Made
from
V
Nothing
So Good
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
Australian. Fruits* Flowers
and Herbs. v*
■
mm.
mem
s
©
Quite; Unequalled for
tS having.
II 1
Kuge.lm;>rvrvy'~lure .Cl&y £>e.
zA evil GkenrM/Ivr.DrApeKT eeper/"..lkrQa^fk.oui
dt 2j4” per Bo x: o f <D> "jCSblefy:.
Q If f\o"t Locally-.. J'et'vd
To/Ul Note- orv/td.mp/ of -SlAte. to V&lke. o, —...
to iKeProprictorr. wKer\ it will bePoiTed. per Rejliurrv 7 IMzmx
soieT?opr,ew nm\](3ZLwm & comm
V/HOLEJALE-DRUeGI/r^-d-riArfl/FACTURER/..
M6QICEN-? 199 clarence-^sydney;
/\r\d zA ADEL.AIDE & _
FREE SAMPLE, sent on receipt or Twopenny Stamp.
fAsKYouR Stationer for aSampuTo?]
OJ.
H3VIVW
William Mitchells]
I THE I
|king|
Igjpgggr 1 n
21 WILLIAM
to MITCHELL’S
COl5l CLASS SHOULDER
NS 9. First Class Shoulder Pen
The ORIGINAL Quality By The ORIGINAL MAKER.,
STAMMERING
can be. cured by
correspondence..
Tell all about your-
case, and send £2 2s for complete course to
W. Phipps, Evening Echo, Ballarat.
Over 25 years’ experience.. References given. if
required. It pays to talk well,,but a stutterer
is always at a disadvantage.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
i guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
/ do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
Tohu, a Parihaka (M.L.) prophet, passed
out the other day, full of years and gold. He had
£27,000 stacked away in a strong-room, and willed
that £5000 should be used to eat his health with
after death. His health is consequently being
eaten with vigor. For many years Tohu, who
seemed to be a sort of chocolate Dowie, charged
all Maoris who entered Parihaka £1 a head and
incanted at them for this price. Tohu was the
only Parihaka Maori with a hooked nose, and he
had a habit of keeping his hat on when he entered
a church. The nearest synagogue is 50 miles from
Parihaka.
Though the late “cattle king” Donald
MTntyre, of Dalgonally Station (Q.), was one of
the best-known Australian squatters, and knew
the business from A to Z, he was a worse bush-
man than many a month-old jackeroo. He was
bushed more than once in his own home paddock,
and was almost liable to get lost in his garden if
he didn’t have a string tied to him.
“ Blister” :: This story is vouched for by a
State school-teacher in Ballarat district. A parson
who had received permission to impart religious
instruction to the kids was speaking : —
And you know, my dear little friends, there are people
called Boman Catholics. You must beware of them,
because they are not good subjects of the King, and they
cannot be depended upon, for they are reared in deceit
and are very superstitious. Their ministers are called
priests, and priests never get married and have dear little
children, and—and X would be ashamed to tell you what
the priests do.
In another school, also in the Ballarat district,,
the fanatic who taught religion asked if it was
not possible to keep all the Church of England
children apart from the others, so that they might
not be contaminated by Presbyterians and such-
like. So the old problem about Bible-in-schools
runs against the old snag. Half the parsons don’t
regard the Scripture as a teaching medium, but
only as a great clod to be dropped on the other
preacher’s head.
mm
•’'••VIVV'V
.V'i-.'-i'l
Kg:-®*
M
Special
DUNLOP
ROAD
RACING
TYRES.
TO CYCLISTS
Who want to Finish in Front,
The remarkable success and strength of our Open.,
sided New Road Racing Tyre has been t.h® t a *R anc *
wonder of Road Riders throughout Australasia. Every-
where satisfaction and long wear. Everywhere asucogga.
These speedy covers, which have been known to run
over 3000 miles, weigh only 16 ozs, each, and have open
fabrio sides, protected by a skin of tough unvuloanlaed
rubber, which effectually protects putting of fabric,
without effecting the resiliency and life of the tyre.
Non-slipping or plain bands can be had at option.
UNLESS ROAD RIDERS USE THESE SPEEDY TYRES
DURING THE FORTHCOMING SEASON, THEY WILL BE
FOR THESE WONDERFUL TYRES HAVE NO EQUAL FOQ
ROAD RACING AND RELIABILITY*
Ask your Cycle Agent to let you look at one of these covers,
or send us for a small sample section.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
108 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Chrletohuroh, N.Z,


A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 16s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL
Patrons residing at a distance will find
It both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Ticrced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s. 60s. 60s. Solid Gold.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A
A. SAUNDEBS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubiej
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4Jin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 80s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10*.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 35a,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby-
Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 8s 6d, Ids 6d:
Silver Filled,
63 6d; Solid Gold.
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s M.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm, Sa 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s G<J.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Cd,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3£in, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold “Luck”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s Cd.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
155.. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s Gd, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s Gd, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Leaf Bar
Brooch. 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d
smaller 8s 6d. _ ot jl er r S , ty 9n '
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A, SAUNDERS-.
Shaving Brush and.
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls. £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERs.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond. £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6Jin
long, 3s 6d. Other Styles, 6s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;-
Kct. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Buoide
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18et. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDEKS
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. , noniDe S^tn
Book Marker, Solid Silver-mounted. New Zealand Gree
long, 4s 6d. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s 6d.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
‘Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st-
„ SIDNEY, N.S.W.
Opposite New
Railway Station


BUCKLEY and NUNN, LIMITED
FASHIONS OF THE DAY—WINTER, 1907.
SPECIAL NOTE!! FASHIONS OF THE PERIOD! A walk through our Showrooms should be of much interest to ladies who derive pleasure from
seeing a combination of good taste and originality in Dress Creations and other goods of perfect manufacture all marked at prices that will effect an
important economy to those who purchase, and in every instance will bear favorable comparison in value
with the tariff of other leading firms. We buy direct from the world’s best centre of manufactures on the
most favored terms, which enables us to sell goods of the best makes, for which we are genuinely
noted, at strictly moderate prices.
No. 105—Smart Black Velvet and Silk
Hat, with high crown of folded velvet
with Ostrich feathers, gold gauze and
roses completes this beautiful hat.
No. 106—Smart little Hat, in glace silk
or felt brim, with velvet crown in any
color, with Ostrich feathers.
No. 102—This Charming Picture Hat,
with the brim of black Satin, rich
black velvet crown, with lovely long
black Ostrich feathers.
No. 107 —This Smart little Hat is of
white felt, with black velvet or galon
trimmings, with black Ostrich tips.
No. 103—A pretty White Hat of terry
silk or cloth, with sable colored fur
and head,
A CHARMING VARIETY
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
102
103
m
I
V
i
m
m
m
#
> V
t : p
< S
I-
m
®is
■*4' ■
*»
4
BfcS
as
.
a
is
107
; * ■ .’•:
706
105
PARTICULARS OF THE ABOVE
WILL BE GIVEN ON
APPLICATION.
Write for a Copy of our Catalogue, which will be posted Free on application*
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LTD., 300-310 Bourke St., Melbourne


X
$
u#
,*
IN
-
m
m, |
Hr.
. _
—
■;m
mm
i i as
i i SIS I
WS1S
Wm§§mm
■:' I ■ m
* 1 -V -1%* 3M* * >«*L
/• 'i
HS8
.
S . ■■ftk ;
if
;- ii
:
■ ' ;
I :* '
m m '
mm
II1S®
S*
BUS
■m
Pit
V
• i
%
[; MI
.
' * r -
m
ii
im
« %
*«
jit
r#
f f
&
* * *
* 0
• f* ,t!
5*\
*0
• A
*. -
-rr/
# . *
nw? juv
. 1 *”* ill .v * >
AN IDYLL.
A Moon, a Girl, a Man, and—A PACKET OF CAMEOS.


WIRTH'S GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH
Grand Oriental Parade. —Wirth Bros.’ Circus, now
appearing' at Exhibition Ground (Prince Alfred
ParK), Sydney.
W|Llt^
,B^g£s'
piTpic-K
J3o«->/sQ/»SC> Rgpfc:
...
h


Arnott’s MilR Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
“0.K.”: My heart goes out to “Aged
Bachelor,’ who tells a pale-blue story of how a
lady neighbor gives a striking impersonation of
Venus in her bedroom (with the window thrown
up), whilst policemen come from far and near to
take notes of the case. Some years ago, I had a
similar experience of police vigilance in the
matter of a woman’s free and open manner of pre-
paring to go to bed. Walking through East Mel-
bourne, one night, I bumped accidentally against
a bobby who was lurking in the dark entrance
to a right-o’-way, with his attention fixed upon a
first-floor window of a house on the opposite side
of the road. “Book at this,” said the policeman,
touching ipy arm. “This” turned out to be a
female person of uncertain age, whose somewhat
undressed figure was plainly perceptible in her
lighted bedroom. She would doubtless have shut
out the view had she thought she was giving the
lone bobby a treat. I made a scornful comment
on the poorness of the entertainment, and went
my way. But next night, and more nights after-
wards, I found two policemen enjoying the silly
spectacle of a lone, bony woman combing her
back-hair, and so forth, in her bedroom. Probably
she got word of her indiscretion in due course. A
week or two later, I missed the policemen, and
then I saw that the object of their mean attentions
had let the blind down.
“Percole”’: Jn the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion, Gardens there is a design laid out in suitable
dwarf shrubs, &c., depicting the Commonwealth
flag. It is extremely well done, and everyone
can tell at once what it represents without having
to guess whether it is a freak ot nature or an ex-
periment in foreign vegetables. In the same
gardens is a large sundial of lattice work with the
hours marked out in plants. On a recent cloudy
day two little girls were staring at this for some
time until at length one remarked, 44 It can’t have-
been wound up. Come on.”
LftPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and] inspect, or write for
samples, of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Cur Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention,
DAVID BRAHAI & CO.
Ladies* Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
w.
?(.
i
m
a
J
n
ryg
z
To Men Who
Want Strength.
This is a Message to Men. It is to men who would feel
like men, look like men, and act like men. This is to men who lack courage,
whose nerves are shaken, whose brains are muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless,
confidence gone, spirits low and easily depressed, who are backward, hesitating,
unable to venture because they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide’
for them, who are weak, puny, restless. It is to men who have part or all of these
symptoms and want new life, new force, new vigor. We offer it to you in
DR. McLAUCHUN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
It has restored health and strength to thousands of weak men. If used as we direct
it is a positive cure and cannot fail. It gives the vitalising power of Electricity
without burning or blistering, thereby developing full vigor. It removes forever
Lit.-..-.,. all the effects of dissipation.
PAINS IN HEAD AAD BACK.
BATEMAN’S BAY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Your Belt did me a wonderful amount of
food, as I used to suffer terribly with pains in the back of
my neck and head, also in the small of mv back. Now,
after having used your Belt for a few weeks, I am entirely
free from pain, and have been so for many months. I
credit your Belt with having been the means of restoring
my health, and shall always be glad to answer any in-
quiries from sufferers who may be afflicted in a similar
manner. Yours gratefully, JAMES BARCLAY.
WEAK BACK.
! Receivin','- Office,
r „ ■ l Babbiloora, MORVEN, Q.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. •
Deal* Sirs,-—About fifteen months jilto I obtained your
Belt, as I had suffered from weakness of my back for over
a year. Now-1 am entirely well, arid have had no return
of the old trouble. In fact, the g-eneral improvement of
my health is undoubtedly due to the use of vour Belt. I
never fail to recommend it.
Yours faithfully, JOSEPH RYAN.
fgh
DO YOU SEE Tf£S COUPON?
Being sick, if you are wise, you will fill it in with
your name and address and post it to us, so that we
may send you our Free illustrated Book, which
describes our remedy in detail. Do not imagine that being “FREE” to sufferers makes this book
valueless ; such is not the case. It is Free because yon need the information mid advice contained
between its covers, and if you really appreciated its value to YOU,
a sufferer, you would gladly pay Two Guineas for it. Send for it to-day ;
it is full of joyful encouraging news for weak, ailing men and women.
All Written Diagnosis are Absolutely Tree-
Ttie Dr. McLaughlin Go.,
100W* Market Street, Sydney*
The Dit. McLaughlin Co., 100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE BOOK, and oblige.
(Name)
Address
CUT OFF HERE.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK O>F NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, Illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, mew 1906 edition, 2s Cd posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book o.v De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventiuloouism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
-31 ate Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu*
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and llow to Train the
House, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is Cd.
Joys of Life, Is Cd, Nigqeii Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3 1.
Georgette, Is ; post, is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Js3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. BeautyUs
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. ,lln'w to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like,
30s Cd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Cd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guidfj), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
jn Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, ete., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Cd. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciuxiquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is Cd. The Art of Jui-Jit.su,
Bd and Is Cd. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind t.ie Scenes, Is 2d. How
To Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle ok Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Cd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, FsCd.
mm
u
m
»i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, SCO kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
1“ posted. 4( 0 Songs and Ballads ok Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working kor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamr ox Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book ok
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy Riveii, 5s Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Purlic
Speaking Made E.as.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
HOiVJE CYCLOPEPIA
KM BRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
];y Ur. E. 13. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
O' IS 1 ItEE I 1 ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to toe minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATIS1 1 ACTION (GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
clutli-covend edition of this great work. It will be posted to
AR\ address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
feKLi- Instructor : Every Man Ills Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handyhook, Is 3d. Mac-
ka mien's Physical Training, Is. Elements oe Social
Science, 3s (id. On Our New Selection, (is (id.
LUaN'o Complaints, Is 6d. Funxcif Sklf Taught,
Is 3d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s Oil
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, 6s.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Ukrtameron, and many
others, all at 2s Oil each posted. Bride of the First
Night, is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT B
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN ! STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Caros, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Sonus, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Sd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket Dictionary., 8d
posted. 'Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, 8d, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassf.’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bit and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 iilus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s-Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’-'
ft
r*
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGEE’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s FoDDhas attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


NIGHT OR DAY
With Irritating Skin Humour
Whole Body Affected Scalp
Itched All the Time and Hair Began
to Fall Out—Wonderful Help
Received From
APPLICATION OF
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I am never without Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment since I tried
them last summer. About the latter
part of July my whole body began to
itch. I did not take much notice of it
at first, but it began to get worse all the
time, and then I began to get uneasy
and tried all kinds of baths and other
remedies that were recommended for
pln'u humours; but I became worse all
the time. My hair began to fall out and
my scalp itched all the time. Espe-
cially at night, just as soon as I would
get in bed and get warm, my whole body
would begin to itch and my finger nails
would keep it irritated, and it was not
long before I could not rest night or day.
A friend asked me to try the Cuticura
Remedies, and I did, and the first appli-
cation helped me wonderfully. For
about four weeks I would take a hot
bath every night and then apply the
Cuticura Ointment to my whole body;
and I kept getting better, and by the
time I used four boxes of Cuticura I was
entirely cured, and my hair stopped
falling out, but I continue to use the
Cuticura on my scalp. It keeps all dan-
druff out and my scalp is always clean.
I always use Ointment on my face after
shaving, and have found nothing to
equal it. D. E. Blankenship, Indianap-
olis, Ind. Oct. 27, 1905.”
nun 10. m.hoib
“I have used Cuticura Ointment for
chafing of infants, and as they grew
older all skin diseases were given treat-
ment with that and the Cuticura Soap.
I never found it necessary to call a doc-
tor, as these Remedies are a sure cure,
if used as directed. lam glad to recom-
mend them to all mothers. Mrs. F. A.
Kennard, St. Paul Park, Minn. June 21,
1905.”
The originals of the above testimonials are on flleinthe
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A. sjyMailed Free, “How to Cure
tczeraa.” Address, R. Towns & Co. Sydney, N. S. W.
eh
A-
P L
We are just landing
an entirely new stock
of the famous
MICHELIN TYRES,
winners of all the
principal races in
1906, including the
great VANDERBILT
CUP RACE.
&9|_E • AUSTRALIAN • AGENTS
BARNET GLASSsO
city dcrpt. as. 6 Birxders .
I PACT9DY■ • •
TARA-RUBBCR-WRAS'
poor scr pcy*
IS THE
UnderwooD
Gold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE DUCT }
TYPEWRITER *
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood is
COVETED by arm-wracHed
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT lor its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS: Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
105,000
The Waybacß Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, Is
■nil
Mm
illlllllllli
V,
m
m
OF
An Agreeable
Mila and
i Efficacious
iyet Prompt
in Act
is a simple, safe, and reliable, laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, Loriclon, Eng.
IS YOUR HOME WITHOUT MUSIC?
isasmt
> mm N
Do you miss the sweet notes of the piano, violin or other musical instru-
ment that you are fond.of ? . . .
Do you not often regret that you cannot sing or whistle the airs from the
latest opera ? . . . ,
Are your evenings slow, and is it sometimes hard to entertain your guests .
Then become the owner of an
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
which supplies every want in the way of music and entertainment and does
so with a naturalness beyond belief.
Ask us to send you some descriptive printed matter and the name of your nearest dealer, who
will be pleased to play you the music you love —free of charge.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd.. Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
“HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
.... of ....
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing- Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)—UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to —JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
. . WEAjR . .
BucKley & Nunn s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. lO S^F
ALL SIZE® and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
fg
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE..
The Inky Way.
Coon amble Independent (N.S.W.), which used fco be
owned by late Hugh Macdonald, M.P., and another, has
now passed into the hands of Mrs. Macdonald. Quite a
number of papers in Australia are run, partly or wholly,
by women. For many years a Hobart daily, tlie News,
was owned and managed by Mrs. Sarah Gill, and a very
good manager she was, though they do say that she
chose reporters partly for “ their respectable and quiet
appearance ” ; and a respectable and quiet appearance
isn’t of much real value as a journalistic equipment.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : One of our morning newspapers lately worked
a very heavy “ beat ” or “ scoop ” on the other one, and
it suggests professional reflections. Reporters in this
city, on the London principle, have agreements. The
game of sharping does not appear to be worth the candle.
A fellow is fiauled over the coals for what he misses, and
not praised for wjiat tie gets. In New York, it is each for
his “ain hand,’’ like Hajl o’ the Wynd. Berlin is the
Paradise of reporters that go round the Government
offices. There is a bureau, arid you have to take exactly
what official information is given you. If the journalist
finds out anything else, he dare not publish it. If he did
he would get the run—from Berlin. No more Govern-
ment information would be given him. But here is what
happens in Melbourne. Trie proprietors know of the
agreements, and object to them. If they get the ex-
clusive hint of a big thing, they will put a strange man
on the job—a man eager to distinguish himself. Or they
will start the regular reporter with a clue, and he is in
agony as to whether he ought or ought not to tell the
other side. If newspaper proprietors want no agree-
ments, they ought to say to a good man, “ We will recog-
nise that the general who never made mistakes never
made war.”
* •* * *
The Peter Close free pardon system was one time
applied in a wholesale way to a newspaper staff. When
the late G. B. Barton edited the Otago Daily Times, a
libel against the Government appeared in its columns,
and Ministers severally started proceedings. The evi-
dence of the employees of the newspaper was considered
necessary by the Crown, but these refused to answer
questions on the ground that they might thereby incrimi-
nate themselves. Thereupon the Government obtained
the Governor’s assent to a batch of “ free pardons,” and
served the documents all round the office, stopping only
at the proprietors.
It is rumored that somebody is going to sue Judkins
for illegal detention of a ti-tree crown. It is this way.
A little Melbourne paper that doesn’t like Gillott pub-
lished a bitter account of his alleged financial and other
misdeeds. The week afterwards Judkins attacked Gil-
lott, and fired off an account—practically the same ac-
count —of Gillott’s alleged financial and other misdeeas.
Judkins fired it off just as if it were his own account.
Then Gillqtt fled, and they presented Judkins with a
ti-tree croivn. And now an obscure Melbourne paper
says the crown is its by right, and that Judkins is an
unholy usurper, or words to that effect.
* * * *
Ramsay Macdonald, the British Labor member who
recently cast an inquiring eye over Australian politics,
has been throwing mud at the Australian cable syndi-
cate. According to Macdonald, the cable source is con-
trolled by Ohamberlainite influence, and the strength of
the Tariff Reform party in England is exaggerated out of
all proportion. t,o the reality. The story seems thin. Of
the four richest city dailies in Australia —the papers
which control the cable are Freetrade,
and, although cupidity might influence the proprietaries
sufficiently to make them swallow any sort of news that
was cheap, there seems to be no reason why Freetrade
lies should be dearer than any other variety. The more
reasonable inference seems to be that the Tariff Reform
movement in England is even stronger than they repre-
sent it. Macdonald is a rabid Freetrader, and seems pre-
pared to imagine things very hard in favor of his decrepit
importing Joss.
* • * *
The “ Mooch-About ” : -Re“L.N.’s” suburban poet-
hawker (B. 21/2/’O7). I have known half-a-dozen or more
bush bards on the Macquarie, Darling and Murrumbidgee
rivers (N.S. W.) who commit, or used to commit, horrible
doggerel about “ The Boss Cook of the Darling,” “ Jacky
Dow,” “ Poisoner Ned,” &c., and hawk it from camp to
camp and station to station at 3d. each pome in manu-
script on greasy notepaper. Some of these doggerels are
even now sung and recited by irresponsible bushies.
Asked one of these wandering minstrels on the Darling
how biz was? “ Not much in the potry line,” he opined,
“ but it brings in a beer or two, an’ keeps the wolf from
the door like !” I reminded him that he didn’t seem to
have a door, but he said it was the sort of figgerative
language that potes were permitted to use. I read
sixpenn’orth of his verse. It was a dreadfully low-spirited
thing about some one named Samuel whose dog had
died, whereupon he immediately never smiled again.
•«- * *
Frank Hudson, sometimes represented by verse and
prose in Bulletin pages, is a nephew of Sir Arthur
Havelock, one-time Governor of Tasmania. Hudson
soldiered in India and South Africa, tried America, and
came out to Australia with literary yearnings. He is on
the staff of the Evening Echo. Ballarat.
PUPPETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E’s an author ; writes the stories
For the Ladies’ Novelette ;
Gets a ’eap of cash for doin’
’Em ; it pays, don’t you forget !
Have you read them stories? Boshters!
Why, I bloomin’ well near cried
Over “Lord Mispitchutt’s Rival,”
When the ’eroine had died.
You see, I used to think, like you,
That wot he wrote about
’Ad really ’appened somewhere,
An’ that ’e ’ad found it out.
That ’e only told a story
Wot other people made ;
That ’e couldn’t ’elp the things they did,
Or the tricks the villain played.
But now I sees it different,
’E do their parts,
’E raises ’em to glory,
Or ’e breaks their bloomin’ ’ear'ts.
They can’t do nothin’ else but wot
The author makes ’em do.
The ’ero and the ’eroine,
The black-faced villain too,
Are just like puppets at a show,
’Elpless as anything.
The author sits behind the scenes
An’ yanks ’em on his string.
’E makes ’em just the kind ’e wants :
The villain icy cold,
The ’eroine so sweet and true,
The ’ero brave and bold.
’E takes the pore young lady-'elps
A-toilin’ for their muvvers,
An’ generally ’elps ’em all
To tip-top wealthy lovers.
’E manages it pretty well,
An’ generally you’ll find
That them as gets the prizes
Is the right and proper kind.
It’s a funny trade he’s graftin’ at,
An’ I bloomin’ well near cried
Over “Lord Mispitchutt’s Rival”
When the ’eroine had died.
An’ often in the fact’ry,
When I’m rollin’ cigarettes,
I wonder if we’re just like Them
Wot’s in the novelettes,
If someone sits be’ind the scenes
An’ yanks us on his strings
A-making,stories-of the lives
Of us pore ’uman things ?
VIC.
W. L. SLACK.


Amusements.
H
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
A Magnificent Reception nightly accorded to Mr.
JULIUS KNIGHT and J. O. WILLIAMSON’S New
English Dramatic Company, in the Picturesque
Romantic Melodrama—
ROBIN HOOD.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—On Saturday next “Robin
Hood ” will be transferred to the THEATRE ROYAL.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
. SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 23rd.
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantonnmists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
. for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
SATURDAY, MARCH 23rd, 1907.
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
First production in Sydney of
MRS. GORRINGE’S NECKLACE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at White Rose.
WIRTH BROTH ERS’
greatest show on earth.
In a vast city of snow-white tents, down the
™ , „ Bea "tif»l Avenue, PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
GRAND TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.-The Press generally
declare this to be the best Circus entertainment ever seen
"'Sydney. Seven Huge Shows for One Ticket.
MATINEES-VVednesdays, Saturdays, and Holidays.
Reserved Chairs, 4s, at Paling’s ; Back Chairs, 3s ;
American folding Back Chairs, 2s ; Gallery, Is ; Children
Half-price except to Gallery.
W ONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
", (The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
_ GRAND SEA SPECTACLE,
Shipwreck in Tamarama Ba^ —Rescue of the Crew.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
EVERY NlGHT—California Venus, Jack Prendergast’s
Biickjumpers, Open-air Specialty Circus, King’s
Theatre of Varieties.
FUN-PRODUCING DEVICES UNENDING.
gT. JAMES' HALL, PHILLIP ST., SYDNEY.
MISS ROSE SEATON,
TALES OF WONDER AND FAIRY LAND—
Saturday Afternoon, MARCH 23rd, at 3 o’clock.
DRAMATIC RECITAL—APRIL 16th, at 8 o’clock.
Tickets at Nicholson’s Concert Agency.
35., 2s. Children Half-price.
JESSIE MACLACHLAN,
THE HIGHLAND SOPRANO,
with the following company—
DOUGLAS YOUNG, Tenor ;
JOHN McLINDON, ’Cellist ;
MURRAY GRAHAM, Pianist;
ROBERT BUCHANAN. Accompanist,
will open her Australian tour at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL
Oil
EASTER SATURDAY, MARCH 30.
PRICES 55., 35., 25., Is. ss. and 3s. Reserved.
PREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
POST MASON,
AND VAUDEVILLE COMPANY,
PLAYING TO RECORD HOUSES THIS WEEK
TAMWORTH, WARWICK, TOOWOOMBA
to follow.
FRED DAWSON, Representative.
Amusements.
T'Y OL ' theatre, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in a new series of wonderful Characterisations.
RING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
• THE BICKNELLS. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
LITTLE LILLY GRIMSHAW. Mr. HAROLD REEVES.
MISS FANNY POWERS. THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. llarry Rickards.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dogs
and Monkeys.
CASSIE WALMER, Song and Dance Artist.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CLEOPATRA, Snake Enchantress.
BONITA. Girl Rifle Shot.
Plan at Allan’s. iKT PRICES—as, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 23rd.
Return of Miss TITTELL BRUNE, and First Performance
in Melbourne of
PARSIFAL.
Miss BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Mr. THOS. KINGSTON as PARSIFAL.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
■LIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURS., MARCH 21, FRIDAY, MARCH 22—Last Two
Performances of THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 23rd.
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
Alexandre Dumas' World-famed Story,
CAMILLE.
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN as CAMILLE GAUTHIER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
M ASONIC HALL, MELBOURNE’
MONDAY, MARCH 25,
FAREWELL COMPLIMENT TO
MISS CARRIE HAASE,
The Gifted Elocutionist,
Prior to her Departure for Europe for Further Study.
Miss LILIAN REID,
Miss IDA OSBORNE,
Madame CHARBONNET-liELLERMANN,
Miss NELLIE VEITCH’S SENIOR PUPILS in
COMEDIETTA,
Mr. W. T. BARKER, A.R.A.M. (Harpist),
Mr. W. E. LEWIS, have Volunteered their Services.
One Price of Admission, 2s 6d. Tickets at Glen’s and
Mullen’s. Box Plan at Glen's (Booking Fee, Is).
tIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to il p.m. 83?“ ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Missing Friends.
ILL HENRY THEOPHILUS BOLGER,
late Isisford, Queensland, send address.
A. O’CONNOR,
c/o Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne.
TWILLIAM GERALD FRAMPTON ORISTALITIast
heard of in 1873, at Trafalgar Place, North Mel-
bourne, or his children, or widow, or other representa-
tives if he be dead, is or are entitled to a sum of money.
Mr. Cristall married (and had two issue, by such marriage)
ELIZABETH JAMES, whose brothers" were, in 1868,
miners at Ballarat. Anyone possessing any knowledge
of the above persons or any of them will please communi-
cate JOSEPH FITZGERALD, Solicitor, Royal Insurance
Buildings, 418 Collins-street, Melbourne ; or R. BYRON
JOHNSON, Solicitor, 49 and 50 Parliament-street, West-
minster, London, S. W.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived' the Centuries
SINGLETONS EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, AO, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
Tues., March 26th, to Wed., April 3rd, 1907
■ 1 »■ ■
HUNTING AND TROTTING EXHIBITIONS.
GRAND PARADE of HORSES and CATTLE DAILY.
hfg
NEW CATTLE PAVILION.
NEW CARRIAGE PAVILION.
NEW DOG PAVILION.
The Biggest Show in Australasia
EXCURSION FARES ALL LINES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
h
THE EASY SHAVER!
THE PLUM RAZOR shaves easy—never pulls
. never gives trouble—requires little attention—
is always satisfactory under all conditions.
The PJum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning' Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, PRICE io/e post frk. CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Perdriau's
TALMA'
Macintosh,
30-
Carriage Paid.
V.'- ■
Perdriau's
‘TALMA’
Macintosh,
30/-
Carriage Paid.
Perdriau’s
• • • j
A Genuine Water-
proof Coat for City
or Country Wear.
TALMA
MACINTOSH
THIS MACINTOSH is made from good quality Fawn Canton Material with
a smart Check Lining, and proofed with Pure Rubber between the two
textures. Nice light weight. New Full Cut Skirt that does not cling
round legs when walking. A splendid Driving and Walking Coat. All Seams
sewn and taped ; surface taped Skirt and Cuffs ; Straps to tighten up Cuffs when
driving; Ihroat Tab; Plain Collar; No Slit in Skirt. Coat is worn rather
shorter than old-fashioned close cut Chester.
When ordering, please send height and Chest Measure over Coat.
We will select Size to suit.
Perdriau Rubber Co. L “-
270 Georg'e St., Sydney.
Winter Catalogue of Macintoshes, Oilskins, Rugs, Rubber Footwear, &c.,
posted FREE ON REQUEST.
S. C. F. HAHNEMANN,
DISCOVERER OF
HOMOEOPATHY.
HOMEOPATHY. 0P
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
lfor a number of years we have experi-
mented, ii\ order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming' disease, and
at last our efforts have met 'with unpre-
cedented success, and we are glad to be
able to state that the treatment of Weak-
ness and Kindred Ailments, Nervous-
ness, Stomach and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism and Allied Complaints,
Prostatic Affedlions, Etc., are com-
pletely and permanently cured by
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital, stated “ Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities,
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—IIOMCEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method, so in
order that you can make a study of our system, we will send to
your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OP WISDOM ” to any person who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzies, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
fg
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
. both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable; reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “JoHer” Triclt Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment of
%
m
pu
‘/ v
your friends, upon re-opening- the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Trice, with
full directions. 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Box. Post free
anywhere for 1/-. Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3, P.O. HA Y/MARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The JoKer Cig'ar Case.
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid,
four cigars, which appear to be quite genuine, are
shown. Invite your friend to have a cigar, which
offer he readily accepts, and-immediately he
attempts to help himself a slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly made. Price, packed
securely and posted free to any part of the world,
on receipt of 1/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
One of the most
amusing l jokes to be found
in our varied stock. Only
clean water required for
working, and it can be used
as often as the operator
chooses, free of cost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
fgh
and, when he accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the ball
inside the camera, and your friend gets the greatest shook
he ever had in his life. Strongly made of wood, with strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price Bd,
post free anywhere. Wholesale and Retail.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
„ NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd


THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address In Australia
%
E—
\
'THIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping 1 , and
1 is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
c amts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“DUHKLING, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
fgh
A
natural
preparation.
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
/ is not a concoction of arti-
• ficially made chemical crystals.
Montserrat
is the pure juice of the famous West
Indian Lime Fruit, specially
cultivated for that purpose in
the Island of Montserrat.
The Lancet counsels the
public to drink
‘Montserrat*
Sold by all
Chemists,
Grocers,
etc.
The Pipe
Without a Rival
The Standard of Quality
in Briar Pipes.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
fle
O
•n ,
gfh
ƒgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrutoh & Co. on each Bottle.
fgh
fgh
fgh
Write
for
Patterns
To-Day.
Murdoch's Easter
Suit Offer.^
* -gaga J
There’S jukt nice time to let us make your Easter Suit.
Our Easter Suit Offer has met with instant success, and
we are busy—but not too busy to make you a Suit
that will please you and deliver it promptly.
MATERIALS are English, Scotch, and Marrickvilte
Tweeds, Fancy ' Woollens and Ever-right Serges.
PRICES 42/“ 45/“ 50/-
THE. SUIT TO ORDER.
MURDOCH’S
“Where the Ccod
Hats are,”
In Park St., SYDNEY
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
r
n
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene. SP
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS?
IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACH LIGHT C?
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
230 FUNDERS LAHE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A.
fghfg
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
hfg
SALT
“THE HOSPITAL,'* London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
« This famous salt maintains its qualities for digestibility and savour. Besides
chloride of sodium this preparation contains phosphates which render
Cerebos Salt not only a flavouring ingredient, but a food in itself.”
Aeenis —Hctrrison Attwood, Sydney,
S? 4 Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
DIREOTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
x
&
&
2 s
(R
1
S
s
7/
5v
N
5V
<o
<v
%
S?
s
/ /
4F
hfg
RThE,
ICOCK
LBIR
THE
IRCH
>*'■•
Biuiard
Tables.
hfghf
l
Oatine
HAVE YOU TRIED THIS
FACE CREAM YET?
Do so now. It will remove all dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, from
the pores, and keep your skin soft and clear.
It is the one thing that will enable your com-
plexion to withstand the dry heat of the
Australian climate.
Whatever the weather, Oatine will not go
bad. It contains no animal fat or dangerous
mineral salts, being made from pure fresh
oats. It does not grow hair. Men use it
after shaving.
Get a jar of Oatine now. It costs 1/3 or a
larger size holding fourtimes the amount, 2/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
Henry Skinner,
CJareudou-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10 45.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hm.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
CHARACTER
IS DESTINY
AND Astrology is the best means by which we
can learn the real character, also all the
opportunities and possibilities of this life. Send
date of birth and Is. in stamps for a TEST
HOROSCOPE calculated and written by R.
Hekschell, who has supplied Horoscopes to the
late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Mr. W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money returned if Horoscope incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London)
Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria.
Private Address —Woodville, Mt, Albert.
“ Stony ” : In the busy hive of commerce
where I have my 6xB refuge from the madding
crowd, there is also a registry office. There
“ Mord ” and “ Jemimer” call to inquire after a
125.-per-week billet; and there, also, a large
number of Melbourne’s demi-semi-nobility gather
to seize their victims. In prowling up and down
the front vestibule, and in waiting for the
elevator, I have come to know quite a lot about
“ mistresses ” and the people they employ to grill
their chops. I note that when “Mord” comes
after a job, looking a little beery, she sneaks up the
stairs; but “Jemimer,” who is quite a sober and
respectable young woman, will demand lift-
accommodation with the best of them. When
Mrs. Toorak Smith comes in, there is a frou-frou
which sighs all up and down the passages, and a
clatter of golden purses and a sibilant murmur as
she talks to Mrs. Hawthorn Brown. “I gave
her a week’s wages on the spot, and sent for a cab
and the police !” “Mine is so clean !” “She
uses charcoal and red ochre!” “Oh, yes, mid-
day dinner on Sunday ! ” and so forth. The
average maid-hunter too often has manners on a
par with those of the maids themselves —or below.
It took me about seven minutes to get down in
the lift, the other day. At the first floor;
the liftman stopped to take women aboard.
There was a bunch of them standing there.
Some'ofthem were going and some were seeing
the others off, and they said sad good-byes and
long farewells while the lift and I waited. Those
of the bunch who came down in the lift met pals
in the doorway downstairs, and stopped to greet
them, while I stayed pent in the background,
gnashing mv large, white teeth. I finally burst
out of my "bondage with a loud damn which
echoed all up and down the vestibule and shook
the fowl-feathers in Mrs. Malvern. Johnson’s ex-
pensive headgear.
“ Homo ” : The longevity of the Victorian
crank (or some of him, anyhow) is remarkable.
One metropolitan asylum (Yarra Bend), for
instance, contains an inmate who has been board-
ing at the establishment continuously since
1853, and is still going strong. He can give
points at billiards or draughts to anything within
the walls at the present time. Another one who,
early in the year 1857—he was then a strapping
young fellow of 25 or so—left lucrative employ-
ment in the Ballarat district in order to consult
the authorities in Melbourne anent establishing
his claim to the throne of Russia, and didn’t
return, is still endowed with such physical vigor
that it takes the united efforts of several members
of the staff to nurse him when his anger is
aroused. The year 1861 is represented by a couple
of lusty specimens, and thence onward to 1880
almost every year has its two or three hale and 1
hearty delegates, whilst patients who have spent
upwards of a quarter of a century within the
walls, and seem to be just entering the prime of
life, in a physical sense, can be counted by the ;
score. Comparative novices, ranging from 10 to
20 years’ service, are as plentiful as blackberries. I
And this merely refers to the male division. The i
female division furnishes even stronger testimony.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £16 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national jjaak,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specialty protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C.; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager..— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual jjife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manag'er: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAIITC HD A ETC on Australia, New Zea-
Unftn I O Unftr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... <£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napif.r.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of j
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
MONEY to LEND
PASTORAL LANDS
At Lowest
Bates.
A LEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES,
H. comprising the Magician’s Damon Bottle Trick,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and
card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail Trick, The Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character), the Joker’s
Love Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic
Caricatures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P.O., Haymarket.
New York Novelty Co., 710 George St., Sydney.
ON THE HOP !—310 of “Hop’s” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
‘Sniddms
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITKI).
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Ei>wd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
♦MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson .. I Noon, April 26
N. Allan .. .. | Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £52 .. £16 Os to £20 Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £31 10s.. £13 13s to £17 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £115.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
h
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 9th APRIL,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
PARKS—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
fgh
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, Ac.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE .. ' 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE.. .. 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer. Tons-
BEACON GRANGE 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,600
THORPE GRANGE .. .. 6,380
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,420
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pali Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Ouyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, Loudon, E.C.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
32. Davs to Auckland 8$ Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu. 21 Days to ’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH '28,1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA, Twin-screw, sails APRIL 8, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
<s>
«ss*
<5
♦
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £100,000
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3Sr.S3.-W.
!ontdepiete0.«|.Co-,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
TO VANCOUVER.
Thence by Rail to any part of CANADA or
UNITED STATES.
THE BEST ROUTE TO EUROPE.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
May 13, June 10, July 8.
t@T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. 15&
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.';
Hon. J. M. l’ratt,, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES UOltliOWM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Sbipplng,
THEAOELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W. A.. Port for'
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday
April 3.
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday,
April 17.
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. 1
BRISBANE,' I
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, J
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Gabo, March 23.
S.S. Wollowra, March 30.
Best ana Cheapest It ante to Goldfields.
fi ..!?r^ SSa S e ke i s are interchangeable after the
ni st Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
drench Government, calling at MELBOURNE AOF
OOLOM BO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
«vuiu»yj GlUia, Vjlima.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75)
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
J. LOTH, Acting Principal Agent
Banking.
Bank of |)aui South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... ... ... . . 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 5,475,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. Maoaellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through,
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaeonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE^
Union Club,
fghgf
Brisbane.
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
lvilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. La g
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Pa,ssenger '
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, orirom
2 Guineas per Week.
mHE BULLETIN POST
1 Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Iree
to any address.


KODAKERY” is Photography
Simplified.
‘•To KodaK 99 is to reach tke
top rung of tHe ladder of
enjoyment at Holiday Time.
hfg
hfghfg
hfghgf
And get
Pi<sl\ires
with
a “Brownie**
which costs
6s.
Or, with a larger size “ Brownie,”
which costs 125., Pidures 21 x 21
inches and 21 x 31 respectively.
NO INSTRUCTION NECESSARY FOR KODAKS.
No better pictures can be obtained with any other Cameras at any price.
For larger sizes, the FOLDING POCKET KODAKS are
. invincible, and admirably adapted for Holiday Work of every description.
NO PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE is Required,
NOR IS A DARK ROOM A NECESSITY.
FILMS CAN BE DEVELOPED IN DAYLIGHT.
KODAK PHOTOGRAPHY is DAYLIGHT
PHOTOGRAPHY from Exposure to Burnisher.
We invite all and sundry to witness
our daily demonstrations of this fact.
Folding' Pocket
Kodaks
Similar to
Illustration,
£1 11s
In Various Sizes,
From
They fit easily in the pocket, are ready
for instant work, and never fail to give
the most excellent results.
A Holiday WITHOUT a
Kodak is only HALF a Holiday.
hgfhgfhfgh
Wc are the Sole Australian Agents
for KODAK, LIMITED
BARER ROUSE P R £H’J;
LIMITED,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And at Adelaide and Brisbane.
fghfh
Shaving
SlicK
jf-pj
Williams’ Shaving Soap
is absolutely necessary
for a clean, comfortable
shave. It gives abund-
ant lather to soften the
toughest beard;
the lather is
soothing and
antiseptic; it
lasts longest
and prevents
the smarting
and irritation
of the face,
the bane of
most soaps.
“The
only kind
that
won’t smart or dry on the face.”
■ . X . f>'- ■■ ■ «0
mak 'neiLvatfi I'wfwwr. 3 {>•■.■? ■' ■ . . .
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all oyer the world,
or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.;
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d. (Trial size) of Williams’
Shaving Stick, 2d.
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Russell St., London,W. C.; 4Rue ChauveauxLagarde, Paris;
161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South Wales. Head office and factories,
Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals v
fghfghfg
hfghfg
Works s Birmingham, Engßand.
These series oi
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Coffee Tremors
One of the sources of nervous tremors that annoy so many -
persons may be found in the use of coffee as a beverage.
A well-known medical authority says : - “It would be no easy
task for me to indicate all the maladies, that, under the names
of debility, nervous affections, tremors and chronic disease, prevail
among the coffee-drinking set, enervating humanity, and causing
degeneration of mind and body.”
How many Business Men know what it is to feel cold,
cheerless and apathetic on “going down to business,” and how
many appreciate the fact that the bad heart and worse nerves are,
in most cases, caused by coffee or its contained alkaloid—caffeine.
Men of clear brains—men who are wide awake, alert, ener-
getic, are sought to till the best positions and put in line for pro-
motion.
The man who Imows he must depend upon a clear brain to
get up in the world, is far better off without coffee—because it
contains a treacherous nerve-racking drug.
There is a certain practicable way to get rid of the bad effects
of, and the craving for, coffee; that is to quit short of and drink
well-made
Postum Food Coffee
This contains no poisonous drugs—is made from whole wheat,
including the outer coat, which contains the valuable Phosphate
of Potash that combines in the blood with albumen to rebuild the
nerve cells.
Postum (when boiled properly—see directions on pkg.) has a
delicious flavor and coffee snap of its own, and is emphatically
wholesome.
It works both ways when you quit coffee and take on Postum :
The old nervous tremors, headaches, indigestion, etc., disappear
with the coffee, and Postum builds up new energy, so that life is
a joy and work an appreciation !
“ THERE’S A REASON.”
Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Estabushed 1849. For Ufe Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND ® n Security of Freehold or Leasehold
_. . City or Suburban Properties, or on
of n < Co '? lb,r,ed >» Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
11= D ® bent l| re s> Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand gpg- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to -jO per cent, of the loan during’ any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNHY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd,
S Y D IVT E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
.Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they .
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others’.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toiiet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“I have only used your ‘HARLENE' for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly."
I/-, 2/6 #4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
Edwards’ “Harlene” Co.
SSS**" — ~
mm
95 & 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied*
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. B»-Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
aee
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ,of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
hfghfgh
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. • It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
BSfigte
£lOO
a Weeh
Given
Away
Free
TOOTH & GO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
FREE
FOR WRITING.
GUARANTEED Cure for Drunkenness.
£
We are giving away Free Samples of the World-Renowned EUCRASY.
Enclose 6d. in Stamps for postage.
Call on or address THE lUCRASY COY.. 62 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
FACTS ABOUT THE
EUCRASY Treatment.
The Celebrated Cure for the
fghfghfg
TOBACCO
AND
THE
I
DRUG HABIT.
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, in any form, and
now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing yourself of the
. EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasons :
Because
The Eucras.v Cure has
been successfully used
for over 30 years
throughout the world,
and 11 years in Aus-
tralia.
Because
The Cure is positive
and permanent.. It is
agreeable to take, no
injections or painful
operations of any kind.
Because
The effect of the
treatment on the
nerves is marvellous.
The Eucrasy is a life-
saver. There are no
bad after-effects.
Because
About one million
patients have' already
been cured, over 10
thousand of whom
were in Australia.
Because
Each patient treats
himself,, at, his own
home, without incon-
venience or loss to his
daily vocation.
Because
The craving for. alco-
hol is entirely stopped
in a few days, and a
permanent cure is
effected in from one
to two weeks.
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testi-
monials are on file in
our offices. Many are
from Clergymen and
prominent public men.
Because
People addicted to
drinking, without re-
alising their own
folly, can be cured
secretly, even against
their ' will; and with-
out their knowledge.
All cases are treated
Confide ntially and
with absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
Because
Physicians, Clergy,
men, Politicians, the
Press, and Business
Men of high standing
endorse tne Eucrasy
Treatment.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, in powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge.
For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUGRASY CO.,
62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, M S r.
am
tMM>ew club
hfghfg
hfghfgh
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’B 'FRUIT SALT;' Without It you hart a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, KNGh,
by J. o. BNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
fghfghgf
hgf
nmm
InwßK?
(PfltUL'
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorder*
Iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Sion.
Remove the cause by using CARTERS LITTLE LIVER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipation Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS.
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
hfghgf


fl
L
?a
VICTORIA
Collins &SwansfanS':? Melbourne;
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395£ 397 Hay S? Perth
QUEENSLAND j
> Queen S Edward St? B r isbane
NEW ZEALAND
W6£ 143 Queen SL Auckland
18-3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
236 £235 HighS*.
Princes £ DowlingS* DunedbrJ^
t
"irnmp corner, george si sydh^l
eoo
If its from
[Stewart Dawsons]
its good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRA TBO PRICE LIST.
It is Important to Know this! Diamonds are steadily increasing in price and from
the latesTmarket reports this is hound to continue. AH these pieces of fme Diarnond Jewdkry w r
mounted up when Diamonds were a good deallower than they are to-day. It would kwjtb
us to duplicate one of the pieces shown at the prices they are now marked-wewould want rom
15 per cent, to 25 per cent. more. If you want to benefit by the low pnces here shown, do not delay.
G3oso.—Fine Gold Half-Hoop Bangle, set Rubies and
Diamonds, £2O.
Fine Diamond New Moon Brooch, £32 10s*
Smaller, £2l.
Finest Diamond Cluster Bangle, Turquoise Centre,
£4O.
Brooch, £lB 10s.
Fine Diamond and 15ct. Gold Clover Leaf
rift-S
mm
No CM4—lsct. Gold and Fine Diamond Cluster Bracelet
Brooch and Pendant combined. Price M 5.
wmmm
rm
Very Fine Half-Hoop Diamond Bangle, £lO5.
Smaller size, £55.
Ruby, Pearl and Diamond, or Sapphire, Pearl and
Diamond Brooch, £5 10s.
No 155— Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine Diamonds,
2 Whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Earrings, Fine
White Dia-
monds, £6O.
Fine Gold Shamrock Brooch, set Diamonds and
Emeralds, £lO 10s.
Earrings, Fine
White Dia-
monds, £lB 10s.
No. G26B7. —Fashionable Rose, Diamond and Olivine Liaard
Brooch, £l4 10s. Set Pearls and Olivines, £6 10s.
No. C 1450.
Diamond Crescent
Brooch, £l5 10s.
Larger size, £26 10s.
15ct. Gold Domed Links, set
Fine White Diamonds,
£lO pair.
The Fashionable Brooch, Knife-edgre Bar, with 5
stones set singly, 15ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Sapphires, £22 10s, £45 ; Diamonds and
Emeralds, £2l, £25 ; Diamonds and Whole
Pearls, £l5 10s, £3p; Diamonds and Opals,
£lO 10s, £3O ; Diamonds only, £22 10s.
Magnificent Pure White Single Stone Diamond Collar Necklet, £250.
Worth quite 25 per cent. more.
Fine Diamond Star Brooch or
Pendant, £57 10s.
Pine Diamond Sun Burst Brooch
or Hair Ornament, £52 10s.
No. 567 —Pine Diamonds, Rubies
and Pearls, loot. Gold Brooch,
£6 10s.
Bracelet, set with 20 Diamonds and 9 Opals,
exquisite piece of jewellery. Price 435
No. Eslos.—Fine Diamond and Opal New Moon
Brooch, larger stae than shown, 34 Diamonds,
13 Opals, £3O. Three inches long.
Splendid Diamond Bangle, Leaf Centre, £47
fine Diamond, Pearl and Sapphire Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l4 10s.
No. G33o2—Exquisite Brilliant White Diamond and
Emerald Cluster Brooch, £l4O.
Fine Diamond Cluster Bangle, £3O.
Fine Diamond Spray Brooch, £l7 10s.
No 167A —Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Diamonds,
2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £0 15s.
Very Fine Single Stone Diamond Brooch, £32 10s.
Fine Gold New Moon Brooch, set Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s.
No. G 2539. Fine Diamond Scroll New Moon Brooch, £35. Smaller size,
with Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and Sapphires, £1(110s.
af
Fine Diamond Corsage or Hair Dagger, £85. If with Pearls and Turquoise, £8 10s.
bm—b
No. 152—Fine Gold Scroll-Pattern Bangle, Set Fine
White Diamonds, £32 10s.
No OMs—lset. Gold and Finest Opal and Diamond Scroll
and Cluster Bangle. Price £45.
No. 156— Scroll and Cluster Combination Brooch and Bangle,
Fine Gold, set all Diamonds, £27 10s.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarßet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
Stte LEADING
HOUSE
hfg
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
VlfE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP ...
hfghfghgf
B
BEAT
I 7 / T-mnmmrn'
ft's ISI /jf
mm#
Mm
NATIONAL A.R.MS COY. S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock
weight of 12-gauge, about Gf to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6J to 6Jlb
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
HEARNES
Tlx© Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
hose ' vho have takep this njedicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoaiseness, Fain or Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
C i. irO M C U nOr -^° n f U f ip 'l ° deV ®l°u P - u has never been known to exist where - Coughs-' have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S bronchitis CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc j|y.
NOTICE.“ Hearne ’ S Bronchit ' s Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
r'.tiF
<i)p
w
[Disinfecting)
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA'RANT,
NCN-POJSCNOUS.
1
"|/ra
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/-Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
TheSANITAS ” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Pi’ice 6d.
hgfhfg
Given
Away
Fop
CORRECT
ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies Or Gents) or anv articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of £i,
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
be compelled to talk about us to vour
>
friends, and tell therrrabout the extraordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well
satisfied customei is t.ie best and most effective advertisement that can be secured. By this plan, therefore.
' V II 1“ 1 easC j number of our customers without adding to our expenses by awarding as
prizes many thousand pounds worth of Watohes which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing.
hgfhfghgf
„ IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows
nine squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square, The puzzle is to place
a number on each of the eight empty squares, so that tflfey shall add up to 15 in a
straight line in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same
figure. Our decision is to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
THIS
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, men-
tion whether you would like Lady s or Gent s Prize, This is an honest offer made by a responsible firm
The distance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal op-
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash
With your solution of this puzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants picture postcards and if
you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances
who will be delighted to pavvyou a penny for each one you wish to dispose of, thus you get double the value
for the money you send with an excellent chance of 1 winning a Solid Silver Watch
Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 35., and a stamped addressed envelope so that
we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NO CERTAINTY without
“RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
_ , THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lacer beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS.Pure and Wholesome.
S7?e BULLETIN POST CARDS
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Cleanse
The Vitiated
Blood
When you see
Its impurities
Bursting through
The Skin
In Pimples,
Blotches
And Sores.
Rely on Sulphur Bit-
ters and Health will
follow.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
hfg
hfg
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You cam become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce voise-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Eemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADENj 89 Pitt St., Sydney
h
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


gfh
Radium
WoßTHjfooooo
PER OUNCE
MaRCOHI '
Wireless
TELEGRAPJiY: '
gfgh
Cures
Sore
Ujngs
£, v i
y-
- ysn uoispq.f.
1 60 onaq MQQT3HS i
Q3a«d3Md .
IS9HO ONV‘
SDNfTJ'IVOdH].
3 Hi 30
SNOIIO3Jjy ,
amwkiowtdj
ONV
nviHDNoag
nv onx#
woiidwnswoo
dnoao
SOT OQ
SHonoo
iAaaAQDSia
fghfgh
oO *S
Greatest
of ALL
~ NEW °
DISCOVERY
for COUGHS COLDS
and CONSUMPTION.
toe mmm w
iEIICMSaiiOE
The Greatest Discovery
f the 20- Cervlury
uaranteed to cure
II lung Troubles.
INDIGESTION.
The torments which are suffered when the digestive organs fail to do their work thoroughly are,
unfortunately, sowell known to most of us that it is not necessary for the various symptoms of indi-
gestion or dyspepsia to be given in detail here.
Indigestion h&s several sources of origin, the principal being Gastric Catarrh, in which the food
becomes covered With mucous, and consequently resists the action of the digestive juices; Gastric
Flatulency, the development of wind or gas; Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being hurried
through the digestive organs unassimilated, and Constipation. Constipation is by far the most
frequent and obstinate cause of indigestion, and it must be rectified or digestion cannot be otherwise
than imperfect. *
Food must'be eaten in sufficient quantity, and must be digested, and be converted into blood.
Nature makes this one of her most imperative laws of life. During the process of digestion food is
entirelv changed in composition by the action of the juices of the internal organs through which it
passes." In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with the saliva. Then it is swallowed, and enters the
stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices, and becomes partly liquefied. I rom the stomach
it passes to the smaller intestine—which is about 18 feet in length—and there certain portions of the
food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food thus made fluid is in a condition to be
absorbed into and becomes a constituent part of the blood. The indigestible portion of the food is
discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is in turn expelled from the body together with othei
refuse matter.
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so, likewise, it is
essential that.the blood must be in a condition to absorb the food. Torpidity of the liver is the chief
cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid the kidneys are always
sympathetically affected to a greater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed,
cleansed and .filtered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and is there-
fore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous system of
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
The entire nerve energy of a person suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to the con-
taminated condition of the blood, and the general feeling of mental and physical depression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause.
The blood must be continuously purified by the action of the liver and kidneys, or good digestion
cannot be expected to occur.
Many sufferers from indigestion obtain temporary relief by eating predigested foods or taking
medicines, such as pepsin, which act as digestives in the intestines. A course of such treatment merely
encourages a slothful action of the digestive organs, and causes them to become gradually weaker and
less capable of performing their duty, just in the same way that a person who takes little or no exercise
becomes incapable of responding to any demand for exertion. Other sufferers irritate the digestive
organs into temporary and abnormal activity by taking purgative medicines so frequently that
presently the stomach and intestines refuse to act except under such irritating stimulation. Ihe only
rational and permanent cure for indigestion is to create such a condition of the blood that each
corpuscle becomes hungry for food, and ready and eager to absorb it. The digestive secretions will
then respond to the demands of the blood-, and the stomach and intestines will perform their work as
a matter of course. When the blood is laden with uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons it
cannot adequately absorb food, and makes but a feeble attempt to do so.
Warner’s Safe Cure
is not a purgative medicine. It permanently cures indigestion and dyspepsia, simply because it
restores the liver and kidneys to health and activity, so that the blood naturally becomes free from
urinary and biliary poisons and ravenous to absorb nutriment freely. Nutriment is then conveyed by
the blood to the nerves throughout, the body. The nerves of the digestive organs being properly
nourished, the organs are in a condition to do their work efficiently. Nature is merely aided in her
efforts to preserve a balance in the manifold and complex processes of waste and renewal by which
life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. Warner’s SaSe Pills
should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantities to ensure one free movement daily.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea, coffee, alcholic stimulants and rich or fat foods. Do
not eat generously of any solid food.
Write for treatise on Liver and’Kidney disorders. Sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co.,
Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [9]
Fantasy,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LOVE to lie under the lemon
That grows by the fountain ;
To see the stars flutter and open
Along the blue mountain.
To hear the last wonderful piping
That rises to heaven
(Six quavers to sum up delight in,
And sorrow in seven).
To dream that the mythic wood-women —
Bach brown as the honey
The bees took their toll of, from Hybla,
On days that were sunny—
Come parting the hedge of my garden
To dance a light measure
With soft little feet, on the green sward,
Peak-pointed for pleasure.
While Pan, on a leopard reclining,
And birds on his shoulder,
Gives breath to a flute’s wanton sighing
Until their eye 3 smoulder.
Then, 10, in the pool of the valley
Cries centaur to centaur,
As, plashing, they leap tho white moon-buds
The goddess had leant o’er.
They climb the steep sides of the chasm
With hollowy thunder—
Whole cliffs at the stroke of their lioof-beats
Split, tumbling asunder !
They climb the steep sides of the chasm,
And rush thro’ the thicket
That chokes up the pathways that lead to
My green garden-wicket.
They seize on the dancing wood-women,
And kick poor Pan over
The back of his fat, spotted leopard
Bight into the clover.
So I wake, and eagerly listen,
But only the fountain,
Still sleeping and sobbing, complains, at
The foot of the mountain.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Jennie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JENNIE was a round-faced, dark-eyed,
skinny, little, undersized creature, designed
by nature to be plump. Her father was a
dairy farmer. Pier mother was dead. Poor little
Jennie !
Her father undertsok his daughter’s training
singlehanded. No doubts as to his efficiency
assailed him.
One evening he set Jennie on the old sofa, close
to the window.
“ Bide still, now, till daddy comes bask,” he
said, and went off to talk business with a neigh-
bor. Business ended, there came politics and
human degeneracy in general to be considered, so
the time slipped by.
Jennie, then of the mature age of six years,
sat still a long, long while, till the silence grew
very big and the dark very near. She was afraid
to get down, or even to look round. The only
thing to play with was the tassel of the blind.
She swung it gently, then harder, then as hard as
she could, laughing out at the way the thing
danced. Then she gave it an unconscious tweak,
and up went the blind with the noise and sudden-
ness of a rocket. All in a moment the black night
leapt at the window. The door that had locked
out danger now seemed to lock it in, and Jennie
began to scream. When her father got back, a
passer-by had broken open the door and Was
trying to pacify the little maid.
“How now? What’s to do here?” shouted
her father; “I’ll larn ee to cry for naught, thee
little fool. I’ll give ee summat to make a noise
at ! ”
From that evening dated Jennie’s cautious
practice of crying quietly.
As she grew bigger she had to drive the cows.
They were very large, and she was very small,
and at first she misliked it when they lunged at
her.
“Now then, now then,” bawled her father.
“Run away, would ee? I’ll larn ee, my girl.
You go straight up to that there ’effer and gie un
a crack aerost the nose, or you’ll get what ye
won’t fancy.”
When she stood between the devil and the deep
sea, Jennie found it best to take the plunge with-
out delay. Certainly the poley cow put her over
the fence head first, there and then, but she fell
lightly and learnt caution. By practice she
acquired a suddenness of attack and discreet
nimbleness of retreait, with which she managed to
maintain some sort of authority over the great
lazy creatures. When she was out in the Bush
looking after the cattle in the spring of the year,
and a passing bull charged her in pure wanton-
ness of heart, she took to the nearest tree like a
young ’possum; but if that same bull dared to
intrude upon “ our herd,” she charged him with
such unexampled fury that he fled in disorder.
It was rather tonujours perdrix, though—cows
morning, noon and night, preparing the way
before them or cleaning up after them, driving
them out or fetching them home, milking into
scoured pails or scouring pails for the milking.
Calves were a pleasant change, not given to evil
tempers, and so pleased to see her when she
brought them their milk. One day she was
hurrying back across the yard with the great
crock they had just emptied.
“Jennie, lass,” called her father; but Jennie,
pondering the path of her feet, never heard him.
“You, Jennie,” he called again as she reached
the kitchen steps.
“Yes, father,” chirped Jennie in a hurry—he
was not a parent to keep waiting. “ Yes, father.”
“Ay, you and yer ‘Yes, fathers,’ makin’ me
call ee time and again ”
“I never heard you, father,” quaked Jennie.
“PH larn ee to back-answer me, my girl, he
concluded, and the whiplash stung across her
round little cheek and snub nose. It pleases one
to remember that the crock was broken as Jennie
fell down the step, but the pleasure is short-
lived —she got a thrashing for the breakage.
There were the horses to be taken to water, too.
One at a time, Jennie could manage them well
enough—the great, good-natured things. She
used to ride old Bess to the creek, perched like a
fly on an elephant. One evening she lay right
out along the broad back of her, arms round her
neck, face buried in her mane, and went fast
asleep. Old Bess sauntered to the pool, had her
drink, and sauntered back to the yard gate.
There she stood in the dusk and waited. Father
happened by, and Jennie’s peaceful slumbers
ended in a howl—it is so difficult to remember to
cry quietly when the sting of a whip across your
back brings you back in one heartbeat from the
first sweet sleep of night.
It was when Bess and Ginger had to be taken
to water together that Jennie was really embar-
rassed. They were not friends, and when Jennie,
a halter in each hand, started off between them,
they used to ignore her presence, and squabble
over her head. One evening Ginger bit Bess.
When Jennie jerked his halter he blundered on
to one of her poor, little, bare feet with his great
hoof, and, before she had time to squeal, Bess
lumbered on to the other. The toes were long
a-healing. Nature, unassisted, managed it at
last. Father “didn’t hold with ” doctors.
Getting the cows home o’nights—that was the
weary business. Forty of them, not “feeding
like one,” but taking at least twenty of their own
separate, devil-directed ways into the bush. On
moonlight evenings it was not so bad. They
would be moving about and feeding, the bells
going “ tinkle-tankle,” so that Jennie could get
her little bird-pipe of a “Git-tap! Git-tap! ”
within range of their slow ears. But on black nights,
wet nights, frosty nights, such a poor, little, dis-
heartened creature, lurking to the lee side of a
big gum while the squall swept by, sending a
dismal “Beauty! Lightfoot ! ” with a sob in
the middle of it, into the sodden dark ! Some-
times the waning moon, lifting its late, sickly
gleam, would be the first signal for the camped
cows to stir, rise, and feed, and the blessed sound
of their bells’shallow music would bring Jennie
up from under the bush where she had been
camping, too. It was no good to go home without
them. She had tried it once—the first time she
was sent after them at night. She and Carlo
started up the long hill-road together. When
they reached the traek where the cows mostly-
turned into the bush, she took off her little petti-
coat and tied it tight round his neck.
“Don’t you go off, now, Carlo, don’tee, now,”
she whispered to him—it didn’t feel safe to talk
loud. The wind had dropped. The bush was
astir with stealthy movements. Jenny went a
bit along the track, then clutched the petticoat in
both hands and stood, listening, her back against
a great, hollow gum. A native bear was drum-
ming overhead, the beat of it mixing with the
thumping of her own heart till all the silence
throbbed with it. Then came a rustle in the
bushes. Carlo bristled and sniffed, straining at
the petticoat. Jennie clutched him the tighter
as a great kangaroo went loping off down the hill,
“ Thrump ! thrump ! ” Jennie moved on, trying
one track and another. She knew her way by
day. but in the dark it was all different. No
cows, and still no cows—only a lost little girl and
an impatient dog.
“Home, Carlo, home ! ” she quavered at last,
and the two of them went crashing through the
undergrowth, whither Jennie knew not, till sud-
denly they were back at the road again. She did
not recognise the place for a moment, and stood
peering, breathless and shaky. A touch ended
it. The soul-in-torment wail of a dingo keened
out from the blackness on the hill above her, and
Jennie bolted down the hill in a wild panic. She
forgot the lagoon at the bottom, with its narrow
crossing, and the first thing she knew she was
head first into a waterhole. Carlo came'in on top
of her, and towed her across to the other side.
Out she scrambled and fled home, drenched and
howling. She burst into the kitchen where her
father and his second wife sat at supper—for once
there were worse things outside.
“ Oh father, father,” she sobbed, “ I don’t want
to go after the cows never no more.”
“ Where be they cows ? ” demanded father, and
Jennie began to come to herself.
“ I don’t know,” she faltered.
“Don’t know!” growled father; “then I’ll
larn ee, my girl,” and there and then he “larned”
her by Solomon’s age-sanctified method.
She grew used to the bush by night in time, and
before long the mere dark perplexed her not at
all. But there were foggy nights, when the cow-
bells seemed pixie-led, sounding from all ways in
turn, and the clinging damp got into the child’s
very bones. Sometimes it was well into the wee
small hours before she dragged home to bed. No
wonder at school, next day, she was owlishly
stupid and goggling with sleepiness. Neverthe-
less, she managed to read fairly well, and to write
decent round hand, and her teacher was thinking
of starting her on the higher walks of education
when her attendances ceased. Jennie didn’t
mind much at the time—she had plenty else to
do. But the teacher was dissatisfied.
“ The child is getting on so well. Couldn’t you
even let her come as a half-timer, Mr. Smith ? ”
he asked, but father held no uncertain views as
to the duty of children to their parents.
“I do want her at home,” he said. “She
knows enough to mind cows. What more she
needs I’m lamin’ her myself, thanky.”
At the age of nineteen, afraid of nothing on
four legs and everything on two, Jennie screwed
up her courage and with many tears-became a re-
volting daughter.
“ You’m goin’, be you ?” raged father. “Then
out you go at morning’s light, and don’t go for to
expect to get nothin’ out of me, you shameless
ondutiful maid.”
So Jennie went to service with the clothes she
stood up in, and half-a-crown a week.
“I’ve to teach you everything,” said her
mistress, “so you can’t expect more.” It must
be confessed the good lady got her money’s worth,
for Jennie was apt to learn. She was the greenest
little bushgirl in the State or she would never
have worked so long at that wage. It takes a
good while to buy an outfit with half-a-crown a
week, especially when you’ve never handled a
needle. It had to be done, though. Undercloth-
ing might wait, but the necessity for outward
adornment became acute when a larrikin shouted
after her—“ That there girl goes out to walk in
her petticut ’’—and it was her only dress 1
She wept like the rain over that insult, and
ventured forth no more till she had provided her-
self with a queer, skimpy, little holland frock
that would pass muster in a crowd. By the time
she had learnt how to scrub, clean, cook, wash,
iron, and wait at table, she was quite tidily
dressed, so she moved on to a better place. She
did well in service, except that being inexperi-
enced she was always underpaid, and, being will-
ing, she was always overworked. She had at
intervals three spells in hospital, after each of
which she started again, enfeebled arid penniless,
but undismayed. .. ...
Jennie is twenty-five now, with a slightly-
curved spine and the figure of an old woman, bne
alternates between the state of coxy self-satisfac-
tion, natural to all'small persons, and a condition
of deprecating humility to which the sight of a
smart shop girl reduces her in a moment. An
elderly cocky, who has noticed her capacity for
hard labor, comes courting her once a week. He
is an egotist of the extreme type who owns to
having took up a bit o’ money on his land, and
finds material for an egregious conceit of himself
in the transaction. He is not beautiful, nor to
other eyes attractive, but his attentions fill
Jennie with amazement and delight. He prates
on and on by hours together about himself
and his brilliant deeds, while she sits rapt, gazing
at him, her eyes bright with admiration, her
parted lips curving for kisses—these last some-
what perfunctory on his part.
So I suppose they will be married, and she will
work 10 hours a day, and handle burdens it
should be unlawful for any woman to touch, and
bear puny children, and scrape and save and
struggle along somehow against overwork and ill-
health till the bank forecloses. Then they will
move into town, and tho usual division of labor
will follow ; she will take to laundry work and ho
will take to drink.
A.W.


mm imps
Zam-Buk Balm Heals All Injuries.
IN all departments of labor busy, workers find Zam-Buk
indispensable as a reliable “ first aid ” for any iniurv
m
M
~K !
“»sS,
&
6
m
n
they may sustain, and the advisa-
bility of always keeping a pot
\ of the Balm handy in the
workshop, in order that
there may be no delay in
treating a wound, is ur-
gently commended.
Mr. S. Jenkins, Miner, of Matche’s
Hotel, Ocean-street, Dudley, N.S.W.,
can testify to the soundness of this
advice. He says : —“ About four years
ago I met with an accident in the Bur-
wood Mine, a piece of skin about the
size of your hand being torn off my leg.
I attended doctors, who patched it up
temporarily, but left a running sore,
which their treatment failed to cure.
After suffering great pain and incon-
venience for two years, a friend advised
me to try Zam-Buk Bairn. I acted on bis advice, and
after a half-dozen applications of the Balm the wound com-
menced to heal, and at the end of a month it was com-
pletely cured. lam alwayS;pleased to recommend your
Ziam-Buk Balm to fellow-sufferers.”
Zam-Buk Balm speedily cures Eczema, Piles, Boils, Ulcers, Psoriasis, Pimples,
Blackheads, Barber’s Rash, Bad Legs, Sore Backs, Poisoned Wounds, and all diseased,
disordered and injured conditions of the skin. Keep a pot handy for the accidents that
Will happen. Price Is. 6d., or 3s. fid. special family size (containing nearly 4 times the
Is. 6d.), from all Stores and Chemists, or direct from the Zam-Buk Co., 89 Pitt-street,
RUB IT
IN.
m
9
VI,
Sydney, for same price.
By-and-Bye.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are pessimistic persons quite a
lot-
And'they get us in a devil of a scot,
For they tell us (inter alia) that the future of
Australia
Will be anything but rosy, which is rot!
So, forbear to heave the melancholy sigh,
For, if deep into the future you will pry,
You’ll discover, if you’re clever,
And sincere in your endeavor,
There are lots of blessings coming by-and-bve.
We shall have a Fed’ral city, built of stone,
And a lot of institutions—all our own—
We shall have a population and become a
“ favored nation,”
And acquire a highly cultivated tone.
Yes, we’ll get our Fed’ral city—by-and-bye—
It’s been promised, and a Parliament don’t lie—
What a politician pledges,
An authority alleges,
You can trust him to accomplish by-and-bye.
We shall settle on our vacant lands, you know,
Lots of bona-fide beggars full of “ go,”
Full of energy and hustle, bona-fideness and
bustle,
Who will make a little Eden here below.
We shall have a North Coast Railway—by-a*d-
bye—
' Our importance it will greatly magnify—
A Consolidated Land Act,
Quite a simple thing—a grand Act-
Well, that’s coming too, they tell us, by-and-bye.
There’s no land for poor selectors—that’s the cry
In the country—but it’s really “ all my eye”;
If we get upon our mettle and resolve to closer
settle,
We shall bust the big estates up by-and-byc—
There’ll be land for all who want it, by-and-bye—
No necessity for methods that are sly.
As prosperity increases,
There’ll be cheap Improvement Leases
For the Agent-haunted squatter by-and-bye.
We shall do without the vegetable John,
He will have to pack his baskets and begone ;
And the sons of the Mikado, with their cunning
and bravado.
Will be taught a little trick of moving on.
We shall have a White Australia by-and-bye,
For our color-scheme we’ll have to simplify.
And our sugars and tobaccos
Won’t be planted by Kanakas
In the future that is coming by-and-bye.
We shall have another surplus soon, they say,
And a bridge across “our ’arbor,” too, One day ;
We shall neither drink nor gamble, but along
life’s pathway amble
In a sober, sanctimonious sort of way.
We shall solve the rabbit problem, by-and-bye,
For we’ve found a way to make the rabbits die,
With a patented bacillus—
If meanwhile it doesn’t kill us,
And we’ll find a rhyme for Danyse by-and-bye.
Soon the burglar will hypothecate his tools,
For an annotated code of moral rules;
All the “ books ” will take to preachin’, and the
“ pugs ” will take to teachin’
Calisthenics in our fashionable schools ;
We’ll be very, very moral—by-and-bye—
And at vice in all its phases we shall shy,
All the lawyers will be honest.
And the spielers will be non est —
Not immediately, of course, but by-and-bye,
There’s a bully time a-comin’ if we wait—
If it only doesn’t come a trifle late—
We shall get so millionairy, it behoves us to be
wary,
Or we’ll never get our hats to go on straight,
We shall have some coast defences by-and-bye,
To enable us invaders to defy ;
And the nations will be seeing
White Australia’s “fleet in being”
Manned by white Australian natives by-and-bye.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.
The Return of the Native.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the schooner struck a sunken
reef Tooni Tamba found himself swim-
ming for his life. The three white men
and half-dozen Tanna boys, who had formed the
crew’, decided that there was no room in the boat
for Tooni Tamba, who was merely a passenger
and missionary boy, and who would be no loss if
he were drowned. Therefore they left him to
hustle with the weighty orb of his destiny.
There was no immediate danger of him drown-
ing, as there was plenty of floating wreckage
about, and he soon climbed on to the cover of a
hatch. It was a calm night, and he could dis-
tinctly hear the surf breaking on a reef, but it
was too dark for the land to be distinguished. He
noticed, however, that the current was taking
him away from the strrf. So, slipping off his
clothes —a thirty-five-shilling suit of Sydney-
made slops—he dived into the water and struck
out as the sound guided him.
He was really sorry to have to leave his clothes be-
hind him, more sorry than he had felt at parting
with the missionary people in Australia. Yet they
had made a fuss over him, and given him tea and
cakes, for he had been a Light—a brown Light,
of course, but still a thing of radiance. But when
he was fairly started on his long swim his nature
seemed to change. He was no longer an educated
Kanaka, returning to the Islands to preach
Christianity for what he could make out of it,
that being the only reason why he had volun-
teered for the business. He was once again a
natural man, in the full enjoyment of his unre-
strained instincts and with his mind unfettered
by creeds and dogmas. These things are of no
use in the water,
Soon the moon rose, and he was able to make
out the island. It was, as he knew, his native
isle —the same place where, in his unregenerate
days, a trader had tied him to a tree and belted
the devil into him . for stealing tobacco; where-
upon Tooni Tamba had sworn to kill the first
white man he conveniently could—the trader him-
self for preference—without taking too many
risks himself.
Before he was able to carry out this resolution,
the missionaries had captured him, and in the
process of being metamorphosed from a fairly
respectable savage into a cunning hypocrite, he
had temporarily forgotten his obligation. But
now that he had parted with his clothes, the only
link between the mission school and the natural
man was broken, he was again what he had
always been at heart—a savage.
Soon he found himself swimming through the
opening in the reef into the lagoon. A quarter
of a mile beyond, the ripple splashed lazily
against the white beach. Almost opposite the
spot where he landed stood the store of the
trader, and the. desire came strong on him to
settle the old account. But his sojourn in the
mission-school had taught him many things.
He had become a careful student of criminal
literature, and had discovered that criminals
usually made the mistake of not, so to speak,
providing someone on whom the blam® would
fall quite naturally when the crime should be
discovered.
Tooni was not going to make any mis-
take. Yet he recognised that this was such
a favorable time for killing Macklin, the trader,
that it would be sinful to let the opportunity
slip. Suddenly an idea struck him. It was
such a beautiful idea that it might have been
called an inspiration, and he showed his white
teeth as he thought it out.
Tooni’s mother was an Island woman, .but his
father inherited Indian blood. Now this is a
mixture from which great things—-in the crimi-
nal line —may be expected. Especially are those
who own it gifted in remembering injuries, sup-
posed or real.
It so happened that, before Tooni Tamba had
become an apostle of the white man’s faith, he
had cast his eyes on an island beauty of pure
blood, who, however, scorned his advances, and
openly taunted him with being of coolie origin.
She ended by marrying a dull dog of an islander,
who did precarious odd jobs about the mis-
sionary’s place. His name was Naerenda, but
George had been added to it; at the mission
station. He was exceedingly proud of this addi-
tion, and used to spend hours carving it on his
belongings. Tooni Tamba also had a Sunday-
school name. It was John.
As Tooni remembered the habits of his rival
his smile broadened. George’s hut was only a
few yards distant, and he crept noiselessly to-
wards it. The mat which usually bung in front
of the door was raised, and he could, hear heavy
breathing within. He passed his hand carefully
inside the doorway, and one of the things it en-
countered was a tomahawk. He ran his hand
down the handle till he came to where some
sprawling letters had been cut. Lurking in the
shadows he traced them with his finger, and
found they read “Gorge,” which was at least a
fair attempt at spelling the name. With the
tomahawk in his hand he crawled back to the
store. As he approached it from the rear two
large rats sprang out of a heap of garbage and
nearly frightened the life out of him. But the
sight of Macklin’s open door encouraged him,
and soon he was intently listening in the dark
shadow of the verandah. The smell of rum and
stale tobacco and the heavy wheezy breathing
assured him, as he squirmed in on his stomach,
that there was no fear of the trader waking.
Soon his eyes grew accustomed, to the gloom, and
he was able to make out Macklin’s bald head
lying on the matting pillow.
The sight had an extraordinary fascination for
Tooni Tamba. As he crouched on the ground be-
side the bed, he turned over in his mind whether
he should strike the blow lengthways or crosswise.
If possible, he wanted to leave the tomahawk
sticking in the head. That would not only be
artistic, but absolutely convincing.
When a few minutes later he fled out of the
store, the only thing he had any clear recollection
of was a bald head with the handle of a tomahawk
growing out of the top of it, and two fat legs con-
vulsively beating the air.
« * • *
Just at dawn Tooni Tamba, wet and apparently
tired, came ashore publicly and preseated himself
at the mission station. There he related how he had
been wrecked and had swum ashore. Whereupon
the Rev. Jasper Smallgoods told him it was a sure
sign that Providence was watching over him, and
no doubt intended him to perform ssme great work
in the future. And because Tooni Tamba was
once again arrayed in a neat suit of tweeds, he
turned up the whites of his eyes, and almost
believed that he was one of the elect.
During the day the men of the wrecked
schooner arrived and accounted for their exceed-
ing lateness by stating that they had rowed about
for hours in the hope of picking up Tooni Tamba.
Their speech almost suggested that they had
fetched away the schooner’s supply of liquor, and
had stopped to consume it on the high seas. But
Tooni Tamba kept an edifying silence as to the
way he had been abandoned. He didn’t wish for
clamor, argument, recrimination, or comparing of
notes. Still, he hoped to get ievel with them
some day over the affair of the boat. The Rev.
Jasper Smallgoods again rose to the occasion, and
pointed out how the unerring finger of Providence
was clearly visible all through.
George was captured immediately the murder
was discovered, and this third call to dilate on
the finger of Providence wore the voice of Jasper
Smallgoods to rags, so that by sundown he was
speechless. The prisoner was conveyed t® Suva
where he was duly tried and sentenced to death.
While he was awaiting the legal strangler he
quite unreasonably refused to confess. This so
shocked Tooni Tamba’s sense of piety that he
volunteered to go and try his hand at breaking
the stubborn spirit. His services were grate-
fully accepted, and amid the blessings of all true
believers he departed on his errand.
Exactly how he persuaded George to confess
will probably never be known, but a warder, who
overheard some of his exhortations, reckoned that
he told George that everybody, whether guilty
or innoeent, who was hanged without confessing,
was invariably roasted in a future state, but if he
said what the missionary wanted him to, he could
practically select his own halo, and his wings
would be handed down to him on application.
Anyhow, George made a confession, which was
duly signed and witnessed, after which he died
with the usual suddenness. The brown brother
who had converted him was hailed with much
rejoicing on his return, and the elect tendered
him a sober banquet of tea and cakes. He has
been a shining light on his native isle ever since,
but accidents have already happened to two of
the men who left him on the wrecked schooner,
and they both wonder if the finger of Providence
is at it again.
H. F. WICKHAM.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened, took
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by Ayer's Sarsaparilla.
!o
“Some time ago I had a very
severe attack of influenza which
left me greatly weakened. I lost
flesh rapidly, and was in a very
bad way. I took quantities of
medicine, but grew constantly
worse. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and began to im-
prove from the start.
“I took about six bottles and
was perfectly cured. I have used
this remedy in my family a great
deal and I know it to be a thor-
oughly reliable, health-giving
compound and family medi-
cine.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. You
ought to profit by it greatly; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
There are a greii many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap'
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
'
*
Artistic
And
NO MONEY WANTED.
rfWJS"!
Send us your name and address and we will forward youlSpacketseach
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at M. per packet When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for yoi ■ ‘ AP ,
you may choose from thelist of jewellery which we send y°o- 3* ■ Rompmber we
of our cards you can earn a Ladies* or Cent’s SiWerWatph^ ; «|a»^Eememh|r,|e
want to do business with you again, and to do this'we> mlist gi w y } “ fu ” s connection with any other
We take all the Risk. You can return the cardsif.not could not make you
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, an “ , J wherever seen,
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once. wherei er seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
fghfghfgh
IF YOU
WANT
0
that will stand any test and give you perfect
satisfaction we are glad to recommend these
famous WOSTENHOLBaS. _
Wostenholm is quite the oldest linglish
manufacturer, and makes cutlery of the
dependable kind only.
Pair of Razors, in leather-covered case, with
best quality g-iticli blades, hollow ground
one square and one round point—ivory
handles, 20/- ; with Xylonite handles, 15/- ;
or with vulcanite handles, 12/6, complete,
post free. . ~ TTT ,
Single Razors—Vulcanite handle—Wosten-
hokn pipe brand, 7/6 each ; I.X.L. brand,
6/6 each, post free. „
Other articles for men, such as self-closing
Razor Strops, Shaving Mirrors, Mugs and
Brushes, Shaving Sets, etc., will be found very
tally described in our 72-page Catalogue.
May we send you a copy, post free ?
If you are coming to
Sydney for Easter, be
sure you call here »
We pay the postage on any article purchased
here, and if on receipt of the parcel you are in
any way dissatisfied with your purchase plpase
return the goods and we will cheerfully refund
the amount paid.
ANGUS and COOTE
“ The Store inhere Quality Count*,"
GEORGE STREET,SYDNEY
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
acasresi
\&/JELL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
v J BHCOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct Cold-Filled Rou id Wire Broaches,
3/G; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/B; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
O 4R x c o nos
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Ueed for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS,
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that j ustly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR.’RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURB
THEMSELVES OP’ ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S'X'XDlfT'E'Y'.
Give Nature a Chance
When you are bilious, when your stomach is deranged, when your
bowels are not in good order, when you have sick headache or cannot
sleep at nights, things are apt to look very bad, and it is no wonder that
you feel discouraged and depressed.
At such times as these you need a remedy that will tone and regulate
the digestive organs, rebuild the nervous energy, rest the tired brain, and
restore natural sleep.
Don’t delay, but procure at once a box of
Beecham’s
Pills
and take one or two immediately. You will feel their good effects in
half-an-hour. Take another dose when you go to bed, and you will waken
in the morning feeling like a new person. BEECHAM’S PILLS act at
once on the digestive organs, give the liver natural exercise, operate the
bowels, improve the blood, clear the brain, and assist Nature to restore
healthy conditions to the entire body. They do their work thoroughly
and quietly, in perfect harmony with physical laws.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have a remarkably buoyant effect on both
mind and body, without the slightest reaction. A great remedy for
lassitude and depression, as they dispel the gloom of disease, and
Act liKe Sunshine.
Prepared only hy THOMAS BECCHAM,
St. Helens, England.
iPT” Sold Everywhere in Boxes, Price 10|d., and 2/9.
m
mm
A good Clip will
not necessarily
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
fghfghgf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours v/ithcat
incon-
venience.
the name D*“
WIDY
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBIGITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free o 2 charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from BuixKTiN office, ss.
'm.
MEN
NO
"OMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
nr Mairtin now a corn' will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Cclored
Plate. The most interesting up-tod-te, and reliable medical work published It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books ad vertused free
to the public. It ii a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity idthcted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases., Ao similar bp* hag ever oeen published.
b— -. . seeeimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
FS»C. t. Vivin&a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ’ (the Australian Bresson I)r. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five l ectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Note Address :
DR. MARTIN. M.D., " £/m/e >' House <” 151 Eiizabeth-st.,
Blease mention this paper when writing. min UVDS PARK, SYPftiEV.


OILSKINS
For Yachting, Fishing, Camping, &c.
“Oilclad” Brand (Single through) 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double thrcugh) .. 12/6
“Dugong” Brand (Double through),
extra light 17/6
Sou’-Westers 1/9
(Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON REQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber So., l«.
270 George Street, Sydney.
gfhgfhfgh
EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Dlfllcplty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonßCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all ChemUU.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
fghfgh
Spoons, Forks,
Poc ket-4^h i ves,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
©OSSO
The Beaver Brand has stood the tost of time.
Hr
a
Jk
Rot
AX
‘U-o
WOLF
At th-e Showrooms —
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at
SYDNEY
ts THF 99
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J, & I* Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
HYPNOTISM-
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
oyer others. You can become proficient .in
Gifting diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies-
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for'making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This «..git. instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 20 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
“LITTLE
91
AIR DR
fghfgĥf
The above cut illustrates th'e LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE D
Mines or Quarries. Weights about 181bs. Operated by (
ot air per minute. Only ONE WORKING
SOLE AGENTS:
?JSB3&S%
XH Rock Drills, i
W. & J. LEMPRIERE, 506 VIJ* 64 PnrT S ST.TSYDNEY OtJR "*
Pneumat
consuming
ONE MAfr
for
■BBT
ƒghgfhfgh
Sold
by
class stores
No. SI76J- 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle • • - 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPfI’
7KET
KNiVES
are the
BEST.
fghgfhfghg
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, LTD.,
MINING ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A LARGE STOCK OF
EATON, COLE & BURNHAM VALVES,
Globe Valves, Gate Valves, Check Valves,
Foot Valves, Butterfly Valves— Brass and Iron.
Price Lists on application. Please write to above address.
MARSHALL'S. .
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. »
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AQENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W.i, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements- Correspondence Invited.
Motor Qmr
fghfghfg
Mattß hy T ff£ ,4^
Silvertouin gubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
.
The Cheapest Way to Remove
Trees and Stumps is by using
EASY TO TRANSPORT.
SIMPLE AND SAFE TO USE.
FULL PARTICULARS
ON APPLICATION.
RENDROCK
SAMPLE BOX can be sent by Passenger Train.
N, GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Manufacturers,
263 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
