

StXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION .
E 3
'W
iO r
Mining
and
EXPL<
'Contractors’
)te!VES, BUILDERS
AND
.GENERAL
Engineers’
IRONMONGERY
Street, Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
3E3C 33 .A. DFt "3T.
PI OWE
//
...
CVERV BELT
J.C.Ludowici & Son,
GUARfIN EED.
U„ 117 YorJ, St., Sydney
s
Belt,
Direct Staarn,
Driven
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
For DRYING WOOL,
EXTRACTING TALLOW
from MEAT, REFUSE,
\ fitC.
SOLE AGSNTS-
CUIJJJ (i , AO _ As used in the Principal Wool Scours and Meat Works throughout Australasia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
% a
Take it back. .
I must have -
TTON’S
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
Tlaftena/,
fIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring' St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). IF. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. “W|
u
3 .
y.
To Send your and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUCH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
WUNDERLICH
Trade Mark.
Regd.
METAL CEILINGS.
,
“FERRIEtR’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than airV other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
, Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
s,
HUMBLE &
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
Vulcan Foundry, Oeelong, Victoria.
HELIDON SPA.
GtOXjLIIV JSz CSO'., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—Ni. 1403.]
[Thursday, January 3, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


M Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd..
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Conan Doyle, Sir Nigel, 6s 6d & 3s 6d, posted.
S.vnge, History of Social England, 6s, post 6d.
Le Quex,.<The Great Court Scandal, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Robinson, -The Garden Beautiful, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Vaaghan, The Sins of Society. ss, postage 6d.
Tom Gallon, Fortunes a-Beggmg, :1s Cd, post 6d.
Bullen, Our Heritage the Sea, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Pigou, Protective and Preferential Duties, 3s, post 4d.
Thorpe, Anatomy of Bridge Work, Us 6d, post 6d.
Johnson, Ocean and Inland Water Transportation, 7s 6d.
Pitman's Office Desk Book, 2s 6d, postage <sd.
O’GonneU, ijlus., 15s, post Bd.
Warfen, 'Tnv'jsurv of English Literature, 9s, post 9d.
Newcomb, Siaelights on Astrono.my, illus., 9s, post 9d.
Benjiinan, Modern American Machine Tools, 21s, post Is
Conway, My Pilgrimage to Wise Men/if the East, 15s.
Ella Wheeler Wilcoxj'The Kingdom of Love, 4s, post 6d.
Uyenishi, Text Book Jiu Jibsu, illus., 3s, post 4d
Stone, Sea Songs and Ballads, 3s, po§t 6d.
Ten Years dt Automobilism, illus., 3s, post 6d.
rpHE BOOKFELLOW’S, a Literary Book-
- 1 - Shop, 7 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
CHOICE BOOKS, CHEAP BOOKS, ANY
BOOKS, ALL BOORS. Write Enquiries.
■;\ ■' — —
mHE BOOKFELLOW.-tr-The New Weekly
-*-j Magazine and Australasian Literary
Keview, 16s. yearly, fe. 6d. half-yearly,
4s. 4d. quarterly; post free anywhere.
Subscribe NOW for the First Number, 3rd
January, 1907.—A. p. Stkiuirns, Hamilton
Street, Sydney. 1
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The {jsreat Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the ijhroat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption,
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
Si
YWJDSOJV
G
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OB 0TH;,,8 POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK f'CR HUDSON’S— I Take no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6,
May t> i> token daily.by old and young:. Their Antiseptic properties prevent AtaorariFermentatiOT^ofMie
hi> tekpn daiiV.DV Ola ana younir. xueir ,t»VK' ‘•"*?.? - : , - - —-
Food ’andare thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. So üby ail Chemists, or post free from the Sole
M inujfaoturer 6. HUDSON;*Uhemist, Ipswich,' QueenslaJS* i, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State
iiUiri, » ' - * __
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, md at 320 Regent Street W., London.
(I-
The RED PAGE
A delicate anecdote is quoted in Lewis Mel-
ville’s account of George IV. in illustration of
the habits of the; period. Someone remarked to
Lady Mary Wort ley Montagu that, her hands
were dirty. “(Yes,” she was constrained to
admit; and then she added: “But you should
see my feet! ” And when Caroline of Brunswick
was chosen as Gborge’s bride a noble lord was told
off to inculcate in her, “as far as it was possible
for a man,” the ( necessity of great and nice atten-
tion to every p;tt hof dress, “as well as to what was
hid as what ws,s seen. I knew she wore coarse
petticoats, coarse shifts, and thread stockings,
and these never well washed or changed often
enough. I observed that a long toilette' vvas
necessary, anil gave her no credit for boasting
that hers was a short one. What I could not say
myself on this point, I got said through women.”
A bookseller, wfth tori years’ experience of “ the
trade,” wholesa-or and retail, sends along some
advice to literaryiaspirants. First, submit your
book to six responsible publishers in turn. If
four of them thifk (with four doubtful frowns)
that it might perhaps pay expenses of publication,
then decide to \ publish. Second, choose the
publisher who has the largest “ trade ” connection,
the most pushing methods, the best “ got up-”
books, arid the- must successful books. Third —
“Personally, I | think Australian books would
achieve greater $ucodes were they placed with the
small bookseller >n sale. This system, properly
managed, is quite safe, and would- induce hun-
dreds of booksellers arid newsagents who have
not the capitalTo invest in 1 risky ’ books, to dis-
play and push the works of Auscifcijan writers in
preference to ‘standard’ imported X-A which
they have to buy outright. As regard- r^eeiye
commission, this should be fixed at not It. e
25 per cent, off the published price. T U, ..
the small bookseller—who may have tire book
on his shelves several months before selling—,:
is not so large s, profit as it looks to the outsider.
Indeed, I knov, doze ns of booksellers who refuse
to handle books bearing less than 33$ per cent,
'off.” Fourth, tan rat tile book is properly pro-
duced—or sales v 1 suffer. "The system of
issuing books in l ->se wrappers with- the title
and price printed thereon, is one that I
strongly recoi end, as it enables the book-
seller to show the book in his window with-
out fading the cover. Also, I find readers
have a fancy for flat-backed books.” Fifth,
“as regards advertising, my experience is
that the reading public is very largely guided in
its choice of picks by press notices. Authors
should, theref re, send copies for review some time
before publica tion. They would then be able to
print favorable notices where they would do most
good—on the; wrapper of the book itself ”
JK
“ A man looking at a hippopotamus,” remarks
G. K. Chesterton, “may sometimes be tempted
to regard a hippopotamus as an enormous mis-
take.” We are compelled to regard In the Heart
of Things, by A. McK. Elliott, somewhat pi the
light of a hippopotamus. The author's illustra-
tions are as remarkable as the author’s verse —
though neither are nearly so remarkable as the
author’s prose.
Things that are equal to the same thing (writes
“ Semicolon,”) are equal to each other (vide
Euclid). It is quite time that, we called poets and
things by their patriotic names. It wearies my
Australian soul to hear Kendall interminably
called the, Australian Keats. Let us adopt a
more familiar point of view. Thus Tennyson
is merely the English Daley, Keats the cockney
Kendall, Bret Harte the Californian Lawson,
Velasquez the Spanish Lambert, Yeats the Celtic
Quinn, Constable the English Streeton, Savona-
rola the Florentine Judkins, Sullivan the English
Orchard, Puvis de Chavannes the French Julian
Ashton, Kipling the Little-English Lancaster,
Wagner the German Hillhouse Taylor, Rodin the
French Illingworth, the Bible the Hebrew
Bulletin.
THE WANTARITENCANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It watched me in the cradle laid, and from my
boyhood’s home
It glared above my shoulder-blade when I wrote
my first “ potne” ;
It’s sidled by me ever since, with greeny eyes
aslant—
It is the thing (O, Priest and Prince !) that wants
to write, but can’t.
It yells and slobbers, mows and whines, It fol-
lows everywhere;
’Tis gloating on these very lines with red and
baleful glare.
It murders friendship, love and truth (It makes
the “ reader ” pant).
It ruins editorial youth, the Wantaritencant.
Its slitne is ever on my work, and ever on my
name;
N® toil nor trouble does It shirk —for It will
write, all the same! - :
It tantalised when great thoughts burned, in
trouble and in want;
It makes it heff for all concerned, the Wantari-
tencant.
And now that I would gladly die, or rest my
weary mind,
I cannot rest to think that I must leave the
Thine behind.
Its green rot damns the, dead, for sure—that
greatest, curse extant,
’Twill kill Australian literature, the Wantariten-
cant !
You cannot kill or keep It still, or ease it off a bit;
It talks about Itself until the world believes in It.
It is a Scare, a Fright, a Ghast, a Gibber, and a
Rant,
A future Horror and a Past, the Wantaritencant !
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
SHAK ESPEARK AND WE
AN article, “ Genius and Environ-
ment,” by D. O’R., in the, Sydney
Morning Herald of December Ist,
contains so many erroneous impres-
sions and unjust comparisons regarding Aus-
tralian poets and poetry, that I consider it
my duty to expose them and /combat their
pernicious effect.
The writer contends “ it is time we ceased
excusing our long poetic minority on the
plea that Australia can do nothing great in
literature whilst she lacks the inspiration of an
ensanguined past or a lurid present,” and
then instances Shakespeare as proof that a
poet can accomplish great work without the
apparent stimulus of a “lurid” environ-
ment. I am not aware that this plea on
behalf of Australian poets has yet been
urged by a competent critic, though several
verse-writers may have been guilty of such
nonsense.
The writer half apologises for his refer-
ence to Shakespeare. He accepts the popular
opinion that the English poet is the greatest
of the world’s poets. That opinion is not
supported by the precise, critical mind in-
sisting on the exact meaning of the word
poet. It is not by his work as a poet, but
by the display of every faculty abnormally
developed, that Shakespeare stands on the
topmost front of Time. As a poet, as the
possessor of the visionary faculty, that
matrix of pure poetry, he is much inferior to
Dante. It is as a dramatist he is without a
rival. It is true there is poetry in his plays
entitling him to be considered a great poet,’
altogether apart from his supremacy as a
magnificent whole. Although the poetic
faculty is an inspiring force in a
dramatist, yet great dramatic work has been
produced exhibiting little of it—Shelley’s
“ Cenci,”for instance. The writer’s contention
that Shakespeare was unaffected by his en-
vironment because there is no “direct
allusion in his plays to any of the stirring
events of his time,” can be easily refuted.
He had a ticklish crowd to deal with. In his
day even impulsive men thought twice before
committing to paper their opinions about
“the stirring events” of the period. An
irascible monarch, jealous and vain of her
power, and a court'seething with conflicting
emotions, might quickly become engines of
a malignant destiny to an unreflecting young
man seeking a reputation as a poet with
work Containing trenchant opinions about
matters of high import outside his province.
Indeed, to go into this subject a little
deeper, no man more accommodated himself
to his environment than Shakespeare. He
began his career as a poet under the influence
of Marlowe, and, like Scott in a later time,
finding he had in him commodities of more
commercial value, he abandoned poetry for
their production. Shakespeare, unlike the
pure poet—the Coleridge type of man—was
essentially practical, always on the alert for
adequate monetary returns for his work.
The demand in his day was for dramas, and
he set to work to supply it. It is safe to
say the influence, too, of Marlowe was pro-
vocative. If Marlowe couldn’t get enough
money out of his patrons or from the sale
of his poems to pay his bills, what hope was
there for him, Shakespeare ? It would be
presumptuous to think Shakespeare was not
aware of what we know when comparing
“Venus and Adonis” with “Hero and
Leander,” that he at that time was inferior
as a poet to Marlowe. If, therefore, Marlowe
took to drama writing as the likeliest craft
to be lucrative, why shouldn’t he, Shake-
speare, turn his maturing powers in that
direction 1 You may be sure these worthies
thrashed the matter out over their cups at
the Mermaid. They were long-headed men,
with keen eyes on the main chance ot
making money, not sentimentalists, as the
public are so apt to believe. I am convinced,
too, were Shakespeare in Australia to-day
he would again slide into touch with his
environment, and not kick against the pricks
as Australian poets are doing. He would
shrewdly perceive, I fancy, that neither
poetry nor dramas would pay his bills in
this country and turn to novel writing,
and—significant criticism—send his MSS.
to either a London or a New York publisher.
And it is this sanity, this recognition of his
environment, this splendid business acu-
men—in short, it is this strong mental back-
bone of common-sense which “ D.O’R.” has
not .apprehended he possessed, that in some
moods I admire even more than his genius.
■J*
“D.O’R.” attacks Australian poets and
verse-writers for not attempting to emulate
M ordsworth and Burns, for not assimilating
the flowers arid birds of their country and
flinging them out in poems trailing light
from heaven, and condemns them for depict-
ing drunken swagmen, the racecourse, the
shearing shed. He rings the changes on
Poe and Rossetti, and speaks contemptuously
of a recent anthology of Australian verse as
“a paddockful of versifiers with a minor
poet or two thrown in.” Furthermore, he
asks several questions reflecting on the
general outlook of our poets. I will, how-
ever, first confine myself to a dissection of
his assertion that Australia has only pro-
duced a minor poet or two. He speaks of
Rossettis “ Blessed Damozel ” as a poem
of elemental passion—which ifc is not,
by the way, though I have not now time to
piove it of Poe’s “Raven” as a poem of
grief, and implies that these creations, the
work of great poets, are altogether beyond
any poem yet written in Australia. Now, as a
stream of inspiration direct from the world
of vision, so little adulterated in its passage to
verbal embodiment that the poem is almost
incoherent in places, Kendall’s “Hy-Brazil ”
to my mind Rossetti’s “Blessed
Damozel.” It is in fundamental brain-stuff
afid in his grasp of the technics of his art, in
masculine emotion and the instinct for
dramatic sequences, in the faculty for pic-
torial symbolism and for images—those
lightning-flashes of imagination leaping from
the slothful roll of his poems—that Ros-
setti as a whole is greater than Ken-
dall as a whole. But in his approach
to pure poetry, in the dower of dreams,
that allies him with Blake despite the
marked distinction of verbal vestures, in his
retention of much of the rariried quality of
vision, I feel almost disposed to place
Kendall above Rossetti—an opinion, of
, course, likely to give a sharp shock to many
readers. His voice is certainly often sweeter,
and trembles with more soulful notes than
Rossetti’s. I hesitate—after much, reflec-
tion—as to which I would rather have
written ; “The Blessed Damozel,” a great
poem m “D. O’R.’s ” eyes or “Hy-Brazil,”
printed in the Australian anthology he
despises. For insane weirdness, for the
? f an ins P iretl moment, Boake’s
‘ I hat s where the dead men lie ”
outstrips,' to my thinking, Poe’s world-
applauded Raven. The first is a liurriedly-
\v ritteii phantasy based on actual experience
lacking artistic equipment; the second
(according to Poe’s own statement) is a de-
liberate attempt to achieve a desired result
by all the artificial auxiliaries of art. Poe
is a far greater craftsman than Boake, is a
master of the chords of melody, despite dis-
cords like uncertain — curtain. He was'
cultured to the finger tips—Boake was hardly
educated at all. In the acquisitions that
make for the scholarly touch of serenity
there is as much disparity between Poe and
Boake, as between Landor and Burns,
Boake s poem is an untamed fervor,
is ci ude and formless and even coarse
alongside Poe s, but I am not sure it
has not ,a fire from a sky more lofty
than Poe’s.' These are personal opinions, of
course, not likely to please anyone. Be it
at once understood, however, I am not for a
moment contending that the works of
Kendall and Boake entitle them to stand
beside Rossetti and Poe—that would sink
article to absurdity. I nierely wish it
to be seen that if it be radiant genius on the
one side, it is not, as “D.O’R.” would have
us think, only leaden mediocrity on the
other. I merely wish him to know that the
exalted strain in which he speaks of “The
Blessed Damozel” and “The Raven,” and the
contemptuous shrug he has for Australian
poets may be very comforting, but it does not
demote either a critical or an impartial mind.
Furthermore, this game of sweeping from
the board of poetry the Australian poeos by
two or three big names is childish ; V\ ords-
worth and Burns can be checkmated by one
word—Goethe !
J*
Why is it, then, Australian verse-writers
depict drunken swagmen and the like ?
Whilst agreeing with “D.O’R.” that none
of such work is poetry, I protest against his
scornful sentences regarding it. As realistic
studies faithful to facts, sometimes strongly
and pathetically presented, several of those
pieces of verse deserve ungrudging’praise.
Now, having pointed out that (Shake-
speare was influenced by his environment, ■
it cannot be expected that Australian poets
can escape from theirs. The environment of
an Australian poet is the worst conceivable.
He has no patrons such as Shakespeare had.
His poems are no better paid for by the
press than his verses. In fact, a jingle of
horse-non-sense would be accepted v- hen a
poem like “The Blessed Damozel ” would
be thrown out. Editors contend it is no
good printing work that their readers cannot
understand. Everyone likes a rattling bit of
clever verse. Only one in a thousand could
appreciate “ The Blessed Daiiuikel.” Since
fine poems can only be produced at intervals
by poets other than the masters, and since an
Australian poet can spin rollickiag rhymes at
any time, is it not natural to find him employed
in what he calls “ pot- boiling.” Kendall’s
volume of poems brought him little, if any,
remuneration. Rossetti’s first volume (con-
taining “The Blessed Damozel”) made him
£3OO in a few weeks—-if my memory be not
deceptive; In fact, there is not the slightest
incentive to a poet in Australia to write
poetry. . What is really; marvellous is
that such fine poems have been written
under such adverse conditions. There is
no market for poetry. It is, only a
matter of time when eyery Australian poet
will either scramble the best way he can - to
another country or turn his poetic (acuity to
other work. Can this condition of dungs be
remedied l Who is to blame ? H>W are the
English, poets of to-day treated ? it can be
remedied and no one is to blame You can-
not blame editors far not v.ir overmuch
for work of little iriteres' to ;®iq|r readers.
You cannot -blame the're 'dm to s lacking the
appreciative organs for p> ;trv, Least of all
can you blame the unfortim te p >et for getting
a crust out of verse unworthy of him.
Think of the fate or ho ’ Australian
poets who battled brav.ly against the
inevitable. There is, spin Thing heroic in the
spectacle, something to 1 ring tears of regret
that it should be so, something that smites
for the soul’s triumph over disaster and
neglect, over misery and pain and poverty.
Poor Gordon, harassed with no escape but
through the open door ; unhappy Kendall,
driven demented and lingering on still
singing, to the end ; loathful Boake, Aus-
tralia’s promise of a j'.ivt poet, dogged by
poverty to self-destruc mu ; while only the
other day Daley shut I >d off' dependent on
sympathising friends ; >.d admirers. Brunton
Stephens happily e. oaped the ominous
clouds that were closing in by the helpful
hand of Mcllwraith.
A /
Yes, there is one remedy, and only one.
England has set a pr ecedent—she now recog-
nises the claims evjen of her minor poets.
When some remunerative recognition or
pension is granted by the Federal Govern-
ment to those Australian poets of proven
merit to enable them to prosecute their art,
there will be an ad vance in both the quality
and quantity of local poetry. Without, this
remedy the prospect is disheartening. At
present the beautiful garments “D. O’R.”
fondly imagines ‘/Australia is now stitching
for her first-born great poet are, in sober
reality, either the madman’s garb or the
beggar’s duds.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.
SOME CHINKSE PIEMS
DISCONTENT.
In the low wet ground s the carambola tree.
Soft and pheasant are is branches,
Shining in their tendc • beauty.
I would rejoice to be lire you, O tree,
Without consciousness.
In the low damp grou'ictjMs the carambola tree.
Soft and delicate are is flowers
With the sheen of their tender beauty ,
I would rejoice to be like you, O tree,
Without family.
A 'CLOVE - SDN(J.
I went out at the east mte,
Where the girls were i% crowds. .
Although they are like clouds,
It is not on them my thoughts rest.
She in the thin white silk and gray head-dress,
Sh e is my Joy:
I went out by the to wer on the sheltered walk,
Where the girls are like flowing rushes.
Although they are like,.flowing rushes, •
It is not of them that I think.
It is she in the. thin white silk awl the mud
head-dress, %
It is she thatfliakes me happy.
ENCO UR A O EM ENT.
Dropping are the fruits from, the plum tree ,
There are but seven of them left.
For the gentle mm who seek rnq,
'This is the fortunate time.
Dropping are the fruits of the plum t ree ;
There are bulla third of them lejt,
For the gentL men who seek me,
Now iflthe time.
Dropt are the fruits of the plum tree :
In my sh■■■ low\bas/cet I have co'lvoled they
Would the , ntlemen who seek me
Out / speak about it.


Will
Send Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading- Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
We carry a Complete Stock of all the Best Continental Fishing Tackle suitable for Australian Fishing.
Quality No. 166.
JO
60
English Flax Line.
Size of Sample of Schnapper
Cord. and Cod Lines.
12 i
15 , k rrr,
18
27 >■■■' " '■.rgg-
-36 y mrrrrr.
48 j, riri t/ i/ /nzzza
54 j, , j > , , ,
r- "'"*••**'*
« Sure Catch ” Waterproof English
Flax Lines, on cork .
OUR SPECIAL SURE CATCH LINES ARE GUARANTEED.
Bream, on Cork or Coll.
No 00— Test pull, 301b5., 25yd?., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each ; 100yds.,
Is 3d each.
Flathead, on Cork or Coil.
No. 30— Test pull, 601b5., 25yds., Bd. each ; 50yds., Is each ; 100yds.,
Is 9d each.
Cant-B-Beat. Special Stout Lines *
N O . 80—50 yards, 9d each ; 100 vards, Is 3d each.
Our Special Sure Catch Schnapper
Lines -
Quality No. 157. Rolled on Reel or Cork. Quality Guaranteed.
Test
Pull
150
203
300
100
150
200
300
100
150
200
300
100
150
200
300
100
150
9
9
, 9
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
, 27
27
Any of the above lines can be had waterproofed. Prices on application.
Our Special Sure Catch Lines,
on cork .
FITTED WITH TWO HOOKS AND SINKER.
Beat
MICK
SIMMONS
For all kinds
of Fishing
LineB>
MIC
Beat
Bream arid Whiting.
No. 159—60 cord, test pull 301 b. ; ‘2syds., 6d each ; 50yds., 9d each ; 100yds., Is 3d each.
Flathead and Bream. ~ ..
KS' S, 8d each 6oV,“lB each
100yds., Is 6d each.
Our Sure Catch English Flax Waterproof Lines
ON CORK, FITTED WITH 2 HOOKS AND SINKER.
OUR WATERPROOF LINES CAN’T-B-BEAT.
Bream and Whiting.
L 61—60 cord, test pull 301 b. ; 25yds., 8d each ; 50yds„ Is each ; 100yds., Is 6d each.
m, Flathead and Bream.
S 162—30 cord, test pull 601 b. ; 25yds., 9d each ; 50yds., Is 3d each ; 100yds., 2s each.
Shark or Cod Lines .
18-
- Shark
Stout Shark Lines, in Coils.
No. 167—27 Cord Shark, test pull, 2001bs. ; 25yds., Is each ; 50yds., Is 9d
each ; 100yds., 3s each ; 200yds., 5s 6d each.
18 cord Shark, test pull 3001bs. ; 25yds., 9d each ; 50yds„ Is 6d each ,
100yds., 2s9d each ; 200yds., 5s each.
Prices for Heavier Shark Lines on application.
Hdve you used “ Tuff a ?”
The “ Tuffa ” Pishing line is the Strongest made. It is
wound on Reels, and is about 210 yards in length. The
quality Can’t-B-Beat.
Cable Laid (Size No. 30), price 9d per reel; post
free, lid.
Any Angler’s Kit is not complete without one of
these Famous Lines.
Have you used Mustad's
Fish Hooks ?
Messrs. O. Mustad & Son’s “ Key” Brand Fish Hooks
are now recognised all over Australasia by experts to be
the most suitable for Australian Fishing on the market.
They are manufactured from the best selected Swedish
Steel, and every Hook is guaranteed to be perfect in shape
and reliable.
The “ Reliable ” Special Trout Casts.
Fine, IX, 1 yard, 2d each; 2 yards, 4d each.
Drawn, 2X, 1 yard, 3d each j 2 yards, 6d each
<* Tr^---TV ~ Tr^
' =e -o o r.M^oS
w
Best Quality Artificial Insects .
'll
amsmiPet,, «.»
till
\l/
No 159-Best Artificial Insects, made of Pure Rubber, with Gut attached.
May Fly, Frog, Minnow, Wasp, Cricket and Grasshopper, Jcl eacn.
We Have Just
Published Our
Immense Fish-
ing Tackle
Catalogue.
Remittance
and Freight
Must Accom-
pany Order.
2/0
3/0
4/0
5/0
6/0
n
n
n
2
MUBTADS Best FISH HOOKS
Best Quality Turn-Cown-Eyed Limerick Bent Hocks,
Rust proof.
$ Ask for the “ Key ” Brand Hooks.
Extra Sizes—Quality No. 24.
Nos. 12 to 1 1/0 2/0 3/0
2s 6d 3s 6d 4s 3d 4s Gd per 100
Is 3d Is 9d 2s 2d 2s 3d per box of 50
4d 6d 7d 8d per dozen
M 44 Mustad’s Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, ?X strong.
Nos 10 to 1 1* 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
9d lOd lid Is Is 2d Is 3d Is 4d Is 6d Is 8d 2s 2s 3d 2s 6d per 100
g d gd gd 6d 7d 8d 8d .9d . lOd Is Is 2d _ls 3d per box of 50
2d 2d 2d 3d 3d 3d 3d 4d 4d 5d Gd 7d per d< zen
M4O Mustad’s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted.
Nos. 10 to 1 if 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
jnos. lu to 14 1 ' ()d x ' d ls la2d ls4d ls6d lsgd is 9d per 100
5d 5d Gd 6d 7d 8d 9d lOd ls per box of 50
2d 2d 2d 2d 3d 3d 4d 4d 5d per dozen
Rustproof up to 4 only.
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX strar.g.
Nos " 31/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/Q 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
lOd Is ls Id Is 3d ls 4d ls 6d ls 8d ls lOd 2s 2d 2s 6d 3s per 100
5d 6 d 7 d 8d 8d 9d lOd lid ls Id ls 3d ls 6d per box of 50
2d 2d 3d 3d 3d 4d 4d 4d 5d 6d 7d per dozen
M 26— The “Mustad
3d
Id
4d
Id
4d
Id
Superior Rustproof Hooks, Flatted.
Nos
Nos 8 to 1 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0
ls 4d ls 6d IsSd 23 2s 4d 2s 8d 3s Gd per 100
9d g d iod ls ls 2d ls 4d ls 9d per box of 100
3d 3d 4d 4d 5d 5d Gd per dozen
M3o—Mustad’s Kirbed Limerick Hooks, XX strong, Flatted Capanned.
1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
Is Is Id Is 3d ls4d ls 6d lsBd lslOd 2s 2d 2s Gd 3s. per 100
6d 7d 8d 8 d 9d lOd lid ls Id ls 3d ls Gd per box of 50
o d 2d 3d 3d 3d 4d 4d 5d 6d 7d per dozen
Best Selected SILKWORM GUT.
HAND POLISHED.
THE “ RELIABLE BRAND," DIRECT FROM CUR
FACTORY IN SPAIN.
Fine Grecia
Regular No. 1, 14 inch
Regular No. 1, Hunch
Regular No. 1, 9 inch
Best Artificial
Rubber Frogs.
SMALL FROG.
No. 161 Small Frog',
with Treble Hook, Is
each
No. 162 Large Frog,
with Treble Hook,
Swivel, Is 3(1 each
Padron, No 2
Padron, No. 1
Marana, No 2
Maranu, No. 1
Imperial No. 2
Imperial No. 1
Mark.
We guarantee all Cut?sclcl by us to be the Sest Selected
Silkworm Gut procurable. Colors—Blue, White & Green.
LBBR
of Gut.
No. 259—Regular No. 1, in hanks of 100 strings :
Inches 9 10 11 12 11
Per hank 8d 9d lOd Is Is 3d
No. 259 J—Regular No. 1, in hanks of 50 strings
Inches 9 10 11 12 14
Per hank '4d 5d 6d 7d Sd
No. 259 J—Regular No. 1, in hanks of 25 strings
Inches 9 10 11 12 14
Per hank 2d 3d 3d 4d 4d
No. 260—Padron No. 2, in hanks of 100 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank Is Is 3d Is 6d
No. 260J —Padron No. 2, in hanks of 50 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank 7d 8d 9d
No. 260|—Padron No. 2, in hanks of 25 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank 4d 4d 5d
No. 261 —Padron No. 1, in hanks of 100 strings :
Inches 11 12 14 17
Per hank Is 3d Is 6d 2s 2s 6d
No. 261£— Padron No. 1, in hanks of 60 strings :
Inches 11 12 14 17
Per hank 8d 9d Is Is 3d
No. 261J—Padron No. 1, in hanks of 25 strings :
Inches 11 12 14 17
Per hank 4d 5d 6d 8d
No. 262 —Marana No. 2, in hanks of 100 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank Is 9d 2s 6d 3s 6d
No. 262J—Marana No. 2, in hanks of 50 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank Is Is 3d Is 9d
4000
No. 262f—Marana No. 2, in hanks ol 25 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank Is Is 3d Is 9d
No. 263—Marana No. 1, in hanks of 100 strings:-
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank 3s 6d 5s 6d 6s 6d
No. 263$ —Marana No. 1, in hanks of 50 strings:
Inches 11 12 14
Per hank Is 9d 2s 9d 3s 3d
No. 263|—Marana No. 1, in hanks of 25 strings :
Inches 11 12 14
Per hand Is Cd 2s 9d 3s 3d
No. 264—Imperial No. 2, in hanks of 100 strings
Inches 12 14
Per hank 8s 9s
No. 264$ —Imperial No. 2, in hanks of 60 strings
Inches 12 14
Per hank 4s 4s 6d
No. 264| —Imperial No. 2, in hanks of 25 strings
Inches 12 14
Per hank 2s 2s 3d
No. 255—Imperial No. 1, in hanks of 100 strings
Inches 12 Per hank 13s 6d
No. 265$ —Imperial No. 1, in hanks of 50 strings
Inches 12 Per hank 6s 9d
No. 265J —Imperial No. 1, in hanks of 25 strings
Inches 12 Per hank 3s 6d
No. 266 —Fine Grecia, in hanks of 25 strings:—
Inches -13 17 23
Per hank 6d 9d Is 6d
nr
MICK SIMMONS FOR SEA
AND RIVER TACKLE.
All Guts sold by us Measure full length.
No. 268—Best Selected Silkworm Gut, blue or white, put up in Packets containing i-dozen /Strings, 12 inches
length, 2d, 3d, 4d, 6d, and fid per packet.
No. 269—Best Selected Silkworm Gut, treble tristtd, blue or white, 12 inches in length. Id, 2d, and 3d each.
No. 269 J—Special Quality Japanese Gut, 2 yards in one piece, for Black Bream, 2d ; Fine, 3d each.
Best Landing
Nets
No. 84—25 in., made of strong Cord, small mesh, tanned, Is each
No. 85—18 in., made of strong Cord, small mesh, tanned, Cd each
No. 86—10 in., made of strong Cord, small mesh, tanned, Cd each
No. 87—22 in., Better, made of strong Con’, small mesh .waterproof, 3s 6d each
No. 88—20 in., Better, made of strong Cold, m all mesh, tanned, Is 9d each.
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Sample Sheet of Fish Hooks
and Hints on Fishirg POST FREE.
THE LEADING FISHING TACKLE DEPOT


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand ÜBF" - AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—' The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<H ™“) okuwowimV™263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY »
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £3O 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
Free
£lOO
a. WeeK
Given
Away
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed you will be delighted.
We are a^ohJTreliablefirm, £iO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Dorvt wait for
That Bald Spot
3
E
(St
s.
r
Baldness
is Curable
VERY few people believe it
possible to get. their hair
back when once it is lost.
Let me assure these that
where a “down” exists on the
scalp nothing is more certain than
that this down can be made to grow
into strong healthy hair with the
aid of “Capilla.”
Notone case, but thousands, have
come under my notice, and I have
yet to meet with a failure ; in fact,
I am now so confident of the hair-
growing possibilities of “ Capilla ’
that I will forfeit £lOOO to any per-
son with a down on that bald spot
if the proper use of “ Capilla” will
not make his hair grow. “ Capilla ”
is designed both for the prevention
and cure of baldness. It keeps the
scalp healthy and clean, prevents
dandruff and premature greyness,
and stops tin hair from falling out.
Sold everywhere at 1/G and 2/6 a
bottle, full course posted direct for
17/6 from the Inventor,
w. O. Richards,
106 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Advice personally or by letter
cheerfully given free of charge.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
w
■m
w
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,330
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE ..
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Ton s
6.300
9.300
10.500
6,350
11.500
11,500
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Oordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo,
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
Buenos
Africa.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh MilK
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
ILL!
•it 1 I
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests.,
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loaded withblack W J
or smokeless powder, > I
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A. ~l!II i!t t iliiitittili!
ENOS
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt;
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without It you are
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnparaa only by J. O. UNO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. UNO.,
by J. C. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
4
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
I
' INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
Barter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dow. Small Price.
They
TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are


Do not envy f
the beautiful!
hair of others,
but possess it;
yourself. Some
are born with <
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none i
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac- 1
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the;
discovery that
m
i
AM.
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
yemedy is
Mger's
%air Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Learn to Swim
BY ONE
TRIAL.
-Mjjings
miM m I
Price, 1/6 & 2/6. Great Sport In the Water.
A person weighing- from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &o. Australian
agents, Ayvad’s Agency, 82a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Co., Hoboken, N.J.
Note— Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
<fcc.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR ”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
IRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
It is Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LiniTED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
[l
n b oto *. s
IRISH ROSS
-The best remedy-
FOR— INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn ing ton's
and see that you get it.
COLDS
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
MAKE
v :z AERATED
WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
tF LEMON WHISKY
(REGISTERED).
A most wholesome and delicious beverage, intended for strictly temperate people, who ar
not teetotallers. It is scientifically prepared from the juice of fresh, ripe lemons, refined
cane sugar, and the best whisky. It is free from any adulterant. It is regularly used in
our leading hospitals. It is at once a stimulant, a food, a luxury and a medicine. It can
be taken plain as a liqueur. With iced soda water it makes the finest summer drink
extant. It can be obtained at all loading hotels throughout the Commonwealth. Whole-
sale from any wine and spirit merchant. Protected by Royal Letters Patent. Lucas,
Lock & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
©otice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUR VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For Barbette.
Some men are glad by stealth, my love ;
Of some all moods are blue.
I’ve neither fame nor wealth, my love,
But I’ve no cause to rue,
Since luck has given me health, my love,
And God has given me you !
Some men are rich in hope, my dear,
And some are bankrupt quite ;
And I can never mope, my dear,
And all my paths are bright,
Since I have boundless scope, my dear,
In you for full delight.
Some dream of mines of gold, sweetheart.
And some would fain be wise ;
But I, devout, make bold, sweetheart,
To mock such vain surprise.
Since you I have and hold, sweetheait,
I own all Paradise !
Some stalk their joys by stealth, dear love,
Beneath grey skies or blue ;
But ah ! my heart's in health, dear love.
And to my heart I’m true . . .
Though luck denies me wealth, dear love,
Dear God has given me you !
MAORILANR. FRANK MORTON.
Re Jones, Deceased.
Wastrel Jones of drink lay dead —
Dead, unburied and unrespected.
Circling crows were overhead,
Iguanas the corpse dissected.
Wondrous energies misdirected !
Drop a tear for Wastrel Jones !
Gone to the devil as all expected ;
Misspent years make unmourned bones.
Jones (deceased) was no man’s care,
Jones (deceased) was spurned by many,
Little was vile that he would not dare,
Squandered his wealth to the final penny ;
Found some friends in the liquor tide ;
Looked for none when the drought wason him ;
Drank and suffered, and suffering died—
Such the guerdon his sins have won him.
“ No one’s enemy save his own ! ”
Save his own and some youngsters tainted :
Moiling in misery, hopeless grown,
Dowered with lusts from a source unsainted.
Drop a tear for Wastrel Jones
(Eke for his kids—may the State assist ’em !);
Food his flesh and dust his bones,
Filling his part in God’s great system.
MAORILANl). G. P. BROWN.
The Awakening.
When warm, enchanted, drowsy night
Has preened her plumes and taken wing,
Tile world displays a sober light,
'The mind hath chill awakening ;
Whereof—his fair face stained with wine,
His mind arrayed in fancies brought
From Fiction-land, misnamed divine—
The reeling reveller takes no thought.
When noons of youth no longer wheel,
Nor lawless blood makes mutiny,
It is the lot of Age to feel
The pain of inward scrutiny,
Whereof —while glowing charms enfold
His hungry heart and eyes that feed
On reddest mouth and wavy gold—
The love-drunk lover takes no heed.
Yet time will bring to each his smart,
When wine and love have taken win,
A ’ wildered head, an aching heart;
To each a soul’s awakening.
N.S. W.
RODERIC QUINN.
In a Minor Key.
“ Sing me a song,” said my Love to me,
“ That will hush me to sleep ;
Sing me a song in a minor key
From the depths of the deep ;
As soft as a whisper, borne from afar,
Where glimmers the light of the dimmest star.
A song I sang, and its theme was love —
Not the love born of earth ;
The love that throbs through the heavens above,
And that glows at our birth ;
The love that makes golden the evening sky,
That dimples the cheek and sparkles the eye ;
The love that grows with the falling years
When the beautiful wanes ;
The love that burns, that hath passion of tears,
Counting losses and gains ;
The love that goes gathering violets sweet
In silence once broken by pattering feet.
The love that dreams of a harvest time,
And of gathered grain ;
Of songs unsung that are more sublime
Than earth’s sweetest strain ;
The love that from soul goeth out to soul,
And weddeth the twain in harmonious whole ;
The love that loving shall sleep awhile,
But to waken again,
As here it awakes with a raptured smile
From its labor of pain.
As I sang that song in a minor key
Her eyes told the love that she bore to me.
I slept and dreamt in her circling arms
Of the days of our youth,
Of my hot love of a maiden’s charms—
Did I love then in truth ?
Oh, my love had grip, and a pretty spell.
Though my heart was young; and now all is well.
The seed and bud are in truth the flower,
But its ripening is slow.
Love may be born in an idle hour ;
With the years it must grow.
And the fairest flower and the sweetest scent
Wait the age of life when youth’s joys are spent.
VIC.
ANDREW SARD.


THE “ BRUNSWICK” |QE MACHINE
isfelfS
r*m
■
m
L'o
m
liar*
COLD STORAGE ON A
SMALL SCALE.
OF course it can be done on any scale, no matter how
large, but the “ Brunswick ” is the first successful
small capacity machine, i.e. it will give you a cooling
capacity equal to the melting of 200 lbs. of ice, and only-
takes a £ h.p. to drive it.
This means that it is admirably adapted indeed in the
smallest size. It is intended for the large Boardinghouse
or Mansion, the Hotel, Butcher’s Shop, and anywhere
where it is desirable to "preserve perishable articles of
food. In the hot regions of the country, where ice is,
if obtainable at all, very costly, it may be installed, and
will be a great boon. Very easily worked, with
practically no attention, and always effective.
Write for our interesting: Catalogue
and further particulars.
IBUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So/e * ge —' 7& 9 Market St., Sydney.
A SUMMER. BOON. Don’t forget
FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER
Has the largest sale and is superior to all others.
RISK S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
APRIAN & CO. ■ BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Bush
for the SroiL ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Beciter, Irish
Comic Beciter, Dramatic Beciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. Tub Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of tiie
First Nigiit, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pages, over 100 colored plates and
engravings, 7s Gd posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.', Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Nelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
V5&-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
508 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SrECMtI lIDIIIUR
Scotch whisky
m.
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
HAGON BROS. AgL
...FAMOUS...
SUITS.
Now is your time to order a Suit for Xmas.
We have a magnificent assortment to select
from. We guarantee fit and every garment
well shrunk.
107-9 Oxford Street (only).
TELEPHONE 179 WILLIAM STREET.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
K
RABBIT SKINS WANT
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM f dc.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
i
jr- robiroio i
Mmmmt
fm otfiEs..-
DAMP A
mm ■,
b
■t A
%
. • •
mulo
SsAr
ON >
THE SAFeTJIP^
Side J||
mmm
1
mi
■
f
[ .
sum*
■ .£ *-
*3
i
m \;
k*. 1 —•
v.
T
BUS w
Jv-v •‘Slfe
yg
fcsft
These buildings roofed with RUBEROID.
The foundations laid with RUBEROID.
The builders who have laid RUBEROID.
The men who have lived, and now live, under
RUBEROID, are living witnesses to the excellence of
RUBEROID
as a Roofing, a Dampcourse, and a Floorcloth.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1403.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 1907.
Paioa Gd
EXPERT ADVICE.
N.S.W. Government has passed an Act allowing of the resumption of improvement leases illegally acqnired.-News. Item.
Alarmed Pastoralist (to Gaelic land agent) : "You see, this Act has been passed. They mayresume my teases. What am It. do?"
Magnetic Land Agent: “Well, judging from my experience, I shouldn’t worry. My tee is [?]1000."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /or the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published bv William Macliood, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The light to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor mill carefully read and, 'where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 'words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded ivithout stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mute.urs in lilaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 113 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoivn;
Messrs, li. A. Thompson <fe Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
toivn; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co. , Ltd. , Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents 9 Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTiel^zzZlelzoz,
THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 1907.
SECTARIANISM IN POLITICS.
The “ sectarian issue ” is seldom mentioned in
political discussions except for the purpose of
raising it to serve some sinister end. The speaker
or writer may be deprecatory, condemnatory even,
but, as a rule, his tongue is within his cheek ;
and, as he “deplores the intrusion of such matters
into politics,” he is really angling for a fanatic
religious vote. And indeed it is difficult to men-
tion sectarianism without, consciously or uncoil,
sciously, indicating some bias, and thus opening
the way to excited controversy. But The
Bulletin flatters itself that in its columns,
if nowhere else, the blight of sectarianism can be
discussed without adding fuel to the flames, for
this paper can advance the cordial hatred of both
religious camps as proof of its absolute imparti-
ality : it is “ the minion of Rome” in the eyes of
the Orange faction; the “ bitter foe of Roman
Catholicism ” in the frenzied shrieks of the news-
paper which plays the sectarian game on the other
side of the fence. Evidently its aim to be im-
partial is successful.
* ■* * *
The Sydney Telegraph, which is still busy
licking its sores over the results of the Federal
elections, devoted its Christmas issue, of all issues
in the year, to nearly a column of reports and
correspondence calculated to rouse sectarian fury
and make Christians hate one another and rage
like the heathen. The column opens well with a
letter from the Anglican Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, stating that “ for many a long year in the
State ” there has existed an understanding among
Roman Catholic electors who vote en bloc ; there-
fore, it is necessary for the Protestant electors to
organise, and also make religion the vital issue
at elections. To this the Telegraph puts no
footnote; it doesn’t point out, for instance,
that Archbishop Clarke (with the usual reckless-
ness of statement of the clergyman: there is
no more unreliable witness than the parson or the
priest; they carry the doctrine of simple faith in
what they are told or wish to believe into every
controversy) who states as of his own absolute
knowledge what has been the case “for many a
long year” in Victoria, is a very recent importa-
tion to that State, and is therefore stating as a
truth, resulting from his own investigations, either
something that he has imagined or something that
he has been told. But when, a little lower down,
a correspondent, signing himself “Catholic Elec-
tor,” points out that a yellow weekly which
outshneks the Watchman on the Roman Catholic
side doesn’t represent the Roman Catholics as a
body, and claims that there is no Roman Catholic
party in politics, the Telegraph editor in a foot-
note politely calls him a liar. The column or so of
special Christmas sectarianism was of a piece with
the Telegraph policy (and also the Herald
policy) during the late elections—a frenzied effort
to mislead the democratic electors into voting for
the G. Reid cause by holding up the bogey.of pos-
sible religious persecution. That policy will now
be continued until the next State elections, when
the people will be asked to vote for Carruthers,
lest Cardinal Moran should shortly be holding an
extensive aulo-cla-fA of Protestants at Manly
(special excursion rates by the Roman Catholic
ferry boats; look for the green flag at the mast-
head). The Bulletin, thus early in the day,
invites the electors, therefore, to consider reason-
ably and dispassionately, these question : (1) Is
there a solid Roman Catholic vote in Australia ?
(2) Did Roman Catholics at the last Federal
elections vote in any numbers according to their
religion rather than to their political convictions?
(3) Would a “solid Roman Catholic vote ” (or any
other solid religious vote) be a mischievous factor
at elections? Those questions cover the whole
range of the “ sectarian issue ” as it presents itself
now to Australia.
* + * *
Archbishop Clarke, being a clergyman and a
bishop (bishops, the cynical will remember, are
always brought forward as guarantors for sea ser-
pents and other apocalyptic happenings), has no
hesitation in stating as a fact:—
For many a long year in this State there has existed an
understanding amongst Roman Catholic voters. This
vote is solid, and well-disciplined. It is given in obedience
to orders, now to this candidate and now to that, but
never without a clear understanding of policy, and in
return for concessions expressed or understood. It is
always worth having, because it can be counted upon
without fail.
But laymen with a proper sense of responsibility
for their statements will hesitate, however strong
their prejudice against Roman Catholicism, to
endorse this statement. Can Archbishop Clarke
produce any proof at all of the existence of this
well-disciplined vote ? To be “ well-disciplined ”
it must be taught, trained, drilled. That dis-
cipline necessitates a literature, meeting places,
officers, exhortations, records. Can the Arch-
bishop produce any ? That there is, and always
has been, an organised Protestant vote—the
Orange organisation (though, as a rule, it repre-
sents only a small and contemptible fragment of
the Protestant body)— is known, because reports
of its meetings and copies of its recommenda-
tions are constantly transpiring. Will Archbishop
Clarke produce similar proof of the evidence
of a Roman Catholic electoral organisation,
or will he fall back on the unbelievable
explanation that a religion representing
more than a quarter of the populace is
able to drill its members into a solid, well-
disciplined, obedient electoral body without
allowing to transpire the names of any leaders,
reports of any exhortations, minutes of any pro-
ceedings, copies of any manifestoes or circulars ?
There has been, as a matter of truth—not
clerical imagination only one occasion in
Australia when the existence of a “ solid
Roman Catholic vote ” could be tested, and
that was when Cardinal Moran ill-advisedly
stood as a candidate in N.S.W. for the Federal
Convention. It is fair to assume that on that
occasion he got many Protestant votes —The
Bulletin remembers at least one Wesleyan
clergyman who actively supported his candida-
ture. But if he had not got a single Protestant
vote, and had scored the solid Roman Catholic
vote, which is alleged to exist, he would have
easily headed the poll, leaving Edmund
Barton with his 100,000 votes far behind.
As a matter of cold, figured fact, the
Cardinal got only 42,566 votes, coming 14th
on the list of the candidates. The “solid
Roman Catholic vote ” is a myth. The Roman
Catholic hath “dimensions, senses, affections,
passions ” with the rest of us. He is fed by the
same newspapers, hurt by the same lies, subject to
the same whims and caprices as others. He has
his views, like other citizens, about Freetrade and
Protection, about Socialism and Individualism,
about Land Taxation and Defence, and he is not
in the least inclined to sink those views in order
to become a unit of a religious caucus, voting
blindly and purposelessly on an issue which is prac-
tically never a “live” one in Australian politics.
That there is no solid Roman Catholic vote in
Australia may be accepted as a fact. To imagine
otherwise is to presume a supernatural degree of
cunning and resolution on the part of a great mass
of citizens, who appear to be no different to the
bulk of the population. It is to fly in the face of
all reason and of what little ascertained fact
exists on the point. Nevertheless, it probably is
a fact that at the last Federal elections some
Roman Catholics voted as Roman Catholics, and
in spite of some disagreement on other points
with the favored candidate. This fact is
to be deplored, for it spreads the canker
of bigotry in politics which the Orange Lodge
organisation represents; but it is perfectly natural
and understandable. On the G. Reid side, prac-
tically every candidate and every newspaper
strove to raise the sectarian issue. G. Reid
himself preached sectarianism always. His
lieutenants shrieked weekly from Orange Lodge
platforms. The most strenuous efforts were made
to identify Anti-Socialism with Protestantism,
and to represent Deakin and Watson as the
minions of Rome. Vague threats were circulated
as to what was going to happen to Roman Catholic-
ism if only Protestants rallied round the standard
of G. Reid and voted Anti-Socialism. Horrible
pictures were drawn of the Flames of Smithfield
lighted on Manly hill and fed fat with Protestant
victims if G. Reid were not given a majority. Is
it a matter for wonder that these lies had the
effect not only of attracting some Protestant
sectaries, but also of detaching some Roman
Catholic sectaries, who otherwise would have
voted for G. Reid? That was bound to happen,
and the responsibility for it rests with the G. Reid
following and the G. Reid press. How
very far from reality is the dream of a
“ solid Roman Catholic vote ” is, however,
shown by the fact that in spite of all the
G. Reid appeals to Protestantism, many Roman
Catholics supported him on the platform, and
many were candidates in his interests.
Still, if, on one side or the other, the effort to
divide the people into religious camps is main-
tained, it may one day be cursed with success.
That would be the most calamitous thing that
could happen to Australia. A solid Roman Catho-
lic, or Anglican, or Presbyterian electoral organi-
sation would shatter all democratic ideals to
pieces. Inevitably, since its foundation was
religious, such an organisation -would get into
the control of the clergy. Never in the
history of the world has a priesthood—Catholic,
Protestant, or Pagan—won the temporal power
without using it savagely and tyrahnously. Nor
is there any hope that a dominant priesthood in
these modern days would be any better if it won
to authority. From the records of Protestant mis-
sionary government in Oceania, Australia can see
the meticulous and frigid tyranny of the parson
in power. From the life of the French pro-
vinces of Canada where the Roman Catholic
priesthood has managed to arrogate to itself
an extensive temporal authority, the same lesson
is to be learned of intolerance, cruelty and
rapacious exaction. Priest and parson alike must
be kept out of politics. If they are sincere in their
beliefs they must be undesirable temporal guides,
for it is, in effect, the essence of their faith for men
to be indifferent to happiness here, so that they be
happy hereafter, and the aim of all good temporal
government is to make the people happy here,
and let the hereafter look after itself. Aus-
tralians, it is impossible to avoid concluding from
the facts available as a basis of judgment, recog-
nise this fully. The disaster to G. Reid at the
Federal elections was an indication, not of the
success of Roman Catholic sectarianism, but of
the abject failure to induce the electors to vote as
Protestants instead of as Australian citizens. It
is not the existence of a “solid Roman Catholic
vote” which is vexing the REiD-ites; it is the
absence of a “solid Protestant vote.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Mariners of England.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mercantile Marine is still the hope of Old England,
the buttress and pride of the nation.— English Paper.
They’re “ the buttress and pride of the nation,’’
“ The hope of Old England,” are they ;
But tneir life is a crawling damnation,
Their bodies are cheaper than clay.
In the pit of Perdition they’re moaning . . .
(Relentless Jehovah, how long?). . .
Compared with the sound of their groaning
The cry of the Damned is a song
Of praise—
A glad and exultant song !
Ashore they are outcast and hated ;
They starve amid horrors at sea;
For their calling’s ill-found and ill-fated,
Whatever the theories be.
We call ’em pet names in our speeches—
And we cuff ’em and kick ’em in fact.
We live on their labor like leeches,
And we give ’em, between times, a tract!
Oh, Lord ! —
We pay off our debt with a tract!
MAORILAND. FRANK MORTON.
»
Very Far-Reaching.
“ This law is very far-reaching,” is the Tory moan
regarding practically every piece of legislation
which is brought forward. The Tory ideal of a
law is something which will make short, feeble
clutches at the air, in the manner of a woman
fighting. That the Law should have a strong
right arm, capable, like that of William Squires,
of suddenly stretching forward and landing with
a harsh jar on the jaw of the wrong-doer, makes
the Tory mind shudder with nervous apprehen-
sion. It believes that there ought to be left, in
various places in the community, holes and
corners into which -crime and dishonesty may
bolt, with no fear of any '' far-reaching ’ ’ arm of the
law following them. But dishonesty and fraud are
“far-reaching.” Greedy monopolies and land-
lockings and predatory Trusts and brewery Com-
bines and gambling fraternities are devil-fish
which stretch viscid tentacles into every nook in
the community, and no threatened victim can bury
himself deep enough to escape their grip. It is
just when the legislator begins to turn an eye of
hate against these long-tentacled octopods that
the Tory raises his loudest moan against the
“far-reaching” character of the proposed law.
So many unthinking people are impressed by
this Tory moan that it is time to declare that a
long reach is just the sort of reach that the law
ought to have. Every Australian law ought to
have a long enough arm to stretch diagonally
from Cape York to Cape Leeu win, and cross-wise
from Geraldton to Moreton Bay, and due north
and south along the South Australian telegraph
line, with a little to spare for the territorial
waters round the coast. And it should have,
further, a large, horny, shovel-lilce hand. Any law
which does not reach every offender everywhere,
at every time, must of necessity be class legisla-
tion, and class legislation is something which (in
theory) the Tory soul abhors. All Legislative
Councillors, all Lord Mayors, and all dismal and
anxious followers of G. Reid are hereby called on
to refuse support to any law which is not at least
as far-reaching as a patent-medicine advertise-
ment.
♦
The Rome “Terror.”
“ D.” writes :—
There is something infinitely diverting about the in-
genuousness of the Sydney morning press on occasion.
“ Rome voted for Socialism,” the two papers now agree,
in explanation of Toryism’s paralysing rebuff in N.S.W.
three weeks ago. “But why?” (Conceive here all the
wide-eyed puzzlement of the stage ingenuAe.) “What
concession does Rome expect from Socialism in return for
her support ? ”
Failing an answer to that query (the same being un-
answerable in any satisfactory fashion, from the Anti-
Socialist standpoint, since, as both papers frankly admit,
there is no concession on earth that Rome can expect
from the success of Socialism, or any other policy in
Australia), the quaint non sequitur is arrived at
that in the coming State election it will behove
the people to “watch Rome very warily,” and “ act ac-
cordingly.” In a word, sound Protestant working-men
are to scrutinise Rome’s voting trend next election, and
take the opposite path (i.e., the path of anti-Labor) at all
hazards. The taint of Rome is upon Labor. The Herald
and Telegraph say so on the authority of “ Cardinal
Moran’s press organ." Wherefore, every self-respecting
Protestant Laborite must vote the anti-Labor ticket till
further orders, as the one and only satisfactory means
of putting Rome in her proper place—and, incidentally,
G. H. Reid in his. Q.E.D. This logic, however, is un-
likely to commend itself much to the average thoughtful
Laborite of the type aimed at—be his brand of Protestant-
ism what it may. That somewhat cynical citizen displays a
marked tendency nowadays to balance his Protestantism,
all coldly and dispassionately, in the one hand, and his
politics in the other (more especially about election
time); and after carefully scrutinising both, to deposit
each as far away as possible from the other, so to speak,
till after polling day.
To he plain, the “Roman Menace” that is understood
to agitate so painfully the breasts of Mr. William Wilks,
Mr. B. Smith, and other Thinkers of their calibre, is a
shade too thin for present-day democratic consumption.
With the observant man or woman, to speak so of the
Menace in question cuts no ice at all. Like con-
fidence trickery, it has been overdone of late.
In fact, there is something about the frenzied
Orange bleat demanding support for the Stalwart Pro-
testants of the REiD-ite party (those Stalwart Protes-
tants who are so often straight-out “ Papists,’’and who, in
any case, never protest, nor ever, for that matter, have
anything to protest about) which is offensively insulting
to the intelligence of the electors. By what weird and
distorted effort of reasoning, for example, is the highly
devotional but pronouncedly Unitarian, Mr. J. C. Watson,
the only layman in the Commonwealth accorded an in-
vitation to the recent Protestant Church Congress at
Melbourne, branded as Rome’s minion, while Allan
M’Lnan (say) is enabled to pose as a bright and shining-
sample of a Crusader in the cause of Protestant ortho-
doxy ? Why was that earnest Presbyterian Laborite,
Tom Brown, a persistent expounder of the Gospel
in and around the Calare electorate, opposed bitterly
by DiLL-ism last month, and the DiLL-ite vote
bespoken for his adversary, Fitzpatrick (A.S.), who
is an Irish Catholic, and whose children imbibe
the subversive tenets of Rome in a Catholic
Convent? Why was Acton, the worthy R.C. Anti-
Socialist, who contested the Darling against Spence,
given the L.O.L. nomination ; while Carr (L.S.), a
fervent Wesleyan and the son of a Wesleyan preacher,
who won in the Macquarie against Syd. Smith, laboured
throughout his campaign under the DiLL-ite ban,
and the charge of being a Tool of the Vatican ?
I could go on propounding conundrums of the above
description for quite a long time, but there is no particu-
lar need. The rank, blatant idiocy and humbug of the
existing Protestant selection plan, whereby anyone from
the Pope of Rome downwards is eligible apparently for
the anti-Romish nomination, so only that he be for Reid
and against Labor, is plain to demonstration. Let
Toryism get hold of some other and less flagrantly asinine
method than this of angling for working men’s votes.
The Rome “ Horror,” under 1907 conditions, is so foolishly
unconvincing that it becomes tiresome.
♦
The Horrors of Labor Legislation,
“0.K.”: To fully realise the evil of “Labor
legislation” one must con verse with an up-country
Tory in the fruit-growing business. I met one,
the other day, a typical representative of a fairly
numerous class, in the Daylesford (Vic.) district.
Looking carelessly at his ill-tended fruit gardens,
I remarked that he was not so strong as of yore
in gooseberry and currant bushes. It struck me
that he was a lazy cultivator of the soil, turning a
lot of fine land to comparatively little advantage—
but I didn’t express this thought. He explained
that several acres of gooseberries and currant
bush plantation had passed away since my
previous visit. He spoke as a man with
a grievance. His manner and tone were
bucolically impressive, arid I grew interested
in his fortunes. Why this up-rooting of
hundreds of old-established fruit bushes? “It’s all
owin’ to Labor legislation,” said he, with an
oracular frown. Pressed for further informa-
tion, he admitted that it wasn’t an advance in the
cost of fruit picking, or any other new expense,
which had been inflicted on him by the town
Labor party; his trouble was that the market
price of third-rate gooseberries and currants
(such as he grew) had been declining of late. He
wagged his head solemnly, as though to say
“We knew what Parliament would bring us to.”
Then he went on to complain that in place of
fruit he was growing potatoes —the price of spuds
having gone up. Pressed for an explanation of
why the disastrous Laborites should legislate for
cheap fruit and dear potatoes, the gloomy old owl
spat contemptuously into a flourishing patch of
weeds. “ People from town have no idea of the
ruin Labor legislation is doin’ to the country,”
said he. “We know, because we have to suffer.
Labor legislation cost me £3OO last season, and
unless things alter I sha’n’t grow any more goose-
berries at all.” The awful stupidity of this sturdy
Argus supporter was not nearly so remarkable as
his impressive way of revealing it. I never met
another man with such a weighty want of argu-
ment.
♦
The Coining Foreshore Combine.
Of all the acts of criminal lunacy committed by
any constituted authority, that which permitted
the foreshores of Sydney Harbor to pass into
private hands stands supreme. Now that the
greater part of the foreshores adjacent to the city
have been alienated, a small still voice of con-
science is being heard. But what is wanted is
not only the prevention of further sales, but the
resumption of those already sold. Remembering
that the Harbor has a water-frontage of 200 miles,
and a goodly proportion is already in private
hands, a general resumption would probably mean
the expenditure of millions, but even at such a
price the money would be well-spent. The crav-
ing to possess a water-frontage is a selfish,
illogical desire beside which the attitude of the
dog in the manger was hospitality itself. The
householder who has a frontage to a water reserve
possesses all the practical advantages of an actual
water frontage. In fact, he is a trifle better off,
for, added to his own block of land is the area of
the reserve itself, and the piece of reserve at the
bottom of his own garden is used by him and his
friends 99 times to every once by otner members
of the public. He may, like certain water-reserve
frontage holders in Lane Cove River and Sirius
Cove, have his own bathing-box and his own boat-
house. To obtain these advantages is only a
matter of going through certain forms. The
only point wherein his position differs from the
holder of an absolute water-frontage is that he
has no power to prevent the pedestrian walking
along the shore or—as an instance some years
ago —order a party of picnickers out into a storm
to be drowned. The alienation of foreshores,
from the standpoint of public right, is an absolute
scandal which is almost inconceivable in any
civilised community. In a savage community it is
quite inconceivable, for a pul lie-spirited populace
would very shortly settle the fnmtager with a
club full of shark’s teeth, and grease themselves
with his kidney-fat. But there is even a more
serious side to the matter than the question of
public right. The private ownership of water-
frontages places a veritable premium on mono-
poly of the most vicious type. Any of the many
peninsulas of Sydney whose frontages are already
alienated offer facilities for a ferry combine
capable of exacting millions of pounds on tribute
from the residents in the course of a few months.
It is not so many years ago that the whole of
the water frontages from M‘Mahon’s Point to
Admiralty House and half-way round Neutral
Bay were in private hands. By buying
out the ferry co., and securing all these
frontages, a powerful, well-engineered syndicate
could have owned the nearer portion of North
Sydney lock, stock and barrel. The raising of
fares from Id. to Is. a trip would have ruined
every business in North Shore, sent down land
values by 70 per cent., and left the whole suburb
in the hands of the syndicate. The game played
by the American railway companies could have
been repeated. The syndicate could have bought
up, say, Chowder Bay, and, while fares to Mil-
son’s Point remained at a shilling. Chowder would
have been reached for 2d. When values at
Chowder had reached a sufficiently high level, the
syndicate, having meanwhile secured the depreci-
ated North Shore property, would have returned
to the old tariff and reaped the advantage in the
return of normal land values. While such a
scheme is now impossible as far as Milson s Point
is concerned, there are numerous peninsulas,
sparsely settled to-day, but destined to carry
immense residential populations in the near
future, where it could be worked successfully.


The resumption of existing water-frontages held
privately, and the absolute prohibition of any
further sales of the sort, is imperative, if the best
spots about the harbor are to be properly utilised
and the householders are not eager to fall into the
embrace of an octopus like the tramway company
which has its tentacles around Melbourne at the
present time.
+
The Yellow Man in Noumea.
From a Noumea correspondent:—
At this moment, when New Caledonia is passing
through a frightful crisis—whilst the free colonists ana
many of the lib6r6s (time-expired men who were
restricted to residence here by the iniquitous law or
1854) are hard put to obtain their daily bread, the
Government is allowing and encouraging the introduc-
tion of yellow labor. Throughout the island—both in
the interior and in the capital—employment is being
absorbed by Tonquinese, Annamese, Japanese, Indians,
and Javanese. In a few months the yellow men have
secured a monopoly of several trades, such as barbers,
laundrymen, tailors, fishermen, &c., and this to the
detriment of good Frenchmen, who, not daring to com-
plain, must quietly endure the risk of actual starvation.
And, incredible as it may appear, the Government has
conferred upon the yellow men privileges of setting up
business which are often denied to white men.
In the U.S. A. the poll-tax on the entrance of the yellow
races is fixed at £2OO, and in Australia it is £IOO. In
New Caledonia the Asiatics come in freely, as if they
were coming to their own country. More than that, the
Nickel Kings charter ships at great expense to go and
bring them from their own country. Their food is pro-
vided exactly as they use it at home in their own coun-
try ; in fact, it is all imported thence, so that their
advent is prejudicial to the whole colony, to the business
community, and the workmen also.
It is not only to the present one must look. The
future must be taken into consideration. If_ at the
present moment the Asiatics are interfering with the
living of the whites in New Caledonia, what will it be in
the years to come ?
These coolies, when acclimatised and accustomed to a
mode of living unknown in their own country, do not
wish to go back again ; and (as many of them have already
done) settle permanently here. This means the over-
running of New Caledonia by the Asiatic races. It is
clear now that the Europeans are ready to pack up and
pitch their tents elsewhere, because they cannot hope to
succeed in the struggle with the Asiatic, who works for
coolie wages and who can live so cheaply.
From here to Australia is but a step : and if hitherto
you Australians have regarded our eonvictism as a plague
by reason of its neighborhood, and from the risk of
escaping convicts, how will you regard the settlement
here of these Asiatics, who, perfectly _ free, can leave
whenever they like, and go wherever it seems good to
them?
The French convict escapee has been made a bit of a
scarecrow; but in fairness, it can be said, that up
to now the crimes committed by them in the
places where they have managed to install them-
selves have been few and far between —in Australia
as elsewhere. The convict, when he succeeds in escaping,
usually behaves himself through fear of recapture and
imprisonment. But it is different with these Asiatics.
Among them one may still find men of the type
of the famous convoy of 1891, gathered in the
prisons of Poulo-Condor. It is hardly necessary here to
recall the exploits of those bandits in New Caledonia.
I need only say that the last crime which stained
Noumea, only a short while ago, was committed by a
Tonquinese upon the person of his employer, with a
refinement of cruelty worthy of an Asiatic. Before him,
several of his class had been the sinister heroes of
crimes of assassination or attempts at assassination,
by violence, by incendiarism, poison, etc. From the
moment of their arrival, the Asiatics are the terror of the
households which have the misfortune to use their ser-
vices. For th; least trifle or remonstrance made them,
they arm themselves with a knife or a tomahawk, and
use the most fearful menaces.
And, forsooth, these men are brought into the country
to compete with the Europeans—with what aim ? What
are the powerful influences which have favored this
yellow slavery? Who profits by the slavery? The
capitalist classes, who want cheaper labor. The New
Caledonians owe this traffic in yellow skins to the rapacity
of the Jew speculators, which will bring ruin and starva-
tion upon all who cannot leave the country.
The speedv arrival is announced of a fresh convoy of
500 Asiatics.'' Thus, instead of attempting to ameliorate
the crisis and finding work for the unfortunate Europeans,
we are vexed by the knowledge of this new convoy.
Already the question is asked as to what the white popula-
tion will say before this newinfany—one can call it nothing
else—is perpetrated? Shall we again demand of the Minister
the protection of an armored cruiser to guard the dis-
embarkation of these coolies? Patience has its limits,
and those who play with fire often get burnt. Hunger
drives the wolf from the woods. A being soft and timid
can become a fiend whose lamentable acts cannot be
stayed. Those who have provoked this thing will be
responsible if some terrible revolt should happen.
Doing What He Likes With His Own.
“ A man has a right to do what he likes with his
own property,” quoth Harwood, the ancient
leader of Yic. Legislative Council, in a debate in
that white-whiskered House, the other day. This
is the sort of untrue statement on which Legisla-
tive Councils are always founding their weird
decisions. Harwood said it for the purpose of
opposing a Bill which forbade a testator to will
all his property away from his widow and young
children, and to champion the right of a
man to leave the children of his loins to
starve after his death, when their dying moans
would disturb, not him but the community.
It cannot be said too often or too plainly
that a man has no rights in or over his property,
saving what his fellow-men choose to allow him.
Property is the creation of the law ; and the law
is the creation of the people. In an anarchistic
community a man could own no more land than
was covered by his fists and his feet. He could
possess no more gold than he could carry about
with him, or bury in a hole in the earth —and
then he would ’ have to sit on the hole
all day long to protect it from the other
anarchists. At the present time the _ law,
as it has been constructed by a majority
of the people, grants to men of property a number
of generous favors. It allows a man to keep all
property which he has gained by his own personal
efforts, and so guarantees for him a large
amount of purely selfish enjoyment. It allows
him also to keep all the property which
his father or his rich uncle may have
gathered ; all the good stuff that has become his
by sheer luck ; and the vast hoards which he and
his fellows accumulate by trading on the neces-
sities or the weakness of other men. Moreover,
the law (that is to say, the community) leaps
with violent penalties upon those who endea-
vor to dispossess the propertied man of any
of these possessions. The charge vvhich the
people make, by way of taxation, is an in-
finitesimal one. But their permission gives the
man of property no enduring right—natural or
unnatural—to retain his property. Whether the
law and the people will continue to guarantee
him the undisturbed enjoyment of his
moneys, well or evilly gained, is entirely a
matter for the law or the people themselves
to determine. If they think it to the
general advantage to dispossess him—partly or
wholly, slowly or swiftly then the right
lies altogether on their side. Particularly
lias the community the right to see that the man
whose property it guarantees does not abuse the
safety in which they place him, and does not
employ his property in such a as to damage
their general interest. It is just here that Har-
wood’s floundering argument sinks hopelessly
under water. The law which protects a man’s
property from theft would be unwise and wicked
if it did not forbid that man to create with his
property a public nuisance, a public scandal, or a
public danger. Let Harwood and other land-
lords reflect that they are landlords only by the
generous assistance of plain Bill and Jim, and
that whenever Bill and Jim choose, they have
not only the right, but the power, to tell Har-
wood that he isn’t a landlord any longer. And
Bill and Jim will do this just whenever the
majority of Bills and Jims think it advisable. It
is Bill and Jim who have the right to do what
they like with their own. Whether Bill and
Jim will think it advisable to do anything in an
extraordinary hurry is another matter.
♦
MaorilancTs Maori Lands.
Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, has
threatened to set up a Commission to deal with
the question of native lands. He knows that
there are eight million acres of Maori lancis,
mostly lying idle ; he knows that the Maoris are
very frequently landless ; he is aware that a red
shirt on the back and a pint of waipirau m the
native interior, is at any exalted moment more to
the Maori’s pathetic soul than 1000 acres m t h e bush ;
and he has heard that, as a rule, the present-day
Maori would much rather lease his land for ss. per
acre than earn £1 per acre by hard graft. But
while the Maori unit is willing enough to lease,
sell, or barter his birthright, the Maori m a heap
makes land-transfer business a complicated night-
mare. A slice of country nominally held by liki
Paretutu is nearly always in deed held by
Tiki’s tribe, which may number several hundreds ;
and by the time the commune has been
mustered to append its signature, it is usually
found that one or two or 20 of the commune are
away at Taurangarere or summering at Whare-
kirauponge. Where, however, Maori lands are
positively held by Tiki alone or, say, by Tiki and
Hone, the Fatman is scoring nearly as heavily as
his predecessors did prior to the Treaty of Wai-
tangi. Not a hundred miles from Wellington,
jammed against a township, is a Maori holdmg.con-
taining 9000 acres of the best land in the province.
Fatman, who has leased this from the Maoris, lias
paid 2s. an acre per annum up to now, and, ap-
parently with the consent of the Native Land
Court, which is, according to the Act, forbidden
to allow alienation, he has been able to
renew the whole at 6s. per acre for 30 years .
If Ward’s Commission finds out that there
are two dozen blocks of first-class Maori land,
worth at market rates £25 an acre, perhaps
it will nominate the particular men it would
recommend for a thirty years’ lease. That would
be something gained, anyway. True, if the great
tracts of native land were opened to close pakeha
settlement, and the close-settling pakehas poured
their accumulated rents into the laps of Hone and
Tiki, Hone and Tiki would probably pour the re-
sult down their brown throats. That is the trouble.
Both Ward and Timi Kara, the Native Minister,
know well enough that the only hope of keeping
Hone and Tiki above ground is to make them till
the land themselves, and keep them tilling it.
One commission or twenty won’t make them do
it though. It is a tough problem ; the one thing
that is clear enough is that, whoever gets the
land, the land-grabbing monopolist shouldn't.
The Coming, Queensland Contest.
A critical time is ahead in Queensland. The
Coalition Government has accomplished its term
and is preparing to go to the country. I he old
Philp party is appealing to the Conservatives ;
Kidston to the progressive element in Queensland
politics ; while the extreme Labor party, headed
bv the Worker, is screaming to the workers to
develop their “class consciousness” to admit
neither “ dogs nor gods,” and to commence a new
social order by nationalising everything mstantgr.
It is, unfortunately, too little known how much
good work the present Government has accom-
plished for the people of Queensland. A whole
series of reforms might be quoted : One Adult
One Vote, Workers’ Compensation, Shearers and
Sugar Workers’ Accommodation, Workmen s
Lien, Insistence on Union Rates in Govern-
ment Contracts, Abolition of Poll-Tax, and
Raising of Exemption on Income Tax to
£l6O. But the Queensland Tory Press, bit-
terly hostile for the most part to the present
Administration, assiduously misrepresents the
case to the electors, while the Worker, angry
at the Government’s hesitancy in inaugurating
the Socialistic Millennium, spends most of its
time in a foolish, futile cursing of Kidston and
Airey. The intransigeant section of the Queens-
land Labor party takes the stand that it is far
better to have half-a-dozen rampant Socialists
howling for ever in Opposition, and tearing a
political passion to tatters, than to have a moderate
Labor party of, say, between 30 and 40
members, backing up a Government that goes
ahead despite all faults and failures, steadily
ameliorating the condition of the workers,
and making broad the foundations of the
State’s prosperity. The Queensland intransigeant
denounces these measures of amelioration-
such as Workers’ Compensation, Graduated Land-
Tax, etc., as “palliatives,” as a mere tinkering
with social evils. If you advocate a land-tax, he
clamors for land nationalisation ; if you introduce
shop and factory legislation, he screams for the
State to run all industries; if you adopt a
moderate objective of nationalisation of mono-
polies, he scouts it contemptuously and cries lor
the nationalisation of all industries. But the
extreme Socialist in this is quite out ot
sympathy with the average progressive
working man, who doesn’t care a jot tor
distant objectives, but is all the time
bent on securing measures of practical progress.
The moderate policy of such a man as Watson
commends itself to the reasonable Australian
everywhere ; the policy of the extreme bocialist
is as much out of place in Queensland as a wallaby
in a synagogue. The Labor extremists, unless
supported by a Progressive Government, cannqt
carry six seats in Queensland. The moderate
Labor party, but for the extreme foolishness of
the Worker clique and its allies, could have easily
won a working majority in the country at
next election. The moderation of the Kidston
Administration, its desire to give a fair deal to all
classes, has won it hosts of friends, and it is a
safe thing to say that the present Government is,
taking it all round, the most popular Government
Queensland has had for the past 20 years.
True, some of its most valuable efforts
have been neutralised by the vicious meddling
of the PHiLP-ite Legislative Council—but even the
Legislative Council under the steady pressure ot a
Democratic Government has gone farther and
given more than anyone' imagined was possiDie
four short years ago. It seems scarcely credit) e,
and yet it is a fact, that in spite of the record of
the "present Government, the extreme Labor
party is preparing to run extreme candidates
against its leading Labor supporters, particularly
against Labor Ministers and against Kerr, the
leader of the Labor party. Naturally, the old
Philp gang is rejoicing. Here is their oppor-
tunity. With the assistance of the Worker.
they may regain the Treasury benches, and
maladminister whatever Democratic legislation
has been passed—and effectively prevent further
effort in that direction. The hope of Queensland
lies in the moderate, level-headed men of the Labor
party and in their Democratic allies outside. If
they do not stand together, the ruin of the 1906
Q. Federal elections will only be a prelude to a
greater ruin at the State elections.
Making Guns for the Enemy.
During the last 12 months for which the figures
are available, the deposits in the banks of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland have got a further £9,198, bSO
ahead of the advances and other fixed assets, such
as premises. In other words, there has been an
accumulation of close upon 10 millions sterling in
the year; Australia has produced that much
wealth, and can’t find use for it. And that mils
on top of a large accumulation in the previous 12
months. A great deal of this money is lying in
the banks, lumbering up the vaults, earning
nothing. For all the present good it is, it might
just as well be old iron. A great deal more of it
has, luckily for Australian bank shareholders and
depositors, been sent to England and lent to
the banks there. Germany and the United
States want money; owing to their policy of
High Protection, industries are amazingly flourish-
ing in both countries, and there is great scope for
the investment of capital. They have, therefore,
been draining England of money; and English
banks, in order to make up for the drain, have
been offering almost unheard of rates for deposits.
The English deposit rate has gone up with the
bank-interest or discount rate, and that has stood
at 6 per cent, since October 19. Except during
war, it has never before been kept so long at that
rate in modern times. That means that Eng-
land never before felt the effects of the compe-
tition of the Protectionist countries as it is doing
now. This, however, is the fact that has to be
driven into the Australian skull these millions,
the results of bountiful Australian harvests, instead
of being used to advance Australian industries, are
practically being used to furnish the weapons of
war to Australia’s industrial enemies ; for while
money is being drained out of England to meet
the great industrial demand in the United States
and Germany, the Australian money is being
poured into English banks to fill up the hole.
But for that special demand the Australian de-
positor would be compelled to accept lower rates.
Even that, though, might be better than what is
actually happening; for he is getting a temporary
advantage at the expense of what may be a per-
manent disablement. Anyway, it is likely to be
a permanent disablement unless he defends him-
self' from his industrial enemy, whom he is help-
ing to equip, with High Protection. What
the call for capital for industrial enterprises
in Germany has been there is no way ot
telling ; but the results of the United States
industrial census were published lately, and
the same causes have been producing much
the same effects in both countries. In 1900
the capital employed in U.S. manufactures was
£1 831,680,000 ; in 1905 it was £2,587,998,000. In
five years, therefore, £756,318,000 of capital has
found employment in the businesses promoted by
America’s Protective policy. There has been no
rushing around there after bank mortgages at
something under 4 per cent. The gross output ot
the factories in 1905 was £3,019,637,000. After
paying for material, wages and salaries, and
running expenses, there was left for profit and
incidentals £337,904,000. That means per
cent, on the investment; while the Australian
who regards a 33J per cent, duty as a humilia-
tion and a 50 per cent, duty as a secret sin,
only to be mentioned in dark places at mid-
night—either takes a mortgage at 4 per cent.,
or makes a bank deposit at 3 per cent., or runs the
risk either of losing the lot or making a precarious
2A per cent, in some Australian insufficiently
protected factory. That is the matter from the
capitalist point of view. From the labor point
of view only this need be said : that the employ-
ment of this extra £756,318,000 of capital in
United States factories in the past five years has
also added 910,847 names to the pay-sheet ; while,
as the cost of materials has gone up by £392,971,000
a year, it is pretty certain that an even greater
number has found work in supplying the fac-
tories with their raw materials.
I '♦ “ £
An officer discusses some points in the award o*
Mr. Justice O’Connor (Commonwealth Arbitra'
tion Court) in the matter of the inter-State steam'
ship officers’ claim :
His Honor said be would allow something for the in-
creased responsibility and risk of constant coast and
harbor navigation and increased cost of living in Aus-
tralia Then he fixed the maximum wages for a master
in our largest ships at a whole £8 a year more than a junior
master gets in the ships they are supposed to compete with.
This in spite of the fact that a deep-water officer has a
very much easier time than the Australian coaster. The
former seldom does night work, and many companies are
paying him overtime when he does. The coast cargo-
boat works without a stop in nearly all ports. The
Australian officer speaks of a deep-water watch—such
as he gets across “ the paddock ” and the bight—as being
in the- nature of a holiday. The extra time put in at
stations—entering and leaving port, for which no over-
time was asked—amounts to many hours a month. In
many of our ships the coastal man never gets a holiday
or a Sunday. Even now, as I write, the Commonwealth
Shipowners’ Association is working special points to keep
the ships at sea for Christmas and New Year. .
The attempt at regulating hours leaves things very
much as in the bad old days. Lines want slacking or a
o'ang'way wants shifting 1 after 5 ; so it’s “ Get the 2nd and
3rd officers along.” Officers, forsooth, who are expected
to mule about, while the flatfeet look on and laugh-all
because the flatfeet would claim overtime! And then
they expect proper discipline.
Justice O’Connor must be very blind if he cannot see
reasons why the master's room should not be used for a
chart-room. If a man is lucky, he is at home two whole
nights a month. The rest of his life—all he has to him-
self —is spent in one so-called room, in some cases about
6ft bv 9ft., further curtailed by being lumbered up with
charts. A master, after a long spell on the bridge,
and while trying to get a sleep, has to be continually dis-
turbed by his officers coming into his room to make very
necessary use of the chart; or the officers, not wishing to
get themselves disliked, trust to luck or some rule-of-
thumo method of finding their distance off the land. It
Justice O’Connor had any experience of the constant
chart work done where proper accommodation is pro-
vided and the chances taken when the charts are in the
skipper’s room, he would have seen that the claim was
reasonable. In all properly-run ships it is a standing rule
that each officer shall plot the shijTs position on the chart
at the end of his watch, and his relief shall satisfy himself
that this is correct before taking charge. When the
charts are in the skipper’s room this is seldom or never
done. This makes for casualness. When running at 15
knots with a couple of hundred lives (and possibly a High
Court Judge) in your charge, it is no time to be casual.
♦
The subdi visional sale of Rupert Clarke’s Rock-
bank estate, near Deer Park (Vic.), realised an
average of £4 16s. for the 16,000 acres. There
were 38 blocks altogether, the smaller ones bring-
ing much the higher prices. This _land was sold
but a short half-century ago for £1 an acre; the
holders have drawn as much as #) per cent,
per annum on ■ their investment, and they
now sell out at 480 per cent, profit ! As
for the alleged closer settlement caused by
this subdivision, many of the blocks went to
monopolists who already possess huge holdings.
One Rich Landlord got another 2770 acres to add
to his little lot, while a couple of Werribee far-
mers secured no less than 3844 acres, worth alto-
gether about £16,000. No doubt they want to do
just what the Clarkes have done—hang on while
the people give the land an additional value, and
then make the public pay for the value which it
has itself created. But they don’t call that spoli-
ation and robbery. It is merely business. Its
the attempt to stop it that is “spoliation ana
robbery ” —on the same principle that a safety
valve is an explosion, and a fire-hose is a fire, and
a conflagration is really a waterfall.
♦
From London Morning Post :
The most serious difficulty about unifying the coastal
trade of the Empire is that the Australians might insist
upon the crews engaged in it being white men. R or
own part we sympathise with their idea, believing that
the naval interests of the Empire are not well servechtH
the increasing tendency to substitute colored for
labor in the Mercantile Marine. Probably the Canadians,
and certainly the New Zealanders, would support the
Australian view. South Africa would, we think, nos
stand out if the rest were unanimous. Butin this
country the proposal is certain to meet with formidable
opposition. Possibly the shipping companies might fin
compensation for the sacrifice of cheap labor in ' tbe ex-
clusion of their foreign competitors from the inter-
Imperial carrying trade. But there is stdl a mdespr
sentiment here against official discrimination on lines
either of nationality or of color, particularly the latter.
The United Kingdom, being protected by geography
against the Asiatic danger, has not developed the instinct
of racial self-preservation to the same degree as Aps-
tralasia. Yet even the Liberals are beginning to appre-
ciate the Australasian sentiment, thanks mainly to> the
Chinese labor episode. The one redeeming feature of
their disgraceful performance in the last elections is that
they unwittingly committed themselves to the prin-
ciple of racial self-protection, which up to that time
they were supposed to consider immoral. In clamoring
for a white labor preserve upon the Rand they followed
an Australasian lead. If they now accept another lead
from the same quarter in precisely the same direction we
shall gladly credit them with more sincerity in their anti-
Chinese crusade than we do at present. We have greater
hopes that the Labor party will support that policy,
seeing that their intuitive politics are always protective
intendency, and that they are wisely taking pans to
get into touch with the Labor movement in Australia.
O
Randolph Bedford writes
In your issue of 20th Dec. you say “ in every case where
a Laborite faced a Democratic Protectionist he was
defeated; even Randolph Bedford, with all his gilts
of oratory, could not displace Hume Cook. . Aus-
tralia wants Laborites of the Watson brand, but
not of the Queensland Worker or Victorian Political
Labor League brand.” Here. is proof of what most
Bulletin readers have suspected for a long timt*
and that is, that outside of your own you don’t
know what you are talking about. You have put up a goo d
fight against the Worralls and the Judkinses of Au g .
tralia, and yet you applaud the results of an electio n
won by Worrall and Judkins. Cook won on the AnU
Sosh vote, which includes the vote of all the Litt
Bethels and snufflebusters in Bourke; he won by mdu
triously circulating the lie one day that Mr. Moldbn an
myself were Catholics, and the next day varying: it t
Orangeism. and both Mr. Molden and myself played th
game too cleanly to insult the intelligence of the Sector
by contradicting any statement made o. our religion, o
of our want of it. Cook and Mauger won in the sain
wav that Wm. Knox won, and that way was using sec
tarianism in its dirtiest form. Mauger made ' the
astounding statement that Australians should
citizens of the kingdom of God and the British
Empire,” whatever that may mean , and Knox howled
to Australia to “ vote for God and the Empire ,
and Cook called on all the little galvamsed-iron
sanctuaries to defend Cook and JuDKiN-ism, and gener-
allv played the game in such a way as to call for the
appeal to the Court of Disputed Returns now maturing.
And that he did win on the Judkins vote is proved by the
fact that Judkins waited the result of the Federal elec
tion in Bourke and, seeing that Cook had won, then
nominated himself for Brunswick against AnsteY- T
appealed to an Australian national sentiment and found
it overshadowed by cant. , . , T ,
You conclude the article from which I have extracted
the paragraph at the head of this letter by asking for a
Deakin-Watson alliance. Well, Watson comes Jim
stronger and Deakin weaker than even his weak-
ness would have led us to expect. Deakin-Watson alli-
ances can’t be healthy any more, especially for tbe _slde
that claims Watson as leader ; and for the reason of the
Labor party’s recognition of that fact, you are barking
up the wrong tree again.
The Bulletin would have given its last para-
graph to help R.B. into Parliament, but there
was no avoiding the fact that Hume Cook in last
Parliament was a sound Protectionist and Demo-
crat. He voted straight always ; consistently
supported the Watson Government, when to do
that was to cut absolutely away from the more
Conservative section of the Protectionists; ha
practically a pledge of Labor support at the 1966
election, and should not have been opposed by
Labor. Mauger was in the same position. Both
Cook and Mauger may be Judders—there s a
speck somewhere in most apples. If so ’ -Lbb
Bulletin is sorry for them ; but while they vote
straight on all the important political issuer it
will support them. Mr. Bedford’s idea of what
“ most Bulletin readers ” think is derived clearly
more from his imagination than his knowledge ;
and, as The Bulletin has encouraged him tp
cultivate that imagination, it isn’t going to quarrel
with him when it discovers flights of imagination
even in a political paragraph like this.
♦-
“ D.” from Apia (Samoa): —
Samoa is now “the Rand’s understudy” as regards
Chinese slave labor. The Chinese are indented on terms
that give a monopoly of their labor for three years to the
importing planter. They get for that labor 12 marks per
month, or, in English money, about 11s. 9d., minus three
or four shillings deducted until the passage-money is
paid off. Their accommodation is meagre. Shacks are
built on the principle that lumber costs £1 per hundred,
plus carting and other incidentals. In these they are
huddled like so many bees—kitchen, dining-room, parlor,
bedroom, cesspit, all in one. Grub consists of kegged
salt-horse and rice doled out to them in just sufficient
quantities to keep body and soul together, pegged
horse is put up especially for the Island trade, and when
that is said no further comment is needed. Sunday to
the Chows, except in odd cases, brings no happy day . of
idleness. Seven days constitute their working week, and
the only reason why it is seven is that no one has found
out how to make it eight. Ten hours a day are about the
general thing. The coolies can he taken to the court-
house and soundly flogged upon the slightest pretext.
For such tinpot offences as fighting amongst themselV.es,
malingering, or even talking during working hours, three
to a dozen stripes may be administered. Since I have
been here —a matter of not quite a year—two coolies
have been flogged to death by their owners, and one has
been shot, and, beyond a little talk at the time, no notice
whatever was taken of the matters.
“N.S.T.’ : I can quite believe Sydney Tele-
graph’s yarn that one result of the Federal elec-
tions has been to scare capital from investment.
This cased! know. Before the elections a man,
who already had far more land than is good for
the country, had under offer four farms adjoining
his holding. If he had bought, the farmers in-
tended to go, some to Queensland, others to
Maoriland. As soon as the election results were
known the land-grabber withdrew his offer. He
wouldn’t then invest his money. The “invest-
ment ” of his capital would simply have meant,
not that capital was brought to, or even kept in
the country, but that it was driven out of it;
because the farmers would have put the money
in their pockets and cleared. So weTiave, as the
result of the elections, the farms, the farmers,
and their capital. If the elections had gone the
other way, all we would have had would have
been the farms—and they wouldn’t have been
farmed.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The New Clown."
Her Majesty’s “ Parsifal” ; matinees, “Alice in
Wonderland.”
Theatre Royal “ A Path of Thorns.”
Palace “ The New Bov.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co. ‘
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
Bondi “ Wonderland.”
Amphitheatre Vaudeville Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “Village Blacksmith.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall “ The Story of the Kelly Gang.”
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
♦
At Her Majesty’s is a heavy 10-course dinner
for ma and pa and the elder girls in the evenings; in
the afternoons, nuts and bon-bons and ginger-beer
for those who shouldn’t be out after eight. If pa
hadn’t had a remarkably good year, he would
grumble about this double assault on his pocket;
but wool is at fourteenpence, and ma says that,
after all, he came very well out of the Boomerang
Extended copper-mining spec, that he thought
was no good ; and just plain mother, plain wife of
plain Bill, has five shillings that she can spare this
Xmas to let the girls see what the pantomime and
the theatre are really like. For it’s the girls who
really know “Alice in Wonderland”; the Aus-
tralian boy has an idea that dolls and fairy-
tales come out of the same box, and shies
from both of them impartially. If you tell
him that the man who wrote “Alice in Wonder-
land ” was a great mathematician, who knew all
about parallelograms and had got past cube
root, he either says “Rats!” or maintains a
respectful silence —which of them depends mostly
upon the sort of discipline that reigns thereabouts.
Still the small boy who rushes for the evening
paper to find out whether Diamond is out or
Armstrong has made another century —or whether
anybody else has been drowned or hanged or run
over by a tram-car —even that young Goth needn’t
shy off the “ Alice in Wonderland ” that is being
played every afternoon at Her Majesty’s. As a
matter of fact, though all the familiar names in
“Alice” and “Through a Looking Glass” are
here, and some of the dialogue, the variety
“ turns ” cause the most .chatter when they all get
home and have to be driven to take their best
frocks off apart, that is, from the mar-
vellously quaint characters themselves. There’s
the military ballet from “ The Little Michus,”
for instance, and scraps from “ Tapu,” and
poor Johnny Coleman’s “Scarecrow” dance,
and a troupe of performing dogs and monkeys.
Except these dogs and monkeys the company is
juvenile, from Alice herself down to the oysters.
Fred Quintrell, who was only a few months ago
lifted up into the conductor’s high chair, has
charge of the sprightly music, and he and Miss
Minnie Everett are mainly responsible for keeping
the picturesque piece of charming nonsense going
with a swish.
** * *
“The New Clown,” at Sydney Criterion,
has been playing to houses which exceeded “ The
Man from Mexico’s ” ; and deservedly so. Whilst
in' spots the man who went to Jug and called it
Mexico was more uproarious than “the Clown,”
the second piece has more human interest; it
gives Miss Palotta a part in which she can
show a touch of sentiment —and that, of course,
she does charmingly ; and affords Willoughby a
better chance to show his powders than he has yet
W 1 in Sydney. And this without cutting into
Ward’s opportunities to show his inimitable
drollery. But there is one fly in the ointment.
Seeing this farce will rather spoil one’s taste for
circus; after Ward, clowns will be expected to be
really funny.
** * *
Whatever misgivings J. C. Williamson
had about “Parsifal” have by this time pretty
well evaporated. He knew it was going to be a
spectacular success ; he knows now that it is going
to be a popular success as well. At the start the
work was a trifle too heavy for Miss Tittell
Brune ; she begins with a very severe scene and,
with an unaccustomed song and dance to worry
her, she has little breathing time to the end. But
as things have got into smoother working order
she shows less fag in the fourth act than she did
on the opening night. Thomas Kingston’s ex-
tremely difficult part—Parsifal—shows improve-
ment also. It hasn’t the eccentricities of the
magician to carry it off ; it has to depend entirely
on desperately hard work. Audiences begin to
recognise that, and to say pleasanter things about
that part of the great performance than they did
a week ago. The music, on the other hand, con-
tinues tame and undistinguished.
** * *
Selbo, the gentleman who showed the
royal family how to throw the best company-
crockery about without breaking it, is still the
star who makes mouths open widest at the
Tivoli; though most times during the past week
there hasn’t been too much room in the Tivoli for
really good gaping. Selbo’s strong point is in
turning what looks like an inevitable gorgeous
smash into a victory ; he can recover 27 whirling
items of crockery when all seems lost. But he’s
the busiest man in Sydney while it lasts, and the
27th is only recovered when another pin’s point
lies between it and the thing that would certainly
happen if merely Mary Ann tried it on. The
“ first part ” is just now materially strengthened
and brightened by Claude Leplastrier, lightning
sketch artist, who sings as he pencils pictures on
the canvas at railway speed.
** * *
Some good Australian talent is making
a violent effort to get a share of bread and
butter and a slice of cake occasionally at the
Amphitheatre, Castlereagh-street, hitherto sacred
to boxing bouts. Bovis Bros, run the show.
Some clever girls dance and sing. The costumes
could be daintier, but the girls can dance. Like-
wise, happy Nellie Marshall, a Brisbane damsel
who made her debut with Pollard’s Lilliputs,
would have “starred” as a comedienne long since
if she had been blessed with a nasal or Cockney
accent and a superfluity of aitches. All the
performers except black Charlie Pope are Aus-
tralians.
*• # * #
The advent of the tent theatre to Australia
opens theatrical possibilities for the back-blocks,
where hall 3 are not and the weather hot. Philip
Lytton and his company of “Players” opened
their “ Moving Theatre ” at Katoomba during the
holiday season; and in their big tent, with seats
(and flocr) for a thousand spectators, and a stage
the size of The Palace, the company admirably
nut on “The Liars,” “Charley’s Aunt,” “Dr.
Bill ” and other stage celebrities. In Miss Madge
Hope “ The Players ” possess a leading lady of
great charm and cleverness. The only drawback
to a moving theatre is that if it objected to the
performance it might move away. But this one
stayed.
Bland Holt having the only good old
solid melodrama running at present in a Sydney
theatre, finds “A Path of Thorns” strewn with
roses. The effective mechanical and scenic setting,
with its local coloring, helps the story much, and
the holiday audiences have been of the packed
variety.
** * *
“ The New Boy,” at Sydney Palace, con-
tinues to draw good holiday houses. The story
of the unhappy Boy appeals to every male crea-
ture. Just imagine how helpless any small-
framed man would be at school; for schoolboy-
dom is the ideal individualistic state in which the
weak go to perdition and the strong destroy one
another. In this production of the piece, Bullock
Major, the head bully, perpetrates another out-
rage and breaks out into a song and dance. There
is no fault to be found with the song and dance,
except that it detracts from the atmosphere of
naturalness which is a bright feature of “ the
Boy ” generally.
** * *
Sydney is just now a city of shows. In
the metropolis all the regular theatres are open—
Her Majesty’s, the Criterion, Tivoli, Royal,
Palace. The Lyceum, which is half a holy hall
and half a theatre, shelters an excellent picture
show. “Dreamland,” with its 101 sub-shows,
caters for the man who likes his amuse-
ment these hot nights in the open air.
And scattered around Sydney and its suburbs are
a host of little shows where the poor in pocket
beguile tbe holiday evenings. Par away Manly
has a theatre of its own. The tired city worker,
drifting down by an evening steamer to breathe
ozone on the ocean beach, sees the lights of the
little Pavilion Theatre flaring brightly against an
ocean that glows purple and amethyst in the
moonlight. In this little theatre, set almost within
the spray of the sea, he finds an easy open-air
seat where he can smoke in comfort while he
watches a variety show. Down George-street, in
the new street to be known as Rawson Place, is
another Pavilion Theatre—a tent, where the attrac-
tions are cinematograph and variety business.
At the Alhambra, in George-street (an old
music-hall restored for the holidays), the audi-
ences are treated to rather high-class concerts.
In Oxford-street, the Thripeledeon thrives. You
pay threepence at the door, and take your
seat as near the front as the management can
hustle you. This is a flickergraph show.
At the Athenaeum, in George-street, a variety
show of humor and illustrated songs holds the
audiences. In Pitt-street, near the Arcadia, is a
wonderfully ingenious illusion—a railway trip
through Ceylon, or Switzerland, or some other
country. You take a seat, apparently in a rail-
way car, and again apparently, are whirled
through impressive scenery for a quarter of an
hour. And there are half-a-score other shows.
** * *
The Williamsonian pantomime, at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), which escaped a notice in
last Bulletin, is a well-considered business
arrangement for supplying nourishment to the
theatre treasury dut-mg that one season of the
year when a large section of the audience is ad-
mitted at half price. A wise panto, pleases the
child without repelling its elders, and in the
multitudinous happenings of “Mother Goose”
there is wisdom enough. Regarded as a study in
compromise, the production is interesting even to
hardened playgoers. The show, on the face of it,
lias all the orthodox features of panto-antique (ex-
cept a harlequinade), but the general expression has
phases of modern musical comedy or comic opera.
Nothing is too old or too recent to be worked into
a panto. The past and 1 the present mingle their
sentiments, and the Fairy Queen (Celia Ghiloni)
is the same fair creature —waving, probably, the
same wand —who pairs off with Private Willis in
“lolanthe.” All the formalities of panto-boy-
hood are observed by Florence Young. She acts
gaily up to traditional requirements, but if her
song demands choral support the chorus charmers
come forth from their ambush singly, or in couples,
with a certain stealthy swagger of genteel “rorti-
ness,” just as they would in a musical comedy.
The prettiest effect of the most melodious
duet is an extension of the swing business
in the famous “ Veronique” number. Instead of
one girl in a short swing, there are several girls in
long swings, pendulating across the orchestra and
offering grateful glimpses of under-garment to the
bald-headed gentlemen in the front stalls. A
hunting-chorus scene at the finish of the Ist Act
reminds gne of the finale of the 2nd Act of
“ Dorothy, ” yet it is loyally pantomimic in the
fact that the mistress of the hounds is Mother
Goose, mounted on a human nightmare. And
there is a ponderous Scotch character, described as
a Laird, who might better have been the Mayor
of Muckemdyke from the J. F. Sheridan co. In the
construction of this somewhat coherent Xmas
annual the danger of novelty was carefully
avoided. The management took no risks of
enormous expenditure. It went for a satisfactory
profit and made a certainty of it.
* * * »
The newly-imported members of the co.
are Harry Phydora and a pair of acrobatic come-
dians whose speciality is animal impersonation.
The latter appear jointly as a horse and severally
as donkeys; but neither of their quadrupedal
efforts in low comedy is half as droll as the moke
that Hassan created for a Princess’s panto, of
yore. In fact, nobody scores a signal success.
Phydora plays the leading she-male in the most
commonplace manner. He does nothing of song,
dance, or grotesque fooling to explain his
importation. He is almost as unaccountable
as Miss Olive Morrell, who shows in panto-
mime the same lack of vocal force and
want of animation that distinguished her
from the surrounding Australian girls in “ The
Spring Chicken.” Harry Shine conceals a good
deal of his natural humor in a male character ;
Miss Preston is fairly bright; Miss Florence
Young is a decorative boy, with her fine, honest
voice in good condition, The ballet items under
the direction of Miss Brenan, mostly juvenile and
joyous, are reminiscent of the recent “La
Poupee” matinees. In the ten scenes there is
some admirable painting by Coleman and others.
Also a procession at the close—the inevitable pro-
cession—makes a worthy climax to a series of
festive gatherings
** * *
“The Village Blacksmith,” with his cast-
off wife arid interminable chee-ild, is still blowing
the sad doniestic bellowsdrama at Melb. Royal.
Compared with previous Andersonian tales of
family trouble, this one would be strictly unobjec-
tionable if it were not so slow in the first four acts.
By way of compensation, the drama offers a cheer-
ful fifth act, where the blacksmith turns out to be
an avenging Hackenschmidt. He breaks the
villain’s neck in the deciding bout of a wrestling
match. The wrastle is a spirited “go” between
George Cross and a long, , lean expert, who appears
to be Laurence Dunbar (but presumably isn’t),
and who falls with so much enthusiasm that tlie
news of his broken neck reduces the audience to
grave silence.
The Xmas bill at the Opera House con-
tinues to be all that is needed and a little over.
Fred Russell, ventriloquist, has turned up again,
from Britain or thereabouts. Also Annie Laurie,
a songandanee lady, is appearing in Melbourne
for the first time. Miss Laurie is sufficiently
bonnie, and one of her songs has a wise moral in
the burden of it. But, apart from her faulty
enunciation, she suggests no reason why any
local tenor should lay him down and dee for her.
By the way, an elderly gentleman did chance to
dee at the Opera House the other night what
time King and Benson were playing their banjo
duet. The tragedy was said to have happened
during the Alaskas’ “ turn,” therefore a Herald
reporter called upon the Alaskas to ask them how
many previous people had died of astonishment at
their wonderful performance.
** * *
The Tait brothers, who look so deceptively
young and innocent, are now exploiting a new
Bipgraph, which has made its own boom, and is
practically secure from competition. In a moment
of inspiration they discovered that the most vital
spot in Australia’s national character is its weak-
ness for the Kelly Gang. Having arrived at this
awful fact, they got their infernal machine to
work upon it some months ago, and the fruits of
their Deadwood Dickian enterprise are now being
sheeted home to' a crowded audience at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall, or at the Town Hall,
when that larger building is available. “The
Story of the Kelly Gang,” presented as a bio-
graph melodrama, with dialogue accompaniment,
is a pictorial success in the first place—a very
marked improvement on the Taits’ previous pro-
ductions of moving pictures photographed in Aus-
tralia. What is of more importance, the romantic
“ story ” was well constructed, and for 40 minutes
or thereabouts the principal facts and popular
fallacies of Kelly Gang history are reeled off
the cylinder in picturesque form. The drama
stops at the downfall and capture of our dear
brother Ned, now departed—a tall, bearded per-
son, enclosed within tin fencings—and the
synopsis of the plot omits to cast any reflection of
the gallows on his glorious name. Judkins may
protest against this entertainment on high moral
grounds, but it will prosper in spite of Judkins,
the same as beer does. “ The Story of the Kelly
Gang” is preceded by several sets of pictures,
and amongst them are some of the very best in
the market.
#* * *
Elsewhere in Melbourne city and suburbs
the generous showman is inviting his fellow
creatures to rollup and make merry in honor of
the glad New Year. Special holiday attractions
have been laid on at Dreamland by the Sea, and
the attendances at that breezy rendezvous are
rising with the summe'r temperature.
** * *
Meanwhile the Princess’s is closed. But
the return of Julius Knight with a new co. is an
imminent event, and sometime in February the
beauteous Julius, clothed in Lincoln green, will
pace that stage as Robin Hood, and witch the
girls with wondrous archery.
* * *
“ D.” : “Mother Goose,” the panto, at
Melbourne Majesty’s, contains many and various
importations, but it is satisfactory to note that
the Australian items stand out conspicuously.
The best interpolated turn is certainly that sup-
plied by the Little Dartos, whose dancing is some-
thing unique. The boy Darto gets up a whirl
that has been equalled by few and excelled by
none, and the girl Darto is an electric marvei.
The growth of this clever pair demonstrates the
folly of chosing such names as the Little Dartos,
the Australian Tich, &c., for smart local talent.
The Little Dartos have developed right out of the
Dartb business, and presently the diminutive
adjective will be ridiculous, the boy promising to
shoot into a long, slim Darto, and the girl to wax
into a woman of goodly proportions.
* ifr * *
Adelaide has broken out into a kind of
rash of semi-dramatic shows. At the Royal is
magician Czerny, who causes canaries to vanish
and shapely damsels to appear out of vacancy.
The Tivoli has re-opened with Variety, Fred.
Bluett being starred ; audiences now pay him the
solemn compliment of drifting out when his turn
is done. The Hippodrome has an open-air concert
with moving pictures. The Jubilee Exhibition
has just the same. The Town Hall has pictures
only—the life and death of the Kelly Gang being
the chief feature. Glenelg offers the cheerful
spectacle of a hypnotised man, seemingly dead,
and certainly buried. Even the poor old Cyclo-
rama, having let its ice-rink thaw, threatens to
crawl out from under the shadow of its lawsuit
and produce something with pictures in it.
Sam’s tale, as related by “ Nor M.” :
This is not the beginning of the yarn, but Sam’s yarns
have as many turns as a sheep track, and you get there
quicker by making an occasional short cut.
“ After that,” said he,” I got my cheque and went to
’Obart, meaning to get a few things, and bank the rest
of the money. I didn’t do much banking as it turned
out, and before I come away, huntin’ round my pockets
for a stray bob was like chasin’ a young hoss round a
paddock ,
“ But that’s another story, as the writing chaps say.
“One night I was gettin’ ’ome pretty late, havin’ met
with a fellar I knowed on the West Coast, an’ somehow I
must ’a’ took a wrong turnin’. These bloomin’ big town-
ships alius gets me muddled up, though in the bush you
couldn’t put me w T rong—if I says it meself.
“ Well, I meanders up one track and down another,
and finds meself at last by the wharves. It w'as a beastly
cold night with a wind blowin’ and black clouds tearin’
across the sky, with gasps of moonlight in between . . .
and, what with the shiftin’ light and the onfamiliar place,
I ’ad to own to myself I was fair bushed. All of a sudden
the moon blazes out like a ’lectrie lamp, and there—close
to me feet —I see, lyin’ on the pavement, suthin’ big and
black. It was ’arf in shadder, but, so far as I could make
out, it was like the body of a man, lyin’ 'unched together
—in a way that made me fair sick to think of. My word,
it did give me a turn ; another minit an’ I’d ’ave stepped
on it.
“‘There’s bin murder'ere, sure enough,’ses I tome-
self . . . and with that the light goes out like sliuttin’
down a dark-lantern, and there was just me and that
’unched-up thing together in the dark, and the wind
blowin’, and not another sound.
“ Presently, howsomever, I gets a better grip o’ meself,
and, when my ’eart slowed down a bit, it seemed like I
could ’ear breathin’, and I reckoned, maybe, I’d been
’avin’ all them feelin’s over some chap that was only just
plain drunk. ‘’ERE, Matey,’ says I, ‘you jest get up,
and finish your snooze at ’ome. This ain’t your private
apartment,’ ses I, and I makes to grab ’old of him. One
touch was enough. Me ’and came down on suthin’ cold
as death, and all wet and clammy-like . . . and, with a
yell, I just lit out for all I was worth, across the street
and over the fence into tlie Reserve, and behind me I
heani the most awful cry—like a wild beast, and yet sad,
too, and kind of human . . . and when I darst look again
I see in the moonlight a great black body as dragged
itself down to the water side, and throwed itself in with
a splash, and disappeared.”
Sam relapsed into silence, but I clamored for explana-
tion.
“ Explain it,” said he. “ Oh, yes ; it was easy enough
to explain . . . and I’m free to own up that the first
chaps I told tne' , yarn to ’ad the laugh o’ me over it.
Seems there’s seals comes up occasional. They ain’t
common, but onst in a way one will make his way to the
boat wharf, and ’aul ’isself up by his fii] pe. s onto the
street. Simple, ain’t it, when you know the facks ? ”
Colonial v. English—An Essay
on Beer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAYING secured a berth in a third-
class galley, I left for the land of silken
and other bonds, taking with me a
tolerable thirst and a firm determination to get
rid of it in the Strand, Leicester Square and other
parts, where the booze had been misrepresented
to be cheap and lovely. I looked back to the
many joyful times and glorious sensations pro-
duced by the concealment of many and various
drinks, and forward to more, but at a cheaper
rate.
How longingly I think back to some glorious
incidents ! That night, in Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne, after three pints, a black pudding, some
bread, lettuce, and mustard, I walked round to
Bourke-street to find Peter Felix, but he had got
himself off to Sydney. It was just as well, for I
still remember how the brawny muscles rose in my
puny arms, and I would have punched a hole in a
boiler. Another night, in George-street, after
about the same quantity of pluck-raising material,
and a handful of fish, I sought for M‘Manus, then
at his best, but, fortunately for himself, he too
had got away. That night I was full of speed and
staying power, and would have done the quarter-
mile in 46Jsec.
It must have been similar stuff that old German
Charlie used to sell at Euriowie, for he would say
truthfully and proudly of it, “The man vat vas
trink t’ree nopplers of my rum, and he ain’t fight,
veil he vas a plutty goward.”
At Broken Hill, after a few pints of ‘ ‘ four-
penny,” many a man has thrown off his coat, and
said to his mate, or anyone else handy, “Take
your coat off and put ’em up,” and, on being
asked why, would reply, “ Oh, just to see if I’ve
gone off any.”
In Ashburton, the prohibition district of
Maoriland, I have taken part in similar scenes,
and have seen more work planned there, and
carried out, and fought out, than in any place
where booze was not obtainable. In Adelaide
once, with a visiting football team, I had my only
inspiration to write poetry. It was produced in a
wine cellar solely by a judicious application of
sherry, alleged to be 40 years old. Whether it
was so matured or not does not matter, but to us,
who partook diligently of it, it certainly gave the
wisdom of that mature age, and added to our
pluck, for that same afternoon, after being well
beaten, we candidly admitted we did not care,
and offered to prove it.
In South Australia, I have, after a course of
home-made blackboy whisky, at 10s. per bottle,
though never having touched a broad-axe, offered
to beat the local sleeper-hewing record, and
would certainly have done it bqt for the darkness;
for, though this particular brew will develop the
physical powers to an incredible amount, and will
equally lighten up a person’s intellect, it will not
shed any light on the weather. This is the only
complaint that can fairly be brought against it.
At Kalgoorlie, the work that has been done and
the mines that have been found, with drinks at
Is. a time, are historic.
All this goes to show what a marvellous thing
drink is, and can be, under the Southern Cross ;
what mighty assistance you can get from it, and
how it can make a hero of you for a few' shillings. I
have often wondered why Squires and Cripps waste
weeks at a time at places like Woy Woy, training
for a fight, when a few carefully selected lotions,
judiciously administered, would produce a similar
result. Perhaps in a few years, when they are
prematurely ranked with the used-to-be class, it
will dawn on them that that deplorable result has
been brought about by their own violent and un-
called-for exertions.
Now, after almost a year in various p&rts
of Britain, and after giving the many and
various local productions a fair and unpreju-
diced trial, I wish to publicly record my in-
tense and unqualified disappointment, amounting
almost to disgust. Whether fully or lightly
charged, never once have I felt brave, speedy,
poetic, heroic, good-looking, or rich, like a man
reasonably expects to after a few years’ experi-
ence of Australian stagger-juice. English liquor
produces a consciousness of weakness, helpless-
ness, meanness, and a positive contempt for your-
self and surroundings. Not a ray of sunshine or
brightness enters into the process from the first
taste to the time you gather yourself out of the
gutter. This effect is not on the new-chum only ;
all partakers fare alike ; m fact, the most consist-
ent chewers of the vile stuff are the most dead and
cowardly. You never hear a challenge to bruise,
nor a logical or even a “ brilliant ” argument, nor
passable swearing. At the best the Berritish
workman can’t handle strong language worth a
cent, but when under the baleful influence of his
ale his talk degenerates to the filthiest of common
indecencies. They are invariably directed at
himself, for to direct them at a sober man might
bring trouble in the shape of a reproach or a
punch.
The only time that a drink-laden man will
exhibit assault and battery in this country is when
he gets home to a small and tame wife. Then he
might use his foot-gear a little,- providing he does
not stumble over the door-step, or a piece of
paper, and remain down longer than the regula-
tion ten seconds. In Manchester, I tried to cure
a cold in the orthodox manner. After partaking
of eighteen drinks, covering a dozen different
kinds, at a cost of about half-a-crown, I had to
give up the attempt —was only dull, tired, and
soggy (this last word means sort of water-logged,
with various non-water drinks). In the East End
of London you can get drinks at a halfpenny
each, providing you purchase food to the same
value with each lubricator. Both are robbery.
There is a better reason for taking two bites at a
grape than at a ha’p’orth of beer and sawdust-
smelling sandwich.
The meaning of the word “stolid,” so frequently
used in connection with the Britisher, now stands
revealed to me in a new light. I always pictured
it as meaning something solid, substantial and
reliable, though perhaps slow. There is no doubt
about the slowness, but the real meaning as
applicable to the vast majority is mentally dead,
physically inert. The one cause is the liquid they
imbibe. It is both its action and its reaction that
brings this about. The one and only humorous
happening in this country that has come under
my notice in connection with drink, was of an
fellow who got home at something a.ni. Ihe
missus said the usual things in the usual manner
about his state and the lateness of his arrival, ana
when he got a chance he blurted out, desperately
and despairingly, “Ah cood na coom hoom e oor,
t’ poobs doon’t cloosh tileven.”
LONDON.
AUSTRA.


insure
with tho
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The Great Nerve Tonic for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains—
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
V
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd writes : —I was suffering from acute
neuralgia down the veins of the neck and over the whole
head and face. My mouth was much swollen. lam sub.
ject to these attacks, and was six weeks under a doctor.
After commencing to take “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine I
had immediate relief, and in one day was cured ; there
only remained a slight weakness from the excessive pain I
had endured.
Whatever is the matter with me in the future I will
always use “FISHER’S” Phospherine, for it is a most
wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
An Infallible Cure for Headache, Brain Fag:,
and Indigestion.
FIVE DROPS IN WATER AFTER MEALS IS THE
GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
It takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and makes
the breath sweet and pleasant when TAKEN HALF AN
HOUR BEFORE BREAKFAST.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/- ; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
BE SURE YOU GET “ FISHER’S.”
MANUFACTURING PHARMACY,
& CO., Chemists and Druggists, 337 George Street, opp. General Post Office, Sydney
AT POVERTY POINT.
Herold Bassett, “ impresario,” has filed his schedule in
Adelaide, as the only chance 61 getting away to join his
wife (Madame Blanche Arral) on her Maoriland tour. The
Court, however, insisted on his remaining for the present,
to explain to an official accountant where all the gate-
money has gone. He explained in court that the
Australian tour had resulted in a loss of £lOOOl He
maintained that the mismanagement of an ex-partner
had been the whole cause of the trouble.
“ Ilatzenjammer Castle ” is one of the chief attrac-
tions of Wonderland, Bondi. The word isn’t a delibe-
rately onomatopeeic one. It’s real German for “ the
horrors ” or “ the snakes.” When you have gone through
Katzenjammer you’ve had a humorous edition of the
D.T.’s.
The donkey who acts so intelligently in “The New
Clown,” and looks reproachfully at Ward when that
merry man refers to himself as “ an awful ass.” is quite a
veteran of the stage though not of years. It earns a
solid £3 a week, has acted in all sorts of pieces, from
comic opera to melodrama, and had just concluded a
season with Bland Holt when it started to grace “The
New Clown ” with its ears. Acting is an hereditary art
in that donkey’s family. Grace Palotta remembers, as a
girl, riding its grandfather in “ The Casino Girl,” or
some other of the “ Girls” of the musical comedy of last
decade.
“ U.” : I was puzzled, until a day or two ago, as to who
set the fashion of “ demure” lip-pursing that has become
painfully popular among actresses. Then I visited Mel-
bourne Aquarium and saw “ Miss Ammonia Link,” the
educated chimpanzee. And I knew.
The irrepressible Emily Soldene has been spreading
herself unctuously over her own recent benefit matini e
in London. She carefully recapitulates the gaudily
flattering notices of the London papers, and shrinks not
from recording how she selected so-and-so as her “ swan-
song,” and how actor Tree referred to her as “ the Angel
of Islington.” Emily, an angel I —a swan 1 And—wasn’t
she once a kitten?—the “Mammoth Kitten” —of 30
years ago.
The “ moral ” Jap’s idea of humor is illustrated by
W. S. Gilbert’s recent statement concerning the “ Miya
Sama ” chorus, which heralds the approach of the
Emperor in “ The Mikado.” A Jap whom Gilbert and
Sullivan took for a decent person supplied them with the
air, which he described as the national anthem of Japan.
Long afterwards, it was asserted by a man who knew, to
be “the most ribald song ever sung in the most reckless
tea-houses of Japan.”
An experienced Australian actress on the popular
adjective: “ I remember R used to try his hand at
stage-management in the earlier years of the partner-
ship, but R was naturally a man of mild manners,
and stage-managed on gentlemanly lines, mainly because
his native instincts survived his professional experience.
It was most trying to see the poor man struggling to get
us into shape. We all recognised that he was a failure,
and sympathised with him, and realty endeavored to be
good, but progress was wretched. If one failed very
miserably poor R would say : ‘ Oh, Miss Jones 1 Oh,
Miss Jones 1 ’ just like that —patient, but very sad—and
Miss Jones would try again, and ten to one she’d do no
better, and R —- — would wipe his brow, and say:
‘Oh-h-h, Miss Jones 1’ To Mr. Smith he would say, in a
pathetic way : ‘Mr Smith, Mister Smith, if you please 1 ’
which meant that, Mr. Smith’s efforts were something
disastrous, and Smith would attack again. After a
particularly trying tiour or so of this R would heave
a great sigh, and go off after partner D , and
say: ‘ Will you give them a little polishing off
now, D , old boy ? ’ Then D would come
in. D- —- was small, and D was fiery, and
moreover, D —— had no blessed punctilio, but he had an
amazing vocabulary. His favorite word is still popular in
Australia. I believe he acclimatised it. When Miss Smith
was wrong D would yell: ‘ln the name of what
the do you think you’re here for, Smithie? For
sake try that again, and if you’ve got the wretehedest
figment of a brain use it-—in the name of - , use it 1 ’
If Miss Smith was still very ‘ off ’ D stamped furiously,
and repeated his splendid word about nine times, rising
from a squeak to a shriek. We all snivelled under D——,
sometimes we raved, ahd we resigned five times a week,
but we got on splendidly. I believe he’s the best stage-
manager on earth. Miss B told him one afternoon :
‘You brute, you’re only fit to drive bullocks!’ ‘That’s
what I’m doing ma’am,’answered D.” (Another person
has it that he added, “ And if I used the. bullock whip on
you it would be only what you deserve.”)
The re-appearance of Genevieve Ward, who is nearing
the three-seore-and-ten allotted to man by the Psalmist
(he doesn’t mention woman ; even in those days she
wouldn’t own up), speaks three volumes and an appendix
for the popularity and constitution of that talented lady.
Also for the tolerance of an English audience.
A feature of the Williamsonian pantomime in Mel-
bourne is a swing song, the chorus of which, dangling
on long ropes huijjig over the footlights, is swung well
out towards the centre of the theatre, so that the
polished baldhead in the stalls reflects the twinkling of
many legs flourishing wildly in mid-air above the gasping
habitues. One of these nights a rope will break or slip,
or a frivolous chorister will lose her grip, and then the
rest of the audience will enjoy the spectacle of a fat,
plethoric, red citizen being hit on the midriff by a hurtling
Tottie in pink tights. Meanwhile there is a rush of ple-
thoric citizens to the stalls, perhaps hoping to be the
target of the detached songstress. By the way, the chief
object of variety entertainments—pantos included—
now-a-times is to display elegant legs in new styles, and
a fortune awaits the man who can invent a wholly novel
way of throwing legs at the stalls : the man who could
invent a new leg would make millions.
“ Adelaide ” : “ The Kelly Gang,” a new drama shown
by biograph only, makes its first appearance on any stage
at Adelaide Town Hall. It is a fine piece of work, which
has involved the services of a small army of actors and
one rail way-train, and the temporary destruction of a
small piece of real railroad-track. The story takes nearly
an hour to unfold, and is in fact cumbered with too much
detail; a good deal of it would be hard to follow without
the help of a closely-printed programme studied before-
hand. The acting is good, though various minor
characters have the common fault of doing too much ; a
revolver pointed at a man becomes stagey if it is waved
about. The programme is definitely anti-Kelly, and be-
comes almost hysterical over schoolmaster Ournow
(“ thank God, he saved the train ”). Audiences are
strongly pro-Kelly—though the cold-blooded murder of
Aaron Sherritt staggers them a bit. But there is none of
the terrible comic relief of cowardly policemen, and none
of the fifth-rate melodramatic talk than an ordinary
Kelly drama is weighted with. Now that Australia has
started producing its own biograph pictures, it might
surety go ahead and knock some of the very moderate
French and American imports out of the market.
There is a praiseworthy local song at the Melbourne
Gaiety, “ My Australian Home,” words by Arthur Mor-
ley, a vocalist of the establishment, and music by Fred
Ireland, its conductor. The song is given by Miss Nancy
Symmonds, with a number of Australian pictures.
The Hambourg family are all now settled in London.
Hambourg, senr., is director of the Hambourg Conserva-
toire at Maida Hill. London, and his three sons—Mark
(the best known here), Jan, and Boris —are touring the
provinces.
Marie Lloyd, who recently married Alec Hurley, stated
that when she considers her theatrical powers on the
wane she intends taking a popular London pub. But by
that time there may be universal prohibition.
Miss Stella Campbell, the 19-year-old daughter of Mrs.
Patrick Campbell, the famous actress, is going on the
stage, and will make her debut shortly.
“Philo” : Why do audiences at a bellowdrama go into
shrieks of laughter when the low comedy man hurts him-
self? In one of Anderson’s deeds of bloodshed wherein
Bert Bailey is seen, or partly seen, in a bath, he painfully
informs the audience that he has sat on a tack. Then the
audience becomes unable to control itself in its laughter.
Yet he was helping the hero and herowhine all he knew.
If the low comedy man sitting on a tack will produce this
result, what would be the effect upon the audience if he
sat on a pound of nails and a spear? It ought to be
excellent.
“J.A.C.”: Adelina Patti, who “ farewelled ” at Albert
Hall, London, on Ist Dec., is a wonderful little woman.
At 63 she has not only, to an extent that seems little
short of marvellous, preserved her voice, but her personal
attractions. She narrowly escaped being actually born
on the stage. Her father and mother, Italians, were
operatic artists—father tenor, mother soprano—and in
1843 were fulfilling an engagement in Madrid. One
evening, after singing “ Norma,” her mother had to be
hurried home. (By the way, on the evening on
which one of her daughters was born, the late
Madam Simonsen appeared in “Norma” in Melbourne.)
Patti received her first lessons in music from her step-
brother, Ettore Barili, and afterwards from her brother-
in-law, Maurice Strakotch, husband of her eldest sister,
Amalia. As a mere child she made many platform ap-
pearances, but her stage debut was in New York in ’59,
at the age of 16. Her first London appearance was at
Covent Garden, in ’6l, as Amina in “La Sonnambula.”
At one bound she reached the top rung of the ladder,
and she has stayed there. I first heard her 37 years ago,
and I remember that I then thought her voice the most
beautiful I had ever heard. I think so still. Although
essentially a light soprano, it was full, rich and round,
and with a certain amount of power which, in later years,
induced her to attempt such dramatic roles as Leonora in
“ Trovatore,” Aida and Semiramide. In the lighter operas
she was unsurpassed. No one has received higher remun-
eration ; she once received 6000 dollars (£1200) for one con-
cert in Sacramento, California. Her elder sister, Carlotta,
another artist with a world-reputation, may be remem-
bered as singing in Sydney in the beginning of ’BO. There
was also a brother, Carlo, I think, a violinist, who was
unregenerate enough to perform in New York music-
halls, thereby disturbing the serenity of the happy home.
Adelina has been much married : in ’6B to Roger de
Cahusac, Marquis deCaux, from whom she was divoreed
in ’B3 ; afterwards to the French tenor Nicoiini—name
Italianised from Nicolas—who died in ’9B ; and, finally, in
January, ’99, to Baron Olaf Rudolf Cederstrom.
“Hassan”: “F.C.S.” (20/12/’O6) asks what' is the
correct way to fall if you are shot dead. The first man 1
shot dead fell on his ear, the second on his back. Up
till last year I found this the invariable custom of my
victims—some even turned a complete back-somersault.
But the fashion seems to have changed. They all fall on
their faces now, so that I have to turn them over to go
through their pockets. It is considered, in the best
circles, outri to fall on one’s back. I, myself, when lam
shot dead, make a point of falling upon my face ; one
comes down easier, and even at one’s last gasp one must
consider the grace of the thing. But how to fall when
shot to pieces by a shell? It is difficult to do this with
empressement. One cannot pick out a soft sp t. The
art of this is to trust to the shell fora proper distribution
of one’s remains. Any further information upon the
latest and most chic fashions in gun-deaths will be sup-
plied upon receipt of the price of a beer.
Young Adolphe Borschke, the ladylike pianist, lately
wrote from New York a quaint letter to his friend,
Charles Tait, of Allan’s. After meeting with much
courtesy, “but no business,” in other American cities,
the guileless youth struck an engagement in N.Y. “I
had visited Mr. Freund, the editor. He has given my
picture immediately in his paper ; but too silly, he has
written about my curly hair, which I not more have now,
it make me so ridiculous. It was a cljance for me that
the Messrs. Haensel and Jones had wanted an pianist for
the tcur of Ar hur Hartmann. This man is a very well-
known violinist. Perhaps it is good for me if I go
with him for the beginning. The < tour is quite
different as in Australia. The piano firms an-
nounced me very nicety in the most popular
daily papers and good advertised. I have my own
grand piano with me, and a man which arranged this.
No opening number more. Two solo numbers, with
accompaniments for Hartmann ; the same Mr. Hartmann
plays very much without accompaniments, a (a'Kubelik.
En tour we are only we two, and perhaps the man from
the piano firm. People look here my hair, but not so
much as in Australia. My colleague he has also long
hair. I am very sorry I not get on the sensation tour
with Mme. Dolores ; it is a good chance for her pianist.
My—if I would have this opportunity what success I
would have certainty 1 ”
“Elmore”: The posters all over the town announced
the coming of Brown’s Dramatic 00., in the “Great
Drury Lane Drama—The Blood-Stained Elephant.”
Late that afternoon my friend Bill, with a proud smile on
his face, told me the co. had engaged him for the night
to take a part. Bill had got outside a good many beers
already, but over another one he explained things. “ I’m
to meet the villain, an’ ’e gives me a bag of money, and
when the ’eroine comes along I sneaks ’er kid.” I was
dubious about Bill, so I paid for a front seat. About
7.30 a row behind us made us all turn our heads. It was
Bill prancing up the centre of the hall. No stage door
for him. He wanted all the glory he could get out of his
engagement. He climbed on to the stage and lifted the
curtain high over his head to make his entry. A shriek
of delight rose from the audience. The ladies of the co.
were using the stage as a dressing-room, and four or five
of them were very much undressed. The manager leaped
out from somewhere and drove Bill back into the or-
chestra, where he took his ten seconds, and the eurtain
dropped. Loud cries of “ Encore ” met with no response.
Bill didn’t appear that night.
“ Flinderino ” : Last week I attended a concert in a
Melbourne outer suburb and got good value for my
money. The proceeds were in aid of the local church
library, and the admission was “sixpence or a book.”
One item on the programme was a solo and chorus, “ The
Holy Oitv,” by a lady vocalist and a party of choir boys.
The boys were packed away behind a small screen in a
corner of the platform. Their part of the performance
was to sing the chorus sweetly and softly so as to mislead
tjie audience into the belief that they were invisible
aingels. All went well until the middle of the second
verse, when one small angel commenced “ Gee-ru-slem,
Gee-ru-slem,” half a mile ahead of his time. There was a
commotion behind the screen and an angelic whisper was
heard, “ Shut up, you fool ” ; another angel whispered
“ Shut yer mug.” The offending youngster was evidently
kicked in the shins because his singing stopped abruptly
and he informed someone in an angry tone, “ 00, you
cow ; I’ll bash your nose after.” Then the fight began.
The screen fell on the lady soloist, and revealed a football
scrimmage. The parson rushed on the platform and
bundled the fighting angels out though a side door. The
audience yelled and demanded an encore.
“ Philo ” : Two more Australians have met with suc-
cess abroad on the vaudeville stage—the Leslie Brothers.
They left Sydney some years ago to try their luck with a
musical act, and are now run after by English and Conti-
nental managers. One of the brothers is father of the
lightsome Fred Leslie, of the Royal Comics. Fred’s
grandpa, Harry Stoneham, may occasionally be seen at
orchestral work about Sydney.
“ Gil ” : What tragedies some of those little country
variety shows are 1 A comicality troupe struck our town
recently—and it wasn’t a bad shilling’s-worth either, so
far as such shilling’s-worths go. The father (and pro-
prietor) was prostrated in his waggonette with some dis-
ease, and his children and the rest of the co. were making
heroic efforts to get enough money together to send him
to a Sydney hospital. The majority of our townspeople
stayed away from the performance in a big heap, while to
a sadly-attenuated “ house ” the chief comedian (the sick ,
man’s son (perpetrated once again his pre-Adamite joke,
and the star (the sick man’s daughter) sang her comic
song, and hardly anybody knew (or cared, for the matter
of that) that they were playing for the old man’s chance
of existence. I heard of the position, and went with my
shilling, and the comic song almost made me weep.
“ Australienne ” : Saw little Benno Scherek, the other
night, at Gambrinus’ Caf6 (London), a place where the
Long-Haired of the earth assemble to feast on German
baked meats and lager. Our only Scherek had just re-
turned from Leamington, where the Hambourgs’ concert
had been a tremendous success, and was to be off with
them next morning on an extended provincial tour. He
was accompanied by Hambourg pere, a benevolent-looking
old party with white moustachios and imperial. By the
way, you should see the Hambourg sisters ; they’re as
divinely beautiful as the brothers are magnetically ugly.
The occasion was Benno’s debut on an English platform.
He got very close to it several times before, but some-
thing better always intervened ; last March he even came
so near as to be billed to appear at a big concert, but the
fates that watch over the little man ordained that he
should sail for America four days before the event. He
was sort of celebrating the occasion on tea with a dash
of rum and large slices of German bread and gruyere. As
an accompanist, there’s no one to beat Scherek here, but
the soul of him pines for Australia. “I’d rather live
there than any other place on earth,” he says.
A bit of philosophy from Willoughby, as the circus
proprietor in “The New Clown”: something
fresh 1 What do you mean ? Do you want to ruin the
show ? Give ’em the good old gags. The public wants
something that it has laughed at before.”
Advfc. from S.M. Herald, 31/12/’06 :—
PARTNER required in UNIQUE MONOPQLY
- 1 - (patented), well placed on market, £100 for half-
share, £500 quarter.
That is a considerable reduction on taking a
quantity. And “ unique monopoly ” is good.
What is probably the first step towards
the formation of a new Queensland political party
was taken at a caucus of the Labor party on
December 14, when Premier Kidston announced
his intention of formulating a platform of his own,
on which he intended to fight the next general
election, which will probably be held in May.
It is believed that the platform will meet with
the approval of the moderate section of the
Laborites, but will not suit Lesina, Hardacre, and
other Labor extremists, who, though sitting
behind the Kidston Government,- and nominally-
supporting it, have given it more factious opposi-
tion than Philp, Leahy and Co.
On Monday afternoon another life was lost
whilst surf bathing at Tamarana Beach, Bondi,
where Wonderland dips down to the sea. George
M. Baker, a ship’s mate, but, like many other
sailors, an indifferent swimmer, was'grabbed by
the fierce undertow and carried away. Carl
Angresen made a gallant but ineffective
attempt to save him, and nearly lost his
own life in the effort. At Manly where
thousands bathe, at Bondi where thousands more
risk their lives in the breakers, the life saving
apparatus is most primitive. Surely some sort of
rocket appliance could be arranged so that a line
might be shot out to a swimmer, with a small life
buoy attached.
The missing dredge, Walrus, has been
heard of again in Vic. Assembly. Someone sug-
gested that the ill-fated, unseaworthy old tub
might have gone ashore at St. Paul’s or Amster-
dam Islands, and Premier Bent proposed that the
steamer Kent should be sent to have a look. The
search will cost £500, and the Assembly cheered
when Bent announced that Geelong Harbor Trust
would pay half the cost. No one suggested that
Geelong Harbor Trust —whose ridiculous “econo-
my ” brought about the tragedy—should bear the
whole cost, as a warning to other misguided
economists. *
The exemptions under Vic. Boilers In-
spection Bill, just passed, are—Creamery, dairy,
sawmills, and agricultural pumping boilers. Talk
about “class legislation”! The natural and
almost immediate effect will be the flooding of the
“backbone’s” exempted places with the man-
slaying wrecks ordered away from the other pre-
mises inspected under the Act; but, when the
creamery senile steam-bag suddenly gives Biljim
a permanent and premature send-off. it may be
consoling to Biljim to know that it couldn’t
happen to his city brother Bob.
“ Hassan ” : Re methylated spirit topers
(“ Nux Vomica,” B. 6/12/’06). An attendant in a
certain Australian Museum had this weird taste
so strongly developed that he used to swallow the
spirit from the jars containing defunct snakes,
lizards, &c. Being found out and sacked, he took
his complaint to a doctor, who tried hypnotism,
and gave his patient such a horror of drink in any
form that he would go down a side-street to avoid
a brewer’s waggon, and fainted at the breath of a
whisky-traveller. In this repentant and degraded
state of virtue he applied to the museum authori-
ties tor re-instatement, and produced a certificate
from the leech to the effect that he would never
be able to take anything stronger than milk. He
was taken back and, for a while, he was as
Caesar’s wife. Then a strangely-rapid evaporation
of the snake-preservative set in again, and the
curator employed a detective, who one day dis-
covered the reformed one sucking the corpse of a
large lizard to extract the last drop of the precious
liquor.
“ J.Y.”, Maoriland, who, like Bent, has reason
to take his hat off to the Cow : —
The antics of The artists, in their attempts
to make a sketch of the domestic cow, and the writings
of some of your contributors (and possibly yourself) about
the same animal are rapidly tending to make your paper
look foolish in the eyes of those men who know anything
about the Cow. The Cow has pulled the Mao'riland
farmer out of debt, and has made him absolutely inde-
pendent of any man, and, incidentally, it has done this
for me Ten years ago I was a clerk in the Maoriland
Railway Department, on a wage that just about allowed
me to exist, with very little prospect of ever being much
more than a fortnight ahead of beggary. To try to
help my scanty salary along I used to write pars, and
other stuff for The Bulletin. These always ended up in
your waste-paper basket. I left my clerkship and took a cow
farm in the Wairarapa. For the past four years I have
taken an average cheque of £31 a month for seyeq months
of the year from the Dairy Factory, this without by-
products, such as pigs and calves. You speak disrespect-
fully about the odor of the cow yard ; well, let me tell
you (as one who knows) that it is very similar to the smell
of a pound note. The same “cow yard ” and “ pound
note ” have made hundreds of men as well as myself free
men, beyond the reach of the mortgagee or the money-
lender. I don’t even need to write pars, for The B.
So take my advice and stop drawing and writing silly
things about the COW.
With which rebuke The Bulletin begins the
New Year pondering whether it had better not be
a Cow of a paper in the future.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No’notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
An Australian : Don’t believe in any “ volun-
tary subscription ”to provide Australia with rifles. That
would mean that the patriots would subscribe, and the
lazy and careless neglect to do so. Let the rifles come
out of the taxation money... .Blucy: Rather tired of
rose-petals. Try a poem upon potatoes. Yours are just
pretty verses, and nothing more.... Veldt : More roses 1
Try a rondeau on a chimney... .J.K.R. : (1) Verse has
one good figure :
We’re dwellers in a quiet pool
Through which mere runs a stream of men.
Otherwise it’s flat and insipid. (2) Can only give our
opinion on stories submitted for puulicawon
“Simon”: Another Anti-Mosh lie. Labor - leader
M‘Gowen’s cottages were built under strictly day labor
methods. Mr. M'Gowen states that he has never em-
ployed other than day labor 1... .W.V. : Your Chinaman
must read The Bulletin. Anyway, a couple of years or
so ago, The Bulletin printed the yarn of Ah Lean, who,
after vainly using up his stock of Chow expletives, got
out and remarked to his jibbing horse, “ Hoo, you
liar!”.. ..Kado : No doubt as to the necessity of a demo-
cratic daily; but all N.S.VV.’s efforts in that direction
have so far been doomed to futility... .Nulla: One verse
here of your consolatory poem :
To the “ Bards There Isn’t Space For,” to the “weighed
and wanting ” push,
To the chaps on whom an editor never smiles,
Who persist in writing City where they should have
written Bush,
And whose oft-rejected copy runs to miles.
Though to you the A.C. column oft alludes in manner
droll,
And with scorn compares your work with other men’s,
I —a fellow inky toiler—take this unction to my soul,
We, at least, assist the trade in ink and pens.
... .Adelaide : The Bulletin knows all about it, or knows
as much as anybody knows ; but it has learnt not to dog-
matise about theatrical marriages or pseudo-marriages.
....Buxton Hemer: Some merit but too garrulous....
Braemar: We, too, smiled a cold and cynic smile
Bushy: As you did not enclose postage for return, we
are keeping the mangled mosquito that was embalmed in
your verse Trucker: Needs terser and crisper treatment
D.J.D. : The “ fly-flat ”-in-town theme too well worn
....Ddxter: But you don’t give any addres- Reporter :
Animal shows general debility A.P. : Faulty rhynus
and faultier rhythm sent “ Shipwrecked Youth ” to the
bottom of the w.p.b Sawdust King: No good
A.W.T. : We don’t like puns.... Yeoman : (1) You
want more polish. (2) W.A. in many things is more
English than Australian.. ..A.D. : Much too long for its
value... .E. Perugini: Not bad enough to call it names
... .Ohiniquy : Afraid it’s too much like too many others.
All cows and all cow-yards seem to be twins... .A.C.
(W.A.): Ambles slowly along without one real 50b....
Kame : Looks rather exaggerated.. ..Rebel: Progressive
land-tax wouldn’t touch those squatters at all; a land-
tax is only levied on freeholds March : Unsatis-
factory yarn ; in fact, if it were any more un-
satisfactory it wouldn’t be a yarn at all
A. : You want a candid opinion. Well, the yarn
lacks ingenuity, and you use up too many old properties
in telling it... .Fabiola : Well told, but too often told
before... .Maori Mac: Promises well—then early disap-
points. .. ,R. B. Thorburn (’Frisco) : Not enough interest.
... .Micawber : “Hop” was the originator of the Dry
Dog legend, and it’s too much of a studio mystery to be
explained in cold print J.H.M.: Good in spots ; but,
otherwise, too mechanical O.J.R. : No force or reality.
... .H.R.S.: Feeble and inartistic Nym : “Sal” is no
good, and “Summer” is indifferent N.M. : The
wrong-envelope device is hackneyed....D.R. : The ’5l
building was on a reserved area in Hyde Park, and the
’62 structure was at South Kensington... .Nameless :
Write more legibly, and always give date of issue eon-
t <ining item referred to Wang: Condense much more,
leave out fac ory-made humor, and always give date of
item you are dealing with H. McD.: The “Haw”
johnnie is played out as a paragraphic peg. He certainly
exists ; but he no more typifies the average Englishman
than the “ Strike-me 1 ” p .shite typifies the average Aus-
tralian... .W.H.H.: Thanks for your good wishes. If you
refer to the “ native magpie,” it is indigenous to Austra-
lia, and belongs to the Laniadce, or shrikes—represented
in Britain by the butcher-bird, Lanins collurio. The
European magpie, Pica caudata, is smaller than the Aus-
tralian, with a much longer tai). It belongs to the Cor-
vidae, or crow, family P.H.M. : Thanks... .A.W. :
Sorry can’t reprint at present. The piece is not in any
of the collected editions of his works.... Unsuitable":
Philo A.E.8., Weeroona, A.Z.A., C.C.H., Forlorn, Sweet
B. A.W.T., W.D., Campbell F.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.E.H.: Oyster suggestion humorous, but a shade too
roysterous ; in fact, almost rorty E.J.B. : About the
most famous Australian painters are : J. Longstaff (por-
traits—oil), B. E. Minns (figure and landscape), G.
Streeton (landscape), W. C. Pignuenit (landscape),
M'Comas (landscape), Lister Lister (seascape), F. Mahony
(animal painter), Geo. Lambert (portraits and figure sub-
jects), Geo. Fox (portraits and figure subjects), John
Ford Paterson (landscape), Hans Haysen (landscape),
Percy Spence (figure and animal), D. H. Souter (eccentric
figure—black and white). This is leaving out of the ques-
tion members of The Bulletin staff, though probably at
least one of them would be given, by most, a foremost
place in Australian art Subscriber (Burma): Arrived
too late to be of any use.. ..Unsuitable : W.T.T., J.G.,
E.C. (Kiama), John M., A.N.
“ Dareel ” feels glad :
“ Hop’s ” drawing of the satisfied tiger (Bulletin,
20/12/‘O6) is to us South Sydneyites as refreshing as is the
first sight of the line of river gums to a dry-plain
traveller. From the first meeting of the Grahamites,
when Bruntnell, prophesying victory for Anti-Sosh,
likened the Watson chance unto that of “The old
woman of Niger who went for a ride on a tiger,” that
doggerel was served up with wearying persistence to the
last. Now that our tiger has come home to sleep, I feel
like pasting this picture on the notice-boards of several
local Bethels. Possibly some of the ancient children
there might subtract a moral therefrom re the fate that
overtook a former crowd of scoffers at a cause that was
righteous, and consequently unpopular amongst the
teachers and preachers.


Deafness, Head Poises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements :
The Well-Known and Hioiily-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waver ley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after-15 years of suffering lam now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes :“ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
(he best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EARO3COPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
The Lone Hand
[ Monthly Magazine of Imagination
(The Bulletin’s New Publication)
&
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE INVITED.
PICTURES. PROSE. POETRY.
Anything that will interest Australia
and the World.
Address—The Editors, SIU George Street,
LONE HAND, Sydney.
To those Afflicted with Sore Eyes
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED . .
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion.
The great Australian Remedy. This marvellous
preparation is an absolute specific for Sandy &
and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout
the Continent.
' If not able to obtain locally send a postal note
for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 George St.. Sydney.
BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS
AS G >01).
SOMETHING JUST
SOCIETU
The wail of the letter-sorter :
The curse of Cain and Kehama and Baruch Spinoza be
upon the picture post-sard ! They have poured into the
G.P.O. th s Christmas in hundreds of thousands. We
guess at their weight in tons. They stick to one another
like glue. They are harder to separate than bank notes.
The men who stanip them have to do so with pin-point
precision, for if one of them is scarred ever so little it
means a wild shriek in the newspapers. Some of them have
h dry—real-hairy-—pictures of women on them ; others have
s lverlace and filigree foolishness stuck on the back. These
get tangled, and we have to do the unravelling. More-
over, we mustn’t let a naughty one slip by. The post-
master at the other end may be a Puritan, and report
the horrible outrage rather than deliver it, apd then the
boss will come round and order our funeral. Finally,
whan they are chucked into the carriers’ bags, they settle
in large lumps with the corners outwards, and every
cvrrier goes home with a sore red spot under his
shoulder-blade. I love Art, but I wish to glory it would
s„ay away from the post-office.
A MISSED DRINK.
JORACE HARDWICKE (general utility): “ Fact is,
Ernest, the people in this beastly country
don't know an actor when they see one."
ERNEST CADWALLADER (heavy fathers, thirstily):
“ Worse, Horace. They don't see an actor
when they know one !”
Brother Tregear is boasting of having
secured yet another escaped girl from Abbotsford
(Vic.) steam laun.dry con vent, and defies Archbishop
Carr to tread on the tail of her skirt, but the Arch-
bishop gives no sign. Brother Tregear points out
that he can be prosecuted for feloniously receiving
the convent garment in which the latest run-away
fell over the garden wall, the young person
having been found in a skinned condition under
the convent wall and instantly delivered to the
reverend Methodist. Now-a-days any girl found
loose in the vicinity of Abbotsford convent is
liable to be seized and handed over to parson
Tregear. One of these nights he’ll be receiving
one who didn’t mean it, and the Rev. Gent, will
find himself indicted for kidnapping.
“ S.S.” : I was wit-
ness, the other day, to
a piece of impudence so
vast that it deserves to
go on record. I was
keeping a date near the
barrow market in Swan-
ston-street, Melbourne
(the pitch that flavors
Flinders-street station so
richly with the mixed
odor of pine - apples,
oysters, oranges, smoked
ling, violets, crayfish,
and flarelamps), when I
noticed a lurcher brush
against a barrow and
snatch a fish. He rushed
it under his coat and
passed on, but presently
returned in a state of hot
indignation. He had the
fish in a strip of paper
now, and he went at the
barrow - man with a
righteous blast, demand-
ing what he meant by
selling a decent working
cove a fish of last year’s
harvesting. “Smell it—
smell it fer yourself ! ”
cried the petty larcenist
in passionate protest.
“ Fer two bloomin’ pins
I’d put ther johns on
yeh. As it is, yer goin’
t’ make this good ; see !
Yer don’t have me, not
at all. This ’ere’s got ter
be changed.” He helped
himself to a very superior
specimen, left the
damaged product, and
went his way with the
air of an honest man
righted.
* *
Poilce Superintend-
ent (examining Scotch
candidate for the
“ foorce ” as to his know -
ledge of police duty) :
“Suppose you wanted
to disperse a mob, how
would you use your
baton?” Candidate: “I wadna use my baton
ava. I’d just talc’ roun’ my helmet an’ try to
male’ a collection.” (He passed.)
* * * •
Morning papers rave about the injustice
done to Jap children by their exclusion from the
’Frisco schools, and assert that such a thing
would not be tolerated for one moment under the
Union Jack. Well, in Montreal (Canada) the
children of the ten thousand Jews have no access
to public education. And the Jew is a white
man—well, almost a white man. Also, he has a
high moral standard.
* • • *
“Starr”: In Mildura (Vic.) plenty of
white girls cut the Chinaman’s celery and do his
fruit work whilst he supervises from the shaded
seat of his hooded Abbot buggy—that is, when
he does not
happen to con-
vey himself to
the greenery
farm on his
brand-new
Massey-Harris
bicycle. The
girls do the
work gladly,
the pay being
good and safe.
Same time, it
is trailing the
white standard
in the dirt, and
preparing the
way for worse
than wor k.
“ To work for
a Chinaman! ”
Why, a score
of years ago
such a stigma
would chase a
woman all ovftr
this continent, if
it didn’t bustle
her right into the
sea ; while no bush-
man. at least, would
marry her. One
reason for the pre-
sent-day laxity of
thought is that this
generation of men has grown up in families living
next door, so to speak, to Chows, and has chucked
stones at the heathen, stolen his belongings, and
derided him always, till manhood begot a shamed
toleration. “We’ve always been too hard on the
pore beggars,” the average young man says,
penitently, remembering his own conscienceless
spoliation. And the wretched dearth of manly
(and womanly) work does the rest.
• * • •
The latest ghoul traffic in woe is that of
photographing the funeral procession. At certain
streets where funerals pass to the various ceme-
teries the. camera-man may be seen any funeral
day. He may represent an individual’s enter-
prise. but most likely he works in with the under-
taker, to further bleed the bereaved in the holy
name of sympathy for the dead.
* ■* * *
On holidays the drunk is a common
nuisance on Australian railways and trams. For
certain trips on certain lines some drunks are
sure passengers. The average official is a shade
too kind-hearted to keep them off—as the regula-
tions provide—and make the Parramatta drunk
Or the overloaded citizen for Brighton walk his
weary way home, or sleep it off in the streets.
So sober passengers suffer sometimes from out-
rageous exhibitions. Why not have a “drunks’-
: box,” on the same general lines as the dog-box,
attached to one compartment-of each train on
lines favored by drunks —just a hutch with some
Straw in it ?
* * * »
Rofe is a-name that keeps to the fore of
late. Advt. from one of the Sydney dailies :
T> OFE.—November 8, at her residence, Neringla,
Woonona-avenue,\ Wahroonga, the wife of
Thomas Ernest Rofe, of-a daughter. God’s gift, not
man’s.
CONSOLING.
THE COBBER : “ Don't cry, Billy, yer ain't ’urt
nothin to what yer will be when yer mother
gets ’old of yer!”
“D’Harum”: Other day I attended a
dance in the Maoriland timber country. It was
held in a sort of barn. Most of the ladies present
were young wives with an infant or two still in
the irresponsible stage of life. They brought the
babies in perambulators and stabled them m one
corner of the barn. It was a broken-up and
spasmodic sort of dance. You’d be dancing with
a woman when a howl would arise from the pram,
stable, and your partner would tear herself out of
your arms and rush to console her infant. Some-
times it wasn’t her infant, and then she would
come back and throw herself again into your
embrace. Generally it was her infant, and then
you sat the rest of that dance out with her, and
helped her to say “goo-goo” and “hushaby” to
the kid. At one dance, by some strange coinci-
dence, all the kids howled simultaneously, and
only two women were left dancing. One was a
grandmother, the other a girl who had only been
married a month. Even they had to stop pre-
sently because the concertina couldn’t make itself
heard above the din. A story was told me (to
this I attach little truth) that one night, during
a set of Lancers, a rural humorist changed two
babies from one pram, to another, and to this day
the mothers have never noticed the difference. I
don’t ask you to believe this, but I was assured
by a man who said lie was the humorist in per-
son, that Miss Smith, now aged 16, was really
Miss Jones, and that Miss Jones, of the same age,
was Miss Smith. Even after more than 15 years
he hadn’t finished laughing at his tremendous jest.
* * * *
The first batch of New Hebridean kanakas
freed from Queensland under the P.I.L. Act have
been landed at their homes. In some cases they
were not only uncertain of tlieir particular
locality, but even of the island to which they
belonged, and many had almost forgotten their
native tongues. At one place a colored gentle-
man disembarked with a walking-stick, a
portmanteau, and a horse. Another boy brought
back with him a curio in the form of a
N. Queensland “lubra.” Still another stepped
out among his heathen brethren with a haughty
air, and a boxful of books.
The Judkins frenzy has already gripped
one Melbourne citizen and sent him to a mental
hospital. He was discovered capering round
Carlton with a loaded revolver, earnestly assuring
the public that Jud. of the cold-tea-tree wreath
and Worryall and the rest were seeking his life.
The bad old English custom of making'
Christmas morning hideous by crying carols
in the streets at an unearthly hour seems to
have been dropped by pretty well everyone in
Australia except the Salv’army money-grubbers.
They continue, year after year, to annoy peace-
able persons who have never done anything to
harm them. In one Sydney suburb this year a
carolling procession included a woman wheeling
an unfortunate baby in a perambulator. That
baby will possibly be carolling in Heaven shortly.
Iron-nerved slumberers who were not awakened
by the alleged singing were given another chance
by begging disciples, who went from door to door,
knocking and ringing for donations. They got
more curses than coin.
* * * *
Governor Plunket, of Maoriland, has offered
prizes for the best essay on “Politeness” and
for the most polite youth and maiden in Seddon-
land. Evidently, the lack of the true Vere-de-
Vere type of repose and icily-proper frigidity has
got upon the Plunket nerves. But what size hat
will the little prigs require who are unfortunate
enough to win the prizes?
The Fijian fire-walkers now performing at
the Christchurch Exhibition were responsible for
a mighty howl of disappointment on their first
appearance. They do not walk on fire at all, but
on torrid stones, like a Thomas-cat on hot tiles.
They tread very gingerly—they hop, in fact—and
the show lasts but 25 seconds. Moreover, the
spirit which protects their soles objected to the
other niggers performing Fijian songs and dances,
so that portion of the programme was scissored.
Eire-walking was classed as a religious rite, and all
levity was tabooed. Consequently, the thousands
who waited for the show, after paying 4s. and 2s.
for admission, voted the fire-walkers a delusion.
Three days must elapse between each perform
ance, the spirit in charge of the niggers’ feet
refusing to sanction every-day performances.
* * * *
In the year 1906, 1178 persons were
naturalised in the Commonwealth ; 446 were
Germans, 144 Swedes, 95 Italians, 92 Danes, 47
Russians, 29 Finns, 13 Poles, 73 Norwegians, 52
Greeks, 42 North Americans, 40 Austrians, £5
French.
Rev. D. O’Donnell informed the audience that when
the agitation against gambling had been finished with, an
agitation against prize-fighting would be commenced.—
News Item.
The agitation will be all on one side.
He is a grateful person, the Maori. The
thanks of chief Te Rangi Hiroa to Victorian
Representative Edward Nicholls at Christchurch
(M.L.) Exhibition, December 11th, 1906 :
Old friend—Never shall I forget, when wandering
through the mazes of the Exhibition, I grew weary and
thirsted for the cooling streams of my native home. It
was then, oh, friend, that thou appeared like a god, and
led me into a mysterious building, shaped like unto an
obelisk, covered with gold, and bearing cabalistic
figures. There my waning strength was renewed,
and thou sent me forth with fresh vigor and a new-
life, like as the dying moon, after having bathed in the
sacred w-aters of Tane, again scales the heavens, increas-
ing and waxing in strength. Hadst thou come in the old
da vs I would have fattened slaves for the oven, and pre
rated a great feast for the man who saved me from enter
ing the realms of Hina-niu-Po, the Goddess of Night.
But, alas ! law is upon the land ! All I can do is to
invite thee to the house of my ancestors at the base ol
Taranaki, who keep eternal watch over my people. Wo
will leave the tourist routes, and go to the secluded vallej
of unsurpassed beauty, named Te Taumata Whakatangi-
tangihanga Te Koauau a Tamatea.
And all that for a glass of whisky and a sandwich 1
A XXX-MAS CAROL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Country customers are requested to return casks as
soon as empty, so that Christmas orders may be fulfilled
without causing vexatious delay.— From a brewery advt.
Fill up the bowl !
Ho ! landlord, have some pity ;
They are waiting in the city
To complete their Xmas tasks,
And they need the empty casks—
Need them sadlj’, without doubt,
Or someone must go without
That noble cheer,
Xmas beer.
Fill up the bowl!
(Make no charge for the filling)
To help you we are willing
To drain it to the dregs—
To empty all those kegs,
Badly needed, so they say,
To be filled, without delay,
With amber-clear
Xmas beer.
Fill up the bowl 1
The heat is enervating;
There are thirsty souls a-wai; ing
Who will nobly stand their ground,
While they drain each barrel round—
Barrels wanted every day
To be filled, Hip ! Hip ! Hooray '
With best of cheer,
Xmas beer !
vie.
H.H.
HOW IT BEGAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can hardly believe that our esteemed Mother Eve came
trousseau-less unto her Adam—
That she lacked all the graces of muslins and laces, and,
as for trimmed hats, never had ’em ;
I make bold to assert that a wonderful skirt of tree-fern,
of Eve’s own designing,
Fell, frondfully, neat to the tips of her feet, with glimpses
of similar lining.
The speaking birds spoke of her waratah toque, while the
Serpent “ Hear, heared ” with an odd hiss,
And then in his turn praised the maidenhair fern of the
openwork part of her bodice.
But that bodice—ah, me ! there began slavery by which
man forever is racked here,
For, as soon as he stirred, the aroused Adam heard—
“ Please do up my blouse at the back, dear ! ”
VIC.
N.L.
CRADLE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! baby, baby, it’s time to go to bed,
All the trees are sleepin’ still as still can be ; *
The little red calf’s in the new cow-shed,
And the little brown bird’s in the tree.
Daddy’s gone adrovin’ from the Gap to Hay,
We’re all alone now, only you an’ me.
Baby’s gettin’ big, Oh ! the moon’s run away.
Shutyour eyes. .. Hush... There’s nothing more to see^
Hear the mopoke callin’ “ Time to go to bed,”
Baby’s helped his mother, and sleepy he must he,
Like the little red calf in the snug cow-shed,
An’ the little brown bird in the tree.
vie.
LOUIS ESSON.


EDUEATION«MAIL
LEARN BY POST,
in your spare time,
Money- Earning
Subjects.
Shorthand, Typewrit-
ing-, Bookkeeping-, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and
Civil Engineering,
Drawing, &e.
“Home Study, ” pos t f ree
STOTT & HOARE'S
Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A 3-Garment
...tSuit...
42f
(~|UR illustration represents the Fashion of the
moment in suits. For ready-for-service gar-
ments, these are the highest class of suits that can
he purchased.
They have the appearance of Made-to-Order
Garments —not only the Materials, but the Fashion
and Fit are indicative of Made-to-Measure Quality.
SEND FOR ONE TO-DAY. We can fit you.
PRICE, 425. OTHERS AT 355. and 455.
Patterns and Simple Self-Measurement Form Free.
PEAPES & CO., LTD,
Men’s & Boys’ Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
They are keen on motoring in Maorilaiid,
especially in Christchurch and Wellington, and
hitherto motor-traffic has been almost unregu-
lated. But this is likely to be remedied how, in
Wellington at least; for a horrible accident hap-
pened there, the other day. The wife and two
daughters of Secretary for Lands Kensifigton had
just left the Lands Office. Kensington stood at
the window, and his younger girl waved to him
from the street. A heavy motor came round
the corner at that moment, dashed into the party,
and Mr. Kensington saw his wife killed on the
spot, his eldest daughter terribly hurt and dying,
and the younger daughter escaping with her life,
but with a shock that will tell for years.
At Christchurch once they tried to com-
pel cyclists to sound a bell at street corners. The
cyclists, grown arrogant, rebelled. The authorities
persisted. Thereupon every maii tied a bell to
his wheel, and for some days the city was a
Bedlam of cow bells, dinner gongs, mustard tins
with leaden tongues, station bells; every kind of
clanger. Thus also in groups they rode the
streets solidly every night for a Week, and by the
end of that time the fervor of the authorities had
cooled. Now the cyclist can , rush round the
corner unheralded as of old, and the foot-passenger
who has the bad taste to get in the way of the
arrogant king of the road has to pnt up with the
consequences—or lie down to them. Yet Christ-
church in most things is proud of its good order
and government.
* * * *
A late employee in a big Melbourne ware-
house tells of the vanished holiness of the pro-
prietor. It is a tale of the conversion of a good
man from his righteousness. He was once so
obsessed with piety, that he could not bear to
have an unconverted person about him. All his
hands had to be saved, and to attend church and
Sunday school, and the good man was first at his
warehouse every week-day morning to open
business with prayer. The good man has
departed from his righteousness, and now the
hands are no longer lifted up iff prayer, and can
give away to any secular cussedhess on the blessed
Sabbath. He had seven bad cases of embezzle-
ment in two years, and the- embezzlers were
always the most willing worshippers and the most
regular churchgoers. He becaihfe wicked, to save
himself from bankruptcy.
* * * *
A couple of Sydney pubs, display the
Scriptural motto, “Remember the Sabbath,” on
the wall behind the threepenny bar. But the
motto doesn’t mean what Bruniter and Bruntnell
would mean if they quoted it. It is merely a
reminder to customers to bring their jugs and jars
on Saturday night.
ANYTHING TO OBLIGE.
“ Will you teach me how to swim , Mr. Mussels? ”
“ Sorry I can't swim a stroke; but I don't mind holding you up while you learn."
A writer in the Brisbane Courier has
lately been explaining “popular sayings” for
“the man in the street.” A batch recently
explained contained, among others, “Holy
Grail,” “Letters of Bellerophon,” “Nepotism,”
and “Euphuism.” If those are popular sayings
with “the man in the street” in Brisbane, he
must be quite a different sort of being to his
.mates in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide streets.
ON THE EDGE.
THE LAWYER : “Are you sinyle ,
madam?”
THE LADY : “No.”
“Married ?” “ No.”
“ Widow, madam?” “No.”
“ Oh, I see. Divorced?” “ Er — no.”
“ What on earth are you, then?” “Oh — er — I’m a decree nisi.”
In a list of the successful candidates of the
London College of Music there are some curious
names : Neviera Clarke, Monaro Pooley, Jacketta
Morgan, Heather Bell, and Crystal Alcorn. Two
very frivolous and gossamery appellations are
Fluffy Flaherty and Girlie Geoghegan. Then
plain Mary Jane Smith appears as a welcome oasis
and makes one feel better able to stand Dorothy
de Vere Huggins.
* ■* * *
“ E.D.”: I find Australian people gregari-
ous but uncongenial. They gather into crowds
but do not blend. On Boxing Day, the sands and
grass of the foreshore at St. Kilda simply swarmed
with people. The families and small parties came
early and squatted, and at noon for a mile along
the shore you could only walk between the teem-
ing picnickers with great difficulty, and yet each
clump of people was as much aloof from the rest
as if it were divided by a Sahara. Each party had
no connection whatever with the party next —it
held no conversation with it, and neither exchanged
drinks nor compliments. This is a British quality
in Australians that makes me sad. How much
pleasanter and more human is the jolly conviviality
of the peoples of Southern Europe, who combine
to take their pleasures, and take them gaily, with
a fine kindly sympathy that makes all friends and
brothers ! The man who could induce Australians
to cultivate a racial affection would do more for
the Commonwealth than all the politicians of
Australia have done up to now, or are likely to
do for generations to come.
An appeal goes the rounds in Britain for
£5OO for a cottage hospital in Papua—our new
territory. Can’t the Commonwealth find that
paltry sum ? It is time that the begging hand of
Australia left England for good—as a suppliant
either for loans or for charity.
* * * *
A recent cable announced a triumph on
the part of an Austrian surgeon named Zirm,
who removed the cornea from. a damaged eye
belonging to a youth unknown to fame, and trans-
planted it into the eye of a blind man, completely
restoring the latter’s sight. If this sort of thing
is to be become general, future possibilities are
enormous. Quite a trade may be expected from
the bodily imperfect rich purchasing desired bits
of anatomy from the indigent poor, while the
disposal of healthy features before execution of
criminals condemned to die will cause quite a rush
from well-to-do persons happening to be an eye
or something else short.
* * * *
The holiday spirit should never be allowed
to wane, for it promotes optimism, which is the
father—in the first Enterprise. And
the optimism of the nature which refreshes its
thinking faculties with D.C.L. Whisky, in regula-
tion allowances, is ever strong and vigorous.
D.C.L. is the true holiday spirit. It fosters
wisdom, and wisdom is the twin brother —or foster
sister—of Optimism.*
In a burst of virtuous, bloodthirsty indig-
nation, excited by a recent case of magisterial
foolishness, Melb. Age has been reiterating its
favorite prescription for the cure of man’s in-
humanity to the “missus.” There is no hint of
sadness in the Age’s positivism. That widely-
circulated newspaper talks with the cocksureness
of a Christian Endeavorist:—
We must have the lash for the brutal wife-beater. . . The
sight of his brutal form stretched on the triangles and
yelling as the cat descended, would be a good one indeed
to outraged human nature. When will Parliament have
time to provide this remedy for the detestable wife-
beater ?
This written on Xmas Day ! If a brutal form in
receipt of agonising punishment were a good
sight, the dangling body of a duly-executed mur-
derer would be a noble spectacle—but it isn’t.
Nobody feels any the better for seeing the most
brutal of murderers get his neck broken, nor does
the world derive moral improvement from reading
of how he died. Yet the hanging of murderers is
a more defensible horror from the public point of
view than the lashing of a lawful husband’s bare
body with a nine-thonged whip. The local com-
munity is willing to be finally rid of its dangerous
Deeming, but it doesn’t propose to rid a wife of
the husband who is flogged on her account. The
“ catted ” spouse goes back to her, and every time
he looks upon her broken countenance, for which
he suffered retribution, he is reminded of the
grudge he owes her. The bad husband has been
made somewhat worse than before, and his possibly
good wife is still tied to him. Even though the
scarred bully be deterred by fear from bifling his
wife quite as hard as he formerly biffed her, it is cer-
tain that his spirit of antagonism is a trifle tougher
than ever. For “ the detestable wife-beater ”
there is no sort of remedy save compulsory
divorce.
* * * *
The harvest traffic on the Yic. railways is
going to be unusually heavy this year. Already
it is getting beyond the power of the drivers and
firemen employed. Tait will have to engage about
40 new men. He has been asked to engage the
crack enginemen who have been under suspension
for the last three years, since the strike, and he
hasn’t rushed to say “ Yes.” A wise Tait would
say “Yes” in a hurry. There are only 45 of
these strikers left. Ten of them have drifted
away from Melbourne. The remaining 35 are
still waiting for re-instatement. Their old mates
in the service are anxious and willing that the 35
should come back. They have even offered' to
forego the rights to seniority they have gained in
the last three years, and let these 35 go back into
their old positions. The strikers are the best
and most experienced men in the service. Bent,
in Parliament, said he was going to re-instate the
men. Then he handed the whole business over
to Tait. Now, Tait ought to be prompt for the
re-instatement —if he is a wise Tait.
» # » *
Not generally known that entry to
Government House is a J.P. perquisite, and can
be insisted on if the holder of the title choose to
enforce it. An idea! We could probably get
rid of imported Governors by making them
entertain home-made J.’sP.
Defence Minister Playford, whose position
as a rejected candidate (necessitating his retire-
ment from office) should suggest to him abstinence
from any important official acts, ukases that mili-
tary canteens must not stock spirits. It’s a silly
order, which practically does, by underhand
means, what Parliament refused to do last session
—stop sales of alcoholic liquor at canteens. Why
should these excellently-conducted Socialist bars
be limited? The effect will inevitably be to drive
soldiers to the Private Enterprise pubs, where
they will be under no control or discipline, and a
consequent increase of drunkenness and crime is
certain.
Incredibly ghastly is that story from
France that in one “ maternity home ” in
Paris the bodies of 1500 infants had been cre-
mated. If true, it means that this one house has
slaughtered a whole regiment of the French army
of the future. And there are good State found-
ling asylums all over France.
* * * *
The Church Commonwealth pillories a
choice sample of religious blasphemy,
afforded by a parody of a company-promoting prospectus,
issued as a Methodist “ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ” pro-
gramme in the North of England recently. In this docu-
ment the Kingdom of Christ and its constitution are spoken
of in business terms as a company “ affording a safe and
sound investment to intending shareholders.” The com-
pany—we are shocked to write it —is styled “ Jesus and
Co., Ltd.,” and the prospectus states that, “should any
difficulty be felt by intending investors, the Holy Spirit
will wait upon him or her in their own homes, and their
names will be immediately written down in the Lamb’s
Book of Life.”
* * * »
“ Australian ” : Anyone who dares to tell
me that young Australia has a degenerated
physique I shall stigmatise as a fool. During the
holidays I’ve haunted certain city parks—to cite
two, the Fitzroy and the Carlton Gardens. In
both, where summer flowers weren’t blooming
behind iron railings, Australian babies filled the
landscape with even greater beauty. Everywhere
they were playing energetic games ; mostly they
were good to look upon. Occasionally one came
across a colored infant. Poor mites, even our
kindly sun and cleansing air can’t rid them
of the burden of scrofulous horrors they carr y on
their puny, ricketty frames. And there were
crossbreds, too—wretched atoms bearing in
every fibre an appalling indictment of the sins of
their forbears. In contrast were our own
children on sturdy, scrambling legs of sun-
burnt white. Even when seen beneath dirty
rags, how fine they are ! Lusty voices, yelling
infantile slang with unmelodious vowels, sing to
attentive ears a psean of hope. Furious “scraps”
between some six-year-olds, full of whirling blows
that usually missed their aim—what promise of
“derring-do ” they offer ! Even their impudence
is racy of the soil they’re growing upon—breezy,
original, and finely audacious. Salute to the
Australian baby! We are right to bewail his
comparative fewness.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Fire Brigade, accord-
ing to a report to the City Council by Superinten-
dent Webb, stands a good chance of being electro-
cuted, in addition to other dangers. It seems
that a lot of un-insulated electric-light wires and
cables are being run up along city and suburban
streets, some of them to carry heavy currents.
One was mentioned as carrying 5000 volts.
Should the steel-wire stays of the fire
escape ladders touch one of those deadly
wires the man holding the levers would never
know what hit him. The tramway trolly wires,
with their 500 volts, are bad enough, but the
brigades always know where they are, and can
dodge them. The electric-light wires, however,
are often close up to houses, where they can't be
easily seen, and when the men know the position
of things, they often don’t know whether they
are insulated or not —a fact that is calculated to
give fire-fighting some needless dangers. Sup.
Webb reasonably asks the council to see that all
wires are insulated.
r • * *
Sydney Herald advt. :—
"tttANTED, a BOOKKEEPER and STOREKEEPER
VV f or station, salary £3O per annum, and board ;
must be strictly sober, state age. Apply at once,
with references, to .
Now, how do they expect a man not to lose his
head and fly to champagne with £3O a year pour-
ing in upon him ?
IN THE BATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
t am no trucidator ; if I can,
I’ll shun the gallows’ path ;
But some day I shall immolate the man
Who lingers in his hath.
We hear him splash about in selfish g,ee —
A beast devoid of shame ;
And, waiting there with soap and towels, we
Heap curses on his name.
The splashes cease—but start again ; we glare,
Once more bereft of hope ;
“ He uses violet powder” (so we swear)
“ And likewise scented soap.”
We vow he slobbers oil upon his head
Unchecked our fancies run ;
’Twould be disgraceful even to be dead
With him, when we have done.
I know full well (and you may publish this
From Ascalon to Gath)
That some day I shall slaughter with a kriss
That beggar in the bath.
VIC.
X.
TO A MOTOR OAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the first motor horn rang round the world
The red fox fled in fury to his lair,
The Maenads, hampered with their mythic hair,
Recked less than usual how the locks were curled,
But prayed unto the gods they might be hurled
Out of the woods. No longer could they there
Run races with th.e lightnings, nor ensnare
The glinting rays of dawn that on them pearled—
Henceforth should Swiftness crawl with banner furled
Down the abyss of Time. . . Once more the blare
Breaks on the Universe. All things that are
Shall be in one maelstromic atom swirled
Out of existence into anywhere—
For round the corner curtseyeth the car.
vie.
BAMBOO.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd- 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL. RAILS.
ROBEY Portable Engi
BRUNTON’S BCOTCH WIRE ROPE.
STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL,
nes, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
Hayward’* Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPXj.AISXI^ZER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Here follow some particulars relating to Aus-
tralasian banks and their recent doings. The first table
presents their profits, &c., for the 12 months preceding
the issue of their latest balance sheets :
Divi- To Re- Re-
Profits. dends. serves. serves.
New Zealand .. £330,330 £50,000 £81,294
Australasia .. 275,246 192,000 £60,246 1,297,350
N.S. Wales .. 259,5)0 201,000 59,500 1,502,733
Union .. 201,646 150,0u0 31,646 1,114,155
Com. ofAus. .. 141,262 63,520 15,055 225,234
Com/of Syd. .. 131,285 100,000 31,285 1,137,878
National .. 86,126 65,967 20,159 148,657
Victoria .. 71,736 65,941 5,795 179,739
National (M.L.).. 50,857 30,000 20,857 259,167
E. S.;&A. .. 50,464 24,275 17,199 162,908
Adelaide .. 46,286 32,000 14,286 283,239
Q.N.. .. 45,728 6,000 51,000
W. Australian .. 44,615 27,500 17,115 388,567
Colonial .. 38,953 24,160 14,823 100,596
Com. ofTas. .. 25,109 18,900 4,238 148,978
London .. 23,194 18,649 4,545 16,107
Royal (Melb.) .. 20,251 10,590 9,751 57,627
Royal of Q. .. 19,912 16,936 2,976 68,968
Oitvjjf-Sydney .. 12,134 10,000 2,134 9,005
National ofTas... 11,945 9,578 1,367 35,700
Ballarat ' .. 8,090 5,950 1,640 69,551
A. Dep. &Mort... 8,004 7,542 462 1,353
North Q’land .. 4,771 2,656 2,115 22,215
A. .. 2,914 2,944 10,511
The figures for the E.S. and A. include £1797 derived
from the repurchase of old deposits at a discount.
And this shows what was done with the
money :
Paid-in dividends £1,126,074
B. interest paid State .. .. £40,000
~ old losses, etc 240,330
Com. of Aus., aid to Assets Trust .. 57,677
Written off, Com. of Aus. .. .. 5,000
~ ~ Australasia .. .. 23,000
„ ~ Union .. .. .. 20,000
„ „ E.S. & A 8,990
„ „ Q.N 21,728
~ ~ Com. of Tas. .. .. 1,971
~ ~ Nat. of Tas. .. .. 1,000
~ ~ Ballarat 500
Repaid deposits, Q.N 18,000
438,196
Put to reserves .. .. .. .. 346,148
Total profits disclosed .. £1,910,418
The amounts shown above as written off are in almost
every-case used- to reduce premises account. Every
bank,-has its own office practice. Some write down
premises by an appropriation of disclosed profits ; others
practically write down premises account by makingaddi-
tions and paying for them out of profits (thus when the
Bank of Australasia provided itself with very fine new
quarters in Sydney, the premises accouiK. remained
almost, if not quite, unaltered); others possibly write
them down out of undisclosed profits. In the foregoing
it is, of course, only possible to show such amounts as
have been written off out of disclosed profits. Tne
figures compare with those published a year ago in this
way
1905. 1906.
Dividends £1,150,407 £1,166,074
To Reserves .. .. .. 330,867 346,148
Written off, &c 334,845 398,196
Total .. £1.816,119
Less div. paid by London Bank
of Aus. out of Reserves .. 2,755
Profits .. £1,813,364 £1,910,418
Tn the foregoing the £40,000 pa d to the State in Maori-
land as interest is reckoned as dividend. Aggregates
showing bank profits in this way are, however, only to
be accepted with some reservations. Banking is a
continual process of liquidation : and, knowing that,
most banks make provision in good times for
the bad debts that wil surely turn up. The
past year shows remarkably fine banking profits ; but,
so far' as current operations are concerned, it is highly
probable that even much better figures could easily
have been shown. Many banks are seizing upon an extra
good time to make themselves extra solid “inside.” It
may be too much to say that they are “putting some-
thing up their sleeve ” ; the process, instead, may merely
consist of cleaning some ugly skeletons out of the cup-
boards. It is a very fortunate Australian bank that has
no skeletons on.its premises after a drought.
Australasian bank dividends have, it will be
noticed, kept {airly even during the past two years.
There were few increases last year, and no decreases.
This list shows the rate of dividend paid on capital, along
with the rate of interest actually earned on capital and
reserves combined, during the period covered by the
last-issued balance-sheets. Figures for the correspond-
ing part of the previous year are added for purposes of
comparison
Interest Earned Per Dividends
Annum on Capital Per Cent,
and Reserves. Per Annum.
1905. 1906. 1905. 1906.
National (M.L.) ..£lO 13 11 £lO 8 3 12 12
Q.N 913 5 10 3 1 Nil Nil
Royal (Melb.) ..8 9 9 10 010 6 7
Australasia .. - .. 914 0 912 3 12 12
Com. of Tas. ..8 7 7 9 6 10 12 12
W. Australian ..9 4 9 9 1 9 20 20
Union. 7 16 5 7 15 4 10 10
N.S. Wales .. ..7 8 8 7 9 10 10 10
Colonial .. ..716 769 5 6
E.S. & A 7 2 1 4 4£
Adelaide .... 766 618 4 8 8
National of Tas. .. 641 614 2 6 6
Com. of Sydney ..6 4 8 6 4 6 10 10
Com. of Aus. .. 5 13 2 5 14 8 3t 3f
Nat. of Aus 4 9 1 5 9 10
Ballarat .. .. 561 552 7 7
Victoria 43 1 4911 {
A. D. and M 3 8 3 4 7 3 4f sf»
London .. .. 216 7 42 11 { t
North Q’land .. 3 16 0 4 1 4 24 2£
Royal (Q.) ... .. 314 1 316 4 34 34-
City of Sydney .. 219 8 219 5 n 2|
A.J.S 2 14 8 1 17 3 Nil Nil
f Preference. * Ordinary.
The Q.N. is certainly presented here in too favorable a
light; it gets the assistance of old deposits, which carry
either no interest at all or but little. Owing to its
position with regard to the State, it has not been
thought worth while to include the Bank of New
Zealand in the list—it offers no fair basis of com-
parison with the.rest. In the case of the E.S. and A.
a comparison of the earnings for the two years on the
basis adopted would not be fair because in 1905 £85,991
was written off reserves; and that, of course, had the
effect of suddenly jumping up the earnings-rate calcu-
lated on the basis qf reserves and other capital. No bank
has had to draw oh its reserves in order to pay a dividend
during the year., On the other hand, both the Victoria
and the National, not to mention the lately reconstructed
Australian Deposit and Mortgage (wjiieh in 1904 wrote
capital down from £909,979 to £198,935), put up their
dividend under circumstances which didn’t mdet with
The Bulletin’s approval.
The most striking feature of the banking year
has been the continued increase in deposits, without any
increase to mention in advances. The result has been a
tremendous accumulation of liquid assets. Comparing
the position at the date of the last-published balance-
sheets with that of 12 months previously, the increases
of liquid assets have been as follow :
Commercial of Sydney .. £1,959,962
Union .. .. .. .. 1,576,049
N.S. Wales 1,566,945
Australasia 895,395
Adelaide 838,146
New Zealand .. .. .. 555,618
Commercial of Australia .. 559,971
. Colonial 252,575
Victoria .. .. .. .. 218,967
National .. .. .. .. 211,813
Royal (Melbourne) .. .. 165,250
Queensland National .. .. 139,110
K.S. & A 131,995
City of Sydney 69,903
National (M.L.) .. .. .. 69,198
Commercial of Tasmania .. 64,131
Royal of Queensland .. .. 34,458
North Queensland .. .. 19,770
A.J.S 18,802
National of Tasmania .. .. 13,505
Ballarat .. .. .. .. 8,425
Total.. .. £9,399,958
The liquid assets of the Western Australian Bank were
reduced by £164,243 during the year, and those of the
London Bank of Australia bv £37,095 ; but in the latter
case it has to be remembered that £328,276 of old deposits
were paid off during the year. This leaves a net addition
to the liquid reserves'-f these Australasian banks of no
less than £9,198,650 in twelve months. During the pre-
sent abundance of money in Australia, the result of three
fine seasons, it has been a great relief to the banks to
have a steady borrower in England at high rates. A
large proportion of the new liquid assets is represented
by money at short call in London. In one way it has
been a fine thing to have had this European demand ;
for, without it, and in the absence of High Pro-
tection to make possible those industries that
would have absorbed the money locally, an
abundance of Australian money would probably have
meant a land boom. As it is, country lands are at too
high a figure. But, from what one can gather, the banks
are calling for large margins on that class of security;
and the very fine price of wool and stock has given those
who went in a couple of years ago a rare start.
The following list shows what proportion of
the disclosed profits the various banks named paid away
in dividends last year, the balance being either written
off or put to reserves: —
E. S. and A. .. 49‘9 p.c. Com. of Aus. .. 76'0 p.c.
Royal (Melb.) .. 51'8 ~ Com. of Sydney 76T ~
N’th Queensland 55'7 ~ Nat. of Australia 76‘6 ~
National (M.L.) 59'0 „ N.S.W 77T „
Westralian .. 61‘6 ~ Nat. of Tasmania 80 - 2 ~
Colonial.. .. 62'0 ~ London .. .. 80'4 ~
Adelaide.. .. 69T ~ City of Sydney.. 82-4 ~
Australasia .. 69 - 8 ~ Royal of Q. .. 85T ~
Ballarat .. .. 73’5 ~ Victoria.. .. 91’9 ~
Union .. .. 74'4 ~ A., D. and Mort-
Com. of Tasmania 75’3 ~ gage .. .. 94T ~
The A.J.S. and the Q.N. paid no dividend, having very
large amounts of back debts yet to wipe off. The Bank of
New Zealand is also not included in the list, as most of
its profits, under a reconstruction scheme, went the same
way ; but its troubles in that respect are now ended.
Generally speaking, the figures mean that, according as a
bank is high or low in the list, it would be easy or difficult
for it to increase its present dividend. In the case of the
E. S. and A., the calculation is made on the basis of ordi-
nary banking profit, and in the case of the Commercial of
Australia the amount required to aid the Assets Trust
has been deducted from profit.
* * * »
The list that follows shows the prices of Aus-
tralian bank stock commonly d“alt with in Australia at the
end of the drought year and the year that followed, and
in the last two years :
1902. 1903. 1905. 1906.
City .. .. £3 18 6 £4 10 £3 9 6 £3 11 6
~ new .. 311 0 315 0 3 5 0 3 5 0
Com. of Syd... 26 12 6 28 5 0 28 0 0 32 0 0
N.S. Wales ..‘ 40 17 6 41 15 0 44 5 0 48 0 0
Colonial ..100 1 10 0 1 16 0 210
~ pref... 85 0 960 10 80 12 00
Com. of Aus... 4 0 6 3 9 3 14 9
~ pref... 400 600 6 40 696
National .. 2 10 0 3 3 0 3 12 9 4 14 0
~ pref... 10 10 0 10 10 0 11 3 0 11 5 0
Roy l(Melb.).. 15 6 126 146 113 6
Victoria .. 119 6 300 313 0 415 6
~ pref... 10 0 0 10 12 0 11 7 0 11 8 0
Q. National .. 2 0 2 4|- 5 10 15 0
Royal (Q.) .. 219 0 215 6 340 415 0
N. Queensland 12 6 11 3 15 3 1 1 0
Adelaide ..650 6 12 0 6 13 6 710
Australasia .. 83 0 0 85 0 0 95 0 0 100 0 0
Union.. .. 37 0 0 42 10 0 51 0 0 54 0 0
Thus, in almost every case, the past year’s quotations
show very substantial increases, owing usually to the
plentifulness and Cheapening of money.
A concluding table show's the approximate
return on an investment at the market price
City .. ..£5 12 6 p.c. National pref...£4 8 9p.c.
City new ..6 3 0,, Royal (Melb.).. 4 3 6,,
Com. of Syd... 318 3,, Victoria .. 414 3 ~
N.S. Wales ..4 3 4,, Victoria pref... 4 7 9 „
Colonial ..5 2 4,, Royal (Q.) .. 415 9 ~
Colonial pref. 417 6,, North Q’land... 415 3 ~
Com. of Aus. Adelaide .. 410 9 ~
pref. .. 413 0,, Australasia .. 416 0 ~
National .. 415 6,, Union .. .. 412 8 „
The return ought to be considered in conjunction with
the figures given previously showing the proportion of
profits disbursed ; for an investment isn’t to be reckoned
up only on the basis of what it is doing—w'hat it. may
possibly do in the future is also to be taken into account.
Also, it has to be remembered that the Colonial, Victoria,
and National put up their dividends during last year, so
that at the present rate of dividend they will, in future,
absorb rather more of the profit than the figures show
that they did last year.
• * » *
Though the metal markets are miles above their
average, it must be owned that there is no appearance of
an early break ; and, so far as copper, at an v rate, is con-
cerned, prices will probably go higher. The man who
gambles in copper stock must, however, be prepared to
take large risks —he must back himself to get out before
the break does come. For a break is inevitable. Copper
closed the year at about £lO7. Twelve months ago it
was £79 10s. ;at the end of 1904, £66 ; 1903, £57. The last
two, looking back over the market for 30years, are. about
average prices. Twenty years ago, the average (for
1886) was as low as £4O Is. Sd. Since then, in eight years
the average has been under £5O; and, though the
tendency since 1894 has been upwards, anything in the
neighborhood of £lO7 is a mere freak. How long the
freak will last there is no way of telling. All that can be
said pretty surely is this : that, though copper stocks
may be good for a gamble—and there is probably money
in them—as an investment, so far as market prices are
based upon metal prices, they are not to be thought of.
Closing quotations of lead for past four years :
1903, £ll 3s. ; 1904, £l2 12s. 6d. ; 1905, £l7 3s. 6d. ; 1906,
£l9 18s. 9d. Lead weakened a trifle during the last few
weeks of the year. The action of the Bank of England in
putting up the discount rate to 6 per cent, in the middle
of October steadied this market; and it doesn’t seem to
have the same spring in it as the copper market. Only
once before in 30 years—that is to say, only once under
modern conditions—has the market for a year averaged
more than £l7. And two years after the average was
£l7 3s. 7d. it was back (in 1902) to an average of
£l-1 ss. 3d. In 1903, when the average was £ll 14s. 9d.,
the world’s production was put at 910,581 tons. In 1905
the output had increased to 981,745 tons ; and in the year
just ended, though statistics are not available yet, the
yield was certainly much larger. On these figures a
steady market at £l7, let alone £l9 18s. 9d., looks
impossible.
It is probable that, owing to the enormous
increase in gold-production, the average prices of copper
and lead, as well as of other things, will not be as low for
some years to come as they were a few years back, apart
from any extra industrial activity that there may be.
But this won’t be all profit. If lead and copper are
affected by the increase in gold, so are other commodi-
ties ; and that means (or ought to mean) higher wages.
Also, it means a considerable increase in the price of
machinery and timber, and, generally, a rise in freights.
Most of these have arrived already.
The immediate outlook for tin is not so good.
Already the metal has gone back to £195 155., after easily
passing £2OO. Silver and tin generally move together,
mainly because the great bulk of tin is produced by
silver-users, and a rise in the exchange value of silver
means a rise in the cost of producing tin. Even if the
added cost isn’t much, it is good enough for an excuse to
advance prices. And silver, after steadily firming for
practically three years, has lately eased off. The rise in
tin was in this case certainly out of proportion to the rise
in silver ; so there are two things to work against tin—
the reaction from its own boom and the weakening of the
silver position. Nevertheless silver is the usual puzzle.
The metal is so unpopular that there has been no pros-
pecting for it, and no large increase in production need
be looked for. That will probably help it when the
general metal-market break arrives.
Returns from the principal W.A. mines dur-
ing November :— Profits : Oroya-Brown Hill, 11,6790 z.,
£36,060 ; Great Boulder, 12,2200 z., £25,160: Ivanhoe,
10,3300 z., £21,100; Horseshoe, 12,1020 z., £20,990; Kal-
gurli, 76540 z., £20,450; Perseverance, 71990 z., £14,520;
Fingall, 86560 z., £12,920 ; Associated Northern, 36200 z.,
£10,910; Sons of Gwalia, 43610 Z.. £5560; Associated,
45400 z., £4300 ; South Kalgurli, 29420 z., £3130 ; Hainault,
173-loz., £1930; Lake View Consols, 33530 z., £1660;
Golden Pole, 9550 z., £820; Vivien, 5050 z., £550;
Graiggiemore, 5750 z., £370; Greenmount, 3550 z.,
£340 ; Golden Bidge, 4110 z., £250 ; Boulder Main Beef,
7450 z., £160; East Murchison 'United, 14960 z., £BO.
Losses: Bellevue, 8780 z., £1920 ; North Feather, 6720 z.,
£350; Cosmopolitan, 17930 z., £35. Ingliston Extended,
which produced 5530 z., came out square. Chief features
are the severe fall in the profits of Great Fingall and the
heavy loss of Bellevue.
* ■* * *
All sm ts of yarns are afloat that 8., M. & Co.
are putting the worst complexion on affairs at Great
Fingall ; but the man who swallow’s that and acts accord-
ingly will take tremendous risks. Certainly, C. M.
Bolker, in June, 1905. estimated the- reserves at 635,000
tons, worth 765. a ton. But look at the steady drop in
the returns. Within 18 months they have come down
from 665. 3d. to 345., and the profit from £38,500 to
£12,900. The bottom level has been driven 750 ft. north,
and, for the most part, is worthless ; the best of it only
assays up to 355. per ton. The shoot has cut out at
depth, and divs. in future will be much smaller.
Lake View Consols, ’ Kalgoorlie, is still not
getting much encouragement in the deeper levels. The
grade of ore treated is month by month declining, and in
November was only 245. lid. against 325. 3d. a year ago.
In the interval costs have certainly dropped from. 265. to
225., and, consequently, profits have only declined from
£3260 to £1660. There is a strong feeling among L.V.
Consols holders that the directors ought to take advan-
tage of the market to get out of the Broken Hill South
Blocks, of which it still has over 60,000 shares. These
stand the co. in at £26,500 (it sold the rest of its holding
at a good premium ; hence the low cost of the shares that
are left). It could stand on velvet and still hold nearly
50,000 shares, and, in view of the risks, it ought to jump
at that chance.
* * * *
The Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to open up satis-
factorily at depth. At the 1150 ft. level the ore is worth
about 505., but this is below the mine’s average. For a
long time past the returns have run between 60s. and 61s.
per ton, and manager Moss reckons that this represents
the true value of the mine. The latest estimate of ore
reserves was 685,000 tons, showing a net profit. of
£1,110,000, or £9 3s. 4d. per share. The last quotation
for shares was about £l2 7s. 6d. Assuming that the esti-
mate of ore-reserves is correct, the possibilities of fur-
ther discoveries ought to be worth more than the extra
£3 4s. 2d. per share.
* • * *
Colleen Bawn, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is a show on
the north end of the field, adjoining the North End mine.
In this property there is a 30ft. north-and-south lode,
which prospects fairly well. Everything points to it
turning out a success if capital is put into it.
* * * *
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, has hired the
North Kalgoorlie mill, and has started treatment of ore
mined from the deeper levels. Some time ago test
crushings were made, and gave very satisfactory results.
There is still some good grade qre left in the original
Brown Hill lode, and this will help to maintain the
average at a pretty high level. If the crushings turn
out trumps it will give a fillip to the east side of the field.
Boulder No. 1, Kalgoorlie, which, during the
past few years, has held options over the Wallaby Central
at Yarri. the Goodenough at Menzies, the Eileen at Davy-
hurst, and the Never Never at Southern Cross, is now to
have ago at the St. George at Harlot. The owners of this
mine have treated 200 tons for 64000 z., but have done no
good lately, having picked out the'available rich patches.
Evidently manager Dick Hamilton has not got very much
faith in the pay-ore found in the Boulder No. l’s develop-
ments from Hamilton shaft making north, or he would
hardly tackle a new venture in the backblocks.
* » * *
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie, appears to have no luck in
its search for a new property. Manager Fred Cape lately
toured Queensland and N.S. Wales, and visited Cloneurry
and Cobar, among other places, on a fruitless quest; now
he has been to Ravensthorpe, and is still unsatisfied. The
trouble seems to be that he wants a developed mine-
copper for choice —and the co. that has that sort of pro-
perty opens its mouth very wide these times. In Oct.
last, his co. had a cash balance of £26,700 in hand, and
has been running very economically since, so is strong
financially. The crosscut from the 1700 ft. level of the
Boulder Main Beefs has still 100 ft. to go to cut the lode
said to have been located by the diamond drill. But
there are grave doubts about the veracity of that drill,
as at 1400 ft. a crosscut was put in right across the lease,
and nothing of any value was found. The present cross-
cut is not likeiy to be successful, either.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef, Kalgoorlie, does not look
as if it will return its shareholders anything. Ore re-
serves were said to be 20,000 tons, worth 345. ; but dur-
ing November it treated 2273 tons, worth 275. 10d., at a
cost of 265. 5d., leaving a profit of only Is. sd. per ton, or
£l6O in all. This return shows an extraction of 82 per
cent, of the assay value. Costs are, however, high, com-
pared with those of some mines on the Golden Mile. Still,
Horseshoe’s costs pan out at 275. 9d. and the Boulder’s at
30s. 6d., while the South Kalgurli’s are only 21s. lid., and
the Kalgurli’s 225. sd. * *
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.), which is to reduce
its output to £48,500 monthly, and its profits to between
£33,000 and £35,000, does not look at all good at depth.
The returns depend almost entirely on the north end of
the property, where the rich Brown Hill-Iron Duke shoot
provides a large tonnage of rich ore. The rest of the
mine is not much good, and, when the rich shoot is
worked out, the Oroya will be in difficulties.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has got into a far better
position since manager Moss, of the Kalgurli and
Hainault, secured a controlling interest in it. Moss put
in Richardson, of the Hainault, as manager, and since
then the co. has got out of the fat, and is now earning
a fair profit. The main reef is a bit erratic, 1 ut, taken all
round, the Ridge’s possibilities are fairly good.
**' m *
North Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), has had a bit
of a boom owing to alleged rich developments in the
bottom level. This mine, like its next-door neighbor,
the White Feather Main Beefs, is very patchy, and can-
not be recommended to investors. During Nov. the co.
treated 1980 tons at a loss of £350, which does not read
too well. The co. is in 400,000 shares, many of them held
by a weak crowd in England, so there is little hope of a
rise.
* * * »
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), has not shown
the expected improvement since the return of Nat
Harper. The output for Nov. was only £3491 from 1470
tons, against £3720 from 1056 tons during Oct. This
means a reduction from 70s. 6d. to 475. 6d. a ton —a tre-
mendous fall ; but, still, owing to the reduction in costs
from 51s. 6d to 365. 2d., the month’s profit is £B2O as
against £IOOO for Oct.
* * * *
Red Hill Co. (W.A.) has abandoned its property
at Lake Lefroy, and taken over a new show at Higgins-
ville, on the recommendation of manager Campion. The
old show was rich in patches, but could never be relied
on, as the bulk of the lode was barren.
* * • ■*
Mt. Cattlin, Ravensthorpe (W.A.), which was
recently floated into a Bull co. of £200,000 in £1 shares,
will shortly be producing copper. Over 20,000 tons of
ore are developed, and work is being pushed ahead. Th°
Govt, smelter, purchased by the Phillips River Co., has
been overhauled, and smelting will be started forthwith.
A number of other mines in the district are also being
developed, several of them by the Phillips River Co.
Already £150,000 of copper ore has been raised from
shallow levels by prospectors working under great
difficulties.
■*■**•*
Hampton Plains Co. (W.A.) has taken over
the Lady Miller, at Norseman, and has made a start to
transfer its 20-head mill from the duffer show, where it
was erected some six years ago. The Lady Miller,
according to all accounts, is a good mine, but has never
been run energetically. As the mill to be erected on it
is easily capable of treating 2000 tons monthly, work will
have to be pushed along now. Campion, late of the Red
Hill, is superintending operations.
* * * *
The first test crushing from the Mararoa,
Norseman (W.A.), has con e up to manager Bill Hender-
son’s estimate of 60s. per ton. Norseman is apparently
to be boomed this year, as the long-talked-of railway
seems like arriving, and investors and prospectors are
already looking that way.
* » * *
Announcement that Westralian Government
intends to start a railway from Port Hedland to Marble
Bar has already given Pilbarra goldfield a fillip.
Numerous prospecting parties are out, and when rains
fall there will be more. The field is as large as Victoria,
and there are very large quantities of payable stone
awaiting treatment at reasonable rates ; at present it
takes an ounce per ton to mine, cart and crush. Besides
gold, Pilbarra has tin, which is being worked with success
here and there.
» * * »
Bendigo ended 1906 with its lustre somewhat
dimmed. The following table epitomises the balance-
sheets for the last five years:—
Gold, oz. Calls. Divs. Surplus.
1902 .. 192,822 £131,631 £207,990 £76,359
1903 .. 233,589 141,977 322,415 180,438
1904 .. 248,785 168,094 367,896 199,802
1905 .. 218,683 175,281 230,000 54,719
1906 .. 225,099 221,262 246,254 24,902
Of the five years probably 1903 was the most generally
profitable, because then the yanking-out of the stone at
1000 ft. in the South New Moon was hardly on the scale
reached in the two later years. The statement for
1906 scarcely reflects to-day’s position. Calls have gone up.
Reason, the boom in the early part of the year
brought a crop of new floats, most of which were started
on the very slender reputation of ,the Diamond Hill mines.
Then hulks which had gone on to the stocks because of
the striking of gold below 4000 ft. in the Victoria Quartz
and New Chum Railway mines bad to be furnished
with funds to allow them to float again. Hence
calls got to a height not attained for 30 years. The
worst of it is that no new star is rising to sustain interest
in the field. Bendigo mining, if sure, is slow indeed, and
the question is whether recent floats can bold the
allegiance of call-payers until some strike invigorates
the weary. The stable show of the district
is the New Moon. No grubbing - out of the
good stone, but a carefully - worked and well-
handled mine. It comes second in the div. list to New
Argus ; but the latter seems to have exhausted its good
stone, and is sure .to be a star of minor magnitude in
1907. South New Moon, having depleted the richest part
of its treasury, goes down third. Sinking and a fresh
saddle alone will stop its further descent. Catherine
Reef and Specimen Hill represent disappointed hopes,
and United Ulster has about shot its bolt. In the
long list of mines the stayers are New Moon and
Virginia. The former has a large public holding ; the
latter is owned by a dozen people. Put in their
order, the cos. that did best in 1906 in the matter of divs.
were :—New Argus, £37,500 ; New Moon, £34,800 ; South
New Moon, £28,800 ; Virginia, £22,850 ; United Ulster,
£22,400: Catherine Reef, £20,017; and United Hustlers
and Redan, £18,060.
* * * *
Poseidon 9600 z. nugget, found at the new
Tarnagulla rush, is the biggest lump of gold got in
Victoria since the days of the Lady Loch, won from the
deep lead in the Midas mine, near Creswick. But it falls
far short of the Welcome Stranger—-2280oz.—got in 1869
near Dunolly, or The Welcome, of 21590 z., mined at
Battery Hill, Ballarat, ten ; ears earlier. Still it takes
rank as about the tenth biggest slug unearthed in the
State, the other pieces ranging from 1700 oz. down to
lOOSoz. Dunolly and the district round Tarnagulla have
always been famed for their coarse gold. Most of
the big lumps have been got close to the surface,
and the new-comer was unearthed after only 15
inches of sinking. The previous biggest nuggets at the
Tarnagulla rush have been 300 oz. and 3730 z. The new-
comer, like many of its predecessors, carried some quartz,
giving color to the theory that the gold has come from
the reef which pretty well abuts on the lead. There was
a slice of luck over the find, for one of the party had
only bought a half of one of the three shares in the
claim a little before for £2 10s. Claim-holders are Jack
Condron, Sam Woodall, Geo. Brooks and Fred Eva, Con-
dron owning one share, Woodall and Brooks three-
quarters of a share each, and Eva half a share.
Comparison of two Victorian gold-dredging
balance-sheets shows what is done in divergent localities.
Junction, at Bright, with two dredges treated in half-
year 300,000 cubic yards ; average yield, l‘B4gr. ; profits,
£2242 ; costs, £47 3s. Id. per week for each dredge ;
dividends, £2000; net profit on half-year, 46'6 percent,
per annum on the paid-up capital. The dredge
Enterprise, at Creswick, in six months handled 130,000
cubic yards for 2gr. per cubic yard ; profits, £986, or 43 - S
per cent, per annum on the capital of the co. ; costs, £. r 8
10s. lOd. per week ; dividends, £1125. Had they had
eightpenny ground, like the Gladstone Tin Co., what
profits 1
* * * *
Wandong is a field relatively near to Mel-
bourne, and on which Melbourne folk now and again
spend a little cash. The oldest show is the Golden D.vke,
named because of the rich shoots got in a dyke formation.
Gold however, is associated with antimony ; and, as the
co got off the gold, it sold its heap of tailings to a private
partv. Judging by that party’s silence, this venture seems
to be doing fairly well. If so, it has escaped the experience
of Knox and Schlapp at Costerfield, where ‘‘the durn
thing don’t seem to gee, anyhow.” Neither the Golden
Dyke nor its neighbor, the Consols, have proved gold at
depth. As far as they have gone, the experience of
Wood’s Point has been repeated. The shoots of stone
become shorter as the dyke becomes harder, and the gold
is not there to compensate for the heavier work. This
may be due to the zone of secondary enrichment having
been passed. Whatever the cause the fact remains that
working on the dykes in Victoria has for years past been,
in the main, unprofitable. The exceptions are the Long
Tunnel mums and the New Dempsey at Gaffney s Creek.
The co. that secured an option over Williams’
Fancv Berrin<>-a (Vic.), turns out to be the Northern
Territories Mines, Ltd., the J. Bull ■ concern which has
made such a mess of things up y ( , " i,« a
relying on the English notion that the <,
pfem of a mine-laborer, and that if \ . r^ !e
mine you can be as extravagant as '.® u A of £2594.
Vic. mine made a profit in the past s )ce has j£ eII
of which £6OO went in divs., and ® 11 563 tons
used to write down plant, &c. Th j out at
of stone for £11,138 of gold, so t^ h ® e P rc ” se d present eo.
4s. 6d. per ton. If the option is ex ® 0 and £48,000
will get share for share in a leO.OOO-shar till the
net. The optionists have put up £SOO, ana
end of February to say a final r es. *
* , * .1 fl na f of Williams’


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained
and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
One of the special points to be considered by
the Broken Hill British Mine in the extension of their
present mill, was a suitable rockbreaker. There are
several types of crushers at the Hill, but the management
of the British decided to purchase Austin Rotary Rock-
breakers after exhaustive enquiry and practical work
with other makes. The Block 10 Co. purchased two
Austin’s some time ago, and these were put to a very
severe test for capacity, horsepower, and wearing ability
—the result has been a triumphant and conclusive proof
that the Austin is the best machine at present offering,
crushing more material with less h.p. than other makes.
They have forced lubrication, double counter shaft
bearings, and are of heavy construction to withstand all
strain. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, are the sol*
agents.*
* * * «
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Insurance India (London), in its Sep-
tember, 1906, issue writes, regarding the report for the
year 1905, of the society mentioned Taking the
report throughout we think it indicates that the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s prospects were
never brighter than at the present time, and while the
results in the present are excellent, the outlook is still
more encouraging.”*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the SJiaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* M
Cobar. — For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est.. 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.— For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Herinidale. On
the field.
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-stree|;, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. If
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickpnson, (30 Quepp-s(;reet, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish tp have thp mosp up-po-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, writte and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of alj
description. H. B. Sil|!krberg ANp Co., 413 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
« * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, gt Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
v * ♦ *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given, Geo. A,
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* k * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd,, Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H,
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Reavell Air Compressor is an entirely new
departure in compressor design, and by its numerous
good points is already finding considerable favor in Au -
tralian mining circles. As there are no suction valves,
the volumetric efficiency is at least 5 per cent higher than
any other compressor. It is unrivalled for driving by
means of an electric motor, and is the only machine in
which driving gears can be altogether dispensed with.
The sole licensees for Australia are Babcock and Wilcox,
makers of the well-known water tube boiler, whose Aus-
tralasian office is at the Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* • • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice.. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
4dwt. 16gr. per ton for 11,563 tons, so that very fair
sampling on battery lines was done. The lately-published
report owns up to expenses, but is defective in that it
does not disclose what stone is in sight. Costs worked
out at 14s. lOd. per ton, of which 10s. 3d. went for break-
ing and raising, 3s. 2d. for crushing. Is. for development,
and sd. for contingent expenses. Presumably,
the Northern Territory Mines, Ltd., wants some-
thing to liven up the dead bones it has on
hand. Are the directors likely to get it at
Berringa ? Field, all through, is a sdwt. to 6dwt. ‘ go.
Therefore, in order to get divs., work has to be of the
cheapest. There is no room for any heavy management
charges, or heavy London board fees, or a big share
register on which to pay divs. Co. is stoping to 400 ft.,
and has its shaft down to 600 ft. With the record of the
Birthday and South Birthday at depth, it will be buying
a pig in a poke to take the claim until the lode is opened
up at 600 ft. to test its quality. Still, if London wants a
pawn to play with in the market, shareholders would be
fools not to oblige at the price offered.
The principal object in bailing-up Chillagoe
shareholders for part of the cost of the new Etheridge
line was to reduce the new issue of debentures to the
amount at which the Government guarantees to purchase
the line in 15 years. Govt, undertakes to pay half of the
cost, at the least; so, if the co. can get half of the cost
elsewhere, the debenture half, so far as capital is con-
cerned, is as good as Govt, stock. This ought to mean a
fairly cheap issue ; and the shareholders had got enough
dear money to pay interest on already. Another issue of
6 per cents, at a discount would have made their chances
Of ever fingering a dividend very remote. Shareholders,
however, will probably find this fact sticking in their
throats : if the line costs £400,000, and the Govt, pays
£200,000 for it, the other £2oo, ooo— the £200,000 that will
be lost—will be theirs. The £200,000 that the Govt, will
pay will be the debenture-holders’—presuming, of course,
that the debentures are a first charge. If they are not,
then the yarn of the chairman that “ new debentures
will be practically the equivalent of Govt, bonds” is flam.
* * * *
The Chillagoe (Q.) proposition in its new form
boils down to the prospects first of a customs trade in
copper and lead ores, and then of railways used to bring
the ore to the works. Returns already show this
plainly ; the total November output was 145 tons copper
and 21,6540 z. silver, of which only 41 tons copper and
21610 z. silver came from Chillagoe ore. The lead furnace
produced 213 tons lead and 15,4800 z. silver, practically
all customs ore. Mungana contributed 739 tons for 82
tons of lead and 62700 z. silver, ' n average of about 11
per cent, lead and BJoz. silver. When the new lead fur-
naces are in blast next April, production of both lead and
copper will be increased, and copper matte will be ob-
tained as a by-product from the lead furnaces. A big
co., such as this, depending at most times on customs
ore, requires to handle and have control of large quan-
tities ; and it is quite evident Chillagoe itself has not a
large quantity to depend on. A return of 41 tons
copper is proof of that. North Queensland is rich in
minerals, but the larger copper mines (like O.K. and
Mt. Molloy) smelt their own ore. What further customs
ore Chillagoe will get when the Etheridge line is built is
still uncertain.
* * * *
Queensland’s most ancient copper show is being
resurrected. Forty years ago, or thereabouts, when Sir
Maurice O’Connell was Government Resident at Port
Curtis, the family secured land on the Boyne River.
Copper is said to have to have been discovered there by a
Chinaman, and a co. was willing to work the field. The
O’Connells refused, and themselves worked the mine for
a time ; but ultimately, when the O’Connell estate was
sold up, this Iveragh property went cheap, and all that
has for many years remained of the mine has been an old,
broken-down shaft. During the Glassford-Cannindah-
Hector boom, three young fellows found copper near the
railway line, and went to Gladstone to take out a lease,
but found they were on private property. Still, though
they were blocked, it put others on the go; and the
ground is having another test.
* * * •
From a long yarn about the Vulcan tin mine,
Irvinebank (N.Q.) : “ The Vulcan shareholders have been
fortunate, the ground standing without timber ; the
vast, cavern-like stopes are without a prop of any sort.”
Doesn’t sound quite so nice for the miner, though, and
the fortunate shareholder seems of late rather anxious
to sell. There are 264,000 shares in the Vulcan, and it
has paid £148,468 in dividends; it has produced over
twice that value of black tin concentrates. The battery
lately stopped crushing for want of firewood, owing to
the wetness of this wet season.
* * » *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) is continuing the struggle
to make a profit for 78,015 ordinary shares and 10,785
shares carrying 10 per cent, preference dividend (cumula-
tive). Mine and mill reports are a bit brighter, but
Capt. Warren has not got the show into the stride of a
big producer. The preference shares are quite enough
for the mine to carry, on present appearances.
* * * •
Peak Downs copper mine (Q.), which, taken all
round, has struck little but good luck for the last five
months, including discoveries of ready-smelted copper in
the old furnace bottoms, with the result that contributing
scrip moved UP from 6s. 6d. to 315., experienced a disap-
pointment in finding that the old iron in the bottom of
the shaft had been little affected by contact with the
copper-bearing water, although the iron pumps, tram-
rails, etc., in the upper levels had made a fine haul
of pure copper. * » *
The size of the haulage trouble in this North
Queensland wet season can be partly judged by the fact
that flour has been selling at Cloncurry up to 30s. fora
501 b. bag.
* * # 9
There’s nibbling again at Dalzell’s (N.Q.); but,
}n spite of an alleged improvement at the 85ft. level,
Tub Bulletin’s advices are still unfavorable.
■* * * *
The Lionel Robinson-Clark-Baillieu crowd has
relieved the Q.N. Bank of 80,000 Mt. Morgan shares at
9 is.—a share deal running into £350,000. That is how
it is printed. An unprinted story is that 30,000 shares
have actually been sold, and a six months’ option
giyen over the other 50,000. Corries, of Brisbane,
began the negotiations two years ago at 505., and
the bank made £160,000 by holding off a while. But
h'>w the transaction really pans out for the bank has not,
of course, transpired. At the end of 1888 the shares
stood at over £l3 10s., and some banks at least were then
looking on the scrip as almost as good as Treasury stock.
* * * *
If Mt. Morgan doubles its present dividend of
3d. per month it is as much as can reasonably be
expected ; and even that much is doubtful. That
would be 6s. per year. At 85s. for shares, it would
be over 14 years before a speculator would get
his money back. And he is a very sanguine specu-
lator who is prepared to go beyond a 14 years’ purchase
for a wasting security like a mine. The present 3d. per
month means just over 3£ per cent, per annum—to pro-
vide interest and sinking fund !
The North Queensland antimony and gold
show, with which the MacArthurs, the Glasgow refrac-
tory-ore people, were said to be impressed, is now being
let out of the bag. People behind it are mostly those
who were in the O.K. at the beginning; and Peter
Brander, manager of the Chillagoe mines, reports on it,
though he admits he knows nothing about antimony-ore
treatment. Still, he can measure up ore; and taking
quotations, etc., that are given him, he figures out a
profit of £196,620 in sight on one of the three blocks.
Now, North Queensland doesn’t give away a sure
£196,620 for a half interest or thereabout in a £75,000
co., any more than other places. The doubt in the
matter is as to the treatment of the ore, which is not
high-gradb stuff —say 26 per cent, antimony and loz.
3dwt. gold. The MacArthurs, who produced the cyanide
process, say that they have a process which is just the
thing for it, and they are sure enough about it to
underwrite 20,000 shares for the English market. On
their returns the ore is valued at £l6 6s. per ton on the
mine. (The property is on the Mitchell River, 50 miles
from the head of the Oliillagoe Co.’s line.) The vendors
take 60,000 shares, public 50,000 (at 10s.); 40,000 are
reserved. Vendors also take £5OOO cash, but pay for
flotation. There is little exact information to go upon,
but there is no doubt the men behind it (and who
probably know more than they have published —anyway,
they have underwritten the whole issue) have a lot of
faith in it, and in this new MacArtliur process; and so
the shares won’t go begging.
* * * *
An iron outcrop opened by the Mount Morgan
G.M. Co. (Q.), about a mile from Targinuie goldfield, near
the Calliope River, with a view to obtaining ore for
copper-smelting, has proved to be the cap of a copper-
lode ; and workings are now showing from 7 to 10 per cent,
copper ore. Fred Morgan, one of the original holders of
the famous Mount, spent a fair sum in prospecting Tar-
ginnie station, which he. owned, but without success.
The present Targinnie goldfield, close to the homestead,
was dropped on accidentally by a bear-shooter who
knocked a chip off an outcrop. The chip proved the out-
crop, which had been mistaken for some valueless rock,
to be auriferous quartz, and the field, though not sensa-
tional, has kept going for several years. Now this equally
accidental copper discovery furnishes a second proof of
the truth of Morgan’s faith in the place ; also, it shows
up once more his hard luck. He sold his gold mine far
too cheaply to the very people who are also to get the
copper he ought to have found. Morgan left the name of
being one of the “whitest ” men that ever lived in Rock-
hampton, and that is about all he did leave.
« • * ■
There is trouble in the camp at the Brilliant
Extended, Charters Towers, owing to an unexpected
turn. According to half-yearly report, published in
November, everything in the garden was lovely. Manager
MacLeod anticipated that the savings through improved
methods of handling and treating stone and residues
would, in 18 months, cover the total capital spent on sur-
face improvements. MacLeod had already brought the
mine from a position at which the stone produced would
not cover expenses ; costs have come down from 445. per
ton to 345. 6d. per ton. Thus dividends have been
squeezed from a low-grade show. The directors, how-
ever, with their own notions of economy, have now
stopped all surface improvements—in the interests of
instant dividends. Some of the improvements, such as
the aerial rope-way from the shaft to the battery,
would have been complete in a few weeks. The
same with the sand-pits, and the large wheel for
lifting the residues to the pits. Still these things
have been stopped with the rest. A five-ton dray is the
height of some directors’ notions of economy.
* » * *
It looks as if the East Mexican, Charters
Towers, has for the moment missed the ’bus. A cross-
cut was started from the straight shaft to meet the reef
coming up from Mills United. At about 320 ft. in, 3ft. of
formation with a 3in. leader was cut, at about the spot
where the reef was supposed to be. Since then the cross-
cut has been extended to 433 ft. without locating any-
thing. It is possible that the crosscut is in the hanging
wall above the reef. In that case the co. will have to
deepen its straight shaft and crosscut again.
• • • *
There seems to be very little doubt now about
the re-starting of the Aldershot (Q.) smelters. Lead sup-
plies may cause some trouble (the co. has lost the
Pinnacles mine, Broken Hill); but the lead output of the
Chillagoe district is likely to be more than the Chillagoe
Co. is prepared to take in, and some Crooked Creek and
other lead ore may, therefore, have to come south.
• • • •
The further Ruby United, of Charters Towers,
goes the further it gets behind. For six months’ work
the co. turned out 63 tons stone for £56, equal to 18s.
per ton. Carting and crushing took £4O, or 12s. 9d. per
ton, leaving ss. 3d. a ton towards mining and office
expenses. The show started the term with a deficit of
£8255, and adds £1036 to it after six months’ work.
They say of John Moffat, the patriarch of North
Queensland mining, ahd the holder of the biggest inte-
rests there, that he has never been underground.
* * • *
With nearly everyone who ever touches a
mining share talking of a copper boom, people who go
into the gamble might at least take the trouble to find
out how many shares there are in the cos. they favor.
Then, supposing they do get left with the baby to nurse,
they may know what their chances are of gettting some-
thing back by way of dividend. Most of the Queensland
concerns carry a tremendous swag of shares. Mount
Cannindah has 300,000, Hampden-Cloncurry 200,000,
Glassford Creek 200,000, Einasleigh 200,000, and O.K.
337,450. Mt. Molloy, with 100,000 shares now that the
reserved 20,000 have gone out, is valued in the market at
over £200,000. 0.K., which till the other day stood head
and shoulders over Molloy in popular opinion, is
valued now at about £193,000. Molloy market has got
out of hand just as much as ever the O.K. market did ;
and it’s about time somebody asked what there is in the
bottom level. No information is given about that, and
the public is quite in the dark regarding ore reserves,
Compare these prices with what the market reckons a
fair thing for, say, Queen Bee, In the latter there
are 50,000 shares, standing at about 265., or £65,000
for the lot—as against Molloy’s £200,000. For all the
public knows, Queen Bee is as good a mine as the other.
Molloy’s one qualification for the higher value appears to
be that it is a long way off; but there is certainly no
reason in dividend-records for preferring North Queens-
land to Cobar. It is rather the other way about.
* * * ■
Total market value of the British Broken Hill
mine at present is about £670,000. The ore reserves on
June 30 last were estimated at 600,000 tons, and since
then there have been no developments of much import-
ance. The net profit for the half-year was £42,195,
and 52,338 tons of ore were handled. The profits
include proceeds from tailings carrying zinc. Including
this, the profit was at the rate of about 16s. 2d. per ton.
That is very good profit—far better than the average of
B.H. cos. for, say, five years past. Yet 16s. 2d. per ton for
600,000 tons is only £485,000 ; and there is a considerable
margin between £485,000 and the market’s £670,000. The
market has, it is plain, heavily discounted future develop-
ments (and the most recent developments in the British
have been extremely disappointing), and, moreover, it
has assumed that the market which ruled in the early
part of the year will last till the present ore reserves are
worked out.
* * * *
After putting in several diamond-drill holes
east and west from the north drive from Howell’s shaft
of the British, Broken Hill, and also probing the country
at angles from the north eud of the drive, the manage-
ment has decided that the lode will be found further
northward, and so has stopped boring and resumed
driving towards Thompson’s shaft. As this drive is ex-
tended, diamond-drilling east and west of it will be
continued in the hope of picking up the lode coming
down from the 600 ft. level. Meantime, however, in con-
sequence of disappointments in prospecting, one doesn’t
hear quite as much tall talk about the British.
* • * »
For a long time past the Broken Hill Prop, has
been pottering about with a diamond drill. The 1200 ft.
level of the block 12 part of the mine has been the seat of
operations for the past three or four months, and the
bore has gone in about 430 ft. northwards without meet-
ing any ore body. Several times the drill has been
flooded with water, however, and recent indications have
given the underground officials more hope. Before the
drill reaches its limit of 600 ft., ore, they think, may very
likely be struck. So far, deep prospecting in this northern
end of the big mine has been extremely disappointing.
* * * *
Before general manager Delprat, of the Broken
Hill Prop., recently arranged for a six-months’ holiday,
he signed on for another three years. The billet is now
worth £5OOO a year, with various trifles in the way of
residence, etc., thrown in.
★ * * *
The B.H. Junction mismanagement has had a
good innings, and now that someone lias sent in a
“ yorker,” it is probable that what is not really a bad
mine will be given a show. F. C. Malin, the
man who set out to rout the shuddering innocents
in Adelaide, was in Broken Hill a couple of months
ago, and made a careful inspection of the mine
underground, fighting a strenuous passage into every
accessible bole and corner of the mine, and digging
information from the depths of a reticent manager.
Malin formed a favorable opinion of the old mine, which,
in spite of its position and its spasmodic achievements,
has, at various times, been allowed to become almost a
derelict; and he will probably be found to be right. Not
so long ago the indicted board encouraged the opinion
that the mine was just about hopeless ; and, having satis-
fied the shareholders, or the bulk of them, that such was
the case, the directors sat down and sighed over its
impossible task. As to the ore in the Junction,
a lode, carrying high-grade ore, has been proved
coming in from the Junction North below the 775 ft.
level, and it is almost certain that a similar find
will be made at the level below. The Junction North, at
its 937 ft. level, is, at 50ft. from the Junction boundary,
working an ore body 40ft. in width, and the management
will probably see fit to drive on this body from the Junc-
tion North to prove its continuation into Junction
territory.
* *. * *
The Junction North ore body is traceable from
the 437 ft. to the 1137 ft. level, and is no doubt a continu-
ation of the fine body which the British is now working
in shallower levels in Marsh shaft. This body underlies
west until it reaches the 937 ft. level of the Junction
North, when it goes down vertically to the 1137 ft., and
will probably be found at a still lower level. Winzes have
been sunk in ore all the way from the 437 ft. to the 1070 ft.,
the only reason that they do not continue in ore
right to the bottom level being that the fire inter-
fered with the sinking of the winze from the
1037 it. to the bottom level. The large quantities of
rhodonite met with in the lower levels depreciates the
value of the ore in that part of the mine, however. The
extent of the mine’s ore bodies is now beyond question ;
what still remains to be proved is their tractability.
•
Broken Hill Block 14 shareholders are still
anxiously awaiting developments at the 600 ft. level,
where the long south drive is now nearing the point at
which manager Hocking expects to cut the ore body.
The mine needs more ore badly.
* * « »
Only one N.S.W. gold mine was good enough
for a Xmas-box dividend to N.S.W. shareholders —the
Harden.
* * * *
Lloyd’s 00. is opening a share register in
N.S. Wales. This should reduce the Sydney Exchange’s
flow of bad language this year. Hitherto, the only
register has been in London. Manager Gorbould a,nd
Soutar (of Soutar and Hoare) will be the Australian
directors.
* * * *
Nymagee passes over to John Bull, like so
many other N.S.W. copper mines. Apparently it is much
the same J. Bull that owns Lloyd’s, as general manager
Corbould, of the latter, becomes managing director of the
new purchase. Nymagee’s out-turn for years kept at
about 25,000 tons of ore a year, but development has
been badly neglected, so that recently Crowl Creek, in
the same part of the country, beat it as a producer.
Probably the new co. will find more to do underground
than at the surface fora start, as a new smelting plant—-a
big furnace to displace the old coffee pots—was finished
about 18 months ago.
* * * *
Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W.), pegs away
with regular crushings, and averages are well main-
tained. Last monthly consignment of 165 tons first and
second grade ore, treated at Cockle Creek, gave 4700 z.
gold. The co. is proceeding briskly with an up-to-date
plant, which will greatly facilitate working. At the True
Blue, where a depth of over 1200 ft. has been reached on
payable ore, the various slopes and levels are looking,
well, showing an abundance of both battery and sulphide
ore. Other Wyalong claims showing up from well to
middling are Keep-it-Bark, Welcome Stranger, Junction,
Shamrock (where rich sulphide ore has been struck), and
Homeward Bound.
* • * *
In spite of the tipsters’ skite about the Sunlight,
Hillgrove (N.S.W.), the large holders are easing off the
shares. Most extraordinary yarns about the old mine
have been circulated—about the gold obtained and divi-
dends paid in the past. What a mine has done isn’t
much guide to its present value, though ; and in this case
the ore shoots get shorter with increasing depth. But
there is one thing that never seems to get shorter, and
that is the share register, which it is now proposed to
increase.
» * * *
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation has had its
first meeting in London, and half-a-dozen or so knights
and baronets talked the usual superlatives about the
immense thing in hand. That’s just what is the matter
with this co. If it didn’t have such a ridiculous idea
about the size of its prospects it might be less extrava-
gant ; and its extravagance is going to get it down and
kill it. If it only kept its eye glued on the fact that the
N.S. Wales Shale and Oil Co., which it took over, hasn’t
paid a cent since 189 S, and then only a poor little £833,
ft might realise that it must graft and grind ; and then it
might succeed.
* * » •
Gladstone, Tasmania’s tin dredge, belongs to
many men in many corners of the Commonwealth. A few
days since, there was not one to say a good word for it.
Then along came one Tewkesbury, who, having some
experience at Bright, and being trained to dredging
work, said that the dredge is really not a deplorable
thin o '. He blamed not the plant but the men, whereas
others had preached that it was the plant and not the
men. So he furnished a crew, and now the sceptics say
that dredging for- tin in Tassy may pay after all.
If this be true, what have those in charge to
answer ? They blamed the dredge; now they fall
on the worker. After their record of early puffing,
they simply sat down and did next to nothing.
There wasn’t a man among them to go and sit down at
Gladstone to see that the plant was being well run, or
that the crews were doing their duty. As the past six
months’ work saw the profit and loss account unchanged,
it can be asserted that the tin can be saved by a dredge.
That, anyhow, is a step forward. But what work ! 74,900
cub.’yards treated. Twelve weeks’work for a Bright
dredge, and 26 weeks’ for the Gladstone! Tin runs
out at ’about two-thirds of lib. per yard, or Bd. per cub.
yard. The Junction Co.’s two dredges at Bright last
year each netted £ll2l out of ground worth under 4d.
per cub. yard. Such an average service from the
Gladstone dredge, had there been no debts to meet,
would have meant adiv. of nearly 10s. per share. But the
Bright dredge only dealt with 4d. ground ; the Gladstone
dredge with Bd. ground, so that its profits should have
been double. The directors had the Bright object lesson
at their doors, yet they were inert. What shareholders
need to do is to study these figures, and not to spare
action.
* • * •
Best-looking claim on Woodlark Island (British
Papua) at present is the Woodlark King, which has just
started a mill; and another syndicate-owned claim has
got a five-head battery up. Neither the W.I. Prop, nor
the Kulamadau, both Australian-owned claims, are doing
much. They are nearly all bumping against labor
troubles.
* * * *
Angry men have stalked round Sydney and
Melbourne Stock Exchange vestibules for the week past.
Cause, the money-grubbing propensities of their brother-
brokers in Adelaide. These latter proposed to hold an
informal call meeting during the Christmas vacation,
whereas Sydney and Melbourne wanted to dodge
off to wherever the mixed bathing is most mixed.
Sydney is supposed to have hit out the most
unanimously, for there are more fascinations in
the waves at Manly than down Queenscliff or
Bri°'hton way. The Sydney and Melbourne men were
right in their protest, not so much because the con-
venience of a few brokers was affected, but because of
the likelihood of a tribe of half-paid clerks, who have
had to do double time during a six months’ boom, being
pinned to office-stools. Fear of being out of the way
should Bull orders turn up was the Adelaide broker’s
excuse. Though he has listened to his brothers’ protest,
he is not likely to have been far away from the Stock
Exchange steps even on the holiest of days.
A.F.: Re kaolin, communicate with James M.
Dalzell, 3, L’Avenue, Newtown (N.S.W.). . ..Curtain:
Potter-Broken Hill Prop, patent dispute is still in the
courts. Understood that the co. has made financial pro-
vision for the possible contingency ol an adverse verdict,
involving payment of royalty on zinc-tailings hitherto
treated.
* ■». a •
Wyndham (Vic.) Shire Council recently
decided to deputationise Railway Commissioner
Tait about something or other, and one councillor
jumped with all his feet upon a suggestion that
the deputation should be led by an M.L.A. He
instanced a case where the Big Smoker had
declined absolutely to build a crossing at the
request of a politician-led deputation, but had set
the work in hand immediately afterwards when
the council asked him “on its own.” This is
Tait’s way of saying that he won’t have any poli-
tical interference -with his show, and it ought to
do something towards the killing of that evil.


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY. —A way out of a difficulty
is provided by the “ 8.1. G ” novel and easy plan of pur-
chase of necessities and luxuries. If the purchase of a
nice diamond half-hoop ring is needed, or a good-grade
watch, gold chain, or bangle, or any silver-plated goods
or cutlery is required to be made, make it at once on our
easy deferred monthly payment system and have the
goods now. The advantages are yours ; so don’t lose
time. Write or call at once for our catalogue ; it will
please you. The British Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-
street, Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Make it a rule of your home to keep
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,' and Diarrhoea
Remedy as a safeguard against bowel complaint.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
7 Wynyard-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
W. Tyree, Esq.,
314 George-street,
Sydney.
Dear Sir, , .
I' had a rather interesting proof of the va ue y
Automatic Spray on my recent visit Brisbane. f
Owing to an epidemic of diphtheria, the Health Depart
ment decided to give your Spray a
called round to see them at work, and attached,
using four gallon Sprays with thirty feet c> h ° Qme o{ the
and spraying out the entire ® ch °2L r g^i t h Officers are
ceilings are about 50 feet high. The H w ;n n 0
highly delighted with the Tyree Spray , and jou win n
doubt get a lot of orders from JjMbMj*
(Sgd.) J. Buzaccott.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
When the early settlers undertook the
task of naming Australian birds and animals, why
on earth couldn’t they have adopted more of the
aboriginal names ? When they came to the kan-
garoo, they were stuck, and simply had to fall
b ick on the blackfeilow’s name —though, if the
idea had struck them, they’d have called it a
“ native wheelbarrow.” But in how many cases
has a real or fancied resemblance to something
with which they were acquainted given rise to
names nearly always misleading, often ridiculous !
Surely “koala” is better than the absurd “native
bear,” and “kookaburra” than that verbal mon-
strosity “laughing jackass.” “Laughing jack-
ass” indeed ! —why not call the mopolce “sobbing
tom-cat” ? Then, again, we call the piping crow-
shrike a “ magpie,” which it is not; what’s wrong
with the native name “karoo”? Why must w,e
borrow the name “opossum” from a perfectly
distinct American animal, and apply it to what
the aboriginals called the “ kooragai ” ? We all
know that an emu is not an ostrich, yet “emu”is
but a slight corruption of the Portuguese name of
the ostrich; why not use the aboriginal “ mar-
riang ” ? Finally, to refer to the huge lizard, so
celebrated in the anecdotal literature of the back-
blocks, why can’t he have a name of his own ? He
is called an “iguana” or a “go-anner ” when he
is no more an iguana than an emu is an ostrich.
Scientists call him a “ varan,” South Australian
blacks a “ kojurrie,” Either name is more suit-
able than “ iguana.”
It ESC US LAGER AND REPRESENTATIVE
“holding their own” (and something more)
in North Queensland.
“ San Remo,” on the ant :
The simplest plan for shifting a bull-ants’ nest—throw
a few armfuls of grass on the nest. The ant, with all his
alleged wisdom, is really one of the most foolish insects
on the continent. His ability to get bushed is only
equalled by his absolute certainty of arriving home some
day. Throw a stick across his trail, and when he hits it,
instead of climbing over it like any sensible being, he’ll
run up and down, over, under, and all around it. But if
it takes him a week he’ll find the trail again. Now when
this idiot has about a million and one sticks (of grass)
to examine every time he comes out of the nest he gets
the hump, packs his bag and shifts bis home. ’Tis a
mystery to me how the ant manages to live, let alone
store lip a pile against a wet day. The amount of
time he wastes examining dead things, sticks and stones,
etc., and getting lost, and finding the bearings again, is
just marvellous. And when he does find a bit worth
carting home, instead of making a bee line for the store-
house he doubles about and twists and side-tracks him-
self, and climbs up needless things, and rushes down them
again, till his track is l.ke a streak of lightning that has
been drinking.
“Ed.”: Be cat and rabbit, cross con-
troversy. The cross is not impossible. The
Tantanoola tiger, which has taken the place of the
blacks’ bunyip, has died, but not before it did his
best to solve the birth-rate problem. Fortunately,
only one tiger was out. His offspring have both
hoofs and paws. Several have been yarded, but
a sixteen-feet high stockyard will not keep them
in. Only one has been kept; this one had hoofs
on its forelegs, and thus couldn’t climb. All
these cross-breds have tine striped black-and-
yellow markings, with horns slightly prominent.
They purr like dynamos, eat grass in winter, and
sheep in summer when the grass gets too dry.
As there are now only quadroon and octoroon
tigers, the danger yearly decreases. The.farmers
in Western Victoria, tjy judicious prossifig with
Jersey's and other mild-mannered cattle, are gradu-
ally breeding out the ferocity, and soon the
Tantanoola tiger will be only historical, until
some bucolic keen wit again sallies out with
pots of lamp-black and yellow ochre. Rabbits
and cats cross ; so do tigers and cows. My emu
and canary cross is very successful. Keeping
them on a circular track they whistle as they run,
and run as they whistle, and their whistle beats
any steam siren. My fowl and ostrich cross,
though very tine in feather, is not a success ;
they are over leggy and will never sit long enough
to lay. By introducing a dodo-strain (a renowned
sitting bird) I hope to perfect my ostrich-cwm.-
fowl cross for a table variety. On this I build
my hopes, and with a finishing touch of the lyre
strain, good plumage and perfection will be
attained.
* * * *
“H. McDuffie ” lays on
I was awakened some time during the other night by a
noise, or rather a succession of them, that suggested to
my mind the possibility that some of the lost souls had
clambered up out of Sheol. I crawled out of bed, grasped
the poker in my clammy hand, tip-toed fo fpe door opep-
ing on to the verandah, and flung it open, with the po)ier
poised ready to smite the disturbance. As I stood
shivering, that awful sound was repeated. The cry had
sunk to a low, choking sob, and, peering anxiously about,
I located the disturbance under a seat at the end of the
verandah. Then I heard something move. I sneaked
along, and, peering down, could distinguish a small black
mass under the seat. I uttered a prayer and smote the
mass with the poker. Then I staggered back appalled.
The other sounds were as nothing to the ones that now
assailed my ears. Windows in the houses all along the
street were thrown open, and dishevelled heads were
thrust out, and frightened voices inquired of each other
who was getting murdered. The black mass stirred, and
I backed as it advanced towards me. The light from a
street lamp across the way fell athwart my verandah,
and as the black mass crossed the lighted space, the
poker dropped from my nerveless hand, and a sigh of
relief escaped me. I stooped and pulled a fish tin off our
cat’s head. The next day I heard two old ladies in our
street talking about me. One remarked to the other
that she had never liked the look of me —I had a brutal
appearance (she didn’t know that once on a time I got
third priz“ in a beauty show ; there were only three com-
petitors, but that is by the way), and she was thankful
that she wasn’t my wife. •“ To think that he should beat
her like that, poor dear ! ” she added.
* * » »
“ Truthful James” : Be various paragraphs
on the mothering instinct. I knew a cat that
would adopt almost anything. One of her
proteges was an orphan chicken, which would push
in among the kittens for warmth. Puss made no
objection, and even did her duty by the intruder
to the extent of trying to keep its feathers clean
by licking. A small, pink, hairless opossum she
accepted doubtfully, apparently uncertain whether
it was intended for food. Eventually she
adopted it, and reared it with great success, though
she seemed to find its habit of clinging to her back
alarming.
* * * *
“Janor”: Pity our native shrubs and
trees are not extensively used in gardens and
plantations. For ornamental and shade .pur;-.
many of them are superior to the imported article.
I saw, the other day, in the garden of a Gippsland
pioneer, a musk tree that had been transplanted
from a neighboring gully years ago. It was a
fine sight; at least 200 ft. high and a pyramid of
gorgeous blossoms—wh’te, with a gleam of pale
gold. Truly a desirable tree, and good to live
alongside of. Another handsome shade tree is
the wild cherry. It is more graceful in outline
than pinus insignis, which at a distance it re-
sembles. It is hardy, and grows to a good size.
There are others, such as the lightwoods and
laurels; also flowering shrubs galore, which in
many cases bushmen have no names for. Even
the despised dog-wood, with a little pruning and
care, makes a pleasing green-and-white display.
* * * •
“F.H.R.”: My experience of Mr. Mag
is that he is the kind-hearted old cynic
and joker of the bush. But there are
moments when he is one of the leading
vocal lights as well. Ever heard Mr. Mag
and friends just before daybreak ? Camped once
at Johnstone’s Creek, building a bridge over it,
and every morning Mr. Mag and friends led the
choir. He would give the key, and then, “All
together boys,” the whole choir would strike up.
Now a parrot would chip in, now a minah, while
down from the creek bank a native hen would
harshly respond, until all the firsts, seconds,
thirds, sopranos, contraltos, mezzo - sopranos,
basses, baritones, and every tone of the bush
chimed in in one grand mighty hymn to the
coming day.
* * * *
“ Lyttleton ” : On Wullagoona station,
between Cobar and Louth (N.S. W.), in an immense
ironstone formation, is an ancient aboriginal art-
gallery, in which huge painted ’roos and emus
race up the rocks, and blue cockatoos scream from
yellow trees. Perspective there is none. Painted
nigs, chase painted ’possums, twice as large as
themselves along branches like lead pencils.
Nobody seems able to identify the coloring matter,
which is very difficult to obliterate, and has re-
mained practically unaffected by weather.
Owing to the light shade of the rock, the pictures
cannot be photographed successfully. The “gal-
lery ” is, luckily, in good hands. No vandalism
allowed, and visitors have to leave umbrellas and
sticks in charge of a native bear at an adjacent
ant-hill.
THE LIFE BUOY.
MOTOR FIEND (absently jlinging out the syure tyre): " Man [?]!"
“Fred. B.” : Have often wondered why
donkeys are not more used in W.A. They are
much better suited for the country than horses,
and for drawing heavy loads in sandy country
are superior to camels. They drink little,
and thrive on bush food. Between Lawlers and
Lake Way I have met teams of them—22 to 28 —
drawing from six to eight tons per team. Asked
a teamster if he had names for all his donkeys.
“Oh, yes,” he replied. “But don’t you have
some difficulty in finding names for so many ? ” I
asked. “ Oh, no,” was the answer. “We mostly
calls ’em John Forrest and Wittenoom.”
« * • *
“ Yarrum ” writes :
Went into a Chinaman’s garden on the last holiday,
arid, if 1 don’t get typhoid but of it, I’m a marvel. Was
making for a loquat tree, and got one leg down between
some rotten boards, and bamboos covering a well from
which all the perfume came. Got my barked limb out
somehow, staggered forward into a bud of oil.ons— more
smell —and fell
on my face with
a loaded gun
under me. It
(the gun) went
olf, making a
under the
bull"* ami more
smell, but I,
being uncon-
scious at the
time, didn’t
notice the fact.
Then my mate,,
who raised me
and adminis-
tered whisky,
assured me that
it was nothing,
and that I’ll be
used to it when
I get used to
Chow gardens.
He was used to
it, but admit-
ted it was cer-
tainly not a
“ bed of vio-
lets.” With m.v
mouth bound
up with a hand-
kerchief, I allow ed
myself to be led up
to the pit, and there,
through the aperture
made by my limb, I gazed upon all
manner of fish in every stage of decomposi-
tion On the top floated a cwt. stingray with bulging
eyes that were falling from their sockets as he fell to
pieces. Dog-sharks were there galore, and toads swelled
to the dimensions Of bud-pups. It was a vile combination.
Close at hand was a bed of rhubarb, and beside it a dipper
on a very long pole ; but how even a Chow could stand up
to the compound and ladle it out to feed the vegetables,
beats me. The rhubarb, far as I can remember, looked
nice, but it should taste smellful. Less than a hundred
yards from the fish-pond was a registered dairy.
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : There has been a lot
said of late concerning the crow’s ability to dodge
lead, but the white cockatoo runs him a tight
second. These sulphur-crested screechers always
perch on the top of the tallest tree they can find,
when they’re not discussing the farmer’s corn
cobs ; and, when engaged in this latter business,
they always keep a sentinel on the top of an
adjacent tree. When you approach within 200
yards with a gun, there is a warning and a
stampede. Yet they are easily caught m the
ordinary rabbit traps. I have seen 50 caught in a
day on one hay staclc.
Messrs. Williamson and Co., Jundah, Q.,
recently wrote : —“ Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy enjoys a great reputation
in these parts. It has affected some really re-
markable cures, and scarcely a home is without a
bottle.”
Mr. L. P Williams, Manager, Times
and Star, Westport, N.Z., writes While on
a visit to Christchurch, I was attacked with a
severe bout of dysentery, and was unable to leave
the hotel. Had some medicine sent in from a
chemist, but it gave me no relief. Having seen
in the papers what others had said about Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy,
I decided to try it, and sent out for a bottle. Ihe
result was most satisfactory, for after taking two
doses I was free from all pain, and was soon com-
pletely cured.”
Mr. F. Hellberg, an engineer employed at
Sydney Royal Exchange, has invented a “notion ”
which shouldbe very useful topieknickers, campers?
out, the “ man on the track,” and all who have to
do alfresco cooking. The contrivance consists of
three iron rods, about £ inch in diameter and
about 1 foot in total length, but bent-off at right
angles for about 3 inches at each end. These rods
are gripped in the middle of the shaft-portion by
a coil-collar which allows them to be turned in
it so that the angled arms at each end radiate at
about 30 degrees from each other. These diverg-
ing arms serve at one end as a spreading foot for
the utensil, and at the other as a rest for a billy,
frying-pan or stew-pan. For carriage, the shaft-
rods can be turned in the collar till the angle-arms
lie close together, so that the whole thing will fit
into a reasonably-sized pocket.
THE BOOK BORROWING THIEF—IN
TOPHET.
“Elmore”: Bought a small place lately,
formerly owned by an old “hatter,” who had
crossed the “ Great Divide.” After purchasing,
someone remarked that the old “hatter” had
planted a lot of money about the place ; but I had
heard the same yarn often, so I took no notice.
I was prospecting the adjacent ranges and coming
home twice a week. When I got home from the
first trip, half the garden was dug up. My heart
went out to the good Samaritan, whoever he was,
and I straightway planted some cabbages. Next
trip the other half was dug. Never before had I
struck such kindness. I put cauliflowers and
beans in. Then the well was cleaned out. 1
showed my appreciation by putting a new oil-
drum on the rope. The work done by those
unseen hands was marvellous. A big heap of
rubbish was removed from the front, and i
planted flowers. A large tree, dry and hollow',
that leaned over the roof, was carefully felled and
broken up. I used it as firewood. A large hole
was dug near the centre post of the hut, and it
made a lovely cellar. But rain drove me home
yesterday. The roof was gone, and the stone
chimney lay in great disorder over my garden,
and a note on the door read, “ Tried every-
where ; no money here.”
WOMEN OUTBACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the fever stalks through the Great Unknown,
And the fierce sun burns and blisters,
When we’re beaten, baffled, and overthrown—
Then we turn to our Outback sisters.
Like sunbeams bright that have lost lel 1 wa J
And wandered away from the track.
They come to brighten our saddest day—
The women who live Outback.
Some are there who have lived the l.fe
Of struggle and strain in town,
But have gone under in the strife,
Battered, beaten, and down.
They have felt life’s misery, sin, and pain,
They have hungered when times were slack,
So they’ve turned .heir faces west again,
And have taken the Outward track.
And others are there for the love they hold
For some wanderer somewhere there,
Treasuring up in their hearts of gold
Memories old and sere.
So pass along the good red wine
For a toast we shall never lack—
We’ll drink to-night, good comrades mine,
“ To the women who live Outback ! ”
VIC.
[?] CRAY.


«<
&he LAD lES’
Fx&iß” Watch
At £6 Os.
Is a |-Plate Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby roller jewel. Has solid 14ct. gold case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two
years (breakages, excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Lady’s f-plate Lever, Solid 14et. Gold Case,
£6 6s ; ditto, 1 Set. Case, £7 7s.
pl "SfS ures FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, 11 ” " ld “ s"Sn"" J ' Uo "”2B_Hunter St.
“ Wusslean,” on the greatness of the man
who is ex-Something in the bush :
At a small township in the Mornington Peninsula
(Vic.) I was putting up my horse and myself at the pub.
for an hour. A group of men had been attracted by the
mild excitement of a council meeting which was being
held iu the dining-room, and attached to one lurking
form was a face that I thought I recognised. He told me
he was “ ex-Oouncillor Broggins, of Wuk-wuk,” but
asked me not to “say anything,” because he was
“ travellin' incogniter.” Somewhat inconsistently he
added that, last time he passed through when the Council
was sitting, he was seated at the president’s right hand
and detained to dinner ; but the new councillors had
“no idea of how to treat an ex-councillor.” He was
still haunting the pub. with an expression of fallen
greatness when I left.
SUNDAY REFRESHMENT.
THE LAW : “ You’re liable too, me mahn, I’ve
col ye dhrinkin’.”
THE CUSTOMER : "Drinkin’, be blowedl I didn’t
buy this t ’ drink. I bought it to look at.”
“ Jum ” : “ Mallarapoonie ” (B. 6/12/’O6)
is right about the asbestos beetle, I have often
seen him at Associated Mine, Boulder, wriggle
from a cool ash heap and go straight for a newly
tipped lot. Expected to see him turn-turtle and
die, but he rooted out a live ember, cuddled into
its place, shut the door and probably couldn’t
sleep for the cold. His bite is much sharper than
a bull-ant’s.
A BLACK CONCLUSION.
BLACKBOY (who has been accompanying a priest on a pastoral trip in N.Q., reporting to
publican): “By cripcs! he big picaninny pfeller. Everybody we meet call him father."
“ Janor ” : Never took much stock in the
luck of drunks until a recent Saturday night,
when the beer was running a banker in the shanty
up the creek. It ed IVlick had chanced on a
“speck,” and the boys rolled up to dissolve the
same. Close to the shanty is .an old shaft, origin-
ally 70ft. deep,
but the caving
of the sides had
filled it up to
within 25ft. of
the surface and
considerably in-
creased its width.
Brocky Tom,
leaving early
with a good load
up, walked
straight into it,
curled up on the
bottom and went
to sleep. An
hour later Bill
and Jim started
homeward. They
reached theshaft
and Bill disap-
peared. Natur-
ally he woke
Tom ; it’s a sure
way of waking a
man to fall 25ft.
on to him. Tom
wished to know
what the Hades
he wanted in his
hut, and ordered
him off the pre-
mises and in a
jiffy the me n
were in holts.
Jim, meanwhile,
was peering
through the
darkness, won-
dering how he’d
lost Bill. He
knew when he
heard his mate
yelling out that
somebody was
murdering him,
and just then he
lost his balance
and fell into the
scrap. They
i made such an
infernal row that
we had to leave our beer, get roj >n and oandles, and
haul them out. They were unhurt, hut we were
not depending too much on the luck of drunks,
and thought it safer to drink beer all night and
pass that sliaft by chxylight. #
“Oliver”: “J.W.L.” (B. 4/10/’O6) tells
of a Scotchman who went to visit the Rockhamp-
ton show, but did not get there. A miner from
Marble Bar and Pilbarra has been trying for 10
years to get down to Perth. Every December he
comes in over 100 miles of sand and spinifex to
Port Hedland. That is as far as he gets
Several times he has booked his passage, but is
always dead drunk when the boat leaves. He
works for 10 or 11 months with the thermometer
anything up to 125°, then he makes for the coast
with a cheque worth something like £lOO, but the
Swan river has never seen a cent of it. Local
pubs, scoop it ail.
“ M.R.T.N.,” on two pumpkins :
I attended a harvest thanksgiving service up Gipps-
land way last summer. The church was decorated for
the occasion with products of the soil: flowers, fruit,
grain, and vegetables. I didn’t see aiy onions, but a
young lady who handed me a hymn-book suggested a
flavor of that fragrant bulb. A box, painted to represent
a pulpit, was garnished with two monster pumpkins, one
on either front corner. To the left and underneath were
members of the choir and the ohurch organ.
The officiating parson was a small man with a voice of
the penny-whistle type. His arms and hands whirled
round and lashed here and there like a cow’s tail at milk-
ing time, and he thumped the frail pulpit with ferocity.
“ Woe unto you, my brother ! ” he screeched, waving his
arms wildly. “ Woe, oh, unto you.” Then quite unin-
tentionallv he fetched the left-hand pumpkin a blow on
its countenance which sent that obese vegetable rolling
backward. The little preacher made a desperate and
unavailing effort to arrest its descent. Then, with a con-
vulsive back-spring to regain his equilibrium, he humped
against and overbalanced No. 2 pumpkin.
The fat organist was dozing peacefully in his seat
below in front of his instrument, when 301 b. of prize
pumpkin cleft the atmosphere and fell on the bass notes
with a roar, lie bounded into the air like a scalded cat,
and just in time to break the fall of the second pumpkin,
which met him in the region of the equator and broke in
pieces on his corn. One fragment flew up and struck the
mild countenance of a choir-girl in a white frock, and
she fell back into a dish of raspberries. The rest of the
discourse was flat, and the parson presently brought his
sermon to a close. In the prayer which followed, he im-
plored mercy for those afflicted or in distress, whereat
the organist held his foot and groaned, and the girl with
the once white dress sobbed softly. The congregation
had dispersed before somebody remembered that the
usual collection had not been taken up. The organist
and the young lady in the crushed-raspberry costume
were driven to their homes in a spring cart, one being
lame and the other unfit for public inspection.
“Alex. Mont.”: The statement (B. 6/12/’O6)
about “ Pelorus Jack” moves me to attempt the
clearing up of sundry prevalent zoological mis-
conceptions. To begin with : “P.J. ’ aforesaid
is almost certainly Deljohinapterus leucas , the so-
called white whale, and not Grampus griseus,
which is the only precisely ascertained species of
the true grampus. I say “true” because the
term “grampus ” is very generally misapplied to
the “killer,” Orca gladiator, which belongs to
another genus of the family Delphinidce. Again,
the type animal of this family, Delphinus delphis,
is the creature generally known as the “porpoise.”
The true porpoise, Phoccena, communis, has a
short, blunt head, with weak jaws and few
teeth; whereas the well-known pig-like snout
of the dolphin encloses a formidable dental
equipment. Further confusion arises from the
fact that the name “ dolphin ” is very commonly
applied to a fish—of the family coryphamidce—
noted for the color-display it furnishes when
dying. I notice that in Stead’s recently-pub-
lished “ Fishes of Australia ” the author is careful
to differentiate this creature as the Dolphin fish.
* * * *
“ Riverina ” : Some bush-cooks’ nick-
names— “Scotty Bob,” “Concertina Dick’’
(“My bread springs loike a blan lcy concertina,”
says Richard), “Mallee Jack,” “ Dick the Nark,
“.Terry the Coot,” “Hammer-Handle Sam,
“The Sympathiser” (“I can’t give you no
tucker, hut you’ve got my sympathy ”), “Rats,”
“Navvy,” “Jack of Diamonds,” “Sammy the
Gent.”
“ Harry’s ” yarn :
Mrs. Murphy, cockatooess, was having a Ally broken in
with a view to side-saddle. Pat O’Brien, who rather
fancied himself with horses and widows, happened that
way in the morning.
“ Good morning, Mr. O’Brien,” sez she.
“ Good mornin ’, Mrs. Murphy,” sez I. .
“ Would ye roide the mare for me this morning, Mr.
° “Would S Oi mide the roomp off her for ye, Mrs.
Murphy?” sez I. , , . ~
“ Would you come in and have a cup of tea, ana roiae
the roomp off her afterwards?”
“ Oi'll come in and have a cup of tea, and roide tne
roomp off her afterwards,” sez I. , ,
“ So I had a cup of tea, and started down to the stock-
yard. I had on a new pair of brogues, nicely greased.
(The brogues seem to have nothing whatever to do with
the story—but they seem to fit.) “ I got on themare, and
she made three consikitive bcoks, and I made as minj re-
volutions in the air. The third time I looked down I saw
the mare a quarther of a mile away.”
“ ‘ Go it ye ! ’ I sez, ‘ and now for a wollop.
“ I didn’t remember any more till I woke up three
weeks afterwards in the Dubbo hospital.”
* . * •
“ Gip ” : I remember some Bulletin
correspondent laughing to scorn the assertion of
an English scribe that lambs do not know their
mothers when the latter are fresh from the shears.
Well, I have noticed during this last season that
in nearly every case the lamb not only does not
know its mother, but runs from her in terror.
A shorn ewe, with her head appearing out of all
proportion and her pale eyes showing like a very
dead fish’s, is a fearsome-looking beast, and the
hungry lamb bolts at sight of her, stopping now
and then to look round, and then racing away
again. But the pursuing and bawling ewe soon
establishes her identity.
* * „ *
“Knuck”: Do horses often —or ever—
turn grey with old age ? Saw, t’other day, a
33 year-old grey horse, whose owner assured me
that it had originally been a bay.
- * * *
“1.X.L.”: Travelling in Central Queens-
land (where the white man can’t exist), met a
man who did odd jobs for the people around-
fencing, clearing, in fact, anything to earn a bob
or two. A little stranger had just arrived. “You
see,” he said, “it’s just like this: it means an-
other to feed, and times ain’t too good ; but still,
we reckon we can’t growl; lots of people has
more in the time.” I found that he. had been
married a trifle over four years, and this was the
fifth blessing. On another occasion, heard a
brother of the above discussing a clearing
contract with a selector. The latter was
dubious —said it was only three years since
last clearing; and it, therefore, could not have
been well done. Our friend claimed that it was a
bit over four years. Selector was unconvinced.
“ Well,” said jack, “ if you recollect I was work-
ing on that bit of clearing when Phyllis was born,
and, if you like to come down, the missus can tell
you that Percy, Doris and the baby are younger
than Phyllis.” The selector evidently realised the
force of these family facts, and jack got the
contract. „
THE HUT BY YARRABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I passed through Yarraby to-day,
Where, as a boy, I used to play,
And found the grand old forest gone,
And ancient landmarks swept away.
Save one ; for by a mountain rill—
The little creek that skirts the hill
An old log-hut stood, squat and square,
And weathered all the seasons still.
Pale, greenish lichens spread along
Its heavy timbers, rude and strong;
And close against the doorway grew
An old and weedy currajong.
Within had gathered divers drift
Of nests of swallow and of swift,
And pale, strange growths reared to the roof,
Where light came in at many a rift.
A tale of years it is since I
Beneath that old bark roof did lie
And hear the wind sough in the trees,
And strange bush-voices start and cry'.
Another generation’s hands
Have felled the trees and cleared the lands ;
Of copses where koalas cried
No stick or stump or sapling stands.
The ghosts of half-remembered things
Still linger with uncertain wings,
And many a memory of the past
About the roof and rafters clings.
To humble uses has it come—
A shelter-house for tenants dumb —
Yet still, to me at least, it wears
The simple dignity of home.
Back on the shoal of Time re-cast,
By devious ways returned at last,
After the lapse of many years
Through Yarraby to-day I passed.
And from a hut beside the way,
Where, as a boy, 1 used to play,
Stretched ghostly hands to draw me back
Into a dim sweet yesterday 1
Vic.
O. G. A. OOLLES.
AN EXCHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The parson came to Mulga Holes,
And, oh ! his heart was sorely grieved
For those unsaved, benighted souls
Who in the outer darkness lived.
For Mulga boles’ perverted ways
Were those, indeed, of heathen men ;
But deepest in the moral maze
Was plunged the soul of Sailor Ben.
The parson struggled with the throngs
Of Satan for that man of w'rath,
To snatch him from their waiting prongs,
And lead him to the narrow path.
But, with the hardihood that blocks
The eyes of worldly, sceptic men,
As flinty as the granite rocks
Remained the heart of Sailor Ben.
The shepherd took another hold
With Beelzebub, and vowed he’d win
That erring wanderer to the fold
From out the flowery paths of sin.
No more he spoke to Sailor Ben
Of future doom in tones profound.
But, like his sinful fellow-men,
He joined him in his nightly round.
He sipped, with fear, the flowing bowl,
And puffed, with trembling, at a pipe,
And jeopardised his saintly soul
To rescue Ben’s from Satan’s gripe.
The miners, with impious joy,
Saw, with the flight of passing days’,
The parson’s manner grow less coy
As Ben inclined to better ways.
The bonds of Bacchus fell away
From Sailor Ben as gyves of air,
And, in his rough, untutored way,
He felt a need for inward prayer.
The- hotfoot shepherd, sad to say,
Had gone so far for duty’s sake,
That down Averous’ shelving way
He swiftly flew without a brake.
* * * *
There drives a whip a# Hoskins’ claim —
A figure, lank and sad of mien—
Whose nose is colored like the flame
That lurks beneath the ruby’s sheen.
His form is clad in rusty black ;
His breath is like a shanty bar ;
It is the holy man, alack,
Who challenged Hades’ hosts to war.
Ben joined the Army’s ranks, and takes,
With tamborine in hand, the tolls
From those who dodge Gehenna’s rakes
(They're mighty few in Mulga Holes).
S.A-
DEXTEG


TW« hj
'ftfyon of forties!'
[WiW«j
sAjny)
'Tfye Chantf o|"
Schools
been s«cce yrful 1 17
7 §. A . °f tc ys
Tf/e nittiJry 1
£P l Biihob
o\-
Bu/felr n S'cu* „e, H'llvife _
aid you ttSe
or freeze ! ”
—
73 SAve fpem ivokals °f •#/« S^ccb^k
Acfcd * % S% S of fc c
H«lbo«rne f.W o^er s I^v C fr e «»
$. y * w7O i! 7 57 Ch °> ,0 7« e s' 7*ll
wilt) ak>«.f ty<, f "
pro Teemed Tfiproaehly I
*Z*JI mM< th?f43n%. ,
eyer cU*« tom fr #« W«J*V , b«+Vte»
W$Ae. 'H SMgfc nrf«sS
Tfe \% $ befZUtcz
Oh Ihe fart of
Concerni>7o ■s£
"Hre ih->|>en'?\!
1 Co*>^e>'e''>ce
I L A ? e l
JudKir7s IS eolf7Q
■fo Bn/hSw/cl^
L s«*+" |*i Vic fVl f
I LPx'yfahr
"fit 'fat#
Bjbl&
£ohd4fct~ & fig*v>rvjor?
rj ‘ ' 1- R 3
TRis
ife fu-foy*
Be*vt" w/ftj"
f ►'phrj, ss^y- Ok Ezekiel
°7 r l«ca>l pf>+ion" f
/ 4 'A
fr (
Kid s H
Hof 5
3ibles Ijefy/ean'e*?— 'xv
>r Kee|? s^igl»f/"
—"
HUMORS OF MELBOURNE.


MOTHER GOOSE, UP TO date.
Old Mother Hubbard,
She went to the cupboard
To get her poor doggie a bone;
But (’twas deuced hard luck)
The butchers had struck,
-So the pup was put off with a scone.
RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL.
Pater: “My son, you have turned up at an
unfortunate time. I happen to have a
fatted calf right enough, but the slaughter-
men arc on strike, and I’m the merest
amateur at killing. Would you mind knock-
ing the beast on the head while I hold him ?”
Cock-o’-the-waik : “My dear,
our watchword must be
‘ Roost High ’ until this
cruel strike is over, for I
suspect that we shall be
unusually popular at din-
ner parties for some time.”
A PASTORAL.
Here you see the typical Australian of the.future contentedly chewln* the ~ „
after a hearty meal of mulga and salt-bush. * he CUd
The Australian eats too much meat; that is well known. If the strike In
J the slaughter-yards continue, he bids fair to become a herbivorous animal*
/ The more opulent among us will be able to hire a small boy to keep the fifes
I Off us while browsing, pending the development of a proper tail.
Humane Party : “You see, I am taking
home a pig for dinner, and, as 1
wish to inflict as painless a death
upon it as possible, you may put
tffe v up sixpenn’orth of chlorofofm.”
Here behold the pathetic struggles of
the head of a family to secure a meal
for his dear ones at home. Scene:
.The oyster-shell covered rocks Of
Middle Harbor.
Prof. McAtom : <■ Here, cook, soak this
little tabloid In water for three
hours, then boll It for half an hour,
and skim off the top, and you’ll
have a dinner for a family of six.”
: "Is that all you have
V brought home to make a dinner
for a family of eight?”
Breadwinner : "Yes, my dear ; and
I’ve been .sitting on a hard rock
all day to catch that.”
Wife : “ Well, all I can say is, you
are a better sportsman than a
provider.”
If It comes to the worst!
POTENTIALITIES OF A SLAUGHTERMEN’S STRIKE.
TROUBLE THREATENS IN THE MEAT TRADE—BOTH AT SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE


Irir.
Thiigfli
Derif-ifric^
So very refreshing.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
e lsaac Carr-SmitK, of J&ines ;
Sydney,, will retiirn . td, his flock , softer .Easter,
s , Head, tij. Marshall, of Sydney, who, was
60. frequently .suspected ,of. abortion that at last
fche-Sydniey police. set ,a special , guard.,, op his
hnusfj.- 1 He | wPS'iOP i trial) jUumberless times, but
alWyaeseaped . , .
■ Adelaide Gadfly has an amusing competi-
tion amongst its readers as to the five worst
citizens. So far the leading five are: G. H. Reid
(N.S.W.), W. H. Judkins (Vic.), John Norton
(N.S.W.), Dill Macky (N.S.W.), Hy. Gainsford
(S.A.).
Judy Judkins says there is no reason why
Victoria should not have a Parliament of tee-
totalers and moralists, and he means to contest a
seat next election. There is nothing new in this.
Vie. Parliament has had scores of teetotallers and
moralists; ttiahy of them drifted from Parliament
into gaol; others merely drifted from Parliament
to ObsOhrity;
MisS Grace Galotfcd; havirtg plilnged iiitd
&uthoH-hij) With a romance, noW threatens a bbbk
Of itfiptessibiiS of Australia and Mabrilahd, Act,-
ttkigfeS dd bfltibflsly Wfell as Writers; Mrs. Jordan
Milfjfe Wrbtb ah bkcellbnt bbbk bh Asia; Miss
jSrriity Soldbne is krioiVn as a jdiiriialist iti twb
ll'eihisphefes ; ahd there ate others.
“ Kbjreputti ’’ Sniitli (M.L.) clainris thdt
He Ms bohi Ebb. 15, 1804. If that is sd, he is
hlose tip to 103 years old. The PET.ottusGijAßDlAd
Eays,; recently,, he bhllea up from ms
home ip iKerepurp Sound, being five hours on the
jouriiey m consequence of a bad wind arid sed» atid
pelting rairi.” . , ,
TW6 of the big personalities df the Cdni-
ihonWealth ate curiously alikb in filial devotion,
And ih the call fot displacing it. Both Prime
Minister Deakih and High Court Justice Isaacs
have aged ihothers; to cbnifdrt whose declining
days is bhedf their chief cares. A social appdint-
meht with Jtistice Isaabs is alWayS subjebt tb thb
state Of his mother’s health, arid ndthing Wohld
tear thb Prime Minister aWay on the night of the
week he devotes to his mother.
GLEAN.
He looks the whole world in the face.
For he owes not any man.
— Longfellow’s “ Village Blacksmith."
Put not your faith in princes, nor your
livelihood in the hands of the sovereign people.
Ex-Senator Higgs must reflect on that mournfully
now. Entering the Senate, he made it the de-
liberate purpose of his life to fit himself for his
duties, abandoning to do so his profession as a
journalist. Fellow members recognised his in-
dustry and ability, and made him Chairman of
Committees, and his elevation to the presidency
next year was freely forecasted. Then , came the
elections, and Higgs was cast out —not through
any fault of his own, but through the criminal
stupidity of others. And that sort of thing is
always liable to happen in politics—the poorest
calling a man can give his brains to.
THE ENRAGED SHEEP.
BUNSON : “ I-I-I regard yon as an unmitigated liar, sir."
JOHNSON : “I regard you as a-a ruffian. If I had my coat on Ed take it off and give
you a Secure thrashing."
A British peer’s daughter—Lady Agnes
de Trafford—is travelling Maoriland with her
cricketer husband, and working a camera hard
the while. Cricketer Charles de Trafford does his
best to live up to the “ Lady ” by the “de ” and
“ J.p. j D.L., High Sheriff of Leicestershire,
Lord of Hothorpe Manor,” after his name.
Just fifty years ago John Fairfax, of
S.M. Herald, offered himself as a candidate for
the suffrages of the independent electors of the
city of Sydney for the seat “ recently vacated by
Mr. Henry Parkes.” W. B. Dailey was nomi-
nated against the Herald mankind beat him.
Mr. Fairfax never offered himself to the electors
again.
An old Sydney commercial identity died
at Meroo (Nowra), on Christmas Eve—Mr. James
Giles, aged 80 years. In early life he was a sailor,
then was connected with the old drapery firm of
Thompson and Giles (whose premises stood on the
site of Martin Place, George-street). Some 15
years ago he purchased a farm, and ended life as
a bucolic.
From a Sydney newspaper of just 38 years
ago —“Five new nominations to the Legislative
Council have been made by the Government.
Mr. Thomas Holt, Mr. John Richardson (ex-
M.L.A.), Mr. Darley (barrister), Mr. Alexander
Parke and Mr. Henry Moore, of Sydney.” Only
Chief Justice Darley is now left alive of that
batch.
There is a rare obligation attached to St.
Philip’s Church, Sydney, whose incumbency is
vacant through Archdeacon Langley taking the
Bendigo bishopric. Years ago John Campbell, ot
“ the wharf,” who half-a-century back represented
Sydney Hamlets in the Legislative Assembly,
gave the church a peal of bells conditionally on
their being rung on his birthday.
That venerable South Sea wanderer,
Rev. Dr. John G. Paton, is reported in extremis.
He is now 83. Half a century ago he started
missionarying in the New Hebrides, and has stuck
to work in that warm corner of the vineyard ever
since. His son Frank, a sturdy youngster, born
in the New Hebrides, though a soul-saver like
dad, is also an excellent boxer and dancer, an A 1
swimmer, runner and diver.
Speaker Jenkin Coles, of S.A. Assembly,
has put up what looks like a world’s record. He
has been nearly 17 years in the chair, and during
that time he has not missed a sitting of the House.
Another South Australian legislator who isn t a
shirker is Laborist Archibald. Archibald has
represented Port Adelaide for 14 years, and his
name has gone on the attendance roll as present
every time.
Obit at Paddington, Sydney, on Decem-
ber 30, William Eyre, aged 73 years. In the long-
ago he was a metal-broker in Melbourne. Coming
to Sydney, he engaged in land speculations at
Leuraand Katoomba, and established a bank
in George-street for the receipt of deposits on
which he paid £lO per cent, per annum. Ihe
interest was always paid, but when the burst
came in the early nineties, the principal had dis-
appeared. But Mr. Eyre’s books were straight.
His mistake was that he had attempted the im-
possible in finance.
When Louis Spitzel died in London, worth
two millions sterling, he left £5OOO to the League
of the Empire, to teach people to “think Im-
perially.” The lesson is soaking in—to solicitor
.Joe Woolf, for instance. The result of his Im-
perial cogitations is a summons to pay a 23-year-
old debt directed to Louis Spitzel s executors.
After all, there is advantage in taking a broad
view of things.
From the oldest inhabitant :
Mrs 0. Rolleston, who died the other day, was the
widow of Christopher Rolleston, private secretary to
Governor Denison, afterwards a Crown Lands Com-
missioner, Registrar-General in New South Wales, and
Auditor-General. Mrs. Rolleston was sister of Mr. Patrick _
Leslie, the pioneer of the barling Downs. Patrick Leslie
was one of the founders of the Union Club, Sydney, in
1856, when it occupied twbat is now the Imperial Hotel,
Wyn yard-square-
Charles Lethbridge Cowper, who died last
week, aged 50 years, was son of ex-Sheriff
Cowper, grandson of a former ET.S.W. Premier,
“Slippery Charlev” Cowper, and great-grandson
of Archdeacon Cowper, the third Church of
England clergyman appointed to N.9.W. as
“Colonial Chaplain.”
Lulu, Frank and Joseph have arrived
from Benton Harbor, Michigan, U.S.A., to re-
place John and Mary, apostles of Mary and Ben-
jamin, of “Christian Israelite” fame. The
curious no-meat, no-matrimony, but much long
straggling hair cult doesn’t spread much in Aus-
tralia, however. There is something m our sen-
sible, eucalyptic climate which is prophylactic
against religious eccentricities. But Australia
exports religious cranks to some extent Howie,
for instance —for the gulling of the hard-
headed” Yank. By the way, though John and
Mary won’t interfere with the course of nature,
and so put no scissors to their hair, it is very
noticeable that, when Mary’s teeth began to go,
she had them tilled with glittering gold.
SIMION PHRASER (returned at the head of
the poll to represent the North of Ireland in
the Australian Senate).
Arthur Streeton, who has come back to
his Australian sunlight, was entertained at
dinner at Paris House, by brother artists
in Sydney, last week: and (it is a happy
auo-ury perhaps, for him) there was about the
most representative gathering
in the city these many years. All the warring
sections of the Art world were represented and
S down together and ate the !«nb w.thont
a single growl.
One of the most intelTecthdii of, the.wQjnen,
who ran womanhood suffrage ideas in England
'years ago was Miss Stuart, sister to Altesnde?'
Sttiart, some years N.S.W. Premier. At thft«
tifU‘o she lived with her brother James Stuart, a rro-
fe'Ssof iff Gairibtidge, and her writings (m -woman s
mi id ibid, met,fated even to Australia, lj»
1875’ mp mighty proud of hr§
dating sister, gave oM di t»f ttWttfrty 3 to Henry
and, asied that MMImP /P™ion.
Wofiian-suffrage was, h&fdly thought oIJiJ AtJS*
tralia at
in favor of hef he added tl aff
“ the most womanly Of womeh’will set little val.iff
on the vote when they get ii. . _ ... , v . ;i
Sydney Telegraph comments Powify
“the somewhat remarkably circumstance that,’
while the Reform candidate for Blayney is a stone-
mason, the ultra-Democratic Labor party has
nominated a gentleman by Act of Parliament.
But that is the natural trend of things in AttS*
tfa.Ha : the young professional men are gravitating?
to the Labot party, and Democracy absorbs too
learning and refinement of the eommumty. a
ifca* or tttd ago, at a Melbourne luncheon, the
't’Orf party tfas represented by Tom Bent (the
msm, tm Labor party by the then Attorney-
Generai, Rigging (the etrltiVatfed), And it seemed
qjuite nafu'fal.'
iWbftfi iMt if fehtfietS
his way, Tait, now of Victoria; and RirfcCaldiO
will be two of the new N.S.W. Railway Cefir-
niissioners. But in view of the shameless way in
which the N.S.W. Government broke its contract
with Oliver—mainly, it seems, because he was
not amenable to the sort of political influence
which ran the Lands Department —it will pro-
bably be hard to get a good man to come here on
any reasonable terms.
While Carruthers, Price and the other
State Premiers are consumed with eagerness to
get away to London to the Imperial Conference,
the man who will have to go, Deakin, would,
without a doubt, let any one of them take his
place if he could do so. Deakin, though he is.
more praised and petted in London than any other
Commonwealth politician, dislikes the great city,
or at least likes Australia so much that he isn
really happy away from home.
Principal Rainy, of New College (Presby-
terian) Edinburgh University, who died at Toorai-.
(Yic.), On Sunday, has a place in Australian his
tory. In 1861 a remnant of the Victorian Presby -
terian Church claimed recognition from the Fret
Church of, Scotland as true representatives of the
Presbyterians, and Principal Rainy carried in his
assembly in Scotland a motion that the Vic.
Presbyterian Church was the only church in that
province with which the Free Church of Scotland
was in ecclesiastical fellowship. He was visiting
Australia for his health when he died.
AN ALLIANCE WANTED.-ANY SORT,
QUICK AND LIVELY.
Zimri Sellar, the long-bearded patriarch
of the S. Australian Labor party, is dead.
Though he battled for years for his side, he didn’t
reach Parliament until he was past 70; though
he had helped to put dozens of men there. He
wasn’t a strong man, but most Laborites had'a
warm regard for him because of his old connection
with the Chartists in England, and because he
stood for Labor when Labor had hardly another
open friend among the business men of the city.
He was a benevolent old party of many eccen-
tricities—among them a keen' regard for the two
dots over the “ a ” in his name.
The new Minister for the Colonies in
France disguised himself, and went on a tour of
his department. He found that two-thirds of the
officials were absent. So says the cable. Recalls
the fact that, a couple of days after being sworn
in as Governor of Vic., Sir Charles Hotham made
a round of the Government offices. Soon after
9 o’clock he arrived at the Customs House, and
found the messenger dusting the long room.
About 9.30 a clerk sauntered in, hung up his hat,
and commenced to whistle the latest popular air.
Soon after another came in, and began a chat
with his chum. Then Hotham, who was unknown
to the clerks, inquired when the chief would
arrive. The clerks did not know ;he might come
in half-an-hour, or he might not be in until noon.
Hotham, who ruled with quarter-deck precision,
issued orders (it was before responsible govern-
ment) that all civil servants should commence
their duties at 9 a.m. and finish up at 5.
“4th Engineer” writes from Pinkenba
(Queensland): —
This is the most miserable hole into which a mortal
could fall. It consists of a frozen meat works, tinned
ditto, thirty or so houses, one pub. and a large, dead
smell The inhabitants belong to the Queensland tribe,
and in instances wear a vacant expression, although some
are not easily distinguishable from ordinary human
beings. They run to six-feet-four in height. Color,
brownish, and conversation usually iKdlocky. Flora pf
place, various shrubs and eucalypti; fauna : bullock again
(frozen and potted), also a virulent breed «i mosquito. In
size this insect resembles the bumble bee, in di
position he is a starved tiger ; his weapon is several sizes
too large for him, according to my way of thinking
We have been loading same old dead bull for
days, but hope to get him all aboard to-night, we
have a coolie crew aboard. I reckon °. n ® m
worth half-a-dozen of them. Left my pipe in the c
for a second t’other day, and found the pock-marlr.ed
cabin “ boy ” puffing at it. Had to reluctantly throw it
overboard-cost me three dollars ,n ’Frisco. Vo-but I
left my mark on the coolie. They only kr.ow the law of
fist and boot; treat ’em like ordinary human beings, they
th nk you are afraid, and commence to bounce. Keep
the White Australia flag flying for all you’re worth. If we
can get the broken-down old engines to work to-morrow
we’ll start on our laggard crawl toward* Ada.


/~T-
PENS
At ANTHONY HORDERNS*
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The “STUB** Stylogfaphic Pen, 3s. each.
The ‘“STORK** Stylo graphic Pen, is. 6d. «a%'hv
The ** TATt^li, 11 with 14d. Gold Nib, 3s. 6d. each.
The “KEYSTONE,** Twin Fee«U with 14A. Gold Nib, ss. each.
PRESENTATION “SWAN** PEN, complete with Inh Filler and 14<&.
Gold Nib, in Fine Morocco Cases.
18«£t. Rolled Gold, 45s each i Silver, 425. each.
PRESENTATION “SWAN** PEN, complete With IhK Filler fch«l 14**.
Gold Nib, in Fine Morocco Case.
18Ct. Rolled Gold Barrel only, SOs. each 5 Silver Barrel only, 27/6 each.
V , Not illustrated »• •
Thfe *
5,” I s 9 d each
The “GLORIA,” Wet. Gold tflti, 4s %&bii
The “ Uc't. Gold Nib, 9/6 ea.
WATERMAN'S “ IDEAL,”
With 14ct. Gold Nib, lOs 6d each
The “PELICAN,” with Iridium-Pointed Best
Gold Nib, lOs 6d each
The “SWAN,” Best Quality Black Engraved
Holder, with 14ct. Gold Nib, 10& 6d each
The Improved Large '* SWAN,**
With 14ct. Gold Nib, 16s 6d each
The “SWAN,” with Two IBtt. Railed Gold
Bands, 12s 6d each
The “SWAN,” with Two IBct. Chased Gold
Bands, 21s each
Each Pen complete in box
Post 2dv extra; or by
Registered Post* £d* extras
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
PROVIDER S ER 3*&' PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
LIVER TORPOR aid BILIOUS HEADACHES
Removed At Once.
BRITISH VICE-CONSUL
WHITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate, Tarragona,
“March 12th, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using Kutnow’s
Powder, and find same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised to do.—l re-
main, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES, British Vice-Consul.”
RICHARD WARNER, ESQ.,
WHITES :
“Grenada Lodge, Stoclcwell Park Road, S.W.,
“July 12tli, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the efficacy of your Kutnow’s Powder,
which I have taken for some considerable time,
and derived a great deal of benefit from it. I
have been a great sufferer from biliousness and
gastritis, and am only too pleased to give you
this acknowledgement.
“RICHARD WARNER.”
NURSE A. WHUR
WHITES :
“ 2 Ethelbert Road, Birchihgton Bay,
“August 14th.
“ Gentlemen,— Thank you for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder; for years I have suffered
from severe headaches, and have tried almost
every medicine, without doing me the least
good ; your Powder, I am thankful to say, has
been most efficacious. Several members of the
household have tried it with the same results.
“A. WHUR (Nurse).”
REV. A. LEES
WHITES :
“ Whorlton Vicarage, Newcastle-oii-Tyne,
“July 2nd, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I have tried Kutnow’s Powder
and found it highly satisfactory, so much so
that I shall recommend it to my friends. —I re-
main, yours truly, “ (Rev.) A. LEES.”
ANDIDATES FOR HEALTH must first of all recognise the paramount
influence of the liver ; it is the organ which holds the key of life and
death. It regulates the whole mechanism of the human frame ; it is
KUTNOW’S I
IMPROVED ETFCRVESCEM P.ArtLSBAD
POWDER.
fgr
Hiischtnsprung, or Detr lea^
n -,-.^-2!iJ rARRIHGDOM amd. 1c...
REGISTERED TRADE MARK T
(fcNTtBED AT STATIONER'S MALhA
only when the liver acts properly that all the other
organs—the kidneys, bladder, stomach, and intes-
tines—work efficiently, and there is general good
health. The liver, furthermore, exercises a still
higher function than that of mere mechanism. It
produces great moral effects in the influence it
exercises on the temperament; an active liver
creates brilliancy, energy, shrewdness, keen intel-
lect, and many other excellent qualities. Reverse
the picture and see the irritable, nervous, fidgety,
and morbidly despondent individual. In despair,
the victim of liver torpor will sometimes endeavor
to thrash it into temporary activity by drastic
medicines. This is useless. The proper remedy
for a disordered liver is a course of Kutnow’s
Powder, which is always safe, sure, and efficient.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Imitations.
The Genuine and Original Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations,
and know
Howto Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
A GENERAL IN H.M. ARMY
WRITES :
“ 104 Seymour Place, London, W.,
“April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in stating
that I have derived very much benefit from
Kutnow’s Powder, and, after taking four
bottles, am completely cured of abscess on liver,
contracted after a residence in an Eastern cli-
mate of twenty years. I now take a dose once
or twice weekly, and would not be without a
bottle.—l am, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ C. ANDERSON (General Retired).”
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WRITES :
“ Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset,
“ November 9th, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest to
you to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder
from time to time with most excellent results,
and I consider it only fair to acquaint you of
the benefit I have experienced from so useful a
remedy, which fully carries out what it is
advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., E.R.G.S.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs,—l have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the excel-
lent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only
wish I had tried it years ago. In my case it has
proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient,
cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pam or discomfort,
.and regulating generally the whole organic
system. I have much confidence m recommend-
ing its use to my friends.—Yours truly,
“(Rev.) E. L. BULLEN.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDQN


Charles Heidsieck
EXTRA DRY &
sr v>
m
FINEST EXTRA Q?
/I Perfect Complexion . —Not all the silken
fabrics of the East can match the radiant complexion of
a woman with whom Valaze is a daily habit. That
brilliant smoothness, that delicate skin texture that
follows the use of Valaze is won by alliance with the
workings of nature. Valaze extracts the foreign sub-
stances that clog the activity of the skin pores, and, by
nourishing 1 the exquisite network of tissues that underlie
the skin enable it to bloom with a beauty that seldom
unaided extends beyond the years of childhood. Wrinkles,
crowsfeet, blotches, tan, sallowness, freckles and all such
facial imperfections disappear with the use of Valaze,
givin o, place to a clear, soft and dainty complexion.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar (containing 3 times as much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap—compounded from almonds and rare
herbs—greatly assists the beautifying action of Valaze—
feeds as well as cleanses, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure—prepared by Dr. Lykuski,
the Russian Skin Specialist as discoverer of Valaze
Unfailingly cures the most obstinate cases—2s. 6d., posted
3s. Rusmo Hair Killer—a sure remover of superfluous
hairs—will not harm the most sensative skin, ss. postage
3d. “Guide to Beauty ” a new edition of this charming
Brochure on the care of the skin and complexion for-
warded anywhere for 3d. in stamps or free with the pur-
chase of any Valaze preparation. Ladies who are visiting
Melbourne or Sydney should make a point of visiting the
Valaze Massage Institute. Here the exquisite processes
of Face Massage are practised under Mile. Rubinstein s
personal supervision. Also birth marks, moles, disfiguring
growths, red noses, double chins and such like blemishes
Sre successfully treated whilst the permanent removal of
superfluous hairs is made a speciality of. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading chemists or direct from
Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
The question of a suitable New Year’s gift may still
engage your thought What more lasting pleasure and
what gift more appreciated chan a year’s reading of the
latest and best literature ? We can supply it; our books
are all clean; they are covered in a neat green cloth;
every writer and. author of note are represented by
their new works in quantities sufficient to enable every
subscriber to get the bodk they ask for. Our terms
are reasonable, for £2 2s. per annum or 255. for six
months a resident in the city or suburbs may change two
volumes and two magazines as often as they wish ; for
21s. per annum or 12s. 6d. for six months one book and
one magazine are allowed. To residents in country
we send a parcel of eight volumes at a time for £2l2s. bd.
per annum or £1 11s. 6d. for six months. Write or call
for our catalogues. Dymock’s Book Arcade and Circu-
lating Library, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Don’t Bo The Exception.— Rather be as others.
If you are fond of eating—eat. You can eat with perfect
safety, no matter how you have been troubled with
indigestion, if you use Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets.
They assist digestion and quickly enable the stomach to
digest the food unaided. Is. and 2s. 6d., and Is. 2d. and
2s. 9d., post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-
street, Sydney.*
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES-1820, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1335, 1890.
TRADE MARK
THE VARNISHED BOARff]
Are
Dress R\bri£s
Stocked
Leading
BY THE
Drapers-
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 1, 1907.
My Dear Arini.—
Another horror lying in wait for woman: your
age can be told by your nose— so the beauty
specialists say. Also they say how you may
deceive the spiteful and searching eye of your
best enemy by making ypur nose sit up, so to
speak. You must massage it (after the specialist s
direction, of course) and think high, Roman-nosed
thoughts. Habit of thought shows m the nose.
(If you don’t pay the beauty-specialist, your nose
takes on a degraded, snouty look.) And you must
not drink malt nor spirituous drinks. Incidentally
your complexion and other features profit by the
attention you give your nose. Now, when your
friend tells you that there’s a smut speck on your
nose, and offers to remove it, don’t let her she s
only trying to get nearer to tell your age.
Miss A W. Whitelaw, the new head mistress
for the Auckland Girls’ High School, has arrived
at her destination from London. She is an Auck-
lander, who was on the staff of Wycombe Abbey
School for eight years. It has been established
only ten years, but is already as noted a place of
its kind as there is iti the Great Soak. Some
months ago a snarler against the higher education
of women stood up 6n his plantigrade feet and
said that no man cared to marry the more highly-
educated woman —that they were not a success
as wives and mothers. A respondent quoted
Wycombe Abbey School in refutation. Onehun-
dred and forty of its ex-pupils were happily
married. As it is only ten years old, the
record is not bad. In Sydney I m always
running against those who have been at Auck-
land Girls’ High School. They ■ are, with one
or two exceptions, married and are still quite fond
of the brute. The A.G.H.S. girls fancy them-
selves immensely, and it would not be a bad idea
for them to foregather fora yearly meet as do the
old girls of the Sydney Girls’ High School. Mrs.
(Dr.) Arthur is one ex-pupil, and others are Mrs.
Arthur MacArthur and Mrs. Todd, of Mosman.
If it were not for the printed words ‘ ‘ latest
portrait of Melba,” and the signature “Nellie”
to the just-published “likeness,” would anyone
recognise the great soprano’s picture? Every
gossipy letter I get' from London says that the
lady is much wider than when she was here. Yet
the latest portrait makes her look not more than
28, with a nine or ten stone figure (almost hipless
and bustless), and a spiritual instead of a cash-
on-delivery face. The way the artist photo-
grapher can monkey with a stout sitter s figure
is quite rash. I went with a 16-stone friend to a
private view of her proofs lately and watched her
go over one with a fine pen, marking out her
opulency and toning it down to what the penny
novelette calls a svelte figure. The photographer
said “he’d see to it.” Someone has “seen to’
Melba’s latest likeness.
That M.L. magazine, the Red Funnel, has a
group of Sydneysiders, photo’d by Ashby. Mrs.
John Hughes in her presentation robes, a beauti-
ful Neutral Bay girl—Miss Vera Gainford—Miss
Esme Sly, Miss Rose Cumming, and Mrs. (Dr.)
Collins. Last-named is one of our noted best-
lookers—yet she has achieved six children with-
out herself losing her teens-y appearance. Mrs.
T. H. Kelly is also amongst the group. She
scores by reason of that rare photographic qualifi-
cation—the smile. Many women smile charm-
ingly, but their camera-ed presentment of it is
quite another thing. It would make a child
scream. Mrs. Brown-Potter could also smile fas-
cinatingly to a lens, and Ola Jane Humphrey !
A correspondent suggests that it is most unjust
to urge the burning of widows, yet leave the
widowers to a life of happy freedom, single
wickedness, and the painting of towns a light
blue. “ The widower more often makes an all-
fired fool of himself than does the female
relict; therefore let him be fired in a stove
before he can get at the blue paint. Let him
become a handful of perfectly respectable grey
ashes —same as the widow.” It is curious and
significant how the widower—after his friends
have declined to let him bury himself in the same
grave as the dear departed—lapses into a second
glorious stage of wild-oat sowing. If you hint
that probably his matrimonial experience had
been galling, he will, with some heat, declare
that he was happy in it beyond the average.
Then, after he has sown a large quantity of oats,
he breaks loose from the meshes of the married
lady whose Bridge and other debts he has been
paying, and who has bored him to death
with her imbecility and vanity, and marries
a chorus girl with orange hair and a large appetite
for late suppers and expensive open-work hose.
Still, she has more brains, is younger, better-
looking, and not more rapacious than the Some-
body lady, and the venture sometimes proves a
quite respectable proceeding; sometimes it makes
his life what the immortal Mulvaney-eaßed “a
basted purgatory.”
An infatuated widower is going to marry
Otero, the dancer, who is one of the most
experienced friskers. For four years he has fol-
lowed the dancer from capital to capital, and sat
iim the front row of the stalls. He is tall,
,clean shaven, good looking, and auburn haired.
((For such a rigid front-stallite he ought to be very
'.bald.) At Buenos Ayres, one night, as the dancer
■was leaving the theatre, the man who should have
been incinerated came up to her, very pale, and
said, “I love you. I have loved you for four
years.” She refused him and his millions (he has
a mill that brings him £40,000 a year). But she
took all the lovely jewels he heaped on her ; then,
to use her own words, “I forgot him and sailed
for France. ” But the man, who ought to have
been a handful of grey ashes in the bottom of an
urn, turned up at Paris, and Otero tried to get
rid of him by telling him that she was in debt,
that she would not leave the stage, and that her
younger sister had no dOt. Then the widower,
who, if things were rightly arranged, would have
been calcined, and with his dear wife the
day after she died, settled £20,000 on the
lady, £BOOO on her little sister, bought a
mansion for her, and told her she might
remain on the stage if she married him.
Otero said that indeed this was love, gave a
high kick or two, and yielded. Otero, who
graduated from a cigarette factory, must now be 40
years of age, but keeps her perfect figure and
beauty. She is a great friend of King Edward —
long before he came into the kingship she used
to appear constantly with him in Paris, and the
bolero of diamonds he gave her nearly blinded
Paris. Fancy a little zouave-like jacket of dia-
monds.
The hardest knock struck at Count Boni de
Castellane, whose American heiress wife (Gould)
is divorcing him, must be the offer cabled to him
by the Cafe Martin in New York. It solemnly
offered him the billet of head waiter a,t a salary
of £2OOO a year. If a woman were in his position
she would have been asked to go on the stage,
and write her reminiscences.
A swell dressmaker here says that she’ll close
this year with a loss of £B5, lent in small sums
from five shillings up to £5 to her fashionable cus-
tomers. She has other, and far larger, bad debts,
but this one is the most curious of the lot. It’s a
common procedure in London for a society
woman, who, as a dresser, is a big advt. for a
modiste, to borrow money from her as well as
never to pay her, but the dresser-cura-borrower
always sends tons of custom to the dress-builder.
Quite low persons, you know, and rich Americans,
who pay cash.
Liveliest and most gilded she-ornament of a
certain Australian town has departed—for some
other bit of the earth's surface. Her friends
called her a brunette, for she was very dark.
Creatures not in her set referred to her as “ that
darkey.” Upon a day she went into the big shop of
the town and ordered the counter caitiff to show
her some hose “ flesh color.” C.O. inquired “ for
yourself, Madam ?” She'assented and the minion
bumped before her a box of black hose. ‘‘ I said flesh
color ” spoke the lady in glacial tones. “ Yes —for
yourself,” amended the George Washington. That
evening he also departed—in search of another
billet.
A man with a lot of artistic feeling concealed
about his person complains to me that his eyes
are going on the bias through looking at the unfit
wearing the unfitted. He objects to those pith
modified helmets that granny and her daughter
and the daughter’s baby are wearing all over
Sydney, tie says they may only be worn with
the right effect by a girl with a military carriage
and frocked in a rather severe style. Colombo is
the place to see the pith helmet on the proper
head. “Aw’fly smart girls over from India or
pausing en route from England, who adorn the
tropical landscape of Colombo, wear the helmet,
but such a smart helmet—straps and buttons, you
know.” I don’t know, but it’s always fascinating
to hear a man criticise women’s clothes, and to
watch while his mind steps up to the bar of
memory to refresh itself—with something he’s
seen in pith helmets in Ceylon.
Madame Calve, who has been fined and told
she won’t be let in any more to that chilled-steel
Court of Saxony, has sung “ Carmen” a thousand
times. Cable says the King of Saxony was so
shocked at Calve’s insulting a tenor that he left
the opera house. The King of Saxony is so easily
shocked that he collapses if one of his staff bows as
low to a mere man as he does to him—the King.
His court is a perfect morgue of etiquette, from
which his queen fled with great enthusiasm (and
scandal). The thing is, what did Calve say to the
tenor? “ You, you Currant-Bun-Face, are you
ever coming off the_ high C?” Perhaps. The
prima donna—any prima donna—gets angry with
as little cause as the porcupine has to put up its
quills. A star singer well-known to us slapped a
tenor’s face, saying, “ Sing man, sing— don’t
gargle.” But the tenor was not cn the stage at
the time, and was one of little renown.
Mr. Max Kowan—everyone knows the soothing,
rest-cure-looking Max, who has lately come back
after a two years’ absence—saw Calve on her first
appearance in “ Cavalleria” at the Opera Comique
in Paris. She conquered completely. As a
dramatic lyrical actress, he says there is none to
compare with her. But her temper! In the
early nineties, when she was at a rehearsal in the
Metropolitan Opera House in New York, Mr.
Rowan saw her hurl a heavy property vase at the
stage manager. Her voice and her looks have
lasted well, for she is 46 years of age. In New
York Mr. Rowan met Titheradge, Cecil Ward,
and Percy Lyndal all playing in good parts to
good houses.' Cuyler Hastings put him up at
the Players’ Club, and the first acquaintance
Hastings ran against in New York when he
returned from Sydney this last time was the
Sydney resident, Rowan.
At the Lamb’s Club and the Players’ the
theatrical artist’s formula to Mr. Rowan was—
“ Say, won’t you put in a word for me to J. C.
Williamson ? I’d like to get over to the ‘ Players’
Paradise.’” By that name Australia is known to
the American mummer. All who have been there
are trying to return, all who haven’t wish to go.
“Here,’’said one of theartists, “we live in our clubs
when we are not working. We have no society,
and are not pursued for hospitable purposes by
the pick of our audiences, as we would be—accord-
ing to all reports—if we were ‘ tumbling ’ for you
Australians. Say, the way those chaps talk when
they come back gives us palpitation of the
egotism.”
Mr. Rowan says we ought to be curious to learn
how fares the rival opera house—the Manhattan —
in New York. Next mail will bring us the first
news. Two superb grand opera combinations
at two superb opera houses. Eames, Scotti,
the younger de Reszke, Melba, Caruso and
the later Italian tenor Bonci, Caruso’s rival, will
be in the different camps. New Yorkers have
the Grand Shriek wholesale this time, but Mr.
Rowan doubts its making, in the long run, a
paying sheet. Money, and the making thereof, is
the one thing for the American man, and it is
the American woman’s favorite topic.
Grace Palotta may put another medal on her
chest, for Mr. Rowan, during the year he was in
N.Y., saw no actress (in her line) better than
Grace. Speaking of the gifted Mr. “Jack”
Wagner, who was such a favorite here and in
Melb., Mr. Rowan says that the hail of the news-
paper . comment arising out of the Australian
buying horses for a friend who was going in for
racing stables got on his nerves and drove him to
his death. The comments were not necessarily
uncomplimentary, but the sheets containing them
littered the floor and furniture of the room in
which he died.
Our vice-regal leaders are eating the fatted
chick at Mossvale, and most of Sydney that calls
itself a Lady has gone up to the Bong Bong and
Tirrana races.
State Premier Carruthers will go to M.L. by
the American liner on January 7, and spend most
of his month’s holiday at Rotorua. Occasionally a
Premier is compensated for being a Premier. Mr.
Carruthers lias just got the dandiest little panel
picture worked in silk from Admiral Shimamura.
The artist must have worked with a microscope
to his eyes and inspiration in his heart.
Talking of Japanese pictures—there’s a couple
staying at the Australia, and the girl is the
loveliest thing in Japanese half-tone. She is pro-
bably half or quarter caste, with almost perfect
features and a curious pale-gold or old-ivory com-
plexion.
Mrs. S. Kearney, of Orange, who was one
of the writers to respond to the Lyceum Club’s
invitation to submit imaginative work for publi-
cation, has got word that she is a successful
competitor.
Governor Plunket, of M.L., doesn’t intend to
allow the accent of the little Plunkets to get
diluted, so he has packed six of his girls “ Home”
with their mother. The infants are going to
Cheltenham Ladies’ College, while mother will
stay round and hobnob with people who are.
The lengthy, smiling aide, Captain Braithwaite,
squires the party “Home,” and doesn’t come
back. M.L. Govt. House will then contain but
one caddy, the monocled Lancer Hon. Captain
Bingham, who was once seen to nearly smile, but
promptly blushed his apologies.
“Ishmaelite” from Seremban, which is in
Johore, Malay States :
I would like to correct a trifling error in Bulletin
20/9/’O6 (Woman’s Letter), where a Mrs. Ella Reader is said
to have secured a railway contract for £1,000,000 from the
Sultan of Johore.
The line is being constructed by the Federated Malay
States Government—as I happen to know, having been
engaged on the survey and now on the construction.
A woman would have a better chance of heaven than of
getting such a job in this corner of the Orient, where
“ the sex ” have no souls and are only necessary circum-
stances, to be bought and sold by the lordly male.
You see the interest they take in the B. and its
correctness all over the world !
Muriel Foster, the noted English contralto,
who, according to a visiting authority, is greater
than Butt or Crossley, was married recently to a
Mr. Goetz, a part owner of the London Daily
Telegraph. She is really beautiful, very reli-
gious, and doesn’t like the paragraphers to write
about her. Taking them all round, the contraltos
are a handsome group. They out-class, in looks,
the sopranos. Talking of contraltos: Eva Mylott’s
recital, “under the patronage of the Prince of
Wales,” was mentioned in the English press with
dignified and flattering adjectives.
Madame Amy Sherwin and her trio of nice
young men —Gerard Kean makes up the third
petal of the trefoil—are in Tasmania. An honest
opinion about the whirroo Kean (about him per-
sonally) from the two starched and glazed English
boys ought to make chortlesome reading. As for
his voice: it will be interesting if Madame is the
means of putting on the English melody market a
tenor better than her pupil, John Harrison. Kean s
voice is now over-strained, and he may not have
the quality of “ stick-to-it ” for study, or he may
not have the brains—but what a wealth of raw
material he has —or had !
From London :
The kangaroo had his innings on Saturday at the
Lyceum Club, when Ada Crossley was given “ a party
by the hostesses of the Australian Circle, to which all
“down unders” of any importance in Fogland were in-
vited. The little band of Australians who form the Circle
and uphold their native land did the thing well. Miss
Baxter and Miss Baillie Hamilton, both Sydneyites,
managed everything. There was a mixture of Agents-
General, ex-Governors and their wives, not to mention
ex-Admirals, and the guests ran into hundreds. “Our
Ada,” who is looking particularly youthful, beamed with -
happiness when she arrived with hubby (by the way,
hubbv created as much excitement as Ada, especially
since'it has leaked out that he is doing well, and is now
in rooms in New Cavendish-street, .vhere many leading
songstresses go “to be syringed round the vocal
chords”). She was fetchingly gowned in her favorite
pale blue, with a hat of the same tone; she
still retains her old graceful figure, and every-
one on Saturday pronounced her a ‘ darling.
Miss Baxter had secured Amy Castles, Percy
Grainger, of the golden locks, Bessie Griffiths and bari-
tone Nitschke. It was quite the most brilliant party
held at the Lyceum Club since its opening, and everyone
wanted to know the secret of its success. “Well, you
see, it is an Australian gathering,” naively remarked one
of the organisers to a fair questioner.
If a vote were taken for the most popular Australian
in London “ Our Ada ” would come in with an easy
canter. She is beloved of the great Patti (who always
addresses her as “dear, dear friend”) and Albani, and is
singing at the former’s farewell on Saturday next, at the
Albert Hall. , , ,
Elvda Russell, of Sydney, the big, dark, handsome
soprano, pupil of Marchesi, warbled through a lovely
programme on Tuesday evening, at the Bechstein Hall.
Sang Swedish lieder as if to the manner born. Crowds
of Swedes in the audience, who cheered the Australian.
Recently she was invited to Princess Margaret’s castle,
and was complimented by the Connaught’s elder
daughter on her singing. This is one of the Australian
singers who is really good, yet one hears little of her.
Enormous cabbage roses appear on much of the
millinery seen about our crowded streets. A hat
of green crin. worn by one I know carries a
blossom almost the size of a cabbage lying right
across the crown. Wearer’s friends call her Mrs.
Wiggs, of the Cabbage Patch.
A well-known Sydney musician has changed his
religion—for the third time. All for the love of
a lady. Not the same lady, of course.
Aggie Thorne—looking a very peach-like bride
as Mrs. Deery—has been honeymooning at Medlow
Hydro. She sang in the minstrel show there on
Xmas night.
A man is about Sydney wearing a large white
stock, like our grandfathers wore. Fashion is
said to be coming in London way. But it won’t
suit this climate except when the wearer has to
go out m winter with a bronchial attack under
the stock.
Our first Governor-General’s son, young Hope,
or Linlithgow, who came to Melb. a baby, is
nearly twenty years of age. A scribbler from
London, who was speaking to him, says he s such a
dear, and adds that he wants to have another trip
this way. At his father’s coming-of-age, one qf the
ceremonies was a sermon, and the absent-minded
parson began it with the words “The world is
full of blighted hopes.” This sounds like a
brilliant home-made impromptu.
Do you notice that there is no woman-doctor
question this holy season? None of the women-
doctors succeeded in their final exams, this year.
Rockhampton (Q.) has a child genius of whom
it is quite as proud (though in another direc-
tion) as of its Mount Morgan and other great
national resources. Alma Moodie is the kiddy’s
name, and her genius runs to the mastering of
that most complex of resonant wooden boxes, the
violin. At a recent: concert given on the child’s
behalf she played selections that old and noted
hands on the bow approach with respect and
tenderness, and played them well, too. Alma
Moodie is a pretty, modest little girl and is
getting fresh, valenciennes-trimmed pinnies and
frocks ready for an early flight to European study.
Erom Brisbane
The elections are over, the rain has come on, and the
vice-regal party has departed for Gabbinbar, and a social
slump has descended on this city. To save us from utter
boredom, however, some clever persons have circulated a
series of Bridge scandals—the same old awful stories
about the dreadful depravity of certain Society women
here who, unsatisfied at losing their - accumulated
cash) tear off their rings and other jewellery to swell
their betting. Careful investigation on the part of the
writer produced the following disclosures. The wife of
a minister who is given to loudly bemoaning her losses
was the poorer by 12s. as a result of a frenzied gamble.
Two Hamilton dames, who enjoy the reputation of being
the smartest frockers in town, managed to get rid of
a fiver between them (and are therefore disqualified for
the “ mothers’ union ”). But the most untiring research
has failed to unearth a winner of more than 225. 6d., and
mostly it is the 6d. with the rest left out. A smart
Society woman once told me that she found Bridge
cheaper than calling, if one reckoned cabs and the wear
and tear of clothes—and she was one of the awful
vice’s ” most ardent devotees.
Much sympathy is expressed with Mrs. (Senator) Simon
Fraser, who arrived from Melbourne, last week, with her
little son to spend Xmas with relatives at Mundoolun.
The boy developed typhoid on arrival, and is now in a
private hospital. _ , „ ,
Captain and Mrs. Brooke left for the Downs and Sid-
ney last week. Mrs. Brooke goes to Europe under
Baronet Papa Palmer’s wing in a week or so.
Departs this week for London Eunice Lucas. The
youthful piano player, who has a lot to learn yet of
both music and frocking, is the possessor of a promising
technique and a quite remarkable memory, playing some
400 compositions, including Beethoven sonatas and show
pieces of Lizst, Weber and Schumann without music.
Revelations are threatened here in connection with
the sweating of nurses in the private hospitals, these
establishments are under no sort of supervision, and are
often unfit for the hygienic treatment of disease, the
hours worked by the nurses vary from anything over 14
hours a day. I heard definitely of two cases. A head nurse
(the only certificated woman in the place) was on duty from
6 a.m. one day until 1 p.m. the next, with two big opera-
tions thrown in. A probationer, who earns the magnificent
sum of ss. per week, is at present on night duty, and m
sole charge of 11 patients (two of them D.T. s), from
8 P.m. to 8 a.m. She then camps in any vacant
bed there happens to be until 10 a.m., when
she goes on day duty. If she gets a few hours
sleep in the afternoon she is lucky. The doctor*
are taking the matter up, and recently one issued the
ultimatum to the hospital he favors, that if extra, nurses
were not immediately engaged, he would cease to send
patients there. It is hoped that others of the profession
will follow his example. . , ,
There’s a movement to raise funds to send little
Florence Micheli to Brussels for a final polish-up before
trying her luck as a piano performer. This firm little
lady has hitherto declined private offers of assistance to
go Europevyards for tuition, holding that the best Aus-
tralian teachers were good enough. She is now,, how-
ever anxious to go, as much to hear music as to play it,
and ’will probably join her friend, Elaine Feez, in Dresden
The Margaret Ferguson fund still lacks £3O to send
that clever little lady Londonwards.
The engagement latest out is that of pretty Andry
Drury, youngest daughter of the late E. R. Drury, and
Mr. A. Crossing, lately of N.S.W., who recently took the
management of a big station near Mitchell.
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.


' THIS IS
KLEINERTS
“ SEIM ”
•- 5..
J3SE
Supporter.
May also
be worn
Without
a Corset.
Suitable for
Hot
Weather,
Mi I
7
A
n
There are mmy\
< ways of saving money
on a mine, but none so
positive, immediate or
profitable, as by using i
Conveyor
Belts
in place of the old fashioned
system of Trucking.
We manufacture to suit your own
requirements—in any length up to
48 inches wide —and shall be pleased
to correspond and submit Samples.
Our Packings, Mining Hoses, etc., are also
giving excellent service on many of the
leading mines.
.THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
/Aud Sydney, Ade!aide,Eert!i*BrisbaneandChri*tchurch, N.Z.
M 'HOSE
Besf for GARDEN
o*i»»/
Bestfor GARDEN
kG STABLE ,
IL USE.
I'jllW
wiii'i
Does not
Hade by Australians
,Tx> suit -Australiarv.
CondiHorvs.
SPECUY DUNLOP BRAND
i and accept r\o otker. I f-
your -Storekeeper does
r\ot stock our Brar\d,
"Write us direct
Sample posted orv
Application..
The Dunlop Rubber Co.
of Aus. Ltd.
v * ALL STATES *
tkjJSIAPE,
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbotjrne, December 31, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The religious person is shockingly impolite, the
idea probably being the less one thinks of his
neighbor’s comfort or corns, the more he ponders
on his own soul—the ruder, in effect, the holier.
At a Christmas service I saw a most fetching
Summer girl, in soft, diaphanous rig, search in
vain for a perch. There was none. The crowd had
overfilled the seating accommodation, and some
were compelled to maintain the perpendicular in
the aisles, where, from time to time, an army of
soul-shifters moved them on, urging in reluctant
ears some apology and the mention of a bye-
law. For an hour and a half the graceful
charmer rested first on one high-heeled shoe, then
on t’other, none of the seated men offering an
exchange of place. Finally a venerable devotee,
too old to see that the girl’s eyes were hyacinth
blue, or that her chestnut tresses had a bronze
glint where the light lingered, offered his perch
and tottered. to the aisle, where his bent form
provided a stinging reproach to the strong young
men seated thereabouts. Possibly the fact that
the girl was a charmer deferred the pious men
from any show of civility. To offer a perch to a
dyspeptic sinner would probably be an act of piety.
To bow beauty into, a vacated perch would seem a
bold, bad business.
The adopted kid may give as- much joy as a
Pomeranian yelper or any commoner poodle to
its owneress, but it’s still only the pet of adoption.
It can never be more. This came home to me
strongly at that Northcote kiddies’ spree when
every mother crowed unrestrainedly over her own
flesh and blood. One Western squatteress, who
adopted an English infant in its swaddling clothes
and has mothered it through three or four sum-
mers with patient and tender care, was present
with her borrowed child,, and she protected it
lovingly. But, looking at her pilotage of the
infant, one was at once struck by the difference-of
her kind protectiveness to' the maternal glow.
Her eye had not the same exultant gleam, her.
cheek flushed not with the same spirit of mother-
hood. An adopted kid is several empires better
than a dog pet, but it’s, pathetic at best. ; It’s oae
of the silent tragedies Of life. ' :
The Yankee advances another sham on the
feminine, market. This time it’s an entire
pneumatic form or case which is modelled for bony
girls on the M ilo lines. One steps into her patent
figure case, when the petticoats and straight-
fronted mould are adjusted. It’s an outer visible
self almost. All the curves are accented until
one looks (with the dress on) , a large-sized Venus
instead of-an attenuated length of miserable gif 1,
or a mere pathetic bag of bones. Fancy the dis-
comfort ! And imagine when’ Adolphus comes
along and playfully pinches his Atnarinta in the
pneumatic part! Horrible! Instead of looking
pleased, or at least coyly surprised, Amarinta will
keep on buttoning her glove or powdering her
nose, or plying her lemon-squash straw energeti-
cally. Thus sher will get'a~ reputation for being
unfeeling.
The private snap-shot is a novelty of this fresh
year. A saucy St. Kilda Miss, of cast-iron con-
fidence and unshrinkable cheek, had a number of
bath room snap-shots taken-by an equally blush-
proof sister. The subject is taken in towel drapes.
(I may mention chat the towels were of fairly,
decent size.) The picture is in no way naughty.
It’s just novel and familiar. I sighted one in
which this Aphrodite, rising from the morning
dip, is draped like a Roman dictator, but her
tresses hang long and loose, and a bar of soap is
offered to high Heaven. • It’s for private circula-
tion only.
On a recent warm eve, when the sky and sea
were vying in faint silver and blue rivalries, a
dramatic star, who is credited with a close passion
for her art and not much emotion outside of it,
suddenly exclaimed “No woman should be
asked to look on these glories unloved and alone.
Between one’s ecstasies a* the gorgeous sight,
someone should be/saying he loved you dearly.
Not once, but dozens of times. Does a woman
ever tire of hearing it? Oh, no! Let there be
love ! ” She seeined in deadly earnest, and no
man was by (just then) to support her view. I
marvelled at the outburst. It was so unlike the
zealous lady. No doubt the star who is dealing
with the pretence of stage-love every evening of
the year, with the Sabbath exception, pines now
and then for a real, bona fide thrill of her own.
It’s possibly good that she does. When she fails
to, and turns blasd, to all bliss, as it were, her art
will grow, flat, stale and unprofitable,
The Ernest Brooks have rushed away frogi the
quiet of this centre to sun themselves awhile in
Sydney. Someone tells me the brunette dame
carried off a cargo, of flying gossamers as millinery
aids and complexion cov.ers. She probably took
also a whole magazine of powder as a skin protec-
tion. Every Melbourne She conveys with her
on a ISydney trip a cartload of complexion-
building material. At least she should. Other-
wise she looks hot and red and raw in the steam
that passes for atmosphere, as if she were slowly
being stewed in her own skin. Girleens who
blush to dab the hot face with a neat, little,
worldly puff in this city go North and mop their
faces freely, and minus any misgiving. Other
atmospheric conditions, other morals !
The tourist, has a stuffy time in this city. One
of them complained bitterly at the dearth of dis-
tractions. She even railed against the stately
wide streets, where, she snorted, “one needed a
telescope to see who was on the other side.” I
had never thought of that before. In Sydney and
lots of the world’s capitals the streets are slim and
friendly, and the cab horse crowded to the kerb
makes a dive at the green foliage of the pedes-
trienne’s top-mast, and a chattable person makes
sotto voce remarks to someone on the opposite side
of the road, and the tram passenger gives the foot-
pather a light from his cigar, and so on. Mel-
bourne is tame at times, and most of our amuse-
ments are self-provided. Therefore the globe-
trotter, strange to everyone in the place, finds the
days blank, and the cold wide streets a weariness.
That’s probably why the fair Victorienne is the
brightest, slickest, breeziest and most animated
charmer in the Commonwealth. The lack of
attractions and pleasant resorts throws fun-making
on her hands. She has to devise and scheme to
provide amusement and, to be just, she generally
scores.
Monsieur Lucciardi turned his most recent
energies to a Christmas treat for the French
children of the State on a recent Sabbath. The
Fete de Noel came off at the Lucciardi Hawthorn
domioile, where vast preparations had been made
to give the Froggie kids a fine pondy sort of
time. The babel was like nothing so much as
a chorus of melodious sewing-machines. Every
tongue was absolutely as sharp and rapid as a
machine needle going at top speed. It’s a chatty
nation, and e very talker runs a race with thought.
There’s a spirited battle going on all the time be-
tween the thought and the tongue —the latter
winning owipg to the help it gets from eye-brow
pedalling, shoulder shrugging, and eloquent grim-
acing.
There is to be a change of French Consular
officials, this new year. Monsieur Maistre comes
along again to the Consulate—Monsieur Lucciardi
quitting his. post.
The surplus girl is off to the spiced Indian
ports. At Colombo, and elsewhere in the vicinity,
man abounds. The jungles are full of him. He
can be put up without a dog and shot standing.
So the local Miss, distracted at the paucity of the
Adam sex in this end of the earth, moves
thither to try her luck and share the advantages
of the epidemic.
The goose-season gift ran riot in the bun-coops.
One tray-bearer estimates her gifts to represent
quite £15., And she’s neither pretty nor chic —just
Srorapt and attentive. She never forgot the
'abasco sauce for the cove with the hot appetite,
nor the ice-splinters in the milk for the invalid
with the simple-diet habit. And her reward was
great. 1 What an encouragement to go on serving
the hot scone and the curried chop ! A scribe
gets no such inducement to keep in the ink.
Mr. Fred. Clutsam, conductor for the Orpheus
brethren, is off on the gad, and Mr. F. Beard,
the clever visitor-conductor, remains to shake
the deserted baton. He goes not so much for
play or rest as to put on the market a novel piano-
keyboard which he naturally believes (being the
inventor) will revolutionise all play and simplify
technique. 1 Conductor Clutsam ought to have
some sort of success. He deserves it.
On Dec. 211 responded to an invitation for a
“soiree.” All the Pentridge and Melbourne
gaol-warders, ladies and gentlemen, who could
get off, were to assemble for the presentation of a
purse of sovereigns to Mrs. Coffey, who has just
retired from the billet of matron at Melbourne
Gaol, after being connected with it 42 years. (To
get an idea of what this means, remember that a
“ lifer” is let out in 20 years, except for murder !)
My appetite for the affair was whetted by having
heard Tom Mann, Lizzie Ahern, Margaret Ander-
son, and the other recently-gaoled Socialists,
orating about hard hearts and hard faces in the
custodians. To be sure, I hardly expected to find
Howard Vernon’s Wilfred Shadbolt, or Shotbolt,
or “Jack Sheppard,” or Abhorson the execu-
tioner from “Measure for Measure,” but I did
expect some odd and sharp contrasts comparable,
for incongruity, to • actors and actresses at a
funeral, the Thieves’ Kitchen, the undertakers’
picnic,' or the jolly botchers and their lasses
whom I once found waltzing in a carcase-
shed, occasionally rubbing shoulders with
the skinned sheep hung up round the walls.
Well, all tlie contrasts to be found in the Prison
Warders’ Festival must be conjured up by the
imagination. There were over a hundred from
the gaols, with ladies in a majority. A particu-
larly handsome, well-set-up, amiable, and indeed
gentle-looking assortment of superior pergons.
Kindness beamed from their visages. Yet these
were undeniably janitors from Pentridge (in the
majority) and Melbourne Gaol. Indeed some had
to withdraw for duty at 9.30 and go straight to
the gloomy donjon conveniently hard by. The
prevalence of the Hibernian type gave an un-
mistakeable flavor. After some jolly dancing, all
made off for the supper room, where Chief Medi-
cal Officer O’Brien presided, with Mrs. Coffey on
his right, and Chaplain Forbes on his left.
O’Brien spoke gracefully about Mrs. Coffey—a
thin, pensive, little woman, quite prettily
dressed in black, with a white rose in her
black bonnet. The impression she leaves
is of her kindness and benevolence. The other
beaming, simple-looking ladies who lined the
supper tables (the men having to stand around)
all live under fire, as one may say. Pleasant
faces, often handsome, and yet you would soon
diagnose the frame of steel, like that which ribs
up a ’Frisco building.
When boats carry passengers for hire, the law
stipulates that there must be provided floats for
every person aboard. Is there no way of insisting
on a similar precaution on private boats?
The unhappy accident which drowned Attorney-
General Davies’ daughter at Portarlington (Vic.)
wouldn’t have had a chance of being fatal if this
simple precaution had been taken. She and another
girl and two men were in a 14ft. shift, which over-
turned. One girl clung to an oar, and floated.
The two men held the other girl until they col-
lapsed—they dived three times after the sinking
body, and brought it to the surface each time.
Then she went down, and they were picked up
and put to bed delirious. And four little collec-
tions of corks would have made the disastrous
upset merely a good holiday story.
Miss Maggie M‘Cann fulfilled a few engage-
ments for the Caledonians in Uncle Sam’s land,
and then cut across to London to try her burr on
the Britisher. She writes of her essay in such
blithe and rollicking terms that she must have
scored some. Her letter is animated with good-
humor and bubbling with high That sort
of thing, like a spring onion taken at the wrong
end of the day, speaks for itself. She had no
need to affirm that she did well at her two or
three Paddington recitals. Her good spirits con-
veyed as much. She was even led, in an excess of
enthusiasm, into saying that all the yarns anent
distressed and down-at-heel singers slowly starv-
ing in the Big Smoke were “beastly exaggera-
tions.”
Strangely enough, just as this city is being
emptied of all the slap-dash element, Mr. Owen
Cox and the invariable niece come along to
the Grand and set the festive ball rolling,
a bit, just to show what can be done in mid-
summer when the city on the Yarra is yawning;
its neck off.
Down at Queenscliff, where some of the
briskest of townies are gathered, a middle-aged;
widow of great cash tonnage is the piece de resist-
ance among a tribe of matured accountants andl
recreating softgoods men. So far the widow eyes,
the obvious applicants for her fortune with
amused eyes. She has humor, and knows the
hot-season angler and the hard-shell bachelor
who looks only upon woman when she’s rich. A
widow with a sense of the ridiculous is a subtle,
jester. She encourages the flies to settle, and,
watches their antics at close quarters.
Mr. and Mrs. Deery hurried their spell of
honeymoon to figure at the “ Mother Goose ”
show opening-night. The Mr. is a lithe and
fairly long youth. The little mate, who left off
being a Thorn all her life to become a Deery for
all time, has some cute dresses, which she is dis-
playing with much pardonable gusto just now.
The beach hotels are so packed that late-comers
are given an unsteady tent to sleep in, or shown to
a shady tree for lodgment in the open, minus,
pillow-shams or mosquito-nets. One of the Chosen,
in asking a Todgers for a New Year bunk, begged
hard to be given a pantry shelf for the crowded
slumber-hour or a corner of the linen-press or a
meat-safe—anything but a tent. _ “ My ancestors,”
he wrote, “were driven to sleep in that style for 40
years, and I think that’s enough for all the race. I
want a roof and indoor shelter.” He got it.
Miss Violet Clarke has at last achieved her
lone-life dream—to warble in comic opera. As
Miss Violette Londa she stars it in “ The Vicar
of Wakefield,” at Wyndham’s Theatre. It must,
be as a mild, gentle little star that she twinkles,
for she is shy, gentle, poetic, and her large flower-
eyes are as innocent (or were) as a baby’s. Of
course, two or three years of common or garden
toil as a singer and dancer in the student quarters
may have narrowed the Violet eyes in the way
peculiar to the wise and knowing. There’s
nothing like world knowledge to alter the shape
and mission of the eyes. Round eyes belong to
the golden age of innocence and boiled lollies.
The narrower orb is of the caviare and bronze age.
I have seen a pair of gaping moon orbs recede
under the lids till the small slit of eye exposed
looked almost venomous and world-old and wise
beyond all telling.
The Speaker Maddens have hied away to their
nest in the beautiful Heytesbury Forest. A.
remnant of the Waxellency’s clan summers in the
Frankstone home.
The Cream has been dropping Welcome-Home
pasteboards at Cliveden for the last week or
two, and the time-honored sphinx who answers,
the door-knock is kept in active circulation. He
utters no protest—looks nothing—says nothing.
The Cliveden janitor is one of the curios of the
State.
“ The butcher, ma’am ! ” is a mournful note of
warning.just now. I have gazed upon all sorts of
householders when Mary Ann made the brutal
announcement, and have witnessed outbursts of
tears —more in anger than grief—and foot-stamp-
ings and shoulder-shruggings and real temper
flashes. Only one or two of the marms were able
to bear the bolt from the blue with a philosophic
smile or a cheerful grin. One bride of my
acquaintance actually asked the butcher (hav-
ing gone forth to the kitchen door for a
heart-to-heart talk on . the subject) to run
through his programme of attractions, and when
he paused at the final period, said, dejectedly,
“ Is that all ? There doesn’t seem much variety ? ”
At which slur, the butcher remarked, with an
irony that went amiss with his blue pinny, “We
might kill a kangaroo or two for a change. But
it’s not a popular taste.” She said she’d see, but
mostly she has been adhering to sheep.
From “Rosna,” Adelaide:—
This is the month when the wild and youthful medico
bursts forth from the trammels of hospital and ’Varsity,
and takes unto himself a wife and a country practice.
Adelaide has had four medical engagements within a
fortnight: Drs. Eulalie Burnard, Renfrey Burnard, Dean
Dowson, and Ray.
S.A. celebrated its 70th birthday on December 28th by
a festive spread at Glenelg, where the first Governor, or,
someone, planted the Union Jack in 1836. The Mayor of
the place, Mr. H. W. Varley, with his Ex. and a celebrity
or so to back him up, hosted several hundred ancient
colonists, who, having duly partaken of the barn-yard
fowl and other fare, and toasted everythingand everyone
toastable, proceeded on their yearly pilgrimage to an
ancient gum-tree, wearing a placard round its waist.
Here was read the Proclamation of one William of
England, calling the new country the Province of South
Australia. The annual visit to the spot takes the form
of a solemn rite. S. Australia is intensely proud of the
fact that it was never a mere colony.
Vice-royalty and the peerage, at present emulating
Omar in various beauteous and rustic spots, will shortly
hang the jug of wi 'on the bough to cool, and rush back
to town for ten a../s or so, when a wild and occult
science congress purpos:s descending on this city. Some
50 odd (very odd) visitors are expected from the other
States, and with the two or three hundred local members
they will proceed to put in an hilarious time among
outer harbors, garden parties and other scientific amuse-
ments. His Ex. leads off with the requisite Government
House bun-scramble, and Chief Justice Way and several
learned lights of the University follow suit. The congress
will also cruise round the Gulf awhile in an archteological
tub known as “ Governor Musgrave,” and suspected of
being a contemporary of the Adelaide trams.
Yours Affectionately, Tkyphkna.
The leading Jap paper on the position in
o a ijf or ;
, ~ .
Should this problem fail of a proper solution, however
trivial the question may appear in itself, as the matter of
principle it will produce very unfavorable results. In
fchafc case > how °° u ' d we niain * ain our position if the
same action should be taken by the authorities ,n South
America, Africa, and Australia . Trusting u j o e
integrity of America, as well as to the efforts of our
authorities, we should carefully watch the progress of
affairs with the magnanimity which characterises a great
nation.
j apan s j nce the war, has cast all discretion to the
winds an q ma kes no concealment of an in ten]
tion t( ’ ) cla j m f u p w hite man’s rights everywhere,
And ifc - s gtill the po n cv 0 f Australia to make the
wea fc est man of the Cabinet Minister for Defence.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO,,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and 00.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
C "PC'S
0-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr«d. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM. LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 V fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished' French work, 6/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on. London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, Bs>C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
u
I
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
Also at Mm, bourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Anti-Sosh press is quite certain the
election was lost to its side because half the
electors failed to vote. It thus counts all the
unpatriotic, lazv persons as sure followers of
Greid !
Victorian Government for the last five
years has been saving a pitiful £40,000 a year
from its aged poor by reducing the old-age pen-
sion dole from 10s. to Bs. Now Bent intends to
pay the 10s. again—and not out of loan money
either.
Said that there’sgoing tobe trouble over the
attempt to garnishee Victorian Senator Russell’s
deposit-money by the Metrop. Gas Go.—an Anti-
Sosh institution of great tonnage, which didn’t
make sure that it had the right Russell before it
„<>t nasty.
UNSEATED.
Allan M'Lean, Mr. Reid’s late equal in almost all
things, has lost his seat.
MAC ( as he hurtles): “Deuce take-your bogey.
He's never bucked before, but he bucks at that."
Accident favors Labor candidate Beeby’s
canvass for the Blayney (N.S.W.) by-election. A
few days ago J. C. Watson and other influential
Laborites formed a pleasure camp at Duckmaloi,
on the edge of the electorate. A strong cohort of
democrats, in between trout-fishing and shooting,
will be able to make electoral raids on Blayney.
The Age, bucking at the Bent Cabinet,
dwells on Tommy’s sins of omission and com-
mission, but congratulates him on being rid of
“Jack” Murray, and expresses the hope that
Minister of Education Sacnse, too, will be shifted.
But not a word is said about the precipitate
retreat of that other lamentable failure, Sam
Gillott. It is a useful thing to have a friend in
office—in the newspaper office, that is.
Victorian Minister of Lands, a few months
ago, decided on a sensible thing. In all sales of
Crown lands in future a clause will be inserted in
the grant, giving the Crown the right to resume
the whole or any portion of the land at any time
on paying the holder the original amount paid by
him, with the value of any improvements. This
is on the principle that the unearned increment
of all land belongs to the State.
The plans for the second section of the
Cloncurry (Q.) railway went through the Assem-
bly in 24 minutes—a Bananaland record. No
speeches were made. The work will be carried
out on the betterment principle. Minister Den-
ham says it will be finished before the end of next
year.
Item in a recent list of Queensland official
notifications :
Ex-Inspector Alex. Meldrum, a police pensioner, has
been granted permission to reside out of the State.
If something of that sort, failing an absentee tax,
were enacted in connection with land-owners in
Australia there wouldn’t be so many Australians
living in England and yelling out “Stinking
Fish.” *
Much nonsense is talked about the so-
called “desert railway” from Kalgoorlie to Port
Augusta. The country is no more a desert than
any other part of Westralia. A party recently
travelled across country as far as Eucla, and they
reported on return to Perth that grass and
various bush fodders were plentiful, also
wild turkeys and kangaroos. In fact, game
abounded all along the route ; only a couple
of tins of preserved meat were opened during
the entire trip. Rabbits were remarkably scarce,
some kind of disease having attacked them.
The first count for the Echuca (Vic.)
electorate gave Palmer a majority of three votes
the recount turned this into 32. If this is a-
sample of the counting all through, a similar
proportion of errors in every electorate might
easily give a Senator a fictitious majority of over-
-600.
Final S. Australia Senate returns give-
Labor another seat. The position in regard to
the Senate and Labor is now thus: —Westralia
Labor wins two, Tasmania loses one, S. Australia
gains one, Victoria gains one, Queensland loses
two ; total gain, one.
Victoria’s 20tli Parliament went out in an
atmosphere of squabble and row. The Legisla-
tive Council and the Assembly were at logger-
heads through the whole of the 21 hours sitting
that concluded the session. Indeed, they ad-
journed at daggers drawn. The Upper House, if
Bent had one-sixteenth of the backbone that he
is credited with, would, by its actions during that
last sitting alone, have signed its own death-
warrant. The tale of that 21 hours, told to the
country by a good Democrat, would be sufficient
to make the country get upon its hind legs and
yell for the abolition of the obstructors, the
ancient busy-bodies who tinker with laws for the
mere senile delight of tinkering with something.
T’other day Laborite Thomas said he did.
not think that fiscalism would settle the great
social problems. Well, for that
matter, neither does anyone else.
Protectionists simply hold that
their policy, by providing more
work and better wages, will go a
long way towards the alleviation
of social misery. Police, for in-
stance, don’t settle the criminal
problem ; still only a very doubt-
ing Thomas would advocate the
disbandment of the force on that
account.
What a tariff means to a
country is instanced by the open-
ing in the U. States of a factory
by the Birmingham scale makers,
W. and T. Avery. Averys’ trans-
Atlantic migration w.as in conse-
quence of the U.S. 40 per cent,
duty on scales. They expect to
have 500 hands employed in the
near future. Once again there is
no need for such a cart-before-
the-horse proceeding as subsi-
dising immigrants. Only let it
lie known—by means of a gradu-
ated land tax, and decent tariff—
that there is land and work open
i n Australia and people will come.
Pitchforks won’t keep them away.
Private Earthaprize in Vic.
is copying the advertising style
of Bent’s Olosed-up Settlement
Board with the result that that
landless body is receiving letters
of application enclosing bank-
drafts. Having no valuable con-
sideration to give in exchange,
the Board returns the scrip in a
tear-stained condition. Bent’s
Closer Settlement policy may be a farce, but
surely it must be a popular farce when the
management puts up the “Full Up” notice and
turns away good money.
On present appearances there will be a
fine shindy round Brunswick (Yic.) next June.
The irrepressible and irresponsible Judkins, that
thing of words and scratches, threatens to contest
the State electorate against Labor-member Anstey,
and, unless the citizens suffer an accession of
common sense and drop the insectarian foolishness,
the Yellow Pup and Scarlet Woman will have a
great go. The Age is doing all in its power to
set the shindy going.
Sydney Anti-Sosh papers quote a letter
from a Mexican business man :
From what I can learn, Australian butter is excep-
tionally good, and as little butter is made here, and that
very inferior and undesirable, I think some business
might be done in this line, put up in lib. and ljlb. tins,
especially as I understand that the Government guaran-
tees its purity.
They’re always being called on thus to play
Balaam and to bless what they are fee’d to curse.
In two or three months Bent’s Parliament
will dissolve by effluxion of time. The Victorian
Labor party, instead of, in common with every
other Australian Labor party, steadily increasing
in numbers and influence, has gone back in one
respect, and bids fair to do the same in the other.
So Bent prepares to face the elections with
equanimity. The stupid and undemocratic atti-
tude of the Labor party in connection with the
Gambling and Licensing Acts has had
several unfortunate results; for one thing
it has made an alliance with the most
progressive of the Macltinnon-Peacock corner
impossible. Negotiations are on foot for an
amalgamation of this party with the Government.
It is high time that the Labor party put its house
in order, and spoke some straight truths to
Prendergast. The party is not all foolish.
But, as a party, it is discredited. Unless it re-
forms itself radically, and hangs out a new
banner, its name at the elections will be Mud.
DOMESTIC DUTIES.
The States protest that Mr. Deakki wifi not adequately
represent them at the Imperial Conference in London.—
AOR.
STATE RIGHT : “Ef too go ’ome, where do I
come in ?”
DEAKIN: “ Oh, you’ll stay at home and mind
the cat , and go for the beer, and all that!”
It’s one of ipities of politics that Indi
(Vic.) —the constituency that Isaacs made
known —should now be represented by J. T.
Brown. This seat would certainly have been
won by a good Labor man, but Turnbull’s
candidature was a farce. He was not very im-
pressive as a speaker. Indeed, he was about the
weakest tnan in the Victorian campaign. The
third candidate, Dr. Mclherney, who polled only
a very small vote, was easily the best of the three
men, but Labor stuck loyally to its choice, and—
poor as he was—Turnbull nearly beat Brown.
With Dill Macky, the Watchman, Bill
Wilks, and the forces of the Yellow Pup generally,
raging up and down the State, calling upon Pro-
testants to remember the Walls of ’Derry, and to
vote for the Anti-Sosh candidates for the Federal
Parliament, it is not unnatural to suppose that a
certain li.o. element voted against Anti-Sosh. So
now the Sydney papers attribute their defeat
to the fact that the Labor party had entered
into a deliberate compact with the Roman
"Catholic priests. As to their former attitude,
that the Labor party is agnostic, irreligious,
opposed to the marriage tie, and the purity of the
’ome —well, all that is forgotten.
In Vic. Legislative Council (Age report):—
Mr. Harwood said he knew of no part of the world
where marri ge with a deceased husband’s brother,
which he regarded as most objectionable, was sanctioned
hy law. Mr. Balfour, while agreeing that there was no
seeming, difference, between a deceased wife’s sister and
a deceased husband’s brother in the matter of qualifi-
cation for marriage, considered it significant that else-
where action was not taken to make them the same.
But marriage with a deceased husband’s brother
(like that with a deceased wife’s sister) has long
been expressly recognised as legal in every State
on the continent of Europe, in the 17.5. A., and in
various British colonies. What ignorants those
Eat legislators are !
Some humorist (perhaps as an experiment
to see if there were any fools left in W.A.) wrote
a letter to the West Australian, suggesting
that the admirers of John Eorrest should vote for
the Labor candidate opposing him, thereby
forcing Big John to return to State politics to
lead the Secession movement. It was rather a
crude attempt at leg-pulling; but immediately
there was a number of letters bearing the unmis-
takable Groper farmer brand agreeing with the
writer as to the benefit it would be to haye Big
John back. These were followed by a pathetic
batch, pointing out that it might hurt John’s
feelings to be brought back that way. Finally, the
West Australian, with the gravity of a sea-sick
owl, devoted a leading article to pointing out how
unwise it would be to follow the advice of the
first letter.
Just now there is much blowing of the
L.O.L. trumpet in Victoria over the allegation
that the Pup was responsible for the return of
Simon Eraser and McColl at the head of the
Senate poll. To the main body of non-sectarian
Protestant voters (who are a large majority of all
the voters), and to the considerable number of
Catholics who rise superior to religious prejudices
on election day, it seems quite certain that the
combined support of the two Melbourne dailies
did the trick for Praser and McColl. The setting-
up of their names in big type for weeks before
the election persuaded a large, ignorant propor-
tion of the electors to vote for them. Th 6 third
Orange nominee, who wasn’t large-typed by the
Age and Argus, was beaten out of a place.
The old year closed with yet another howl
hy Carruthers over damages to the Ma State,
of which he is proud owner. A depu-
tation waited on Minister Lyne, urging that
something should be done to develop, the iron
industry of Australia, pointing out that large,
fine deposits of iron are being discovered
all over the continent. Because the deputation
was Victorian, Carruthers starts to shriek and to
insinuate falsehoods. He ignores the fact that
Victoria is by no mpans the only place in Aus-
tralia where iron ore is found—in fact, its deposits
are probably the poorest in Australia; he puts aside
the fact that N.S.W. owns the bulk of the Aus-
tralian coal mines, which are a shade more impor-
tant than the iron ore mines for the production of
steel; and sees in the deputation another outrage
to the poor old Ma State.
W. P. Crick announces that he is not a
candidate for the Blayney (N.S.W.) seat, and in
doing so remarks (re the Labor party running a
candidate): —
The thunderous reverberations of their piteous Heatings
for fair play to. Holman still oscillate the political
atmosphere, while by ’ axiomatic action they establish
their hypocrisy in nominating the caucus-branded Beeby
to split my vote and frustrate my purpose.
It’s a wise decision hidden in a jungle of mad
adjectives.
What compulsory : grhcling has done for
Maoriland’s befcrVp, Abfebrding to Mr. John Holmes,
Trade Commissioner to Maoriland in 1897-8 :
The KTirrtial Export, of fibre—which is used for rope,
cordage, and,' especially, binder twine —in 3897 had fallen
to 1800' tbfis, and the price to £lO per ton. . . I held to
the belief that compulsory grading was necessary. . .
With pride I can now point to the fact that Maoriland’s
oversea export of fibre has reached a total of 18,000 tons
per annum, while the value has risen from £lO to £3O per
ton.
From the Victorian Parliament:—
Tommy Bent came out of last session of the
Parliament with damaged prestige. Tommy began by
trying to do too much. He used'to'go to the tldttse
tired (a man of his girth tires easily). ‘The'Hobste lgot
out of. hand. Tommy resorted to diabolhM "tHrehts to
tonic it up. At first these 'soon a threat
was disregarded, and-iftdthiiig happened. From that
day Tommy’s reign Of T&bdrHvas over. During the long
debate on the Gambling Bill Bent announced a hundred
times, “This cDaiise is vital,” “ If this amendment is
carried webhkll resign.” But the clause would be re-
jected fetid the amendment would be agreed to,
and Tommy would placidly pass on to the next item
■®s though there were no such things as resignations.
For six weeks he was in the habit of declaring all the
afternoon (at intervals of about half an hour), and all the
evening (at intervals of about ten minutes), that he
would make the House sit all night. At 11 o’clock he
would make this declaration, and at five minutes past 11
he would adjourn. Bent has demonstrated the pricked
bubble of his strength. His colleagues boss him. Depu-
tations overawe him. The House jeers at him. The
country smiles with its tongue in its cheek. Unless
Tommy has a good rest during the recess and hits upon
some fresh method of keeping his grip, he will barely last
to the elections, which come off in April or June.
A summary of the Vic. Licensing Act in
its final form :
All hotel licenses now in existence will expire next
March. In the meantime, a Board of three members,
receiving £BOO a year each, is to be appointed. There
are 1400 hotels in Vic. above the statutory number, and
the Board will determine what hotels in each district are
to be closed. Licenses will be refused to these, and the
fees they would have paid will be distributed pro rata
over those that remain open. To compensate the closed-
up houses a compensation fund is to be started. That
will be got together by collecting 3 per cent, on the gross
amount of liquor purchased during the year by each house;
two-thirds is paid by the owner and one-third by the occu-
pier. This method of closing-up goes on for 10 years ; at the
end of that time it is supposed that all the 1400 extra
hotels, will be closed and local option will be resorted to
for future closings. The Compensation Fund will still go
on and the closed-up houses will still be compensated.
To guard against imposition, the income-tax schedules of
the licensees of the closed houses are placed at the dis-
posal of the Compensation Court, and the basis of
compensation must not exceed two years’ occupancy.
Where the Bill is stringent is in regard to Sunday trading
and trading after hours. Fines of £2 are imposed on the
drinker as well as on Bung for each offence, and each
sale is a separate offence. Any senior constable can
enter any pub at any time after hours, take the names
and addresses of all found on the premises, and if they
are not lodgers, bona fide boarders or travellers, the mere
being there is to be evidence that they were drinking.
Clubs are exempted from the “ onus of proof ” provisions,
and . are not subject to police entry. So they only
nominally come under the Early Closing and Sunday
Closing provisions.
AGAIN!
Government interference with Private
Enterprise!
Altogether, Bent passed 51 bills last
session, and lost six. Chief among the 51 are
the Gaming Suppression and Licensing. Others
of importance are the Boilers Inspection (ren-
dered practically ineffective by Council amend-
ments), Children’s Courts, Improved Small Hold-
ings, Juvenile Smoking Suppression, Money
Lenders (seriously damaged in Council), Separate
Representation Repeal (the last of Iceberg
Irvine’s work undone), Widows’ and Children’s
Maintenance and Loans Redemption and Con-
version. Among the lost are the Women’s Suf-
frage (Assembly), Factories (Chinese regulation),
and Factories and Shops (Wages Boards exten-
sion) Bills, all shelved by the Fat Landlords.
This last measure purported to extend the
beneficent Wages Board provisions to shop hands
and carters and carriers—among the most
sweated classes of employees in Victoria to-day.
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteracts the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps :_ A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
A MATTER OF MODESTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney Daily Telegraph omitted, purposely or other-
wise, to credit the O’Sullivan with some work or other,
and the O’S. protests as follows “ How small most of
the criticism bestowed upon me will look when the real
history of my administration of the Works Department is
written ! ”
O’Sullivan,
My dear, good man,
That head seems swollen yet!
E’en larger than
When Queanbeyan
Embraced you as her pet 1
What prophet can
The future scan
And safely make a bet ?
The world MAY read how you began ;
MAY reverence each little plan ;
And yet—
And yet—
It makes me fret!
With swelling grief my eyes are wet!
The world may utterly forget—
Forget O’Sullivan !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


™ CALLAGHAN
“Economy” Boot
This Boot, for Men,
is sold in thousands
6f pairs all over the
Cotti ihorjfwealth *
Stand
Soleing
Again
and
Again*
52
FIT
and
WEAR
GUARANTEED,
16/6
POST
FREE,
1716
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydney
Our “ Economy” Black French Calf Lace Boot, box calf leg, in pointed, medium, or
broad toes, IGs. Gd. ; post free, 17s. Gd.
Our “ Economy ” Tan Willow Calf Lace Boot, linen lined, in pointed or medium round
toes, 18s. Gd. ; post free, IQs. Gd.
crwcmaA
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
“I give yoti ‘KOOMAH
SPA *! Drink it. In your
whisky, in yotir wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands.
m
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT/
3ft*
%
■ft
'V'-'ti
1C Jh
JJ
ER
2*o I*
m/y
PA WATER)
52* flat sprwo
Mn
LANDS
|§ll|silfceOußNE 1
sr^s
s^c
Nlalthoid DAMP-COURSE'
“If it is not seemly , do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not.”-
-Harcus Aurelius.
AN ABSOLUTE necessity in every building, whether the modern villa,
the stately mansion, or the palatial warehouse. Malthoid is an effective,
permanent, and* thoroughly reliable Damp-course, which is composed of a
high grade wool felt thoroughly saturated with a mineral hydro-carbon 100
per cent. pure. NOTHING BETTER.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'(LwZ
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.Y7.
THIS RAZOR isa
" WORTH ITS WEIGHT
IN GOLD!"
Prico 10/6 Post Free.
Worth its weight in gold to the man who
wants a clean, easy shave in quick time.
Never pulls or drags—requires no grinding —
gives no trouble. Made of specially tempered
steel—hollow ground—the finest razor ever
to any dissatisfied customer.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
sold at or near the price, and guaranteed for two years. Money back
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 George St„ Sydney
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHSEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER..”
The Superiority of the
COLUMBIA
GRAPH-O-PHONE..
Is recognised at once by the ear, from its pure and life-like
MUSICAL TONES,
and by the eye, after critical comparison, from its
HANDSOME, EXTERIOR,
EFFICIENT, NOISELESS MOTOR.
Reproducer and Motor, most important features, have been brought to
such a state of excellence by Columbia experts, with whom Mr.
Marconi is now associated, that COLUMBIA GRAPH-O-PHONES
Cylinder or Disc
have that sweet quality of tone, distinctness of articulation, and delicacy
of expression that delight and entertain EVERY listener.
Ask your Dealer to let you hear a GRAPH-O-PHONE.
Write for Free Catalogues of Graph-o-phones, and Lists of Records.
m
Mmm
m s
i ; iSSiIS
Columbia Phonograph Co
GIiYL,
255 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY, N,S.W.
LONDON, I;EW YORK,
PARIS, BERLIN,
ST, PETERSBURG, &c
! . '
i-
Grand Prix, Paris 1900.
Double Grand Prize, St. Louis 1904
Grand Prize, Milan 1906.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit,
Highest Grade ppTDAI
American . . . ■ Ci ■ 1
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
Irt stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY. .
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCII, Brewer by Appointment
to flis.Excellency the Governor-General.
f „a***w-
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILI & CO., 16 St.. Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOW] jIN& ST., EEEFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In spite of what the daily papers said, the
defeat of Stanbury by Webb was not unexpected in
Sydney. Stanbury had got fat inside, and although he
reduced his outside accumulations of adipose, he could
not get rid of the internal load that clogged his organs,
and, therefore, was not able to respond to the ferocious
challenge of the younger, harder man a few yards from
home. The time, 18min. ssec., was decidedly fast, and
Webb is evidently a coming- man. It is understood that
the victorious Maorilander will challenge the winner of
the Durnan-Towns match in March.
* * » •
The Stanbury-Webb course was a measured
one of three miles down the centre of the river. Stanbury
confined his training mostly to short, fast sprints.
Webb’s backers were yery confident, as he repeatedly
covered the whole distance on his own in 19 minutes, and
cut out the mile in smin. 45sec. Betting was very
limited, although enthusiastic Maorilanders were laying
6 to 4 on their man, and one enthusiastic man laid a pub-
lican £2OO to £2O that Stanbur.v’s name was Slush. Webb’s
trainer was Denny Barnett, a watchmaker by trade, and
an enthusiastic rowing and boxing man.
• * * *
Stanbury, in confessing himself rowed to a
standstill by Webb, reminded one of the famous struggle
between Bill Beach and Gaudaur. Nearing the finish,
Beach, who was a trifle ahead, ceased rowing. But
Gaudaur had no so mer passed the beaten man than he
also stopped from exhaustion. Then Beach made a final
effort, and, whilst Gaudaur likewise was pulling himself
together, the Australian won by a few inches. In that
case both men were veterans.
• * * •»
There seems to be a possibility that the Towns-
Durnan sculling match will put up a world’s record ; for at
last it really looks as if the übiquitous dead-head will
be headed right off. All the land-owners along the banks
of that part of the Nepean River over which the match
will take place have signed the necessary agreement to
make everyone who looks on at the race pay, pay, pay.
This news has put both scullers in such a charming frame
of mind that they feel at peace with all the world and
one another.
* * * *
First day of Tattersall’s Club meeting, at Rand-
wick, is understood to have ended somewhat in favor of
the public. The trouble for the ring started in the
Hurdles, when books persisted in regarding Arawatta
and Atlantean as the dangerous nags, although Super-
stition was frequently asked for. They laid 9to 4 and 7
to 2 against the former two, and gave 10 to 1 cheerfully
agajnst Superstition. Superstition’s only rival was Atlan-
tean ; he shook him. off easily, winning by three lengths.
This rattled the heart of Moses badly, and when
only six of the 17 listed for the Lady Rawson
Stakes went out, he demanded odds on, and got 11 to 8
on J. C. Williamson’s Roosevelt. He laid 4 to 1 against
Ranmore, but he was not much in demand, Williamson’s
bay colt being a hot favorite. Thurles made the pace,
and Ranmore hooked on to Roosevelt’s heels. Thalaba
relieved Thurles as pacemaker, and at the St. Leger
stand Ranmore came out and passed Thalaba, but
Roosevelt cut him down by a neck. Then there was
grief in Israel. They also asked for odds on The Owl in
the Juvenile Stakes, and got 6 to 4, and once more the
favorite won easily. Their one gleam of luck was in the
Pace Welter, where the public planked on Corfu, on the
strength of a recent performance. Corfu was badly-
bumped in the beginning of the race, and never had a
hope after, finishing second last.
* * * *
Agar "Wynne’s black horse Pompous has come
to the front considerably during the two recent meetings
at Randwick. In the Villiers Stakes the books laid as
high as 50 to 1 against him, and the price brought
a few casual takers. Then someone who knew
something came along, and his price dropped with a
loud bump. When Luciana made her jump, Pompous
soared up alongside and then went to the front, but
Luciana came again and managed to head him by a neck.
The tribe of Noses held one another up, and was remark-
ably cautious for the rest of the day. On Saturday at
Tattersall’s meeting the public made Pompous a hot
favorite for the Carrington Stakes, and Moses laid 7 to 2
against. At three furlongs (half-way) Pompous was in the
back bunch, and the race looked a good thing for almost
any other nag ; but entering the straight the back bunch
had moved up to within striking distance of the leaders.
Oomatawali shook off the pursuit and was streaking
away, when Pompous flew up on the outside and won
eaSiiy by a length, in lmin. 13 3-4 sec.
* * * *
The proverbial luck of drunks was a trifle too
conspicuous at Yarra Glen (Vic.) races on Boxing Day,
where a slightly sober individual lurched on to the course
during a race, and stumbled against a passing deadbird.
The jockey’s leg was broken by the impact, but the con-
vivial one’s sole casualty was a sudden accession to
sobriety.
* * * *
Mr. Albert Miller, whose “ all white ” is rarely
associated with a decent flat-racer, seems to have a
pretty smart one in Two Step, a 4-year-old son of the
hollow-backed Bundook. Starting at 5 to 2, Two Step
ran away from his field in a 7-furlong race at Caulfield,
on Boxing Day. He beat nothing in particular, but he
did it very well, and this was not his first time of doing
it. Two Step should be able to stay longer than most of
them. His sire, Bundook, was a Carbine, and in the
muddy Melbourne Cup race won by Gaulus, he made a
very respectable show.
The recent cricket match against Victoria was
the narrowest escape N.S.W. has had for many a long
day. Had the Victorians pit Warne on to bowl in the
first innings, the course of the game would have been
very different. When N.S.W. went to the sticks in the
final innings 186 were required to win. It didn’t seem a
big contract for a N.S.W. XI., and they started jauntily.
Then returned wanderer Warne commenced to bowl for
Victoria, and a shade came over the Cornstalk brow.
After Diamond and Hopkins had been disposed of, the
wickets began to go like ninepins, and a defeat seemed
imminent. Hickson managed to make 27, and saved the
position. Although N.S.W. won by two wickets and two
runs, it was not a victory to boast about. Warne bowled
nine overs, one maiden, and took six wickets for 50 runs.
W. W. Armstrong is now to Victorian eneket,
in the days of its deterioration, what George Giffen in
days of yore was to S. Australia, and it is doubtful whether
the famous “ Giff ” ever made such a herculean effort to
carry his whole side to victory as the lanky Armstrong
did in the recent N.S.W.-Victoria fixture.- It was owing
to his fine bowling that N.S.W. finished up with a lead of
only 154 on the first innings—a lead big enough, but
goodness knows how far ahead Ma would have got of her
child but for the lengthy one’s leg-side googlers. His
effort of 168 (not out) in the second innings can only be
described as superb, and had he had a comrade or two to
stay one short hour with him, Victoria would have pulled
the match out of the mud.
N.S.W. trundler Cotter has apparently lost his
“ terror ” to inter-State batsmen. Against S. Australia
he took three wickets for 57 runs on a damaged wicket ;
and six wickets for 174 against Victoria —in all, nine
wickets for 231 runs. The figures are not up to Aus-
tralian XI. standard.
* m * »
R. V. Minnett, a co,lt who figures with North
Sydney 11. in second-grade competition cricket, is a.
player of possibilities. Thusfar, this season, he has-
scored four centuries, and his average is 134.5.
* * * *
Victorian wicket-keeper Carkeek (recognised at
one time to have a chance for Australian XI. honors) put
in some good work against N.S.W. In the second innings.
he stumped three batsmen ; and, besides catching one in
the first innings, allowed only 14 sundries in a grand total
of 500 runs (two of which were no-balls). Oa-rkeek’s good
form brings him in the running for the Australian XI..
again.
♦ * * *
Judging by the attendances at the Exhibition,
meeting, the cycling slump has not extended to Maori-
land, where big crowds and good finishes are the order of
the hour. George Farley won the “ Australasian ” three
miles scratch event in 6min. 47sec. Maoriland veteran
George Sutherland was hopelessly beaten. The Seddon
Memorial Stakes went to Campion, a Maorilander, which
was very appropriate and proper. The same man also
won the New Zealand Wheel Race, a two miles event,
from the 80yd. mark. So far, Jack Arnst has apparently
not struck form, and the local crack is old George
Sutherland, who dead-heated with George Farley in the
Half-mile Open Handicap.
• * * •
The Dunlop Rubber Co. writes to say that, by
some means, an impression has got abroad that its mili-
tary despatch cycle race from Melbourne to Sydney is
open only to cyclists connected with the Military corps.
This is altogether wrong ; the contest is open to anyone
who likes to enter—the more the merrier.
» * * *
London rages now with miniature cycle tracks
on which races are held at all speeds up to 30 miles per
hour. They are duplicate saucer tracks, 18 inches wide,
50 laps to the mile. The machines are held on the tracks
by an arm fastened to a centre post, and running on ball-
bearings. The bicycles can be driven up to any speed,
but cannot leave the track, and this sort of racing is now
a great attraction on London music-hall stages.
* * * *
For the first time Australia is represented in
the big American Six Days’ Race at Madison-square
Gardens, New York. The conditions forbid any rider to
remain on the course longer than 12 hours out of the 24.
E. A. Pye and A. J. Clarke are the kangaroos, and they
are up against a strong combination in the shape of’
Walter Rutt, of Germany, and Floyd MacFarland, ex-
handicap king.
* * • *
The bad management of Australasian cycling
has reduced the championships to a howling farce.
The right of running blue riband events is farmed out
to any old club at times when the crack riders are scat-
tered round the continent. The five miles Australasian;
championship was, the other day, decided at Eaglehawk
(Vic.). Practically not a crack rider was present; some-
were in Maoriland at the Exhibition, others were in.
Westralia for the Westral meeting at Coolgardie.
* « * 4
The Dunlop Rubber 00. has again taken the
Australian cake for an artistic calendar—this time with a
narrow panoramic picture of San Francisco in flames. It-
is said to be reproduced from a genuine photograph,
taken during the fire, and, anyhow, it is a most effective;
achievement in color printing.*
* * * »
“ 0.K.” : Touching the allegation that “ citizen
John Wren is going to bring his energies to the rescue of
track cycling,” I would like to murmur gently, “ Heaven
forbid!” Wren’s unblessed energies have already had a
go at track cycling, with malodorous results. Bill
Martin’s capture of the Austral was the outcome of
Wren’s wagering. In fact, the slump in cycling as a
sport in Victoria dates from the time when the name;
of Wren became notoriously identified with it.
* * • »
So far the motor-car holocaust has been con-
fined to people who motor for pleasure, and are content
to roll along at a maximum speed of 15 or 20 miles an
hour. Your racing motorist whizzing through the dust
at 40 miles an hour never gets killed. Even if his car
bumps something he flies clear, but his steering gear apd
brakes never go wrong. Why ? Just because the racing
motorist is a cautious man, who takes no one’s word for
it that the car is right. He tests everything
himself before he starts, and if anything goes wrong
doesn’t lose his head, but promptly disconnects his;
engine. Lack of presence of mind has been the imme-
diate cause of the recent disasters, and lack of careful
inspection of the gear before the start the primary
reason.
* * * *
The main highway between Christchurch and
Dunedin, in Maoriland, has not been the safest place in
the world during the past fortnight. Motorists have
been breaking records over it. The old record was Iff
hours, made by a 30-h.p. car. The express train tikes-
9hr. 30min. to cover the distance, including time devbtedi
to refreshments, and taking water and whisky. The
road is somewhat longer than the railway track,
and going north includes an awful and villain-
ous hill known as “ Kilmug,” at a place called
Merton. In addition to this there is a sharp climb at the-
North-East Valley of Dunedin. These are the only two.
hills worthy of mention on the road. A fortnight ago,
Elworthy streaked over it in 9J hours in a four-cylinder
10 h.p. Talbot. Ten days later, Hayward, of Dunedin,
left the Scotch capital at 6 a.m. in a 30 h.p. Cadillac, and!
established a record of Bhr. 29min. Now, it is said, a
whole crowd of whizzers have sworn to break that record
or blow up in the attempt, so the road is likely to be
dangerous for some considerable time.
* * * *
January 25 and 26 will see the Automobile-
Club of Australia conduct a reliability test from Sydney
to Bathurst and back to Medlow. At present quite a.
number of cars are on the road, getting the lay of the
. elusive V-shaped waterway, and noting the broken fences
where farmer Brown’s cow is liable to break through and.
upset things on the day of trial.
* • • *
The Automobile Club of Great Britain has at
last decided on a formula for the calculation of the horse-
power of petrol engines. Square the bore of the cylinder,
multiply by the number of cylinders, and divide by 2£.
The result is the rated power according to the Automo-
bile Club of Great Britain. Good or bad, it will at least
make for uniformity, which is enough.
* * * *
So far Europe has not taken any stock to speak
of in any but petrol-driven cars. The recent shows found
only a few steamers competing, while electric cars were
conspicuous by their absence. Some French engineers
recently developed a new electric storage battery, which
drove a car 120 miles without stopping at an average
speed of 50 miles an hour; they then replaced the ex-
hausted cells by a reserve supply they carried on the car,
and did the return journey without any trouble. The
great objection was the infernal row, and yet most
folk associate noiseless working with _ electricity.
Edison’s new cobalt storage is being much
talked of in his own country, but the European
. builders are very sceptical about it. It will be re-
membered that Edison recently announced that he
had discovered how to make storage batteries of cobalt
at a reasonable price, with which it would be possible to
store up enough electricity to drive a car for 15 years
without stopping, that is if the engine didn’t wear out.
It is a hideously tall order. The Yankees have gone in
extensively for steam cars, and the output of them has
increased enormously. There is practically no limit to
the speed you can drive a steam car if you can keep the
boiler together, and maintain a large enough head of
steam.
* * * *
Last week Tittell Brune’s husband brought a
jittle motor along, a 90h.p. Mors, which has done 90 miles
n hour on the wet sand of Ormond-Daytona beach in
plorida. It is a curious looking contraption, torpedo-
shaped, built low, and all black. The next highest
powered car in Australia is a 60h.p. Napier belonging to
Mr. Kellow, of Melbourne, which figured in the Dunlop
reliability test.
* * * *
Cecil Healy proved to be in first-class form on
Saturday, when he streaked over the 120yds. at Rose Bay
in the Australasian record time, lmin. 13sec., which he
himself created at Manly in February last year.
* * * »
Dave Billington was due to arrive at Adelaide
on New Year’s Day, and he will there give his first dis-
play in Australian waters, prior to touring around and
taking on challenges. Billington, the first English
champion swimmer who has ventured thusfar, can cer-
tainly claim to be boss man at present. He is the only
one who managed to defeat the late Bernard Kieran in
England, and he probably expects to get through his
tour with an unbeaten record. All the same it is safe to
predict that he will meet his match more than once in his
foreign travels. The champion who comes from a cold
■country to a warm one to swim is perhaps at a
greater disadvantage than the Australians in England.
Handicapped bv the new conditions of water and atmos-
phere, Dave Billington will need to be a morepre-eminent
■champion than he looks on paper if he is to escape
defeat. Aspirants desirous of tackling him over a mile
■course are requested to put in their challenges without
■delay.
• * ■* *
George Gray, the Brisbane boy-billiardist, has
been invited by veteran John Roberts to go to the Cold
■Country for tuition under the great master. Accord-
ingly, the ex-champion of Australia, Harry Gray, will
take his 14-year-old son across the sea early this year.
Young Gray’s chief stroke is the losing-hazard. On an
ordinary table his best break off this stroke is over 550.
This paper hereby records the breaking of the
alleged “ world’s wheelbarrow-wheeling record,” accom-
plished on Xmas morning by Walter Wright, who pushed
a barrow from Sandringham to Melbourne, lfiiniles, with-
out letting go or stopping, in lhr. 54 ?-smin. Wright
did this for a stake of £3 and a side wager of £2, and The
Bulletin's private opinion of Mr. W. Is that his legs are
better equipped than his head.
* * /» »
Navigator John Smith. Jikd no excuse for not
-winning the 14-foot din ghy-'ch am pi onsh i p of Port Jack-
son on Saturday afternoon. The wind was E.N.E., and
somewhat variable. The 12 competitors were drawn
from Middle Harbor, Botany, and Sydney Clubs, and,
from a magnificent start, Smith’s charge, Rene, went to
the front with a bound, The presence of past-master
Christian Webb at the helm of the Jessie was disconcert-
ing, no doubt, but the skipper of the Australian did ,not
understand his temporary charge as he does Australian,
and at the start failed to make an impression, and was
lmin. 39sec. behind at the Lightship. Webb hoisted a
ring-tail, but Smith apparently did not have one on board.
Atolarklsland,Webbhadmadeupl2sec. Then the breeze
freshened, and Jessie began to walk, and at Shark Island
Smith was only 3sec. ahead. Getting clear of a foul,
Webb went to the front and won by ssec. Botany craft,
Our Own, made a great bid, but a sudden gust sent her
over, and she filled up. The third place was taken by
Plover, of the Middle Harbor Club. The Eight-foot
Championship brought out only four starters, and they
seemed very equally matched. Towards the end of the
race, Valkyrie led, with Australian and Pacific close up,
but skipper Leach managed to get a move on Australian
and creep in front at the right moment, and he
finished lsec. to the good, with the Valkyrie and Leila
separated by only 3sec., and Pacific, nearly lmin. away,
fourth and iast.
* * * *
Ford’s champion boat Australian leaves in
■charge of Chris. Webb and his crew for Westralia by the
Orontes on January 12th. Sydney Flying Squadron and
Sailing Club are giving moonlight concerts to raise funds
towards the expenses of the trip.
* * * *
Sydney yacht Rawhiti arrived safely in Mel-
bourne on Saturday afternoon last. The delay was due
to the fact that the yacht ran into Eden on the Sunday,
and stayed there till late on Xmas Day, when it again left
for Melbourne. Probably both the Sayonara and La
Carabine Cups will come to Sydney this year.
* * * *
Papa Relph’s curious double-pistoned Van
Auken engine has arrived in Sydney, and will be driving
his new launch in about ten days. As before mentioned,
this engine has neither cylinder head nor valves. The
piston heads act as cylinder heads, and the explosion
takes place between them. The beauty of the arrange-
ment is that one piston can be thrown out of gear, and
its head will still serve as a cylinder head. The new
launch will resemble Mr. Charles Relph’s Invincible in
:shape and color, but is not asked to develop more than
16 miles an hour.
* * * *
Quite possible that the English Rugby Union’s
invitation to the N.S.W. Rugby Union to send a team in
1907 will be accepted. The N.S.W. Union has been
anxious for such an invitation, and the plans for the visit
have been got well forward. Already the Lion has had
bis claws nipped by the Maorilanders and the South
Africans, and the desire is to test the abilities of another
of the cubs. The English Union proposes to send a team
to Maoriland in 1908.
-* * *
At Charters Towers (Q.), last Monday,
Skuthorp’s cattle drafting, throwing, and tying competi-
tion drew 7000 people to the Athletic Reserve, and proved
a remarkable exhibition. George Keys, of Woolgarana,
and Rowe, of Maraohon, won the throwing and tying
competition in 42sec. Jensen and Collies were second,
occupying lmin. 15sec. over the job. This is a new'sort
■of amusement.
• * * *
“ Silas Snell” : Boxing matches in the open air,
: under conditions such as prevailed at Richmond race-
course, when Squires battered Mike Williams down in 45
seconds, and Thorn and Greenshields went 20 rounds, is
not an entertainment the ordinary animal man will yearn
after. The sun was atrociously hot, the wind blew live
coals into your hair, and the dust came in hot blasts.
Breathing was a difficulty to the mere spectator, and yet
the boxers fought, hatless, in the blinding sun. With
Willie Squires and Michael Williams it did not matter
much, as not more than a score of punches passed between
the gentlemen before the S’African curled up on the boards,
but Greenshields and Thorn fought 20 three-minute
rounds in the dust, heat, and glare. It would have been
cruelty to camels, let alone simple humans, and the
sacrifice was entirely in the interests of boodle. Mana-
ger Jack Wren wanted cinematograph pictures of the
battles, otherwise fairly humane conditions might have
been secured by stretching an awning over the
ring. Had one of the lightweights succumbed
to heat apoplexy it would not have astonished
me, and a charge of manslaughter against the
management would have been a “ fair do.” Any-
how, boxing in the open air is not half as satisfactory a
spectacle as in a comfortable, well-lit hall. The glare of
sunlight, the great space, and other outside elements
make the exhibition comparatively feeble. The punches
are not head, and they look inept, and for this reason
thousands of the spectators thought Williams had no
gruel worth mentioning, whereas he was absolutely
thumped out of action, if ever a man was.
• * * *
Police interference with the Keys-Turner fight,
for the light-weight championship of the continent,, at
Sydney Gaiety Club, on Saturday night, spoiled a rattling
good fight. Referee Dawson gave Keys the verdict, but
the reason thereof is hard to see. Keys had all the
worst of it the first half of the fight, and was
parlously near being outed twice. But for the gong he
would have been out in the third. Turner certainly
landed more often and more effectively than Keys right
up to the first part of the eighth round, when his strength
gave out and he took the defensive. He was quite'
entitled to do so, as he had done all the attacking up till
then. Practically the only time Keys scored was in the-
10th, when he certainly did get Turner one on the point
that laid him out for eight seconds. The police stopped!
the scrap in the 11th, and the result was eminently
unsatisfactory to the performers and the onlookers.
R. L. Baker, known as “ Snowy,” who left by
the Orient liner Oroya to take part in the amateur boxing
championships meeting-, ought certainly to have a good
opinion of his own importance. For weeks many people
were organising farewells to Snowy Baker, and it will
take that unfortunate young man several months to get
over the effects of all this farewelling. This sort of
thing would be better left till the return of the con-
quering or slugged-out champion.
“ F.C.S.” writes: —The longest fight I ever saw
was between Denny and Dave. They commenced at the
Five Miles Tree on the Maitland road, and knocked off at
the Gully Hole bridge, the distance covered being a mile
and a half. At the start I was the only one present to
see fair play, but in a few minutes Andy Underwood
came along on his bay horse. He got off, and thrusting
his arm through the reins hitched up his pants and fol-
lowed in the fighters’ wake. They fought slowly, and
landed about 12 hits an hour. It was then about 4.30 of
the afternoon, but it seemed “ no time ” until a moonless
night enveloped the silent bush and the striving pugs.
Underwood struck matchers so that they might see to hit
each other, but the phosphorescent fuss and flare fright-
ened his horse and caused him to play up. I got some
stringy bark and improvised torches, by the light of
which the fight went on. With the slow solemnity of a
bloke-and-donah waltz, the contending two circled
across the Gully Hole bridge. Then a trooper
rode around the corner on his way to duty
at a bush kick up. He identified Denny by
the light of the torch, and promptly served him
with a six months’ old summons for shooting wonga
pigeons on Sundays. In the face of this calamity, Denny
and Dave shook hands, and pledged themselves to hold
the law in contempt and derision for the rest of their
days. Then we tramped home.
4 * * »
Bill Squires, champion of Australia, is a simple
Soul, according to brother athletes. One of these, talk-
ing to Willie in a Melbourne gymnasium the other day,
asked him if he ever got mixed up in street fights. “No
fear,” answered the cautious pugilist, hastily, “a man
might strike up against a snag.”
* * * *
Jim Jeffries, who has a fine contempt for the
later champions, comes back into the game to fight Billy
Squires for £6OOO. Squires is delighted, which shows
that William has no business instincts. These artists
never have. If Willie beats Jeffries he will practically
have no one left to lick, and, unless he goes into the
show business, there’ll be no more beans for him, whereas
had he gone through some of the comparative triflers like
O’Brien, he might have landed a half-score of fat purses
by the way. If Jeffries beats Squires, it will be much the
same for VVilliam as the demolishing of the oof-bird that
lays the Poseidon nuggets.
The Oceanic S.S. 00. has notified J. Wren that
the passages of William Squires and an assistant have
been paid on the Yankee side. Squires can leave on
either January 28th or February 7th. In a mill with
Jeffries, the natural advantage is all with the Amurkan,
who is a taller man with a longer reach. Still, writer
has noticed that too great a disparity of height is in
favour of the shorter man, who can hit straight out at
the other fellow’s middle works, while the long man has
to hit under conditions to which he is not accustomed,
and which spoil his aim and baffle his judgment. Another
thing, Squires has been absent from hard graft in the
mine a much shorter space of time than Jefferies has
been away from boiler-making. And that little fact
co.nts for a lot.
* * * *
The opinion of experts and old patrons of the
boxing game, who have seen the last three fights put up
by Squires, is that William is the finest in-fighter who has
ever put a foot into the ring in Australia. This is a large
order, but the belief is reasonable. Squires gets in and
eats up his man in the most scientific and business-like
way imaginable. He simply demolished his much heavier,
taller, and more experienced opponent in the Richmond
battle, and his fighting could not have been better. He
timed like a machine, he evaded mechanically, but with
absolute precision, and he hit from anywhere with
sufficient force to rock a bullock. The idea that Bill is
no scientist is absurd: his head-work against Smith’s
remarkable left was marvellous ; he is as shifty as a
feather-weight, and he never wastes a blow. As a range-
finder he hasn’t his equal here in any class. If Jeffries
can keep him back, Willie will be tested at a game he has
not yet practised—that is, long-distance hitting.
* * » *
Australian boxer Paddy Slavin was a delegate
to the recent Canadian Labor Convention. He has spent
the last 10 years in Canada, and is alleged to have made
a pile in mining, which he dropped again. He is now
working on the British Columbia Marine Railway.
* * i *
“ L.”: Some side-facts about the fights in
Melbourne Cyclorama:—The best spectacle is the gather-
ing which comes to view the gory scraps through the
crack in the wall. It is a small crack, and high up,
but one man can look through it if he stands on
the end of a plank propped up by his friends.
Hither come the deadbeats who can’t afford two-
bob for the cheapest seats. A dependable expert
is chosen to stand on the plank, and he calls
the fight, blow for blow. His story is passed along from
mouth to mouth. The other night, I watched Ihe cluster
what time Bill Squires was punching Bill Smith in the
ring within. A wild cheer came from inside, and the
man on the plank, with his eye protruding to the crack,
forgot to say what it was for. Straightway 40 hands
seized each of his legs, and he fell faster and further than
Milton’s archangels. A less excitable reporter was put
in place of the traitor, who thereafter waited humbly on
the fringe of the group for the news to filter out to him.
The Cyclorama fights break the monotony in the
surgical ward of St. Vincen’.’s Hospital, which lies just
adjacent. The night that Thorn and Greenshields fought
their battle there, the whole ward (which can hear the gong
every round) lay awake and wondered what was happen-
ing. There were men with broken heads and missing
kidneys, and sliced-up livers, and dissected limbs, but
not one of them would go to sleep until he knew how the
fight had finished. Eventually a little nurse slipped out
of doors, and startled the man in the pie-shop under the
Cyclorama wall by imploring him to grant her full par-
ticulars of the fight. He did. She was such a nice little
nurse that the pie-shop man is wondering whether it
would have been good enough to ask her to go out with
him next Sunday. She trotted back and told a graphic
story to the whole ward. Next day, the Mother Rectress
of the holy hospital asked in the name of all the saints
what was the disturbance in the surgical ward the night
before. It was only the men with the damaged livers
and kidneys and skulls giving feeble cheers for
Greenshields—and the little nurse.
The successful running of the electric street-
railway from St. Kilda to Middle Brighton (Vic.),
and now of the extension to Brighton Beach, has
convinced Bent that electric traction is more profit-
able and more popular than steam. He has had
estimates prepared, and finds that, for £30,000 he
can run electric trams along the railway line right
into the city, and has decided to do this shortly.
The St. Kilda railway, built by the old Hobson s
Bay Co., and one of the first in the State, will be
a thing of the past as a steam line, and its lines
will be used for electric traffic. Bent has also
received an offer from a big company to electrify
the 140 miles of the inner suburban railways.


KUGELMANN’S
s
ZJ?
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
A week or two ago a man— not in the
railway department—was killed atOakleigh (Vie.)
railway station while getting out firewood from
trucks. The constable who inquired- into the
fatality could get no information. The station-
master wouldn’t speak. The booking-clerk knew
nothing. The porters were mute. An'inquest
was held, and the coroner found the same difficulty.
No one would give evidence from which any con-
clusion as to the facts could be made. The inquest
was adjourned, and in the interval apparently Tait
unlocked the lips of his subordinates. At the re-
sumption of the inquiry, a flood of evidence was
poured on the coroner, most of it showing that
there had been serious “prevarication,” as the
coroner euphemistically termed it, at the first
evidence-hearing. This trouble has all arisen
through Tait’s Czar-like methods of working. To
obviate the necessity for the police poking their
poses into departmental affairs (the police are
required by Ministerial order to transmit news to
the press) Tait has organised a police system of
his own. He has “ railway inquiry agents ” who
inquire into everything in the Department, from
pillaging at up-country stations to smashes on ill-
kept suburban lines. He seems to aspire also to
have his own coroners and his own inquests.
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. o,r by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
-
A
Mfmm
■ m
m '* £
PfPl
mm
THE GOLDEN KING,
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting .
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
i do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
Ban Hers
Victoria and Royal Ban Ks.
Subscribers
are notifed that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King of Sport ” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly
Address: ** King of Sport ” Office, 294 Collins St„ Melbourne,
Tailoring' at Long' Rang'e.
New
Summer
Suitings
, „ „ , State School, Beaconsfield,
E. T. WALSH, Lsq., Tailor, Western Australia,
George Street, Sydney. Nov. 26, 1906.
Dear Sir, —
Please find enclosed cheque for £5 ss. in payment of suit forwarded.
I must state that I am very pleased with your choice of material, and
you have, as always, made them entirely to my satisfaction.
I remain, yours faithfully,
All Measures kept for future reference. CHARLES HADLEY.
Patterns, Self-measurement Forms and Fashion Plates
sent to an}' address on receipt of a postcard.
E. T. WALSH,- 11 " mam m 359 George St., Sydney
A Sydney nurse tells of one of her patients
passing away the other day with the exclamation
“ Right O! ’ He was a warehouseman. A
servant-girl patient of hers died with “ Yes’m.”
,She had had similar cases before —as, for instance,
a well-known, barrister, who used his last articu-
lating power to say “ Your Honor.”
The last report of the Director of Recruiting in
the British Army shows an increasing number of rejec-
tions, and especially in those refused on account of defec-
tive teeth. Nbw the recruits are principally drawn from
the artisan classes whcse food is largely composed of
white bread. Everyone knows that the bones and teeth
are composed of phosphates, and that nearly all these
phosphates are removed from wheat with the bran in
milling white flour. How, therefore, can we expect
strong physique when the actual substances out of which
the body is bitilt are absent from the food? If “ Cerebos ”
Salt, instead df common salt, w ere employed in the kitchen
it would, to a great extent, remedy the defect, because
this salt contains an exact proportion of these vital
phosphates, and, therefore, increases the food value of
everything td which it is added. One of our most pressing
national needs is a clear knowledge of the absolute rela-
tion between sound food and a sound body.*
Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia is a most perfect
cleanser. Coupled with this fact, its pungent aromatic
scent renders it most agreeable for use, and while it is re-
freshing' in the bath and for the toilet, judiciously used it
fulfils the purpose of a tonic for the hair, and will effectu-
ally remove Stains and spots of grease from clothing and
silks. It is also invaluable for the household, and so
mitigates labor that by its use domestics will find the
usually arduous task of cleaning resolved into a pleasure.
Its uses are legion, and no household should be without a
bottle. At a general request Messrs. Scrubb and Co. have
prepared a special pure non-alkaline Soap, branded
“Scrubb’s Antiseptic Skin S ap,” which mav be used
either separately or in conjunction with their Cloudy
Fluid Ammonia.*
Missing Friends.
WOODROFFE (ROBERT), left Horncastle,
Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1876 ; last heard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt), c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England.
It is a wise policy when buying a
bicycle to make the question of prico
subservient to the question of quality.
Your comfort a-wheel will never bo
complete if you have not absolute
confidence in the bicycle you ride. If
you specify
Erdie Fittings
you can rely on possessing a machine
which will yield you a maximum of
comfort and satisfaction. These com-
ponents are designed by men who
have spent a life-time in the study of
the cyclist’s needs—men who are
practical cyclists themselves and
have a life-long experience in cycle
construction. Ask your dealer, and
also tell him you would like a
Hyde Free Wheel
the wheel that "toils not though it
spins.”
The EADIE MFG. CO. Ld„
REDDITCH, ENGLAND.
D
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
PUNCTURES /
PUNCTURES!!
THE REPUTABLE DEALER knows
that it is good, and that is why h®
recommends , . ,
THE OTHER KIND OP DEALER
knows that it is good, and that is why he
doesn’t recommend . « .
MIRACULUM
MIRACULUM
He is looking
after your
interests.
He is looking
after repairs
and renewals. l
YOU WILL. KNOW WHICH DEALER TO GO TO!
mF'MIRACULIIM seals punctures Instantly and
automatically; preserves the rubber and does not
affect the pace. It is economical and easily used,
and is absolutely reliable.
Charging- Depot: 266 Latrobe Street (2 Doors
from Elizabeth Street).
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
All dealers, or write for Booklet.
Miracuium Corporation Ltd.,
395 COLUNS STREET, MELBOURNE
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT ST. f SYDNEY.
• •
• •
WEAR
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No* lO UNIT
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15(3
STAG'S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd
MELBOURNE.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE CONTAINS AN
ENDLESS VARIETY OF DESIGNS, AND
OFFERS MANY
SUasiS
3^
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, richly embossed,
silk-lined, 16s 6d. Other styles, 12s 6d, 16s,
17s 6d, 20s, 265, SOs.
m
Art China Statuette
ORNAMENT, 7£in high.
5s 6d pair. Larger,
7s 6d pair.
PLEASING SUGGESTIONS
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMBS, 9-ct gold-mounted, 15s.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU DE
COLOGNE CASE, richly
embossed, 4£in high, 255;
sin high, £2 ss.
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY, OR OTHER
GIFT PURPOSES.
SENT, POST FREE, ON REQUEST.
A. sAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SEWING COMPANION, comprising 8
articles, in silk-lined case, £2 ss. Other
styles, 7s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRAYER BOOK, pure silver-
mounted, “Pearl” or “Garden
of the Soul,” 7s 6d. Church
of England Prayer, 7s 6d.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
You can buy by mail
just as well as in
our store.
Our personal mail order
department makes it
possible, and guarantees
it. All goods delivered
post free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rapid-adjusting FIELD or MARINE GLASS, achro-
matic lenses, large field, clear definition, with
solid leather sling and case, £2 10s. Other
styles, ids 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. 255, 30s, 355, 40s, to £lO.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Choose from our
catalogue any design
you like.
Over 3000 illustrations
to select from.
We send it, post free,
to any address.
Write for it.
A postcard will bring
you a copy.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO. FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed. Marguerite 1
design, 10s 6d. Other styles
7s Od, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Best French Briar PIPE, real amber stem,
pure silver screw and mount, in leather
case, 12s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d.
Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet POMADE JAR, cut
crystal glass, pure sil-
ver top, in 4 sizes.
A. SAUNDEI
Crocodile-leather Wallet POCKET-BOOK,
pure silver mounts and lock, in Tan or
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20&
calf-lined,
Green, 255.
, 255.
Richly-ornamented Gilt Bedroom CLOCK,
“Cherub” base, first-class timepiece, 7in high,
20s. Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d. 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Folding Travelling MIRROR,
bevelled glass, Russian leather
case, 4s 6d. Size larger, 5s 6d.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Imitation Lizard-skin Strap PURSE, pure
silver mounts and lock, calf-lined, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK, 7in long, in
silk-lined case. 7s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver-
plated, white metal, richly
embossed, 20s, Other styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar-stud BOX, pure silver-
plated, richly pierced sides, 7s 6d. Other
styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s RATTLE, solid silver, bell,
xylonite ring, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 7b 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic Roller SHAVES'G
STROP, pure silver-plated, 13s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNi Ti;
HAIRPIN BOX, pure silver-plated, handsomely em-
bossed, satin finish, 8s 6d. Other styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 qua-
lity, hobnail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base,
£2 10s. Other styles, £2, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
extra long, fine, white brist
les, 255. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
'• T:
: a
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Military HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, fine white bristles, 8s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
&& '
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
cure silver shield. 6s 6d. Other styles,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
WHISKY FLASKS, pure silver-plated, patent
screw tops, Morocco, Lizard, Seal, or Crocodile
leather, 15s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, SOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS, pure sil-
ver-mounted, richly em-
bossed, 3s 6d. Other styles,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Lady's Travelling ROLL, fitted with every conveni-
ence leather case, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s Gd - Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, 40s, to £l6.
Fitted Bags a Speciality.
Solid Silver Shav-
ing BRUSH and
SOAP HOLDER,
15s 6d. Other
styles, 15s 6d, 17s
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather, plain,
domed silver mounts, 12s Gd.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 10s Gd, 15s, 17s Gd.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGKE-3TR3ET,
opposite
Railway Station
SYDNEY.


m
=*
*
0
%
m
m
%
#
a
Si .■«%*{
M
m
m
m-M
m
w
mm
Good
D?
WORSES
Directions
■
mm
. • :
ADULTS two to four Pjili
CHILDREN I Ahalf to a
Whole Pill dissolved
in sweetened water
bl
• >
*- •
■
Sfe
' •
W%s.
*
:7
«
Q
&
X
a#
■
’ . V.A A';


Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD PREMIER LONDON
* COMEDY COMPANY, including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA, the Famous Beauty Actress, ip
THE NEW CLOWN,
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s,
ES MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
the Celebrated Young American Tragedienne, Miss
TITTELL BRUNE,
in the Romantic-Mystery Drama, entitled,
PARSIFAL;
or, THE REDEMPTION OF KUNDRY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. Williamson.
THIS THURSDAY AFTERNOON, JAN. 3, at 2 o’clock,
And EVERY SUBSEQUENT AFTERNOON at 2,
Mr. Williamson will present the charming Fairy Panto-
mime, founded on Lewis Carroll’s Popular Stories, “ Alice
in Wonderland” and “ Through the Looking-glass,” by
Saville Clarke. Music by Walter Slaughter, entitled
“ALICE IN WONDERLAND,”
and interpreted entirely by Australian Children.
PRICES AS USUAL. ' BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. ,0. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Established Combination of
Australian Dramatic Favorites, in
A PATH OF THORNS,
Written by Messrs. Arthur Shirley and Sutton Vane.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
National amphitheatre,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (leave Tram King St.).
JAMES BRENNAN Sole Proprietor.
H. BRENNAN, Private Secretary and Treasurer.
CHAS. and WILL BO VIS .. .. General Managers.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
'TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
CHAS. BOYIS BROS. WILL.
BOVIS BROS.
MAMMOTH VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINERS.
25 STAR ARTISTS. 25
FULL BALLET, CHORUS, AND ORCHESTRA.
LAUDED BY THE PRESS.
WELCOMED BY THE PEOPLE.
MAGNIFICENT MOVING PICTURES
of the
Fatal wedding and gorgeous picture
PANTOMIME, &c.
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS AND PRICES FOR
AUSTRALIAN PEOPLE.
FAMILY CIRCLE, 6d.
■OS" STALLS, Is. ORCHESTRAL STALLS, Is. 6d.
NO EARLY DOORS.
Box Plan at Theatre. No Extra Charge for Booking.
MATINEE, EVERY SATURDAY at 2.30.
REDUCED PRICES 1
PEARSON CORELLI, Business Manager.
WON DERLA N D CITY
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
THE MERRIEST PLACE ON EARTH.
MUSIC, MIRTH, WHIRL, SENSATION, FUN.
Cost £20,000 ! And it’s yours for Sixpence, and your
children’s for half that !
TWENTY ACRES-FIFTY FEATURES.
When Sydney is stuffy, take a Bondi Tram to
WONDERLAND CITY, where Ocean Breezes Blow
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of Mr. CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER.
FRED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs & Parodies.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. Miss EMMIE MORRISON.
Miss CORA CASELLI.
DUNCAN AND GODFREY, in an Entirely New Sketch,
“ THE COSTER’S BABY.”
Great Success of Mr. LARRY LEWIS, Comedian.
MISS LEONIE DIXON, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
STEWART & LORRAINE, THE TWO COLLIERS.
PERA H O USE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
ANNIE LAURIE, Comedienne and Dancer.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
THE ALASKAS, French Acrobats.
KING AND BENSON, Sketch Artists.
CHANTI, Electrical Quick Change Artist.
CASSELLI & JAMES, Greatest Exponents of the Banjo.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOI’HONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
Plan at Allan’s. ttW PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr, J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co, in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdai’s
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. ... WILLIAM ANDERSON.
An Unapproachable Record Achieved by
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in a
Great Christmas Carnival Attraction,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
For First Time in Australia.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
tIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
" WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DEEAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2TO il p.m. tST" ADMISSION 6d,
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
mr
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
| PATENTS on Trade Marks
' obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
270 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
£5OOO REWARD
WILL BE PAID TO ANYONE
W/iQ can Provo that any of th§ Certificates of Cases Cured and Published by
MR. KUGELMANN are not Genuine.
It has been found that in giving evidence it is necessary for the deponent to to the> tnjthof
his assertions, such oath rendering him liable to imprisonment if false. Now, 1S A
been done by those many thousands of persons cured by My. Kugelmann of every supposed-to be
incurable disease on earth ; they have sworn to the truth of the statements they a_e >
all may know that they are true. On this account most especial attention is directed to the fact that
there are innumerable cases of deeply-seated, obscure, intractable, and supposed-to-be incurable
diseases, which baffle the whole medical world, and yet such cases are now being readily gin
permanent manner by the new and riglit-ahead-of date methods of Mr. H. E. Kiwelnmnn, the> famous
consulting herbal practitioner and gifted diagnostician, of 1416 Queen-street, Melbo > 7 7*
Adelaidefand Brisbane. A confidential consultation with him will convince any he
completely understands the deeply-seated causes of disease, and, what is still more p
knows how to cure it. As Mr. Kugelmann will be in Sydney, and other N.S. W . cities, , for consult a-
tion as per schedule hereunder, chronic sufferers ought to avail themselves of the pp •
obtain his exceptionally skilful advice and treatment. He possesses the gift of intuitive diagnosis,
and can tell patients what is the cause of their disease without being informed in any way by them,
and will give a straight-out opinion as to whether the case is curable or not. . .
If preferred, a legal agreement is entered into for a complete cure for a lump sum in each instance.
All Consultations are charged a Pee of 10s., and after obtaining his diagnosis, pa ien s
can have treatment or not, as they please. If Mr. Kugelmann considers the case incurab e,
charged will be returned. If unable to Consult him personally, write full descr p
of your case, and enclose Postal-note or Stamps for 10s. Fee, and address it to him to
his head offices, 14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne, on receipt of which diagnosis will be sent at earliest
possible moment. Unless fee is enclosed, no diagnosis will be sent in reply. , . ~ . .
It is safe to say that there is not a single city, town, or hamlet in all Australasiam which is not to
be found some erstwhile hopeless sufferer whom he has cured. It is high time that the entire com-
munitv clearly understood that the present craze for operations for almost any internal and externa
ailment is unnecessary, for by Mr. Kugelmann’s system all internal displacements, whether or le
kidney or of any other organs, can be completely cured without operations, and that all tumors,
cysts, polypi, .and other growths, internal and external, can by his method be dissolved painlessly,
and cured without cutting or operating. A , , . . „ „„„
It is of little use acting the part of the stupid ostrich and refusing to look at facts as tney are.
The evidence which Mr. Kugelmann lias produced, and the vast army of chronics which he has cured
during the past 38 years, is simply unparalleled, and the cures accomplished by him unsurpassed in
modern history.
Mr. Kugelmann may be Consulted as per
Following Schedule, viz.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.--At his permanent branch offices, 199 CLARENCE-STREET, between King
and Market streets, first floor, upstairs, on the following dates, viz.:—
MONDAY, 14th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
TUESDAY, 15th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, 16th; January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
THURSDAY, 17th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
THURSDAY EVENING, 17th January, 1907. Hours, from 7.30 p.m. until 9 p.m.
FRIDAY, 18th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
SATURDAY, 19th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 1 p.m. sharp.
GOULBURN, N.S.W.—At MANDELSON’S HOTEL, on
THURSDAY, 10th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 6 p.m., and from 7 p.m.
until 8 p.m. „ , , ... „
FRIDAY, 11th January, 1907. Hours, from 9.30 a.m. until 6 p.m., and from 7 p.m. until 8 p.m.
AND ABOUT EVERY 16th WEEK THEREAFTER.
The following are Extracts from only a few out of many thousands of Testimonials received by
Mr. Kugelmann from grateful patients whom he has cared
Facial Paralysis Cured.
21 Oarlisle-street, Leichhardt, New South Wales, 15th September, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.—Dear Sir,—lt is with the most sincere gratitude 1 pen
these few lines to let you know of my complete recovery from facial paralysis, after a fortnight’s treatment by you.
All my friends are unanimous in what they call a miraculous cure. Thanking you, I am, dear sir, gratefully yours,
J (Signed) GEO. W. PARDONNE.
25 Years’ Epileptic Fits Cured. Many Doctors Failed.
Sworn at Sydney, N.S.W., December, 1899. At 13 years of age I began to be afflicted with Epileptic Fits,
and was a <r reat sufferer for over 25 years. Wlien I had the attacks I used to froth at the mouth, and sometimes
bit the tongue also lips. I tried numbers of doctors, and tried also rpedicine from London, but during all those
Ijno- weary 25 years I got no good from any of them. I passed a most wretched and miserable existence, and
was worn to a skeleton ; then I heard of Mr. Kugelmann, and consulted him On one of his visits to Murtoa. He at
once told me the cause of the fits, and said he could cure me. I there and then agreed, and went under 4ns treat-
ment, and I have not had one single fit since, but have ever since enjoyed the best of health. I hope this will be
well published. (Signed) (Mrs.) D. M'LEAN, Goyura, Vic.
Chronic Epileptic Fits Cured. Doctors and Drugs Failed.
Moyhu, Vic., 22nd August, 1895.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann. Dear Sir,—l wish to place on record my testimony to the wonderful cure by you of my
distressing case of Epilepsy, or fits. I wish to let everyone know about it, so that sufferers from that complaint
may know where to go for effective treatment, as you completely cured me, over nine years ago.^
Sworn this 22nd day of August, 1895, at Wangaratta, before me, t «
(Signed) A. PINKERTON, J.P.
Twenty Years’ Asthma and Heart Disease Cured. Affed 74.
Doctors Failed. *
I had chronic asthma for 20 years, severe coughing, the phlegm almost cfloking me at times ; also, I was dan-
e-erouslv ill apart from the asthma, suffering from a complication of disorders. I could scarcely breathe at
times and was as one dead. My heart was badly affected, and also my liver and stomach, eventually ending in
drons’v of the feet and legs. During the many years of my illness I tried a number of the best doctors, both in
M lbourne and Sydney They did me no good whatever. 1 also tried all kinds of patent medicines, without result.
I had at last become so bad that I felt my end had come ; my friends were telegraphed for, and another doctor
summoned. I, however, had had enough of doctors, and tried Mr. Kugelmann instead, and hw treatment had a
most marvellous effect on me. I at once began to feel better. The Asthma disappeared, appetite returned, and
T could once more sleep like a child. Formerly I could not walk a step without panting. New I can run up
Lffl down stairs like I could when a young girl. My age is 74. (Signed) (Mrs.) S. DALTON. Witaess-(Signed)
L ' 1 Sworn at Sans Souci, this 4thday of March, 1899, before me—P. HENMAN, J.P.
Mrs. Dalton’s present address is care 28 Parkman-street, Moore Park, Sydney.
Twenty-two Years’ Chronic Asthma Cured near Brisbane.
Mr. JOHN TUCKER, otEnoggera, near Brisbane, suffered from Chronic Asthma of the worst form for over 22
years. During this time seven doctors pronounced him incurable. Mr. Tucker at last consulted Mr. Kugelmann,
with the result that in a few months he was a new man. Mr. Kugelmann eradicated the Asthma from his system.
Mr. Tucker swore to the truth of his cure, on oath, on the 22nd of November, 1904, before W. J. Trouton, J.P.,
Chemist, Queen-street, Brisbane.
“ Incurable ” Consumption Cured.
Broughton Village, New South Wales, 15th August, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner, Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sir —For many years I suffered with that dreadful complaint, Consumption. When about seven years
old I contracted a very severe cold on my lungs, which left a terrible cough on me. I tried many remedies,
which did me littie or no good. As years went by, I all the time kept getting worse. I used to perspire
frequently in my sleep. When I first went to visit you in Kiama I was so weak I could hardly walk upstairs to
vour consulting room, As soon as you saw me you told me that I was suffering with Chronic Consumption of
the lun«s, and that you would cure me if I carried out your directions. After taking your medicine for some time,
I began* to feel a little better, and I can now testify that I am completely cured. I may safely assume it to be
a permanent cure, as I have not taken any of your medicine for over four years, and I keep perfectly well. Many
thanks to you for your skilful treatment.—l am, dear sir, yours very gratefully
(Signed) (Mrs.) S. A. KNIGHT. Witness—(Signed) A. Jolley, J.P.
Three Recent Cases of Chronic Catarrh Cured.
Mr. HERBERT A. M'KEAN, of Arnold’s Bridge, near Bendigo, Victoria, before a J.P., on the 7/9/’O6, swore
that he had been permanently cured by Mr. Kugelmann, after doctors had failed to benefit him, of Chronic Catarrh
and Consumption. As it is a number of years ago since Mr. M‘Kean was cured, the fact that he is still well to-day
is evidence of the permanence of his cure. > ~ , , . . .
Mr, W. HUSTON, of Lilydale, Victoria, declared on oath on the 29/8/’O6, that he has remained well to this day,
after Mr. Kugelmann curing him of Chronic Catarrh, Asthma, and Lung Troubles.
Mrs M. A. SIIIPTON, of Caversham, near Adelaide, South Australia, swore to the fact of her complete cure
13 years ago, of Nasal Catarrh, Asthma, and Bronchitis, by Mr. Kugelmann, on 13/9/’O6.
Chronic Bleeding Files Cured.
Mr. JOHN F. BYNG, of 200 Dryburgh-street, North Melbourne, after suffering for seven years from Chronic
Bleeding Piles, was cured by Mr. Kugelmann. He swore to the truth of his cure on 7/6; 06.
Chronic Locomotor Ataxia cured.
Doctors Failed.
I had a numbed feeling at base of brain, and pain and numbed feeling down the spine and in the legs, which
increased at sundown. The pains w’ere at one time constant for three months. During that period I scarcely
slept at all. I tried one doctor after another, and gradually got worse the whole time, becoming more and
more helpless. 1 also tried the Prince Alfred Hospital; no good. Finally, I lost all use of my legs, and fell in the
street, and had to be carried home, and found that I had no power in the lower part of my body or legs. A medi-
cal man whom we sent for at this time pronounced it useless to treat me, as I was quite incurable. Hearing, how-
ever, of a case of Paralysis which Mr. Kugelmann had cured at Goulburn, I decided to try his treatment, and it
took three men to carry me to his consulting room from the cab. I stuck to his treatment, and after some
months’ steady treatment began to improve, and finally got quite cured, and have been perfectly well ever since,
having regained complete use of my once-ilseless legs and body. (Signed) JOHIS THOMAS,
66 r Mulgoa, Penrith, N.S.W., October 7,1901.
Signed before me—THOMAS DAVIS, J.P.
Government Advertisement
Under Instructions from the Honorable the Minister
for Lands.
CROWN LAND SAI^E.
COUNTY CUMBERLAND, PARISH BOTANY,
BOROUGH „OF RANDWICK.
AUCTION ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, JANUARY, 1907
*> at 5.30 o’clock p.m.
327 SUBURBAN ALLOTMENTS.
Part of the area is situated on the west and south of the
Randwick Rifle Range, between Rainbow-street, Bunne-
rong-road, and Maroubra Bay-road, intersected by the
tram line to Little Bay ; and part on the east and south of.
the Labor Depot at Bunnerong, partly fronting Maroubra
Bay-road and Bunnerong-road and the tram line to
Little Bay. \
Distant from 5J to 7£ miles from the General Post 5
Office.
Prices, from £25 to £165 Per Lot.
TERMS: Deposit 25 per cent., balance in five equal
annual instalments, with interest at 5 per cent, per
annum.
Plans and all particulars may be obtained from the
Information Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney ; or
the Auctioneers,
HARDIL GORMAN,
(sa-94).
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
Compulsory Wlndlng-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
boundingdocks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedgefastcross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridg# machine and Cleaners complete.
Usual orice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th. Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. .. •• £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. £0 15_ 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
0 0
THE LIQUOR CURSE.
WHY NOT SAVE YOUR FRIENDS?
EUCRASY
is a safe and guaranteed cure for
DRUNKENNESS. We will post you
a free sample of this valuable remedy during the next
30 days wiith full instructions, on receipt of 6d, to
defray postage.
THE EUCRASY COY., 62 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
I am continually paying'
gums from £1 to £5O (some
times as much as £800) for
lots of OLD POSTAGE
STAMPS on letters put away
years ago and forgotten.
Surely YOU know some old families who may have some?
Hunt them up at once— they are worth money. Send
for my “ Illustrated List ” containing- pictures and prices
of the valuable ones. (Estb. 1890).
T. H. NICOLLE, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
[ask your Stationer foraSampleof
HrIWILLIAM MITCHELL’S
TI-IE
KING
'Z, WILLIAM
>° MITCHELL’S
CD 141 CLASS SHOULDER .
|N?.9. First Class Shoulder Pen|
[the Original Quality ByThe Original MAKEF
Picture Post Cards*
Of course you won’t use the everyday
Xmas and New Year Cards this year,
when everyone else will be sending
PICTURE POST CARDS
I have the finest lot ever introduced to
Australia, and can supply any
kind worth having. Send 2s. 6d. Postal
Note for trial parcel. Price lists post free.
W. H. ROBINSON,
LARGEST DEALER in POSTCARDS In QUEENSLAND,
213*215 QUEEN ST., & 24 QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE Q*


y
a*
MM
.
f
... ; •■;
>v
iM
ii
IS
; p*
4K
c-'ij/- Wr»f-:
.1 •«
-• ' ■• ~>..
' i
1 . •"
w-tyt
m - n
} .
■
"
A
m
fsW
m
\' :
He can’t resist His CAPSTAN Cig'arette!


[I
WBSB
a*
KB
are
Ilf
SSESSS
Hsi
IS.
33y5s«£sS
s£*3sa S
timt
•rsssa
?fiiass!
P** B** 8 **
s§gfK«-^gg:
. x..
ssf«*
SSSS*
SSSS
T- - •
#»%••***•***•*
MS£g£i
i
" ’ p
IPiPiS
BBSS
I
:•
....
? irSS
E-Ss
MSP
■
■ •*= £j&v DC ;J:
««S l •■■■...' **
■: ■■■■■■■ >..C_— £■-:-■■•
•v
23Ss
“ft;
•S*-V
£3
.
| ;?t .* ’ ■ ’-'"' ■' ■ _
jHBSSSSHpKt'I.;-; JBHWBBSB^^^^DHBSSCE^;
“SufcferSs
V . «!) ? .«v»B>ipf J
j ■• ;«■' ’.V- .' : .4 : -~**' |gj
“±?2?2?±t2SHS^^S
-25 S
SSS
2^5
vr:-i-*
•sgsfvr.&s
■ ;
2 »
-
— ■: X;
:’sss=ja>: <gasses* -j
— ■— — w•» ~,«.».i.-r- t BBBBBSSBg - - . r . ~j„.. ,„*<,>
||§|| | jgggw^
mj^rTs:
'-St"TT»3
SttS 33SS
-
■■•■•■• -----
»as>i»
S.l3St
t
MMNR
■;-r
xseast
SH
&tf-;
Sajsssa©
Si
;SS»*Bai*:
p?P^a^^aasEs^l
-—"■». ’CtT * *
e'er"
vTOBDWC:
rMsnsaßi^
■3S
.-C ■ •.
.
CMgWBMBSS
ggjim 4■>£.'
• T...;
s&r s
SB
• -
.
.
-
.
■
&-■§§.: if# -A
i
r;a>*
.#***-
«t*£y
§wj
C ■'■•
i m
iSss^i
J&i k
?i'S
£s*
s\ ■ .* wmmm
:-'«-s.i
H
’'' V ■
■< ? >s
S 8»
■ ■
_
Beale Piano Factories— Main Building, Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
BEALE, AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
Catalogues and Circulars Free.
8,000 ALREADY ISSUED DIRECT FROH FACTORY TO BUYER.
Cash or Easy Terms Anywhere.
IBEALiw (El> COMPANY, LIMITED, George Street, Sydney
207 Sting St., Newtown. 107 Swanston St., Melbourne. 137 Rundle St., Adelaide.
101 Brisbane St., Launceston. 615 Hay St., Perth.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
‘Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Qustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office: 4: Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated, under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
i Under Agreement Extending to 30th J une, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 51,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
.America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
'Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR'
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,14S —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors ;
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)eui Z ealanll -
- BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
£2,000,000.
£500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
gank of Dorth Queensland
(Established 1888.)
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital and Reserves
LIMITED.
. £700,000
. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burris, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
80UTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST. -
London Agents : LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALCETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
'Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA — Melbourne and Geelong.
.NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dniry Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
■business.
Shipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHES. LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly IVla.il Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twjn-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 15th JANUARY.
SANDAKAN .. 12th FEBRUARY.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. •• £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Ad6t.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J, J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
Lori ilon,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURi.-i and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Jan. 10
Noon, Feb. 2
Noon, March 2
♦Twin Screw.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £o2 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON 1 via OAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
STJEVIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 20th JANUARY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
AFRIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £-3 2 0
London .. •• 1» 0 0 to 30 0 u
New York, &c. .. 25 26 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets , Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyeti / and Coni.paai/, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
-the trustees, executors
AND
AGEIMCY COM PA NY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £-* 2 . 500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.,
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
's> HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Balls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
31 Da vs to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15" Da’vs to Honolulu 21 Days to Prison.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-sere-'-, sails JAN. 7, 1 p.m.
R M.S. SONOMA, Twin-sciv .« r , sails JAN. 28,1 p.m.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.tn.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, Ameiican
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to THOS. S. JONES, General
Manager for Australasia, Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TNT.S.'W.
fDontde piete Q. #i|. Co., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74, CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Jan. 21, Feb. 18, March 18.
To EUROPE via AMERICA,
the MOST
ATTRACTIVE ROUTE.
Excursion to Honolulu,
THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.
Fare Includes Hotel Expenses,
&.C., in Honolulu.
/tar Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. "Wt
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
ii. Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
SOUTH
CAPITAL-f
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT . . .
, , . ~ ■ p.i;„, T in thp SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
VOt/R d IjSUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chendst. issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
SOT SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
1 900 000. BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. Oeorqh H. Moore, Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral)an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for.
S,S Yongala, Wednesday,
January 9
(Without Transhipment).
Ravensthorpe Goldfields, 't
BRISBANE, |
MACKAY, C
TOWNSVILLE, J
And Ports North to Cairns.
,S.S. Buninyong, January 5.
S.S. Wollowra, January 12.
Hem mill Clieiiiient Houle to dold/ielda.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
J. LOTH, Acting Principal Agent.
Ranking. Public Companies, Ac.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE s
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited »
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,115,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,115,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ~ Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon, F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: Georgfe Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birckiu - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. II S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
| and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 'l to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE. |
Union Club, IT Brisbane.
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’ Associa,
tion. Large garden,and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
Business Announcements,
“ARABIC” trai
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job,
WHITE or COTTA. Note Spring c
Chief Ironmongers and “ A —it—A —Jl J—C,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark-


LITTLE BOY
Mouth and Eyes Covered With
tfrusts— Face Itched Most Fear-
fully—Hands Pinned Down to
Prevent Scratching,
MIRACULOUS CURE
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“ When my little boy was six months old, he
had eczema. The sores extended so quickly
over the whole body that we at once called in
Alfonso Hohrath.
the doctor. We then
went to another doctor,
but he could not help
him, and in our despair
we went to a third one.
Matters became so bad
that he had regular
holes in his cheeks,
large enough to put a
finger into. ■ The food
had to be given with a
spoon, for his mouth
was covered with crusts
as thick as a finger, and
whenever he opened the
mouth they began to
bl"ed and suppurate, as
did also his eyes.
Hands, arms, chest, and
back, in short the whole
body, was covered over
and over. We had no
rest by day or night.
Whenever he was laid
in his bed, we had to
pin his hands down:
otherwise he would
scratch his face, and
make an open sore. I think his face must
have itched most fearfully.
“We finally thought nothing could help,
and I had made up my mind to send my wife
with the'child to Europe, hoping that the sea
air might cure him, otherwise he was to be
put under good medical care there. But,
Lord be blessed, matters came differently,
and we soon saw a miracle. A friend of ours
spoke about Cuticura. We made a trial with
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent, and
within ten days or two weeks we noticed a
decided improvement. In ten weeks the child
was absolutely well, and his skin was smooth
and white as never before. F. Hohrath, Presi-
dent of the C. L. Hohrath Company,Manufact-
urers of Silk Ribbons, 4 to 20 Rink Alley,
South Bethlehem, Pa., June 5, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sold
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.. Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A.
J©3F* Mailed Free, u How to Care for the Skin.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
IS THE
UnderwooD
Gold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limooes,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE
TYPEWRITER *
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood i 3
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED it? success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS : Dep. U : 374 George-street
Sydney.
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold ly local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Nenry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 1013.
CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and caretullv
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS bv
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction m all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most)
treasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Various Sizes Supplied.
“TTKE WAYBACK SERIES.”
IJO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
BEWARE OF
CONSTIPATION
It
Poisons
your
Blood
Constipation is one of the most dangerous of ,
common ailments. It poisons your blood with
impurities drawn from the stagnant matter in t
your bowels; you become dull and sleepy, you
have frequent headaches, piles, and often j
offensive breath. Anaemia follows, or obstinate
skin diseases, and sometimes the kidneys break 2
down, leading on to rheumatism and uric acid
troubles. Mother Seigel’s Syrup regulates your 4
bowels, renders constipation impossible, and
cleanses your system of impurities. ,
“For many years I was a great sufferer from *
indigestion and constipation and became so a
bad that I had to give up work. I had medi- f
cine from various doctors and tried all sorts /
of things, without relief, But Mother Seigel’s “
Syrup completely cured me.” —From Mr. *
George Lee, 2, Balmoral St., South Mel- 'c*
bourne, Victoria. July yth, 1906.
and
Fosters
Deadly
Disease
MOTHER SEIGELS
CURES
CONSTIPATION
SYRUP
CURES
INDIGESTION.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU OF ITS WORTH.
Weareohtbe'SPOT'
witm Crystallite Billiard Bias
The-
Only
Subsfifure
for •
Ivory
P/y.lfcf.
IS 5 •
£l/ZAB£Tffs7
MELS.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue”
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms;-
422 GEORGE STREET
GRAVEL AND STONE.
, W ! ie J l * her fu S - aSedi , mentlik ? brick ,' d - ustintheurineit is a cei 'tain indication that the kidneys
4 Tf’fv? the,r W ?- rk P ro P e rly, and immediate steps should be taken to restore their healthy
action. If this precaution is neglected, the particles will gradually become larger, and the miserable
suffering caused by Gravel or Stone will result.
Stones are usually found in the kidneys, and descend thence into the bladder. They are composed
of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime ; solid matter which should be held in solution in the fluids of the
body, and be passed off m a dissolved condition m the urine. Uric acid stone is by far the commonest
When a stone is formed in a kidney great pain in the loins is felt, and this becomes agonising
when the stone leaves the kidney and passes through one of the narrow channels leading to the
bladder' Th ® experienced 1S known a 3 Kidney Colic. It ceases when the stone reaches the
Once in the bladder, the stone may be passed off with the urine, or it may remain and become
larger by the accumulation of deposits. Sometimes a stone will form in the bladder by the simple
gathering together of particles of gravel. J p
Persons of all ages may suffer from stone or gravel. Even little children are not exempt.
When a sta formed in fa lcidneys is too large to pass through the passage leading into the
bladder, the passage becomes closed, dropsy sets in, and the patient may die in a few hours.
When stones remain long in the bladder they grow to a great size, sometimes as large as an
orange, and they frequently have to be cut out. s
The following symptoms indicate stone or gravel in the kidneys or bladder Painful itching
sensation; swelling of the seat of pain ; cramps in the legs and scrotum ; bearing down sensation in
urinatbig, I< wiih^sudden^toppages.^ r ° m k ' dneyS t 0 bladder-“ kidney colic;” pain and difficulty in
+1 treatment.—: The only rational method of treatment for this disease is to correct the action of
the kidneys, hereby removing the cause. In a healthy condition of the kidneys and urinary system
unt ' l fro “ the .'«*• *• AJS
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
restores to the kidneys their natural action, relieves congestion, heals the wounded and bleeding
mucous membranes of the urinary system, dissolves the stones already formed, and prevents further
formation Warner s Safe Cure is the only remedy in the world which has this power, and if the case
is amenable to any medicinal form of treatment, it will ultimately effect a cure.
BLADDER DISEASE.
Inflammation or Catarrh of the Bladder (Cystitis) is usually due to long retention of urine ; the,
effect of irritating drugs ; stricture ; enlargement of the prostate gland ; irritation caused bv stone
or«giayel, or by the careless use of a catheter; exposure to cold ; decomposition of urine caused by its.
retention, etc. J
There are two forms of this complaint—Acute and Chronic—the latter being peculiar to elderly
people. It is commoner m winter than in summer; in cold than in warm climates; in males than im
females. It is always dependent upon some obstruction to the flow of urine, or upon a diseased con-
dition of the urinary organs. The Bladder not being entirely emptied, the water retained:
decomposes.
Ihe kidneys are generally seriously involved in the mischief, the catarrh being usually a-,
secondary symptom of disease of the kidneys, and unless these are restored to their natural condition,
a cure cannot be effected.
Warner s Safe Cure corrects the unnatural condition of the kidneys, prevents the formation of.
pus and mucous by healing the inflamed membranes, and causes the water to become normal.
A treatise containing many letters from people who have been cured of Stone, Gravel and Bladder.'
Diseases will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
[ii]:
The Saunterers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHY did you marry him?” said the
girl with the wide, blue eyes, flipping
her cigarette and leaning forward
from the swaying hammock.
The woman laughed softly : “ That, my dear, is
beyond your comprehension, and—my o\yn,” she
said, flinging a glance backward over her shrugged
shoulder. “ I hardly know, and ” (mockingly)
innocence should know nothing of the strong
tides that drive one on the beaches.”
“Just so,” answered the girl leisurely. “Still,
it knows something of the drifts of the currents.”
The other smiled in lazy contempt. Some time
jou will think differently,” she yawned, turning
on her side.
“You never loved him,” persisted the girl.
The woman stared insolently at her through the
dusk a long stare of provocative curiosity. ‘ ‘ Per-
haps,” she said lightly ; “ still, it hardly matters
now.” She spoke with a little laugh of triumph.
The girl’s cigarette burned with a sinister
gleam in the dusk. Below them the breeze
lapped through roses, like the first waves of the
turning tide on a dry beach. The indefinite scent
from the woman’s clothes stained the air. Pre-
sently she rose, apd, with the soft step of the
sensualist, trailed inside. “I am going to see the
boy,” she said as she stepped in. The blue eyes
followed her curiously.
“Now—l—wonder,” said the girl in the ham-
mock.
It had grown quite dark on the balconv above
the rose terrace, and all color had faded from the
sky. A red lamp from within threw a stream of
light outward on the steps. The girl still lounged
on the swaying hammock, smoking cigarette after
cigarette, viciously and without enjoyment. She
was there when the man came up from the hushed
garden below, and, with an irritable hesitation,
crossed the space of ruddy light towards her. He
was handsome, with an ordinary kind of hand-
someness, and his mouth belied his chin. The
scent of millions of blooms stole up through the
dusk, and the whisper of countless leaves. Silence
hung like a naked thing between them. The girl
as usual, spoke first.
“Do you know,” she said, in a tone acidulous
with waiting, “ that —he —is a year old to-day ? ”
“ I not forgotten !” said the man. “ Have
you been to see him ? ”
“ To-morrow,” said the girl ; “ and you ?”
He moved hastily: “No—of course not; it
isn’t safe,” he said irritably. “ Surely—you will
never understand—if she”—
“ Well ! ” said the girl vindictively, leaning for-
ward. “If she should find out and leave you ? ”
“You know I haven’t a son,” he retorted'im-
patiently. “ We’ve gone through it all before.”
I suppose you could work, 5 ' she answered
bitterly. “Remember, after all, he is your son.”
“And so is the boy inside,” he interrupted
harshly, “ my legitimate son ! ”
The girl’s eyes flamed suddenly in the dark like
the eyes of a vicious cat, and her teeth caught her
lip. She tossed her cigarette over amidst the
roses. “And I wonder,” she said bplow her
breath. A child’s shrill laughter rang*out from
the room behind them, as a little fellow stumbled
across the step. The man stooped and lifted him
defiantly into his arms.
“ He’s a fine kiddie,” he said proudly. “ Every
day he grows more like my brother Victor.”
The girl smiled vindictively, horridly, out into
the dark.
* * ■* *
The afternoon was glorious with the honey and
wme of sunshine poured upon a flower-sweet
Gartli. i. lig roses ran not everywhere, waving l
sprays of wanton blossom beyond the harbor
wall, and climbing from trellis to trellis to fling
themselves in glowing battalions against the grey
stone balustrade hanging above. A few tender
petals fell incongruously upon the girl’s black lace
hat as she slowly climbed the steps. She had re-
turned earlier than she expected—ostensibly from
a crowded at-home of strawberries and scandal, in
reality from a little terrace house in an out-of-
the-way suburb that had no warmth of flowers
and but a meagre supply of sunshine. It was the
home of an Irish widow and a baby one year old.
She paused wearily beside a huge urn of flush-
ing, flaming geraniums, and looked out across the
quivering harbor with its dancing boats. The
little suburban street had cut into her heart with
its meanness and squalor, and her face was very
bitter as she went on up the steps. She was very
tired, too, and walked with a slight limp. Even
the spaniel, asleep on the lounge, did not hear her
come. The woman sat beneath the window with
her boy on her lap. With one hand she held him
while in the other lay a photographer’s picture'
the sepia-tinted face of a man. She lifted it'
studying it feature by feature, then bent ab-
sorbedly over the child. Cruel cunning con-
tracted the girl’s tired blue eyes, and she held her
breath. The woman held the picture further from
her, and the afternoon sunshine fell full upon it.
The face, with its reckless impossibilities, was
that of her husband’s brother, and almost ridicul-
ously was it reproduced, feature and strength and
weakness, in the face of the sleeping child.
“Victor!” sighed the woman softly and ten-
derly.
The girl let the folds of her skirt slip with a
rustle to the floor, and their eyes—the self-
betrayed, defiant ones, and the cold blue ones—
met for a long second.
You are back,” said the woman, indifferentlv
—too indifferently.
J‘ Un^P ctedl 7 ? ” said the girl, stepping
through the window.
. 'i sa i ld th , e “ ther > regaining her self-con-
troli ./ thought (yawning) “you were a
visitor.”
>i wu d P d heen ? ” asked the girl, harshly.
Why, simply that I don’t treat my visitors to
disp ays of nursery affection or,” glancing down
a dressing jacket.” ’
The answer was lightly given. The girl almost
knew it 16 opportunity, and
Look, said the woman, following up her
advantage, the boy is ridiculously like Victor.”
Ihe girl took the picture in her hand. “ Yes ”
she said, brutally, “like enough to be his son !
I he woman s eyes never wavered as she met’the
girl s stare ; but she raised her brows languidly
and taking the picture from the girl, she looked
at it leisurely then laid it down with the smallest
shi ug of the shoulders. The girl gazed straight at
her, and went on, tauntingly, “Once I thought
you meant to marry Victor.” 6
The woman laughed with real gaiety, then
spoke in a voice of honey sweetness, “Once—it’s
funny, isn t it—l thought you were fond—unduly
fond of my husband !” And her laughter ran#
out mockingly to the whispering rose down below.
CARO.


2S Britisb’flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
PflCe POST FREE, £1 per year,
1 1 UU, ln a< l vancej all over the worl <i.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British- A vstralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—■
115 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.G.
Two Doors from Southampton Row
and Kingsway.
Managing Director -
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
THE
True See Ker
FOB.
Health
selects food to keep health, passing
by the soggy, starchy, greasy foods
and selecting food and drink made
especially to keep Brain and Nerves
as -well as Body nourished vigorous
and strong.
N
Keen Brains
S,trongL Nerves
Healthy Bodies
are built on
Grape-Nuts
food
Because
the natural food elements for just
these purposes are combined in
Grape-Nuts and all are pre-digested
so the weakest invalid or the
strongest athlete can digest and is
thoroughly nourished, thus every
part of the body grows strong.
A feeling of reserve force and
easy poise all over is soon earned.
Trial proves this pleasant fact.
“.There's a Reason.”
Made by Posturn Cereal Co., Ltd.,
Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
NERVOUSNESS
&OSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
X. Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free oZ charge, to any-
one Interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact oppor-
tunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means
of Astrology. Send date
of birth, postal note for
lb and postage, for
A TEST .. .
HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by
R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to
the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and
thousands of others.
Money Returned ip HOROSQOPE Incorrect
R. HERSCHELL Co/ London),
Boas 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
yMIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda, ltai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift-
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Da ? or froi i
2 Guineas per Week. u,n
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
%
3.,4-a?
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
dS3.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315,-317 BOUBKE 8T„ MELBpyRNE
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 Greorge Street,
SYD3XTEY.
Business Announcements.
THE MISSES CLAPP will close their rooms
at .Monahan’s Buildings, 231 Flinders Lane,
during the month of January, as usual. Business
will be resumed on FEBRUARY Ist.
"CAUTION,
The Public are warned against the many spurious
imitations brought into the market under various
labels, and it is therefore necessary to ask for my
No. 4 Eau de Cologne,
-J ■
distilled strictly according to the original recipe of
the inventor, my ancestor, which is known in all
parts of the world by the lawfully registered label
here shown.
The addition of address " JULICHS PLATZ
No. 4 ” alone warrants genuineness of my EAU
DE COLOGNE.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Julichs Platz No 4,
Cologne o. Rhines
By appointment to H.M. KING EDWARD VII.,
and to most other Imperial and Royal Courts.
For a half century its use* v
r _ and fame have been ex-
, . tending. Now millions use it. For 1 ,
it shines brightest, and it shines long- ,
, es f- It is easily put on, and it cannot ,
, tab off. The clothing is not sailed, while i
the shoes are softened and preserved by its
' use.
Especially is it appreciated for ladies' and
children’s shoes, which it keeps in perfect con-
dition.
Made only by
<C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, Inc.
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom ,
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
England.
m
L«
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
3 for 10/-
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes.
Order payable to John Millee. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6.
Write To-day. Send Money
Length, 1\ yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade>
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
/I/so at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne
100 FINE CIGARS-17/6.
Absolutely the FINEST CIGAR in KING OF ALL.
Australia at the price.
Has a rich flavor that makes you and B . .
want more—a flavor that you won’t find HIGH LIFE.
in any other cigar at or near the price.
17/6 PER 100—9 d. Extra, Post Free,
Small Box of Four, post free, 1/-.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St. # Sydney.
mam
iiiiiilill
"V:
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free, any-
where, 1/9. Do not miss this chance of obtaining one
of the best and most useful puzzles ever produced.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
The Look and Laug'h Glass,
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing-
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on j
passing pedestrians, :
horses, waggo n s, i
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
The Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties.
Write for Price List B.
The Demon Rattle Box Trick,
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Bing’s,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, ancj the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
“HIGH STOMACH”
REDUCED.
Nothing is more annoying to woman or
man than an abnormally “ HIGH
STOMACH.” Physical culture will
reduce it, but a better method, and a
far cheaper and more certain one is
to wear
THE HYGIENIC BODY PER-
FECTOR AND HEALTH BRACE.
This unique appliance not only re-
duces high stomach, but it will develop
the bust and increase the chbst measure-
ment by over five inches. It supports
the stomach and internal organs.
Price, 10/6, Send for illustrated book
and full particulars.
THE
HEALTH BRACE CO.,
BUITE B, TOP FLOOR, [l.
107 Castlereagh-streat, Sydney.
Free! Free!
To the Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CURE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Free—Free for the
Asking—Free to You.
t — ;
To the sick—the suffering—to every man and
woman victim of
organic disease-
local trouble or
broken general
health—Dr. Kidd’s
offer of free treat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief that
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why yon
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
wonderful rem-
edies, no matter
what your doubts
may be.
I Want the Doubters
I want to give them the proof—the evidenca
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
and I want to pay the cost of this proof-all of
it—to the very last cent—myself.
I have put my life into this work—l hold the
1 record of thousands of cures—not “ some better ”
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are In my hands to prove every word I say,
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease,
Eartial paralysis, bladder troubles, stomach and
owel troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness, all
female troubles, lumbago, skin diseases, scrofula,
impure blood, general debility, organic vital ail-
ments, etc., are cured to remain and continue
cured.
No matter how you are, no matter what your
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and
given into your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost.
These Remedies Will Cure
They have cured thousands of cases—nearly
every disease—and they do cure and there is no
reason why they should not cure you —make you
well—and bring you back to health and the joy
of living!
Will you let me do this for you—will you let
me prove it—brother and sister sufferers ? Are
you willing to trust a master physician who not
only makes this offer but publishes it and then
sends the test and proof of his remedies without
a penny of cost to anyone except himself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address and
a description of your conditio i, and I will do my
utmost to satisfy every doubt you have or can
have that these remedies will save your life and
make it all that nature meant to make it.
Let me make you well. Give me your name
and tell me how you feel, and the proof, treat-
ment is yours at my cost. No bills of any kind—-
no papers—nothing but my absolute good-will
and good faith.
DR. JAMES W, KIDD,
Box 506, FORT WAYNE, IND.
NOTE. —Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
are exactly as represented in every respect.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. ■ It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11,.
Thojsands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Letter from a Little Girl —
FATHER
COMES HOME DRUNK
EVERY NIGHT,
So please, Dr. Langston, send some of your
Remedy that Mrs. S had. I have no money,
but want father cured of DRUNKENNESS.
Father is now cured, and the child is happy.
Home Cure which Never Fails. May be
Given Secretly. Write for Treatise No. 5.
OR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 C.OLUNS ST., MELBOURNE.


i
m
K
A
To Men Who
W ant. Strength.
Th is is a. Message to Men. It is to men who would feel
like men, look like men, and act like men. This is to men who lack courage,
whose nerves are shaken, whose brains are muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless,
confidence gone, spirits low and easily depressed, who are backward, hesitating i
unable to venture because they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide
for them, who are weak, puny, restless. It is to men who have part or all of these
symptoms and want new life, new force, new vigor. We offer it to you in
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
It has restored health and strength to thousands of weak men. If used as we direct
it is a positive cure and cannot fail. It gives the vitalising power of Electricity
without burning or blistering, thereby developing full vigor. It removes forever
all the effects of dissipation.
PAINS IN HEAD AND BACK.
BATEMAN’S BAY, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Your Belt did me a wonderful amount of
good, as I used to suffer terribly with pains in the back of
my neck and head,'also in the small of my back. Now,
after having used your Belt for a few weeks, I am entirely
free from pain, and have been so for many months. I
credit your Belt with having- been the means of restoring
my health, and shall always be glad to answer any in-
quiries from sufferers who may be afflicted in a similar
manner. Yours gratefully, JAMES BARCLAY.
WEAK BACK.
Receiving Office,
Babbiloora, MORVEN, Q.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —About fifteen months ago I obtained your
Belt, as I had suffered from weakness of my back for over
a year. Now lam entirely well, and have had no return
of the old trouble. In fact, the general improvement of
my health is undoubtedly due to the use of your Belt. I
never fail to recommend it.
Yours faithfully, JOSEPH RYAN.
FREE BOOK
DO YOU SEE THE COUPON?
Being sick, if you are wise, you will fill it m with
your name and address and post it to us, so that we
may send you our Free illustrated Book, which
describes our remedy in detail. ] Do not imagine that being “FREE” to sufferers makes this book
valueless : such is not the case.' It is Free because you need the information and advice contained
The Db. McLaughlin Co., 100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE BOOK, and oblige.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bul. 3-1-7.
between its covers, and if you really appreciated its value to YOU,
a sufferer, you would gladly pay Two Guineas for it. Send for it to-day ;
it is full of joyful encouraging news for weak, ailing men and women.
A!l Written Diagnosis are Absolutely Free.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100W* Street, Sydney*
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
CUT OFF HERE.
THE PILLS 1
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy ior Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ’’ or “out of sorts.’’ Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo# 1 * welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
V Jo**
❖
i
The Best
Summer Drink
oi\ Earth •
V///m
<3^
m
$
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“MONTSERRAT” is always
fresh and pleasant to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
“ Montserrat ” is sold by all Chemists, Grocers, etc
FREE
TO
THE
WEAK
NERVOUS and DEBILITATED.
Dr. Langston’s Medical Work, “Mens Sana
in Corpore Sano,” written after an experience
of 50 years as an Expert Specialist in
DISEASES OF WIEN. You can have the
benefit of all this vast experience for the
asking. Write for the Book to-day, it is Free.
Posted, 2 Stamps,
DR. LANCSTON INSTITUTE,
Established 1887.
129 Collins St., Melbourne.
Mention this Paper. Consultation Free.
THe GRANDEST LIVLR FILL ii\ the WORLD
“Take a Cockle’s Pill” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/1J to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
J'/je JCatjcef describes it.as—
“Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
VJje British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd * he AGED.
Bender's Food is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Williamstown (Vic.) Council! has just made-
a move that a lot of county courceilb would do well 1
to follow, instead of wearing owt the Treasury
door-mat asking for assistance. It is using the
power given by sec. 333 of the Vic. JLocal Govern-
ment Act to gather in its overdue rates, and has
taken possession of properties on which rates are
overdue five years, and is leasing them for seven-
year terms.
Arnold, one time Speaker, and admittedly
one of the best constitutional authorities N.S.W.
Parliament has had, moved on December 10,
185 G, to reduce the vote of £7OOO for British sea
forces serving within Australian limits to one
shilling. He argued that while Australia was a
British dependency' the cost should be borne by
England. The reduction was carried by 24 votes
to 22.
Some published correspondence between
the Mergenthaler Linotype Co. of TJ.S.A. and
the Central Press Agency of Canada shows that
the Canadian Customs fined the Mergenthaler
Co. £3O for “dumping,” because, in invoicing a
machine, it allowed a 10 per cent, rebate on its
New York price to compensate the Canadian
customer for paying duty ! That’s anti-dumping
legislation as it is understood in America.
The claim that immigrants sent out to
N.S.W. by Agent-General Coghlan go straight to
work, and never in any case swell the crowd of un-
employed, is, so far as observation goes, fairly well-
founded. But old Saul Samuel, when Agent-
General, used to push forward a similar piece
of official vanity, and he carried his vanity to an
absurd extent. Saul set about a dozen clerks to
find, from census papers and other documents,
what proportion of the immigrants sent out by
him to N.S.W. were on the then lists of the
unemployed. The dreary expenditure of clerking
brains proved—at least the son of Kish alleged it
did —that of 30,000 immigrants sent out by him
only two figured among the chronic workless.
About Russia, the London Times corres-
pondent (a bitter foe of the existing Russian sys-
tem) wrote last month :
The readiness displayed by the conscripts, including
the Jews, to report themselves, and the strong tone
noticeable on the Bourse, show that in town and country
alike there is nothing to justify alarm. The immediate
future therefore* cannot be described as other than
reassuring.
“ Quiddam ” : In view of the dismal down-
fall of the Black Laborites who said White Labor
couldn’t work in sugar-cane, and who now see how
the fairly-paid, well-fed white man has knocked
out Tommy Tanna’s records, the “time is ripe”
to get up and howl that the cotton industry cannot
be developed without colored labor. As, so far,
it has not been tried in Australia to any great
extent, the howl cannot be disproved till the
cotton bales begin to show up, and that must
necessarily be some little time. Such a golden
opportunity for passing round the Stinking Fish
on a three-pronged fork should not be neglected.


IF YOU DON’T
LIKE THE HEAT
. . . WEAR . . .
Aertex Cellular
. . . AND KEEP COOE.
“ AERTEX ” ventilates the body—lets out the heat
and keeps the skin dry and cool.
It prevents that uncomfortable warm feeling’ caused
by too closely woven underwear. It is beautifully
soft and will not irritate the most sensitive skin.
Doctors recommend it as the most healthy fabric
ever invented.
SHIRTS from 4s. ; SINGLETS from 2s. 6d.
Pull Illustrated Price Lists and Samples Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
DAVID BRAHAM &CO.
94 King St., Sydney.
Lockwood Bros.f Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PfIMPA’
POCKET
KNi SES
are the
\BEST.
I'
SolcT
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 2/*
Stacj Handle - - - 216
RUPTURE
EASILY, QUICKLY,
AND PERMANENTLY
CURED
WITHOUT OPERATION.
No pain, danger, inconvenience, or loss of time.
Immediate relief, ease, comfort, and certain cure.
Thousands of testimonial letters from people
you know, together with TREATISE No. 12,
posted free. Call or write.to-day.
DR. LANGSTON’S INSTITUTE
ESTABLISHED 1887,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
To soothe
the Skin. smarting under tha heat of a
" burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly-heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets. •
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and SuoelUes
Madame Panza,
Box 313, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
nousm
| Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
| form all the many marvellous feats
l that are possible to the Hypnotist.
I Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
[conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
I nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
j Hypnotism, which fully explains
[the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beantifu' and
artistic engravings, and i
the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the k'lid
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cdver
postage. Order to-day and learn
t° Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a Jne-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN.
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
51hs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars iree. Address —
J A S. C R A I G &. CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ss?
(the Commonwealth’s Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY'S
ABSOLUTELY
-PURE-
COCOA
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your hie is spent m the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
W endurance, or m the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
w etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food
r Amongst liquid CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOXjTJTEIjY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health.
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
\l
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c>s
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
• H"'
fis
mm
B 3 ft
m
,<SC?LD,MEDAL. PARIS. 1900. .
PRIX. STLOUIS.I9CH. r A \L,A
OF ALL CHEMISTS .jPj/jsf'
■OF ALL CHEMISTS ,
Ik & PERFUMERS. ,
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garde
Sol 3 Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
HUTCHISON’S INTENTIONS FOR THE DEAF.
THE MASSACON AND THE ACOUSTICON
Which obtained the only Gold Medal awarded by the International Jury at the World’s
Fair, St. Louis (17.5. A.), to any exhibit
FOR THE ALLEVIATION OF DEAFNESS.
and for which the Inventor has received a similar medal from Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Alexandra (a photograph of which mav be seen at the undermentioned addresses)
MAY BE INSPECTED FREE OF CHARGE,
AT THE OFFICES OF THE “ACOUSTIC PATENTS, LIMITED,”
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Catalogue No. 2, containing all particulars, will be forwarded Free by Post on application.
C. POLLOCK. Sydney Manager.
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA
Consult KERB RASSIUSSEH , Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
WeakJSen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
IlSanhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. <Ss 12s. Course, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
85*0 rvnn Oil I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
OL.UHJSJ IdlSa JLi ai Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
ifivmi _____Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
InfcoJK Hw 08114211 Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office s 547 GEOHOE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORUE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Give Me
The Sweet and Good
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from ail Tobacconists
\\/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book At cade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m w
»ASK.
s
AKD
* REFUSE
OBSTITUTE
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTfS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’a INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cy< le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu- stion
if not ptrfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cvcles. warranted six vears.
LAIEST
MODELS
£2.30 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or <. lincher A Won Tyies, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
lo any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nrtn Second-Hand Cycles
iliU all makes, £2mlo
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN a CYCLE maehfne. Active Agentß
wan' ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <kc., half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dep^.
T .vDoonoT. T.nNnoN AND CHICAGO.
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
and entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head no ses.
There ar« but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE
L. R. VERNON CO.
60-64 Hunter St.» Sydney.
BLOOD POISON,
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS i
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Pi imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


VICTORIA
Collins&Swansfon S* Melbourne#
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
Hay St Perth (<(l
QUEENSLAND f V°
Queen S Edward St? Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
1465143 Queen St. Auckland.'
18*3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 5233 HighS 1 ;
Princes 5 DowlingSt? Dunedin.
B
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
a I If it's from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nearesf
you.
eoo
©©©©©©©©©©©©©
STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.** Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
No. 01923—Very Fine Pearl and Turquoise set 15et. Gold Cable Bangle, £ll 10s.
No. G2666—9ct. Gold Pearl and Ruby
Photo. Pendant, £1 ss.
62521.
9et. Gold
Fancy Chain
Bangle,
in case,
£3 3s.
size.
m
E
33?
Gold and Fine Pearl Crescent Star and Drop Necklace, £9 10s.
No. E9668.—9ct. Gold Cable Bangle, in case, £2 10s.
No. G 2589.
Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Heart, 10s Od.
No. H 1203.
Pearl or Ruby Set
9ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d. Others
6s 6d, 12s 6d.
No. E 9955.
9ct. Gold Heart
Pendant, 8s 6d.
No. F9355.—18ct.
Gold & 3 Diamond
Ring, £2 10s.
18ct. Gold and 5
Diamond Engage-
ment Ring, £lO 10s
Rheumatic Ring.
2s 6d.
No. (J3sl7—Pearl and Ali.vst Set Dct. Gold Bangle, i.± lCs
No. 02194.—New Zealand Green
stone, Pearl, and 9ct. Gold
“Scimitar” Brooch, 255.
No. GBs46.—Pearl and Turquoise Set 9ct. Gold Bangle
£2 15s.
18ct. Gold Wedding
Ring, 30s.
Other weights, 21s,
255, 40s, 50s, 60s.
No. F 9278.
Diamond and Ruby
or Sapphire 18ct.
Gold Engagement
Ring, 50s.
No. F 3137 —“ Louis ” Pattern, Massive Solid Silver
Tea and Coffee Service, in case, £54.
No. us49s—Solid Silver-Mounted Blotter, 16s 6d.
O oiler sizes, 14s 6d, 17s 6d.
Solid Silver Match Box, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL.
No. G 6989.
Silver-Plated
Table Bell, 9s 6d
No. G4s9B.—9cfc. Gold Bell
Lace Pin, 8s 6d.
No. F3 —15ct. Gold Long Muff Chain, £9 lOs.
A Very Handsome Style.
Parisian Pearl Necklet, 9ct. Gold Snap, 8s 6d ; Best Quality, 14s 6d.
No. 262— 90 t. Gold
Medal, 21s; 15efc. ,37s 6d
Finest Quality Pearl Set
Locket, £8 10s.
Silver-Plated Screw Top
Flasks, 9/6, 11/6, 13/6,
15/6, 17/6, 22/6.
18ct. Gold Band Ring-,
Diamond Centre,
£4 10s.
Solid Silver Chain
Purses, 18s -6d, 255, 35s
9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Bangle, £3 10s ; 15ct. £5 15s.
Bayonet Top, Best Make
Silver-Plated Flask,
32s 6d, 355, 40s, 60s.
No. G 5612. —Silver-Mounted
Hand Bag, 16s 6d.
THE “STEEL” WATCH.
Absolutely perfect for timekeeping, f-plate, full
jewelled, best quality Lever Movement, Keyless
Winding. Highly recommended for Country wear.
Satisfaction goes with each.
Open Face, Steel Case, £1 ss; Hunting, £1 IQs.
No. G 4349.— Silver-plated Cherub Pin Tray, 3s.
No. H 1137. —Solid Silver Bose
Bowl, £2 10s.
l " No. G4723—9ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d
No. F 75 —Silver-Plated Butter Dish, 9/0
m
No. G262l—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 2s.
ngraved Silver Cigarette Case, Solid
Gold Shields and Bands, £3 3s.
Solid Silver and Black Velvet
Chatelaine Bag, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2 7s 6d, £4 4s
W^r
m
KV-'
Sr
IS
v^r
3fi
8>
«8
V .»<:
'• ■■■ ■ .:
JL
4f:i
m
m
S'fm*
mm.
!.'>
i*s
H:i:
iWSS
.-■‘v
No. G 6028.— Solid Silver-mounted Full-size Blotting Book, £2.
No. G6S92—Silver-Mounted Shaving
Paper Holder, 10s 6d.
Others, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
No. GB7os—Lady’s Solid Silver Cherub
Purse. A Marvel of Value. Order one
to-day. Only 20s. Size 3in. x 2in.


i
at
m
h
fS/
m
TOAVOID SUCH TROUBLES
Use Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap.
There is nothing more distressing or loathsome to mothers than
the various forms of diseases that attack the scalps of young children.
It is very often a mystery to a mother how her child becomes
affected with these disagreeable affections, as she uses every endeavor
to cleanse and purify the child’s head and skin so as to avoid anything
of the kind; but the question arises, What soap has she been using
for that purpose ? Is it of an impure nature ? It may to all appear-
ances look all right, but there are ingredients in common toilet soaps
that, with the least abrasion, set up inflammation and scalp disease,
ibis very often occurs in otherwise clean and healthy children, and
applies, not alone to the scalp, but to the whole skin surface of the
body. Caustic soda, usually to be found in common soaps, irritates
the skin, and robs the pores of the natural oil for lubricating it, hence
unsightly scalp and skin diseases result from any abrasion or sore part.
The best way to guard against scalp and skin disorders is to
wash regularly with Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap. This grand
preparation has advantages as a skin purifier, tonic, and antiseptic
possessed by no other soap. It contains pure medicines that act in a
beneficial manner with the natural oil of the skin. When the pores are
clogged and unable to carry off the perspiration and waste matter from
the system, Zam-Buk Soap will penetrate, remove the obstructions,
and sanitate the scalp against impurities and disease.
ZAM-BUK SOAP can be obtained from all Chemists or Stores at 11 - per tab.e', or a
dainty box of three tablets for 2 10, or for same price direct from the ZAM~SU.i
MFG. CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SEND THIS COUPON
With your Name and Address
and Id. Stamp to the ZAM-
BUK MFC. CO., 39 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY, and receive a dainty
FREE Sample Tablet of ZAM-
BUK SOAP by return post.
Bulletin, 3/l/’O7.
m
j a f e guardLr
the
u 'kir\
s>
Business, Robbery, etc.
A particularly wasteful thief has been wander-
ing round Melbourne lately, slaughtering valuable cows
and sheep for the sake of their hides, and leaving the
skinned carcases behind. Victoria badly wants some
legal supervision over the hide trade. The jeweller who
buys “ old gold” without curiosity isn’t in it with the
tanner or hide merchant, who never asks questions about
the cheap skins he buys.
* * *
“T. O’Fipp”: From time to time some horribly
utilitarian person rises in Melbourne City Council, and
grows indignant because the Eastern Market is the
Eastern Market. The main trouble seems to be that the
building is not entirely devoted to the sale of tripe,
tomatoes, “ In ivlemoriam ” wreaths, onions, &c. The
solemn beings who wish to make the institution a mere
food-mart were never young enough to see it from the
boy’s view-point. Their souls are so wrapped up in
visions of raw mutton and uncooked cabbage that they
fail to discern the inner poetry of shies at Aunt Sally,
not to speak of “ the game of minuet —the more you ring
the more you get.” The killjoys could evoke no
delight from participation in these and similar
rites, followed by inspection and possible purchase
of dogs and pigeons, rifle-shots at swinging bottles,
weight and lung-testing, electric-shocks, and other items
of the same delectable character, with intervals of com-
parative inaction filled in ; by consumption of the festive
peanut and ice-cream: , Nobody is fairly entitled to pass
opinion on this latter-clay Eastern Question unless he has
matriculated by eating at least four plates of hot peas
and seven ice-creams in one Saturday night, to the
thrilling strains of the market’s brass band ; and if the
aggrieved councillors really want to know what’s what,
they must not perambulate the market in sour aloofness,
but cultivate youthful hearts and faithfully follow the
example of the twelve-year-old Who is out for a rorty
Saturday night. True, there may be a risk of the l.ot-
pea-and-ice-cream course cooking ’em ; but what’s that
to a patriotic alderman ?
* * * «
“ F.M.” complains : I am a bookseller. Here
is something of the woes of the book trade, and the
manner in which ,the church, the dear church, the
nebulous,/indefinablething called lovingly the church, is
cutting into, and-playing Old Henry with, the business of
the legitimate bookseller. No sooner does the “Society
for Objecting to Damn ” elect its president, than ittakes a
little shop somewhere and writes up on the window :
“The Society for Objecting to Damn’s Book Shop:
Sunday Schools and Clergymen supplied with libraries
free of charge, with r a twenty per cent, discount on
settlement.” So that their wages sheet shall not break
what back the society possesses—it has heaps of front,
but not much back—lt gives the management of this crib
to some old-lady who lives mostly upon faith and a;
bad digestion. Her appearance betrays it. Now this;
sort of thing is a sad matter for us -the reputable, up-
right, literary booksellers. Why should the church come
out on the make, and compete with a trade whose exis-j
tence is precarious at the best of times? Why doesn’t it
go out in the butchering line for a change? And why
should there be any clerical discounts? On an average the
clergy gethigher screws.than working men, .and get them
a darned sight—l mean a hanged spectacle—easier, so why
should a highly respectable (looking) shepherd of souls
dump down a sixpenny book on my counter and ask
“How much will that be to ME?” (You ought to hear
him say that “ME.”) Yet “ME” is only the customer
of the legitimate bookseller when he finds that the book-
shop of his denomination has not in stock what he desires.
(“Desires” is all right; a parson never “wants” any-
thing. And he doesn’t get anything; it is “vouch-
safed ” to him.) How can the “ clergy ” hope for help or
even sympathy in their spiritual work (“ spiritual work”
looks good) from the booksellers or their employees
while they are the cause of a ruinous system of discounts
that lets the trade barely pay, and also open sundry
“ mission book emporiums ” and “ Bible depots,” which
dig at the returns of a very poor trade ? The
parson’s discount is not right, but we would pro-
bably survive that if it were restricted to the ordained
members of the profesh, and if the church people
would not descend to mundane things and open shops.
But there is more woe yet. Every four-a-penny little
toy-parson (they call them “locals” and “readers”)
who has ever in a wild career read outahymn on the
beach, or drunk ginger-beer at a tea-meeting, considers
himself ripe for the discount privilege too. My nerves
are in ribbons about it; I tremble at the word
« bretheren ”; I faint at the sight of that ominous,
square ntfcle bit of collar, and I flee in horror at the
g ” und 0 f the Army drum,
* * * *
«, A.H.” : During 18 months’ wanderings over
and An f eri the ion {ruit wa3 the only
th in tbe fruifc line thafc r £ e never see n and badly
missed. Wild kinds grow, in the Southern States (passi-
flora incarnate), but the fruit is unspeakably poqr, and
flavorless . why is n 0 e ff o rt made to place the cultivated
Austra fi an pags ion fruit on the market in New York or
London t he two cities where there is a large class to
whom price ig not hing at all ? As for fruit generally, the
Australian who has never been out of Australia has no idea
of his own good fortune. All over the Eastern States of
America for instance, one onlv finds plums of a few varie-
ti and those not the flnest . ‘ The pear Bea S on is very brief
and fresh apricots are unknown. Almost the only grapes
tQ be bou „£ fc are the Concord, with a tough pulp, which
ma^es one think of chewing gum, adherent seeds, and a
wi i d tan „ like that of a rather coarse, strong-flavored
lnan g. o And this with California just across the con-
tinent, and what is supposed to be a perfect refrigerated
car ’ fcem , The Ne w England housewife has to be very
sbe wan ts to put up much fruit for her winter
• From the time huckleberries come in till pears go
£ t is onl about two mo nths.
• . * « «
~-p, yy f . A woman from the bush
Wnt , eS ; A
(6/12/06) strikes the note 1 , llke to h ear 1 r g
foreign importation of goods which can just be as well
manufactured here. But was hopelessly out
®| ie touched on the different commodities, particularly in
the case of corn-flour. Since we have had a Feder. 1
tariff, and a stiff jd. per lb. on this edible, its lmpoi ta-
tlon *' as practically ceased, to the benefit of our colonial
? ia ” A !‘i cfcur ? rB ; A tle 1129 tons consumed in N.S.W.
for 1905, only 80 tons were imported, of which fully a
thlrd was v<;r - v low-grade American stuff, which came
here in bulk to be packed m the usual retail sizes by the
packers, and labelled Australian produce. The Scotch
stuff doesn’t deserve a curse. It’s the standard aimed at
by our colonial manufacturers, who have now pretty well
gained the secret of the famous Paisley firm. For that
1129 tons consumed in N.S.W. five local manufacturers
competed hard.
* « * «
Gradually the beautiful timbers of Australia
are makin o- a name. The wealth in this respect in North
Queensland is beyond estimation. The other day a Cairns
jf booked an J. der for aoo 000 feet of the Cairns silky
k f Ja Belgium, and British Columbia. This
fc . b is h £. d eq * al fo ’ r furniture. It is so plentiful
. th Norbh that it ‘ ig spUt up for fences and fruit pack-
. A half-probably more-of the silky-oak
f u ” ni ture made by Chinese in the Sou hern States comes
down f, om the North with fruit in its innards,
* * » *
-, T - ■ . T . . .. „
. wine-expert Burney, just re u
'T* I ' l t 0 Euro P e u > tel,s ,the old story which Australian
vignerons have been so long in learning--**., that Aus-
tralian wines have a big future if they are dev pe
along their own natural lines, instead of endeavoring to
imitate French and Spanish wines in body and flav .
Hans Irvine (wno is a good vl ? n^‘ on > but a i>oor po -
cian) told the same tale after his European visit a year
a S°- But hundreds of Australian wine-makers still try
t 0 force their wines, by all sorts of doctonngs to
resemble those of France with a result like that attained
by an Australian trying to copy the Oxford accent. That
Bainful person generally achieves the intonation of a
Hinglish flunkey.
* * * . *.
“ Stony ” : I have kept a pitying and interested
eye on the office-boy class ever since that day of my
youth when I was offered three bob a week, as a 17-year-
old, to slave for an accountant. It was a “ good opening,”
said the advt., but I couldn’t see it, and hunted another
job. A young cousin of a pal of mine was offered a six
months’ billet in a lawyer’s office at no bob a week, with a
“ fair salary” (not stated) to begin at the end of a trial
period. The youth served his half-year, and was then
“retired.” “Times were bad.” The week following he
met a cobber and asked where he was working. The
cobber named the firm which had just dispensed with the
other boy’s services. “Wo’ jer get?” demanded the
half-year youth. And it then came out that by the “ fair
salary ” dodge the mean lawyer man was 'getting his
office-boys on the nod all the year round.
* * * *
“ Quiddapa ” : People who lament the decay of
Nature’s goldfields should cheer th jmselves with the fact
that death and dentistry are busily engaged in creating
new ones. A Yankee mathematician estimates that in
the U.S. alone half-a-ton of pure gold is used annually by
dentists, most of which is buried when the victim ex-
pires, and the same performance, in varying proportions,
is going on all over the world. At this rate, the time
must eventually come when all the gold mankind can
extract from the earth will be buried in various ceme-
teries. Even cow cyaniding the remains in Australian
cemeteries should give a considerably better output than
many played-out alluvial fields do. If cremation ever
becomes general a reliable assay of the ashes should be a
detail of the ceremony.
• * * *
It was Private Enterprise which first drove the
white men of the North Queensland banana-growing
industry. The commission agents, not satisfied with
ordinary profits, tried butter-agent swindles. The Chows
wouldn’t stand it, and sent down their own men to Sydney
and Melbourne (that was really the beginning of the
•'resent Yellow Banana Trust). The white growers went
co the wall. A white man who grew oranges on the
Johnstone River found the returns from Townsville so
small that he accompanied a consignment. There were
only a couple of bids at first, and then he chipped in and
got them. “Do you want those cases particularly?”
asked an agent. “ Yes.” “ Well, if you had given us
the wink you could have got them for half the price.”
The whole trade is now in the clutches of the Chow.
Yet the land employed to produce the crop is all white-
owned, let for 20s. to 30s. per acre. A farmer there
considers that, with horses and implements, a white
man could look after 15 acres ; whereas the Chow’s
holding limit is five. First year’s crop is 200 bunches
per acre ; second 000 ; and so on. Without manuring,
the land can be persistently cropped for ten years. If
the Chow was smashed, and the fruit sold under
State supervision, there would be splendid profits. Tiie
shipping ring, too, collars about £30,000 a year out of
the business as freights, which would stand a substantial
reduction. Thus two Trusts have the enterprise well
cornered.
* * * *
“Veldt”: Some country folk look on our
gaternal Government with as much distrust as on a con-
dence man. T’other day a young fellow near where I
kill time, went into town to deposit his hard-earned silver
in the Post-Office Savings Bank. Arriving there, he
wandered into the local store and said to the Pooh-Bah
who ran that establishment: “ It’s only a matter of four
quid, but I’d be glad, when \ ou’re not busy, if you’d
come in and see that I get fair play.”
* • * *
“Philo”: The energetic manner in which the
big city drapers have been getting the Law on to the
female sneak-thief, who makes an easy and remunerative
living by lifting snndry small articles from counters,
has made the lady of that type seek another
outlet for her energy; and she has chosen one
much less risky and probably more profitable.
I saw this ruse perpetrated by an artful female
lately. She was young, smartly dressed, and rather
good-looking, and seemed greatly distressed as she
anxiously scraped about the gutter with her delicately-
colored sunshade, and in other ways made it obvious that
she had lost something. A well-groomed young man
went up, and in his very nicest manner proffered assis-
tance. She gave him a gorgeous smile, and told him, with
much embarrassment, that she had been “unfortunate
enough to lose a shilling.” She further informed him, as
he proceeded to search about anxiously, that it was such a
paltry sum that she wouldn’t look for it, only she had come
into town to make a small purchase for her dressmaker
and had brought just the exact amount required with
her. The young man failed to take the hint, and con-
tinued his search for the shilling that wasn’t there.
Presently she pointed to a convenient drain and
said that she thought it must have gone down
there. The young man said he thought that was
what must have happened to it, and begged to be allowed
to help her out of the difficulty. She told him that that
would be altogether too good of him. He assured her
that it wouldn’t, and produced a shilling, and said he
insisted on her taking it. She did. Then she thanked
him profusely and hurried away. Half-an-hour later I
saw her in Market-street. She was in the act of relieving
an unsuspecting old man of half-a-crown, and smiling
sweetly at him, and telling- him how very unfortunate
she was, and how awfully kind he was.
* « * *
During the past four years, while Australia has
been talking largely about the possibilities of rubber
growing in Papua and the Northern Territory, the Dunlop
Company has taken up land in Ceylon, and planted it
with rubber trees. In addition to providing enough raw
rubber for the English co., the Dunlop plantations supply
the Australian demand.
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: The lengthening of a steamer is
not a new thing in Australia. Away back in the seventies,
the s.s. Southern Cross, owned by the old Tasmanian
Steam Navigation Co., was lengthened 17ft. at Lucas’
shipyard, Hobart. It was in commission right up till the
time it was wrecked —nearly 20 years after —and never
developed a fault. Another one—the Dorset I think it
was—was lengthened at Mackay’s yard some time in the
late eighties. When the whaling industry was at its
best, Hobart had three fairly large shipyards—McGregor’s,
Mackay’s and Lucas’ —employing a large number of men,
and they turned out some very fine work. These ships
were built of wood, but I reckon that men who can build
wooden ships can pretty soon learn to build steel ships.
* • » *
“Nemo ” : There’s a new strain of potatoes—an
Australian native—-that seems destined to be something
in the spud world. The originator—a Tasmanian —has
been endeavoring for some years to improve upon existing
types of “ redskins.” After making hundreds of experi-
ments with innumerable crosses, he grew a seedling, the
tubers from which weighed 4£lb. Sufficient of these
having been kept to test the eating qualities of the new
product, the balance was put aside for seed. So astound-
lngly prolific has the strain proved that from the original
41b. of seed 11 tons of first-class marketable potatoes have
been grown in two years. At one experimental planting
last season—planting and digging being done in the
presence of numerous trustworthy witnesses —lib. of
seed, cut into 280 sets, returned a crop of rather more
than half a ton of first class marketable potatoes. This
is about five times the previous world’s record (2001 b.).
What the commercial value of this discovery is it is im-
possible at present to estimate, but 141 b. of El Dorado
potatoes (whose best record is a yield of 200 to one) were
recently sold in Great Britain for the enormous sum of
£l4OO. The new tuber proves to be of good shape and
excellent quality. Its disease-resisting properties have
yet to be put to the test, but if its phenomenal vitality is
any criterion," it will score in that direction also. Mr.
Kidd is the grower and originator, and he calls it “ The
Gem of the South ” potato.
* * » w
A note of interrogation from Santo, New
Hebrides, about other remote parts which The Bulletin
doesn’t pass every morning: “What are a chap’s pros-
pects in either New Guinea, Solomon Islands, or Hono-
lulu ; and to what extent is the Government willing to
help a likely settler, with small capital?” Anybody
know?
“ L.D.” writes from Fiji:—
Re your par. (Leprosy in New Caledonia, B. 9/8/’06):
It is not generally known that there are upwards of 2000
lepers in the Fiji group, the majority of whom, I am
told, are coolies. Healthy outlook for the coming geneia-
tions. In the districts of Bulu and Nailaga (Da side of
the Island of Viti Levu) there are no segregating laws,
and tainted folk have absolute liberty. The Leper Ordi-
nance of 1899 only applies to districts brought within its
operation by proclamation. The Northern Territory (S. A.)
would make an excellent breeding ground for this lovely
disease, if handed over to coolies —Chinese or Japs—as
some of your legislators would like to do with that part of
the Commonwealth. After handling coolies’ silver hero,
most people wash in a strong solution of carbolic or pot.
permang., and, really, I think it is absolutely necessary.
There is another disease, too, more prevalent and more
contagious than leprosy.


GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the business under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
The Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses
in HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUSTEES in the Estate
of the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
/ Booltiag Fee,
3d.
( per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling ivater.
DIET
The “AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd m'f and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
6*
5*
to
n
Jlllllllillll
f Fluid. 1
COLORLESS,
FRA RANT,
NCN-POIBCNOUS.
1/-
Pint Bottles.
Oxidant e Germicide
Indispensable In all Blok Rooms. '
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- fit 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeeper!.
The “SANITAS” CO.,
Ltd., Uinehouse,
V London.
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Fain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations l The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving tho simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARiMEc> BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i*
HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4-/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .ily.
Qp t Hearne's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
OOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 90 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, Bs (id posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is Gd. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyiiook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is Gd. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is Gd. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for tiie British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3dv The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Rature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young; and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting* their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, os Od.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,.
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training!, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (3d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron ok Boccaccio, llkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
Fdo Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Years.
ONLY A SnALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
' ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, hyPiune*
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


Cures
Hed!
Relieve
Urre /RheunatismX Every
Sore
B acK
R \ Checks
* \Bleeding
D
Desrroys
. all
Skirv /
/Allays^
inflammarion
Tool-hache/
clm:S Sb P s[he P ain / <£*
Aliaysv Relieves /Slops
irriteiionX Sprains /Neuralgia
A CLOCKWORK FAN
HERES a Fan—a wonderful
Clockwork Fan that is
almost equal to an electric
fan in results, and a lot
cheaper. Besides, it costs
you nothing for power. Just the thing
for a hospital or sick room, an office or
study. It is a well-made, good-looking
fan, with plated fan and gunmetal case.
It runs noiselessly. It is made to hang
on a wall or stand on a table. It goes
for one hour on each winding.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES OF OUR
PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORDS.
65/
PRICE - -
Carriage Paid.
Osborn ®.Jerdan, Ltd.
"MY
OPTICIANS/'
OPTICIANS AND-
ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE ST.
/FACING ROYAL'
V HOTEL
SYDNEY
His Smoke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY sit ensconced from the outer stir,
He’s bald, and her locks are grey —
And what does it matter to him or her
How the world wags to-day ?
The past is living for them again,
There in the red fire’s heart,
And it’s little they reck of the ways of men,
Or the wiles of the strident mart.
Whose hist’ry is written in never a book,
Nor graven a stone upon—
(A simple story of Maggie the cook,
And her love for the gardener, John).
Alone they sit in the warm, red glow
Of the log fire’s twisting flame,
And ling’ring chat of the long ago,
And the day the awakening came.
And each has a deep, true love for each —
And fifty years have sped
Since she, complexioned like ripest peach,
To John in the church was wed.
The story’s been told her a thousand ways,
Yet she bids him swear once more
That he loves her better these later days
Than ever he did before.
Then he smooths her hair with his wrinkled hand,
And his faded eyes grow bright—
And only a lover could understand
The cause of their added light.
He tells her again how, in all his life,
The happiest moment sped.
Was the moment he kissed her and called her
wife,
On the morning that they were wed.
“ They told me my freedom was sworn away—
Of course, it was but a joke,
Such as folk crack on a wedding day ”
And he lifts his pipe for a smoke.
“ Of course, dear John, it was only a jest”—
(He is reaching now for a spill)—
“ But please, my darling, don’t smoke—it’s best—
For I’m sure it would make me ill! ”
And their love will live though their lives may
cease,
But fifty years have sped,
Since John has lighted his pipe in peace—
Except in the lumber-shed !
M.L.
SINGLAIR S. CLARK.
Some Notions of the Girl’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were on the front of a tram—the
girl and I—going out to Norman
Creek, We were the only occupants
of the front seat. Inside the car a severe-faced
woman with a basket kept company with a stodgy
school boy, and on the rear seats were two men
abusing the Government.
“I should like to do nothing for ever and ever,”
said the girl, fixing her eyes on the blue serge
back of the motor-man.
I knew this was not strictly true, for those long
white fingers of hers are always busy over some-
thing, and she holds a certificate for advanced
cookery. She couldn’t lotos-eat, though she can
laze splendidly at times.
I nodded.
We were out of the sordid back tracks of the
town now, and among the pretty little wooden
cottages and the polished green of camphor
laurels. We turned a corner sharply, and the
girl continued :
“ There is a factory—l daresay you know it—
in a street which I pass sometimes when I go to
the Book Club. It has a galvanised iron roof and
galvanised iron sides, and you can smell the reek
of the hot leather when you are fifty yards away,
for it is a boot factory. All day long you can hear
the whirr and thunder of the sewing machines.
Through the spaces they call windows you can
catch a glimpse—if you are inquisitive—of lads in
shirt sleeves, bending over the machines, pounding
away through the hours when the weather is such
as to tempt one to lie all the morning under the
Scotch firs on the green slopes of the city parks,
sometimes, reading—a book with big print, of not
too instructive a tone; sometimes just staring up
at the bits of scattered" blue sky seen through the
twigs and greenery-soft blue sky that looks as if
you could gather it up in your fingers, if only you
could reach far enough ” ——
“Do you think the factory boys would appre-
ciate your hours of blessed idleness?” I asked,
making a grab at my blue ticket, which had
slipped to the floor. lam always losing my tram
tickets.
“Do they ever get the chance?” she said,
grandly, with the air of a social reformer, looking
critically at the toes of her tan boots.
The girl’s feet are always in evidence—not
because they are large but because they are pretty.
“Have you seen them in the Gardens on
Saturdays and Sundays?” I said. “Factory
boys and girls taking their holiday—you wouldn’t
worry about the minimum wage then, if you
could see the chiffons ! ”
“Idon’t know anything about the minimum
wage,” she answered. “I don’t think I know
what it means—l was just pitying the people who
have to work in galvanised iron buildings among
that horrid leather on summer days. Personally
I want to swing in a hammock among roses, and
think about the frocks I should like to have.”
We caught a glimpse of the river between the
slim gum trees, above the paling fences of the
reserve.-
“It is three years since you were here,” said
the girl, presently.
“ As long as that?” I asked, doubtfully.
“ Yes, I know because I am twenty-seven.”
“ Don’t tell anybody,” I ventured, noting the
absence of even a hint at a line on her smooth
face, and the girlishness of her figure. “You
could pass for nineteen,” I added, truthfully.
She looked at me suspiciously out of the corner
of her blue eye, but did not respond.
“ It’s time you were married if you really are
twenty-seven,” I said, presently. The girl and I
are rarely polite to each other. She becomes
distrustful of me if I am too civil.
“It is,” she said, calmly, confidence restored,
and then she began to take off her gloves, rolling
them into a little ball, and I guessed that she was
off at a canter on some illuminating speech.
“But I shy at marriage altogether,” she said.
The motor-man jerked the handle back sharply
and the severe-visaged one alighted, growling at
the conductor because she said she had been
Carried past her corner. The stodgy school-boy
began to whistle piercingly through his teeth, and
one of the men in the back seat announced that
“theblanky Government wanted a little show-
ing.” The girl went on :
“I had a friend who married a doctor,” she
said. “She got all the long words out of medical
works and flung them at me when I visited her
to show me what a fine thing it was to be married
to an M.D., and when we were at school together
she couldn’t spell ‘cat’—well, hardly. She be-
came so learned that I always sat on the edge of
my chair when I went to see her, and felt almost
obliged to put my tongue out for examination.
She called consumption, tuberculosis; and brain
things, meningitis; and the most innocent com-
plaints by dreadful-sounding names. She was
always talking of temperatures and pulses, and of
Course no one in the town was any good at
chopping Up a patient but her own hubby. The
other doctors had ‘all banded together against
him,’ etc. I saw him sometimes. He was short,
with side whiskers and fat hands. I couldn’t have
let him feel my pulse if I had been galloping
heavenwards at 200 to the minute. I left off
going to see her after a while. I told her I was
going to take a rest cure. She recommended
the Weir-Mitchell treatment, and a first-class
masseu.se. I said 1 reckoned I could do without
that—it wasn’t massage I wanted. I was suffering
from brain fag. She got huffy because she thought
I had been consulting one of the rival doctors.
She looks the other way when I meet her now.
She told someone, who repeated it for my good,
that she was disappointed in me—that I had no
object in life. She certainly had—and it wore
side whiskers.”
She paused and drew a deep breath. I knew
she hadn’t finished. The tram was following the
river now, and there were white roses hanging
over the riverside cottages, and a tree fern in one
garden spread its cool fan-like leaves to the silver
spraying of a garden hose.
“ Another girl I knew married a clergyman.
She gave up going to dances and wore dowdy
hats. She said she never had time to make her-
self look nice, that the parishioners always
noticed if she wore a new bonnet and said she had
paid too much for it, or that she was getting
flighty. She presided at tea fights and sewing
guilds, and had cold meat on Sundays. She en-
tertained the Bishop when he came to the little
township where her husband had a living—and
offended the principal storekeeper’s wife by not
asking her to meet ‘My Lord.’ The storekeeper
withdrew his subscription to the Church, and
when the parson and his wife were finally starved
out of the place, there was £3OO of their stipend
owing to them. In a perfectly unintentional way
she had managed to offend the only people who
had money to give, The poor people stuck to
them—which Was a pity, because they ate up
everything in the rectory kitchen, I saw her
when she came to town in a yellow mushroom
and brown dustcoat, and she said it was ‘ disci-
pline.’ And when I knew her first she was splen-
did at private theatricals and always wore silk
stockings.”
The girl meditated awhile as we approached
the terminus across the iron bridge spanning the
muddy waters of Norman Creek where they
tumbled into the salty blue of the tidal river.
“Then there was another. She was a dear,
innocent, wide-eyed little thing, intended for a
convent I believe, but she resigned her vocation
and married a handsome fellow who had a bit of
country up north, near Cooktown somewhere.
Sand, and sun, and flies, and drought, and sandy
blight, and black servants who ran away occasion-
ally when they heard the myall-life a-calling.
She was grey-haired, and she wasn’t twenty-eight
when she came back to civilisation after seven
years of the north. There was something the
matter with her eyes, and she had left her last
baby among the sands and the sand-flies and the
big lonely places. One living child she had, and
he was a cripole. He had fallen while climbing
a tree and injured his back, and when they had
carried him a hundred miles on a pack-horse to a
doctor, the doctor was drunk and made him worse
than he was before. You should have seen her
eyes—big, scared, wild-looking, the eyes of a
woman who had been badly frightened—of a
woman who had been too much alone. And the
husband for whom she had sacrificed health and
beauty, and almost her reason ” —— 1
The girl’s eyes looked fierce, as the car began '
to slacken speed and we drew up with a gritting |
of the wheels on the shining rails. ,
“ What of the husband ? ” I said. I
“ A month after they came to the city he ran |
away with a barmaid,” she said. “Can you
wonder why I shy at marriage ? ” I
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
A Man on the Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
girl had gone. She had fled into
the bush before the hot blasts of his rage.
The evening meal steamed on the kitchen
table untouched. The red sun drifting behind
Camel Hill shot a column of rosy light into the
room, flooding Andy Crichton where he sat on
the low milking stool, his face buried in his hands.
He was dressed as he had come in from the pad-
dock. Everything in the kitchen was just as it
had been for years at this time, excepting that
Carrie was not pouring out the tea, and a sense of
utter desolation pervaded the home.
To this mood Crichton had come after an out-
burst of blind fury. He felt the desolation in his
bones. Fate had rewarded his struggle with blow
after blow, beating relentlessly at his scarred
head, and this was the climax. While he had
bowed his shoulders like a hunchback, warped his
limbs, and hardened his hands with bitter, cease-
less toil, his wife had been taken from him, his
two sons had died, and now he was wounded
through the girl, his only remaining child—
wounded mortallv
wounded mortally.
It was pride that had spurred him on through
sorrow, and privation, and the heaviest stress of
toil. The reward of all was to have seen a happy,
honorable family planted on the soil, thriving on
i- T. **• -V* »**• «"•*
young wife had gone into the bush to hew a place
for themselves and theirs ; to that purpose he had
been a hero, she a martyr. What remained ? He
was old, broken, embittered ; and the girl-dis-
, j , , ~
honored, a creature for the neighbors to gibe at,
the sport, the plaything of an insolent enemy.
The Me Andrews had always been his enemies—
the father in his earlier days, the son later. At
the thought of the m.u, Ctiehtou lifted his
tremulous hands in the air and blasphemed. Ihe
curses fell from his lips—heavy, deliberate, like
bullets, a murder in each. Then the old man’s
thoughts reverted to his daughter, and the tears
came. Crouched on the floor, with his face in his
arms, he yielded completely to the weakness of
his soul, and the sobs convulsed his throat,
stifling him
He loved the girl with his whole W. All
the love that had once gone forth to the others
had concentrated upon her; all the hopes that
had once gathered around the others had been
centred in her ; and he knew that no matter how
il,,i• i . • i ■
great and complete the ruin around him his every
heartstring must cling to her. In the excess of his
rage after the confession, he had driven her out,
but she would return. He dragged himself to the
chair in the corner, and sat there, waiting,
listening for her footstep.
The meal was cold upon the table, darkness
was in the house, and she had not come. His
uneasiness began to subordinate his grief. What
if trouble should come upon he, out there in her
loneliness! •
Andy Crichton went on tottering limbs to the
door, and called her name softly. He went to the
barn, and spoke into the darkness. “Carrie, my
girl, come home.”
There was no answer. In the house he waited
for an hour, and then, bare-headed, he went into
the paddocks, wandering from place to place, call-
ing to his child. At midnight, he found himself
standing by the fence, overlooking McAndrew’s
homestead, a spacious wooden building, with
vine-covered verandahs about it, a great orchard'
lying in front, and, at the back, big barns and
milking-sheds, and the three magnificent hay-
stacks.
The" hate welled up in Crichton’s soul as he
gazed upon this moonlit picture of prosperity,
How easy it had all been for them, how hard for
him! He thought of McAndrew’s two daughters,
with their boarding-school airs and graces, and
their affectations of superiority. He thought of
his own poor girl hiding her head under some
bush in the gully, and he thought of young Jack
McAndrew, and the hate blazed into a lust for
revenge. Crichton cursed the house, and found
no relief in cursing. He would have liked to
kill, but he was old, he was weak, he had no
weapon.
That was not true. He had found a weapon in
his pocket, a simple box of matches. Crichton
did not pause to weigh the idea, it had come
upon him with blinding force —the idea of de-
molition. He showed no cunning, but ran across
the clearing in the moonlight, and then went from
stack to stack, throwing flaming matches amongst
the crisp hay. As he fled for the timber, a few
seconds later, he heard the “frou-frou” of the
flames, and the tender moonlight took on a ruddy
glow.
From the timber he looked back. Three
columns of fire danced in the air.
“It will eat the sheds, and the barns, and the
house,” said Crichton. “Pray God, it may eat
McAndrew in his bed ! And now at least I shall
have a torch with which to seek ray child.”
Andy Crichton continued the hunt, looking
now and again towards McAndrew's, where a
wide mass of flame rolled amongst the billowing
smoke. He could see fantastic human figures
silhouetted against the fire, and some of them
were female. Perhaps Carrie had been attracted
to the scene. It was more than likely—it was
certain. He hastened back, and circled the fire,
seeking anxiously. The people took little notice
of him, absorbed in the excitement of a tremen-
dous event. The whole of the homestead vyas
ablaze ; even the fruit trees in the orchard, dried
by the great heat, were flaming like torches. He
came upon McAndrew in the centre of a small
throng, the only man in the crowd who was quite
composed.
“A-weel,” said McAndrew, “it might’a’bin
wor-rse. I’m verry weel insured, thanks be t’
Providence.”
Carrie Crichton did not return to her home that
night, and next morning a messenger from
McAndrew’s found Crichton looking gaunt and
grey, standing at his own kitchen door.
“There’s something horrible happened up at
our place, Mr. Crichton,” said the man.
Andy nodded his head slowly. “Yes, I know
—the fire,” he said. He had almost forgotten his
guilt in his anxiety for his child.
“ Worse than that. They've found something
—a body. Someone must have crawled into an
opening the youngsters made in the big stack. ’
Crichton’s hands went out, and he clutched the
jamb of the door on the other side of him. He
looked steadily at the messenger, and spoke in a
low, even voice, that was not like his own.
“ Do you mean that somebody—that somebody
who is something to me His voice forsook
him, and he swayed in the doorway.
“It’s the body of a young woman,” said the
man, wretchedly.
Crichton uttered a strange cry, and turned and
ran towards McAndrew’s, stumbling often and
groping like a blind man, and as he ran the same
low, half-animal cry broke continually from his
laboring breast.
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


THERE’S NO PEACE
FOR THE KIDNEY SUFFERER.
With the back always aching ; work impossible; no rest at night;
afraid to bend ; standing erect causes a sharp, stab-like pain, that almost
takes away your breath, and leaves you weak, nervous, and despairing;
or suffering the tortures of rheumatism, or gravel, or urinary trouble —
there's no peace for the Kidney sufferer. But there is a safe, lasting cure
—Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They bring the health and peace of
mind that only the man who is free from kidney trouble can appreciate.
Bead the case given below of this Sydney man, aged 74, who has
been cured of serious kidney disease by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They brought peace and health to him—they will do the same for you.
An Erskineville Man —Cured to Stay Cured.
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanson-street, Erskineville, this city, states “I wish to give you particulars of my
experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these pills a debt of gratitude, for they have cured me of
very serious kidney disease. My trouble started three years ago, when I first had to lay up. I had terrible pain in
the back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick, and contained sedimentary matter. I also had
fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a violent headache. For three years I spent an average of two weeks
out of every three in bed. I had medical advice and treatment. Ten leading Sydney physicians treated me in the
three years of my illness. Their bills totalled £lBO. The general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys.
I was constantly advised to undergo an operation. At last a Specialist put me under the X Rays. He found no
foreign substance in the kidneys; but a dark veil enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. He
told me an operation would not benefit me.
“ I then gave up all hope of recovery, and fully expected to die soon. My friends were of the same
opinion. My lawyer was brought home, and made out my will. I was held up to sign it. Not long after
this, I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial
had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith in its healing properties. He told me that he had been unable
to get about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good. One could not but be convinced that he was
in thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply. I used nine boxes, and was cured. This was seven months ago.
I felt no good effects till I was using the third box, and after that my recovery was gradual. I have not
needed to take the pills since, and am still in the best of health.
“My case is the more marvellous in that lam an aged man. lam seventy-four. The medicine I took
before I used Doan’s Pills would stock a chemist’s shop. I might mention that the operation which had been
suggested was to cost £6O. My cure by Doan s Pills cost me less than 30s. If I had used these pills when I
first got ill I would be considerably over £2OO richer to-day. My recovery is well known, and may be authenti-
cated by many, but, if anybody would like to see me personally, I will be pleased to see them.”
Bor sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Poster-McOlellan Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.
Every Picture
Tells a Story ’
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PI
A Christmas Fairy Tale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are two Carnarvon Ranges, why I
know not in the least,
One is west of Gibson’s Desert, and the
other one is east.
On the latter Mount Destruction raises high his
barren peak,
Overlooking Lake Amadeus. ’Tis of this one I
would speak.
In the shade of Mount Destruction on a certain
Christmas Eve
(Please do not enquire which Christmas, lest you
tempt me to deceive)
Were encamped a goodly number (just how many
skips my ken).
It included polished ladies and respected gentle-
men.
Do not ask me how they came there for this
Christmas Carnival —
It may be that they were searching for the
Federal Capital!
And to make this not unlikely, there were several
statesmen there
Who, except at Lake Amadeus, had been pick-
nicked everywhere !
Anyhow, the crowd foregathered (and my tale
you’d best believe)
In the shades of Mount Destruction on a certain
Christmas Eve.
And it was a royal picnic—food in plenty, drink
galore !
And they toasted everybody till they fell asleep
to snore !
As they lay asleep and snoring, leaving every-
thing to luck.
There came sliding down a moonbeam that sweet
imp of mischief —Puck.
“Ah ! ” said he, “these modern mortals are, as
Queen Titania told,
Just as fond of gorgeous banquets as their sires in
days of old ! ”
“Shall I play that trick upon them which I
played in ancient Greece,
In that ‘Summer Dream’ of Shakspeare’s which
I think his masterpiece?
No! they shall not love each other,’’ said the
sportive fairy youth ;
“ I’ve a potion that will wake them and will make
them speak the truth ! ”
Deftly then the little fellow poured some liquid
on their eyes
And exclaimed in clarion accents : “Mortals, all!
Awake and rise ! ”
Puck evanished. The carousers stirred and sat
up, broad awake,
Murmuring in common wonder. For it was the
truth they spake !
“I,” observed a strong Freetrader, “am in the
importers’ pay,
And prepared to sell Australia for a lump sum
any day !”
And another politician was a Prohibitionist,
Save when Bung, the brewer, put a fair round sum
within his fist!
Then the merchant and the banker—oh, what
tales of sin they told !
And the bishop! Goodness gracious, ’twould
have made your blood run cold !
Puck looked on in frozen horror at the mischief
he had done.
None but had a shameful story—not a solitary
one !
“Wad some power the giftie gie us,” said that
foolish fellow. Burns,
“To see ourselves as ithers see us ! ” But that
scheme this writer spurns.
Others seldom see us fairly ; their opinions I
would bar ;
We’d be greatly humbled if we knew ourselves
for what we are.
Queen Titania heard the racket which the spell
of Puck bad caused.
At the sound of savage anger she was horrified,
and paused.
Spying Puck, she asked the rascal what this noise
should mean, forsooth;
And, when told, rebuked him strongly for a mis-
chief-making youth !
Then the elfin Queen of Fairies hurried to repair
the wrong,
And (unseen) her wand she waved above the
wretched screaming throng.
“Go to sleep!” the Queen commanded, “man
and woman, maid and youth,
And, on waking, never, never more attempt to
speak the truth ! ”
Once again they all were humbugs, liars, hypo-
crites and frauds;
Pressmen joyed ; they know how little scope the
plain, blunt truth affords.
As for me, of all the party gathered in that
distant vale,
I became the biggest liar—which is why I write
this tale !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
The Capacity of Heroism.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Scotty smacked his lips, wiped
them on his sleeve, and lay back with a
sigh of satisfaction.
“ I’m a temprince man meself,” remarked Old
Scotty, “ but that ain’t ter say as I’d go as fqr as
Judkins an’ them. Wher’d I be ter-day ef it
wasn’t fer th’ drink ? Lyin’ in a unhonored grave,
that’s wher’ I’d be.”
“ Was it the beer what built up yer giant con-
? ” asked Baldy Peters.
“Go ’n’ chase yerself,” scorned Scotty. “All
yous blokes know well enough as Pm a modrit
drinker. Yer never seen me the worse o’ it, have
yer, now—barrin’ bein’ a bit shickered when th’
contingints lef’, an’ Maffickin’ day, an’ tli’ council
elections, an’ sicli times, have yer now ? ”
Scotty looked, quite aggressive, and the crowd
replied, solemnly, “No, Scotty; can’t say as we
have.”
“It wasn’t me at all,” continued Scotty. “It
was Gander Williams what took th’ drink what
saved me life —me an’ five others, down th’ five-
hundred-foot level in th’ United at Olunes in ’B5.
We used ter call him Gander Williams acos o’ his
walk when he was shickered, which was most o’
th’ time. I never seen sich a bloke ter mop it
up. Gander seemed ter be made o’ blottin’ paper.
The more yer give him the willin’er he was. He
was jest a human brewery with all modun appli-
ances, was Gander. The on’y times he was
sober was when he was sacked from one o’ th’
mines. Then he’d mooch roun’ tli’ township
lookin’ so miserable’t some o’ th’ bosses’d be sure
ter take pity on him an’ put him on agen. Then,
when he drored his first week’s screw, Gander’d
go off on a jag that’d list as long as the bunce.
“He wasn’t made like an ornery man. He
must lia’ bin holler—arms an’ legs an’ all—the way
he’d hold it. Lbts o’ times he used ter pick up a
bit in wagers, an’ have a blazin’ time as well,
kiddin’ on blokes as fancied themselves at sinkin’
’em, ter make matches. Gander never had no
money o’ his own, but he’d a heap o’ backin’ if
any blokes from Olunes was about. It was like
gettin’ money from home—backin’ Gander. All
the flash blokes who kidded themselves as they
could drink’d shy off after they’d put down half-
a-dozen pints or so. But not Gander. Not him !
He’d'be goin’ strong when the other blokes was
crvin’ out for th’ ’orspital an’ th’ electric battery ;
an’ the first thing he’d do, when the stakes was
paid over, was ter brace up ter the bar for another.
I remember one bloke come all the way from Naran-
dera. in Noo South, ter take Gander down. He was
the champyun up there, an’ he reckoned as how he
was good enough for any Victorian what ever bit
a beer. We never knoo that till after. He jest
strolled inter the place, played a game or two o’
billiards, an’ started talkin’ about drink. D’reck’ly
we heard that, how did we get on ter the glad
tidin’s ! In five minutes the whole town was
roun’ Casey’s pub., listenin’ so hard they could
hear their hearts bumpin’, while we sent a kid
round ter git Gander outer bed. We jest let the
stranger talk, an’ told him as how we had a bloke
as could do a bit that way hisself, an’ waited fur
the climax. It was pay-day, an’ we was all pretty
strong, an’ the end o’ it was that we had twenty
quid put up against twenty o’ th’ stranger’s, as
Gander’d put down more beers ’n him.
“Casey filled all the pint pots he had, an’ lined
’em up along th’ bar. It was all over. Gander
sunk a dozen while the strange bloke was chewin’
away tryin’ ter git down his tenth. Then he
swore as how Gander an’ him was on’y level.
We had a bit o’ a barge. Then what does
Gander do ? A real sport he always was, Gander.
He ups an’ says: ‘ Sooner than have any ill-feelin’
with this here gentleman. I’ll rub out th’ score an’
start all over again.’ That broke th’ strange
bloke up. He handed over his cash an’ fell
down. ‘Well,’ says Gander’ —he was a real
sport, Gander —‘ter show we’re still fr’en’s, I’ll
arst th’ gentleman ter join me in a drink.’
“That’s all right,” went on Scotty. “I’m
5? nnn ’ ter wher ® he f ved me life seven others.
He was a nero, Dander was, as well as a sport;
an>> if j udkins an’ them had their way, I’d be
singin’with the angels now. Thanks; beeragen.
It was a bit after this, I’m tellin’ yer, that Gander
was taken on at the United fur the eighteenth
Jfe an’ him-an’ eight others-was put on th;
nignt-smi at th nve-hun red-foot level. Th’
groun’ was solid, an’ nobody ever suspected
al)ythin > would happen. But one night, all of a
sudder)j Billy Perks (as was on the face) gives a
yell; an’, before he could jump back, a squirt
0 ’ water as strong as a fireman’s hose, flies
outer tbe face> an > knocks
me an’ th’ rest
endways . We picks ourselves up an > runs
fur tl] , ladders> but it was too late. The water
was j n on us Before we could reach th’ shaf’ it
had riz a U roun’ an’ cut off our escape. We
crawled through inter a drive on a higher level,
but th > water f o ll e re d us an’ was risin’ roun’ our
Je d > reck ’ ]y we pulled u It slowed a bit then .
I)ut , afore half-an-liour, it was at our middles,
g orue Q ’ us was swearin’, but Jack Tregallick, he
emptied three ounces he’d shook outer his
poc \ e ts, an’said as how we orter pray. The
rest on us reckoned as how th’ people on
top orter git th’ pumps goin’ afore vve was
drownded> But t h e water came on gradually, till
g G t U p {- er our nec fc s was all fellers about
tb ’ same height, an’, in a bit, the level was up ter
Qur lipS) an > we had ter take ]oilg breaths while we
was standin’ on tip toes, an’ hold our breaths when
we wanted a rest. ‘Tli’time’s come, fur us, men
Q , sil , Jack Tregal i ick . N one o’ us said
nothin >. We lmoo he was tellin’ the truth,
~ , ~
dh , e V^- doeS G ff d ?T do ? x Gander d said
nothin all th time, an he d jest took a good rest
on , tb soles 0 ” s fecd - He stood up on. his toes
an he says, Boys, he says, Im a good- ur-
nothin worthless vagabond. All me life, Ive
liever no good ter nobody, excep them as has
won a bit on me. But 111 finish good. 111 make
amen s for me shameful past, an die ter save
Y? us - Afore we knqo what he meant, he opened
his mouth wide, an they was a sou n like the
water ™nnm over th Lai Lai Falls. Gander
n , ever stopped ter gulp it down. He jest stood
*; here wl , th hls ™ oath Wlde open, an let it pour in.
waan 1 t mo F e “ five minutes afore we was able
ter stand upright an breathe free,
“ ‘ That’ll do, Gander, ’we says. ‘We’re right
now.’ He was weak an’ siukin’, but he wouldn’t
let up on liis job. He just shut off the flow for a
secon’or two, an’says, ‘No, boys. I mustn’t take
no chances with yer. Tell ’em on top as how I
died game.’ An’, with that, he opened’is mouth
an’ started drinkin’ again.
“ At last, when the level had fell ter somewhere
about the top of me westcoat, we seen him stagger
agen the wall. We rushed up and arst him how
he felt. Gander cudn’t speak. He jest pressed
our han’s an’ sunk back. We was holdin’ him
there twelve hours after, when they pumped us
out. We got Gander ter the top quick, but it
was no use. The doctor said as how he’d bin dead
ever since we caught him. He was a nero,
Gander ; an’, if it wasn’t fur him bein’ an exces-
sive drinker, me an’ twelve other blokeh w’d have
met with a watery grave, leavin’ sorrerin’ widders
and famished children behind us.”
Baldy Peters seemed confused. “ But what
killed him, Scotty ? ” he inquired,
“ What killed iiim !” echoed Scotty, scornfully,
taking a firmer hold of his tumbler. “Didn’t I
tell yer, it was water?”
C. N.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
V'-'
3
ri vfg'
SS.-Sf
E
“My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
here in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to give it a trial,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours gratefully.” John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla —“AYER’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
Strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
grTT"**™***-*” 1 "" mi-nuLMM.' .
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by J?E. J. C. AVER & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
And Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
'Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
Nr
WW.J9"i
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL
FREE TRIAL 11
HOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s improved high grade EEECTRIC
BEETS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Eumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Either, and St >mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists la
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
0& R I CORO'S
tSSE<* cE °y u y Fg-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’e Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame!
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Cc., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauidingr & Do., 16 O’bonnell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TR'OULLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Handy to have in the House.
A box of BEECHAM'S PILLS is a handy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising from derangement of the digestive
organs is quickly set right by
jßeechamt}
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled tor
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,"
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
esc
S&V*
S/’,
■ H
sks
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 111} (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the sani3
diseases in 4. C
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name pr~
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution-- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every, bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, Ac. bears on the
Stamp the name of the In-
ventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
a's
Pipe 280
HERE
LS A PIPE
that will please any man who takes a real
pride in the pipe he smokes.
It is a Genuine Briar, bent bowl, with
square stem, Silver band and Amber
month-piece. In plush lined case, post
free for 9s. 6d.
This is a present that any smoker
would appreciate.
If he already has a pipe he likes, give
him a Tobacco Pouch from “the Store
where Quality counts.”
Tobacco Pouch, in Buckskin, 4s. ;
Kangaroo skin, ss. 6d. ; finest Antelope
skin, 6s. 6d. ; Sealskin, 7s. Gd. Each one
is fitted with a silver shield, on which we
will engrave any initials, free of charge.
Many other articles suitable for pre-
sents for men will be found in our Christ-
mas Catalogue. May we send you a copy ?
We pay the postage on anything pur-
chased here, and give you the right to
return the article if you are not absolutely
satisfied.
ANGUS <a COOTE,
CEORCE STREET, corner of the Royal
Arcade, Sydney.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
Close at 1 Wednesday ; open till 10 Saturday.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
MARTIN,
151 Elizabeth St.,
SYDKTEY.
The old-established, Reliable Phy-
sician and Surgeon may be consulted on
All Diseases of CDCKT
Men and Women
Age and Experience Important—Avoid Unskilful Pretenders- —Both Sexes Consult
Confidently—No Experimental. If you are afflicted and Wish to Recover your Lost
Health, Strength and Vitality SEND AT ONCE EOR
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN, & THEIR HOME CURE.”
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d„ or if
you apply to me now a copy will be POSTED FREE for
3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and
193 illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate.
The most interesting:, up-to-date and reliable medical
work published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of
Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free to the public. It
is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity, afflicted with long-standing chronic,
nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
a 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair'idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
CONSULT THE AUTHOR. *» Correspondence Confidential. CONSULT THE AUTHOR.


Use Your
Hose —Now
etables—better ones, too.
Thtre’s no better Koss than ours.
for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
pood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation pood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SISVIPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted 8d
TINTARA
WINES. .
Inei
wurne, am
" ' r ’'. •-'KH
AUSTIN CRUSHER.
FORCED LUBRICATION.
RIGID ECCENTRIC BEARING.
DOUBLE COUNTERSHAFT BEARINGS.
THOROUGHLY DUST PROOF.
Sole Agents—
W. & J. LEM PR! ERE,
MELBOURNE; SYDNEY.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ffszlsllls
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex ; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES anti FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves Lathes
Lubricators Drilling Machines
G.M. Fittings Boilers, Injectors
Blacksmiths’ Tools Emery Wheels
Engineers’ Tools Bolts, Rivets
Wheels and Axles Bar Iron & Steel
Wire Ropes Sheets, Plates
etc., etc Mining Steel.
FOR PASTORALIST, STOCK AND
STATION WORK.
Write for our FREE BOOK on TELE-
PHONES. HOW TO INSTAL THEM.
SILVERTOWN TELEGRAPH WORKS G°. Y ;>
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The ‘SPERRY’
SUMER
bears the same relation
to other slime saving:
appliances as the
“CARD” TabSe
to other Concentrators,
and that speaks volumes
in its favor.
Adjustable Dressing:
Surface to suit all
ore gravities.
SIMPLE. DURABLE.
Capacity, 12 tons in 24
hours. Power required,
PT SEND FOR BOOKLET.
Sole Licensees
and
N.
INSTALLED AT THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY.
Ltd.,
' ? ,) - ,
ey & Melbourne.
