

fg
SIXTY YEARS'
REPUTATION .
iFTTTgnr'v
Wv l* BB MWfflWi KEmmMI
R. Gr. wavkuvs sc go.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
r
KOBART.
—*BJK
Radley s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
ri
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
2 !
fd
Gibson, Battle & Co., i bent st., Sydney
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
4s used throughout Australasia in the leading
WOOLSCOURS, LAUNDRIES, MEAT WORKS, &c., &c.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES.
\
Take it back j
[ must have -
*
Fine Apple irand
fgd
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
DOORS
-i
flaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
SoClefcy) ' W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvassers Wanted. “W®
all, IdaUt&u)
-ra.
fdg
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUCH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
_
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
fgd
■ .*>-•
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manageb.
S'
i
Royal
Dutch
fgdf
iisrir.
i
WUNPERLKN
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
ft
Regd.
ƒ
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MAI
V--A
mm
m
FERRIER/S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
SOLE
SEND FOB CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS, engineer®, Vulgsu Foundry, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Maßing Machinery,
HELIDQN SPA,
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.-—No. 1409.]
[Thursday, February 14, 1907.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


N BOOKS Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 CAB Jyosey ch 8T
Upton Sinclair, King Midas : a novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Dicksee and Blain, Office Organisation, illus., 6s, post 6d.
Krauz, A. 8.0. of Motoring, illus., 6s, post 6d.
Stevenson, Billiards ; Top of Table Game, Is 3d, post 3d.
Brunetiere, Honors de Balzac, 7s Od, post 6d.
Hazell’s Annual, 1907, cloth 4s, postage Sd.
Who’s Who, 1907, cloth, now 12s, postage Is.
Schofield, The Home Life in Order, 4s, postage 6d.
Municipal Engineers’ Specification : a Year Book for
Municipal Engineers, illus., 3s 6d, post Is 6d.
Mark Twain, The 30,000 Dollar Bequest, 6s, post 6d.
Ballard, Theonionism True, 6s, post 6d.
Penrose’s Pictorial Annua), The Process Year Book for
1906-7, finely illus., 7s 6d. postage Is 6d.
San Carolo and Daniel, Voice Development.
Harwood, New Creations in Plant Life ; Life and Work
of Luther Burbank, ilJus., 9s, post Bd.
Harwood, The New Earth : Triumphs of Modern Agricul-
ture in America, illus., 9s, post Bd.
Lock, Variation, Heredity and Evolution, 9s, post Bd.
THE BOOKFELEOW, an Australasian .weekly maga-
zine, published every Thursday, price 3d. ■
year post-free. Poetry, stories, reviews, P lO "
competitions. Specimen copy free from A. G. Stephens,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
iv;
Sxg.wudso/v.
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young'.
The Lancet: “Proved to be as effective, bactericidal!?,
as is Creosote."
The Australasian Medical Gazette : Of gre
in affections of the voice and throat.
The Practitioner : “Useful in Tonsiliti., Pharjngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer , G. HUDSON , Chemist, Ipswich, Queensian .
Sydney Depot, 6 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. .
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent ree ,
[t
THE RED PAGE
THE THIRD BUTTON
strange people of that other race
I move about among us, familiar, acces-
sible, able to stir us to love and pain ;
their lives touch ours everywhere on
the common highways of this existence;
with them we eat and sorrow and joy—and
yet these neighbourly, intimate beings dwell
in a close-walled world as unfamiliar and
remote and inconceivable as Mars. They
move mysteriously through a fourth dimen-
sion of their own, pursuing with shut lips
their inscrutable purposes, behind their
immemorial masks moving undeviatingly to
their hidden and alien goals. It is as
impossible for us to detect the shrouded
souls of them as it is to feel the warmth of
moonlight. They are stirred and swayed
by ancient streams of forgotten impulses ;
they come down to this modern world of
ours clothed in the vestiges of a prehistoric
past; dreaming another dream, they re-
main for us as mute and incompre-
hensible as the stars. And we, poor
purblind students, feel their vague pre-
sence on every hand, and just as we
seem on the point of classifying and pigeon-
holing them, a misty emotional exaltation,
ancient as themselves, overwhelms us—and
we marry them. So they mingle in the
common stream of life ; they drift past us in
the streets; they make the elaborate pre-
tence of eating and talking and thinking,
just as we eat and talk and think : they
sweep our rooms and type our letters and
cook our bacon ; the prosaic, overcrowded
world— our world—teems with them ; their
parasols light up our landscape ; their gauze
veils make a misty aureole about their heads ;
and yet how unexplored, how unexplained,
how undefined and indefinable is the hidden
soul of them ! They ingenuously appear so
palpable, so obvious, so kissable—and yet
the distant and undiseoverable realms in
which they for ever dwell, the impassable
barrier pf that fourth dimension behind
which guilelessly they go about their little
games !
Man has arrogated to himself the title of
the adventurous sex ; he explores, he in-
vestigates, he romances, he goes down to the
sea in ships and to and fro upon the earth,
he engages in reckless traffics and discoveries,
he seeks eternally the impossible, through
life after life he sacrifices himself for a dim
idea, and dies pathetically clamoring for the
forbidden. Woman is the sex that stays at
home, and watches and mourns and broods.
And yet what life of a Sir, Richard Burton is
so crowded with romantic possibilities, so
full of thrilling uncertainties, so opulent in
adventure, as the life of any girl ? Man,
the devotee of change, the restless primitive
in a carefully ordered world, joyously con-
templates every adventure but the astonish-
ing adventure that Jane Jones from her
school-days confidently anticipates. No man,
except a criminal and the eldest son of a
peer, ever looks forward to the wild romance
of discarding his name. And every woman
in the world starts life with the reckless,
almost shameless, intention of ending it
under an alias. The habit even grows upon
the sex ; and, given favorable circumstances,
some of the species (termed widows) will
change and change again, till signing their
temporary aliases must become a tax upon
their memory.
But to return to the widow in embryo.
To a girl her personality is a thing so fluid,
so fluctuating, so trivial, that she contem-
plates with equanimity, sometimes with
exultation, the utter loss of the sole label
that the world has given her—the only con-
venient tag by which the public might
identify her soul. She sheds her name as
she sheds last year’s fashions. Is there a
man so imbued with the spirit of devil-may-
care to cast thus lightly aside—nay, make
an elaborate and joyous ceremonial of
casting aside what is often the sole
possession he values ? Ann Hathaway
had no objection to Will Shakespeare
filching her good name—provided he gave her
another, his own. Of course, if a man’s
name is Jabcloots, he has a reason for
an excursion into uncertainties. But, even
so, Jabcloots merely advertises his change
of name in the daily press ; he does
not hire a cathedral and shower confetti
upon himself in order to impress upon his
friends that he is no longer Jabcloots. But
a nice girl named Blanchelys Honeydew will
cheerfully throw that delicate name away in
order to be known to posterity as Mrs. Job
Bumpus. No adventure in a man’s sphere
could equal the richness of romance, the fine
sense of fantasy and hazard, experienced by
a girl who went into a cathedral Blanchelys
Honeydew, and came out of the vestry Mrs.
Job Bumpus.
So this elusive, adventurous being moves
noiselessly through our common life with all
this wild romanticism smouldering unsus-
pected in her soul, and with a view-point as
remote from ours as is the oyster’s. Each
sex looks out upon a different hemisphere of
the universe : a vroman’s sky is studded with
strange and unsuspected stars. Man sees
the world as a place to make money in,
woman as a shop where she can spend it.
Consider the useless and insignificant things
that this strange visitant to our sphere
deems all-important, such as hats, love-
letters, babies, and chops. To a man a chop
is a miraculous and beautiful thing that has
no genesis. It has the beautiful conciseness
of the baby-angels of the Old Masters—all
smiles and wings. It just arrives, ready
cooked, romantically, upon his plate.
Shakespeare has, in one of his most
beautiful passages, noted the fact.
“ It droppetli like the gentle chop from heaven
Upon the plate beneath.”
But to a woman there is a deeper interest,
a more adventurous life-history, in a chop.
She sees it first as Dead Meat —and that
mysterious soul of hers is strangely attracted
to Dead Meat. So to her a chop is no
manna in the wilderness; it is a wild,
elusive thing that must be sought after and
tracked down, and chosen and chaffered
over and cooked. And man has no more
romance in him than to eat it!
The things, too, that a woman does not
like, the wonderful things, like machinery
and public-houses and votes and wind, that
she has no use for ! To her cities are merely
shop-fronts ; her own self is but a frame-work
over which to hang gorgeous apparel ; other
women are pictures to criticise ; the navy be-
comes merely a problematical husband. And
so romantically instable is her personality
that, like the lowest forms of life, she is con-
stantly changing her shape, her manner, her
hue. She moulds her pliant body into won-
drous and charmingly impossible curves,
blossoms out into a bewildering succession
of hues), and has wild, chromatic adventures
with her hair.
So we, who pride ourselves upon our
common-sense, are but clumsy babes com-
pared with the facility that women display
in dealing with their emotions. When that
complex being called a man is “ run down”
he lias to call to his aid the cumberous
equipment of a public-house and at least a
shilling to regain his cheerfulness ; but a
woman, feeling depressed, simply goes up
to her room and relieves her feelings by “a
good cry at the nominal cost of a damp
handkerchief. The simplicity and originality
of such a cure has never penetrated into the
convention-shackled soul of man.
<£*
But it is in her dress that this strange
race most convincingly displays its reckless
and adventurous originality. There is only
one part of the human body that one’s own
fingers cannot conveniently reach ; and the
unerring romantic instinct in woman—her
quick distrust of the conventional—has
noted and made use of it. If you carefully
note the species you will observe that every
second woman has the third button down
the back of her blouse permanently un-
buttoned. How aloof from us is a race that,
with a daring that has in it something of the
grandiose and heroic, chooses to put a
button at the only place on the body that it
cannot reach ! And that third button must
daily be buttoned and unbuttoned—mostly
it is left unbuttoned. What scientist in his
laboratory, what hermit in his cell, what
reformer in the dock, upon the rack
what heretic has ever so deliberately
martyred himself for his dim ideals as
woman daily crucified upon that unattain-
able third button ! Contemplate, if you can,
the mental condition of a race of men, who,
to placate an incurable instinct for adven-
ture, desperately decided to button their
waistcoats up the back. A visitant from
another planet would judge them insane ;
yet a woman—incorrigible romanticist that
she is! would . think them lovable ;
and with eager, pitying fingers button the
third button for the poor dears. It is this
secret sense of sympathy that probably
accounts for woman’s interest in the clergy-
man—the only male being who dresses as
nearly backwards as he can get. Bishops are
obdurate romanticists; their very garb shame-
lessly expresses their yearning for the
mediaeval; and it is probably this habit of
having collars that button at the back of the
neck, and aprons and gaiters and things
that need the maid’s assistance in their
induement and desquamation that has given
rise to the persistent doubt as to which sex
clergymen should strictly be classified under.
So—an impenitent romanticist, an ad-
venturess-soul—woman goes about our
world, shares our epicene life, and cooks our
miraculous chop ; and we guess not the wild
Bohemianism that lurks ever in her soul as
she moves aloof and alien in her world of
shop-fronts, cooks and corsets. And yet,
if we wait till she incautiously turns away,
we see the key-hole to this age-old enigma—
that shameless third unbuttoned button
down the back.
THE RUBAIYAT OF FITZGERA ED-OMA R
OF the quatrain verses of Omar Khayyam
(so-called) and Edward Fitz Gerald (com-
ments E. Wilson Dobbs), these three
opinions seem settled in the minds of
critics—viz: 1. Not a single tetrastich attri-
buted to Omar can be indisputably ascribed
to him. Apparently, like a former Homer, all
the floating verse of the time gathered itself
around his name, just as at the present day a cer-
tain class of joke is always credited to Sydney
Smith. 2. As Persian poetry the RubaiyAts
attributed to the old Tent-maker are scarcely
third-rate. 3. The paraphrases of Edward Fitz-
Gerald from this ancient verse of Persia are
undoubtedly finely turned and full of poetical
insight and feeling, and show a great command
over an extended range of Eastern thought and
ideas. Fitz Gerald’s work exhibits also great
powers of concentration and epigrammatic dic-
tion ; he has focussed, as it were, the scattered
colors of this fugitive Persian poetry into a steady
stream of white light.
The sources of Fitz Gerald’s inspiration and of
his frequently revised versions are accepted now
to be (a) The Calcutta MS. in the Bengal Asiatic
Society’s Library at Calcutta containing 510
Rubitiyats. (b) The Ouseley MS. in the Bodleian
Library at Oxford written at Shinaz, dated A.H.
865, (Anno Domini 1460), containing 158
(c) A French prose translation by J. B.
Nicholas (Paris, 1867), containing 464 Rub&yats.
(d) The Mantik ut-tair of Ferid ud-din Attar,
(e) The Odes of Hafiz, (f) The Wasyat or
Testament of Niziim al Mulk. According to E.
Heron-Alien there are now 5235 RubAiyAts that
can be collated. Of these the following metrical
English translations have been made since the
last one of FitzGerald’s — i.e. E. H. Whinfield’s
volume containing 500 (Lond. 1883), and
John Payne’s work (Lond. 1898), containing 845
Quatrains. These are all more or less literal
renderings—though not quite so bald as those of
E. Heron-Allen —which were avowedly unpolished
the more to illustrate the excellence of Fitz-
Gerald’s paraphrases—and this pre-eminence is
also assisted by the other two works.
Many of Fitz Gerald’s quatrains differ from each
other throughout the various editions, to say
nothing of the alterations in the first draft of
the third edition. Altogether there are 116 dis-
tinct quatrains, and of these I have made the
following analysis frum E. Heron-Alien’s book,
giving the parallel passages. There are 57 from
single, and 51 from composite Rub£iy4ts in the
Calcutta or Ouseley MSS. —or both. Some of
these composite ones combine indeed recurrent
phrasing, occurring throughout all Persian poetry,
and even with reflections of New Testament
thought, six being also indebted to Nicholas’ text,
five containing references from the Mantik ut-tair
edition, and two owing something to Hafiz’s Odes.
Of the rest of the 116 there is one taken solely from
the work of NizAm al Mulk, while two are from
the Mantik ut-tair, two from Nicholas’s text not
otherwise found in any MSS., and three are of Fitz-
Gerald’s own composition of which no definite
originals have been traced. As it may not be
generally known which these three are, and as
they have been omitted from subsequent editions,
I append them, viz., Nos. 33 and 45 of the First
and No. 77 of the Second Edition :
Fitz Gerald’s Ist Edition (1859). 33rd Ruhaiydt.
Then to the rolling Heav’n itself I cried,
Asking, “ What Lamp had Destiny to guide
Her little Children stumbling in the Dark ? ”
And—“ A blind Understanding 1” Heav’n replied.
Fitz Gerald’s Ist Edition (1859). 45th Ruhaiydt.
But leave the Wise to wrangle, and with me
The Quarrel of the Universe let be :
And, in some corner of the Hubbub coueht,
Make game of that which makes as much of Thee.
Fitz Gerald's 2nd Edition (1868). 77th Ruhdiydt.
For let Philosopher and Doctor preach
Of what they will, and what they will not—each
Is but one Link in an eternal Chain
That none can slip, nor break, nor over-reach.
A*
As showing the care taken by Fitz Gerald to
perfect his work, besides his many alterations and
amendments in the various editions, he practically
uniformly adopted one type of verse. The
Rubaiyilts called Omar Khayyam’s consist of four
lines of equal though varied prosody, sometimes
all rhyming together, but oftener with the Ist,
2nd, and 4th only rhyming together, while the
cadence becomes suspended in the 3rd line —as in
the Greek alcaic, where it seems to lift and hold
the wave that falls over in the 4th line. Fitz-
Gerald made his tetrastiches with each line
decasyllabic, and—except in five quatrains, where
all four lines rhyme together—they follow the
more prevalent Persian practice, and suspend the
cadence in the 3rd line. Swinburne soon adopted
a similar stanza.
While the original as usual with
such kind of Oriental verse, follow one another
according to alphabetical rhyme, and make a
strange farrago of grave and gay, those selected
by Fitz Gerald, on the other hand, are strung
together into something of an eclogue, with per-
haps a less than equal’ proportion of the “ Drink
and make merry,” which (genuine or not) recurs
over-frequently in the original.
With regard, now, to the poetical qualities of
Fitz Gerald’s rendering, one has but to look at the
literal translations, by E. Heron-Alien, from the
Persian originals, to see at once how the Fitz-
Gerald-Omar differentiates from the Khayyam-
Omar. Let us but take one familiar example,
and trace it through its different manifestations
and transliterations —if not transmigrations.
The well-known quatrain of Fitz Gerald’s begin-
ning :
“A Book of Verses underneath the Bough”:—
is a composite one, formed from part of No. 107
of the Calcutta MS. and Nos. 149 and 155 of the
Ouseley MS. These, translated literally—un-
rhymed—read :
Calcutta MS. 107th Ruhdiydt 11. 3 and 4-
(But) a goblet, and an adored one, and a lute upon
the green bank of a field—
All these three are present cash to me : thine be
the promised heaven !
Ouseley MS. 149th Ruhdiydt.
I desire a flask of ruby wine and a book of verses
Just enough to keep me alive, and half a loaf is
needful,
And then, that thou and I should sit in the
wilderness,
Is better than the kingdom of a Sultan.
Ouseley MS. 155th Rubaiyat.
If a loaf of wheaten bread be forthcoming, '
A gourd of wine, and a thigh-bone of mutton,
And then, if thou and I be sitting in the wilder-
ness,
That were a joy not within the power of any
Sultan.
Fitz Gerald's Ist Edition (1859). 11th Ruhaiydt.
Here, with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bough,
A Flask of Wine, a Book of Yerse—and Thou
Beside me, singing in the Wilderness—
And Wilderness is Paradise enow.
Fitz Gerald's 2nd Edition (1868). 12th Ruldiydt.
Here, with a little Bread beneath the Bough,
A Flask of Wine, a Book of Verse—and Thou
Beside me, singing in the Wilderness—
Oh, Wilderness were Paradise enow !
Fitz Gerald's 3rd and 4th Editions (1872 and 1879),
12th Ruhaiydt.
A Book of Verses underneath the Bough,
A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread—and Thou
Beside me, singing in the Wilderness—
Oh, Wilderness were Paradise enow !
AUSTRALIA IN EPIGRAM
Wanted: An epigram on Australia. Thb
Bulletin offers one guinea for the best epigram,
in prose or verse, upon Australia—surely a large
enough subject! Epigrammatists should mark their
envelopes “ Epigram,” even though the enclosure
should turn out to be merely an apothegm or an
epitaph. All epigrams must be received in this
office by March l4th.
The first epigrams were funereal; they were
simply inscriptions upon tombs—“ln Memoriam”
notices in the ancient Greek press. But it is not
this kind of epigram Australia wants. Let us
take a few definitions :—“A short poem or piece
of verse, which has only one subject, and finishes
by a witty or ingenious turn of thought—hence,
an interesting thought represented happily in a
few words, whether verse or prose; a pointed or
antithetical saying.”
“ The qualities rare in a bee that we meet
In an epigram never should fail;
The body should always be little and sweet,
And a sting should be left in its tail.”
“ A short poem treating concisely and pointedly
of a single thought or event. The modern
epigram is so contrived as to surprise the reader
with a witticism or ingenious turn of thought....
An effusion of wit; a bright thought tersely and
sharply expressed, whether in verse or prose.”
«►
The award in the guinea competition for a
Rubaiyat of Australia will be announced in our
next issue.
It is but a little while since the anthologists
were upon us, and now the Literary People of
Australia are blossoming forth into reviews. The
latest is a little unillustrated monthly, The Native
Companion —a buff and unassuming native com-
panion, sold for fourpence, by that enterprising
publisher, T. C. Lothian, 49 Elizabeth-st., Melb.,
and edited by Bertram Stevens, the well-beloved
of Australian poets. The unattractive cover
shows a sardonic native companion sneeringly
winking at a critic ruining his eyesight, by the
light of a solitary candle, over a book of the latest
Australian bard. The inevitable article upon
“Genius and Australia” has first place; there
are many book-reviews, much interesting ex-
cerpted matter, an exceedingly clever parody of
a M.L. poet, and some little-known poems by
Kendall. The Native Companion will fill a
hitherto unoccupied niche.
The African Monthly , a new monthly review,
unillustrated, makes a dignified first appearance.
It is published at Grahamstown, Cape Colony,
by the African Book Co., Ltd., and is more than
worth its modest price, one shilling.
A. G. Stephens’ Bookfellow, admirably edited
and illustrated, improves in successive issues.
Apparently every cow in the Richmond and
Tweed Rivers district has had its photograph
taken (almost unanimously from the udder end) by
Frank Russell, the compiler of Farm Life on the
Richmond and Tweed Rivers, a lavishly illustrated
publication by John Sands, Sydney. The work
is admirably designed, even the letterpress, which
is a description of hundreds of prosperous farms
of that prosperous district, being something more
than a mere catalogue of bovine and equine wealth.
In this hook farmers can find the best grades of
cattle, the best grasses and crops considered suit-
able for dairy purposes by the dairymen of the
district. The work is a presentation of the real
Australia, prosperous and energetic—the Aus-
tralia that is not altogether occupied leaning
against a post. The cost of a book such as this,
totalling £2OOO, has been subscribed by the fortu-
nate farmers whose cows’ udders arouse us to suen
tremendous enthusiasm.
How jealous these humorists are of each other!
G. K. Chesterton, having disposed of lesser game
by books upon Watts, Browning, and Dickens,
now at work upon an introduction to a ne
edition of The Book of Job. This will be the
most bitter and the least called-for of all tne
trials to the old man’s patience. Mow, if only
publisher would persuade Job to write an mir -
duction to The Book of Chesterton !


The Bulletin
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1907.
Returning' from Little Snap Days at
Lassetter’s, Cheapside, Sydney.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties! or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand ÜBF- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or pa3’ment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winehcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FREE!
MAKE B!G MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking’ Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, <fcc., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with*Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
fd
Free
£IOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Lttl.
S YDKTB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.’’
iiwmaaiara
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
SIA
Beautiful Home Decorations
fgd
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
• •OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENTAMEE (Washable) —Kich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOIiHIT EV AMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article. _
.< SAPOIiIA” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN •' FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
y
rv
O. '7
a
BIIUARDSfoR
ISE'MOME ■
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable posit! in as the King of Indoor
games. Aicock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to b) placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK.<&Co.
422, GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
I3HUZABm*A
MELbOURHE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, ko.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
p ™ 3
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOOXDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
” Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &0.
Steamer. ' x Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE .. .. 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer. Tons.
BEACON GRANGE 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,380
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,500
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,420
First, Second and Third Saloou Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Lighc.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh MilK
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
6^
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
fgd
gd
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT
9
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.
Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT 8 A LTV Without It you bare M
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Fiipuid only by J. O. HNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT * WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
I
>v
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER S
ITTLE
IWIEIR
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Prise*
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Carter's


While thin hair and baldness are
Undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should uso
Mger’s
stair Vigor
vs*
VGS!
■*«
ss®:
tag
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap Imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aycr& Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Vivella’
IRegd.)
fdg
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
do.
Erom the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE, THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Bv
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fdg
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
11 MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
It is Replacing' All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
[1
fdg
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of ua. Your
money in full refunded without qu< ation
if uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Goventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year j , despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
MODELS £3aW to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makei of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Frakes-, variable gears
and all rates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the ■world. We guarantee safe delivery.
AHTIVP ARP Ml Q wanted in each district.
HU I IVE. HuC.li I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, (or free art catalogues
and our special offer on sample machine.
/HEAD CYCLE CO a, Dept. 280 Liverpool .
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, eto
Wholesale Agents :
SAYF.RS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
ssow Hsiai
The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton's
and see that you net it
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
£lOOO
OR A GOOD..
HEAD OF HAIR!
Would you give £lOOO for a good head of hair ?
Would you give fifteen shillings (155.) -? willingly.
Now read my proposition.
Have you a “down” on “That Bald Spot”?
MAKE SURE OF IT !
Place yourself in a strong light before a mirror. Any there ?
1 WILL GIVE YOU £lOOO IF
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
Does not make every particle of that “down ” grow into strong, healthy hair.
I KNOW what my preparation can do. “ CAPILLA ” will force the dormant
hair bulb supporting that “down” into new life—stronger life—will give it the
power —the nourishment to produce a better hair—a stronger hair. lam not
asking you £1 a bottle for “ CAPILLA.” It can be bought at any Chemist s
or Store in Australia for Is. 6d. and 2s. (id. a bottle. IF it fails to do what I
claim, PUT in YOUR claim for that £lOOO. I AM LIABLE. If YOU want
to get every particle of hair you have lost back buy a bottle or send to me direct
for a full course (15s—six bottles) and add 2s 3d for postage ; Inter-State, 4s 2d
Write me NOW ! You have everything to gain. Nothing to lose.
W. Oliver Richards
INVENTOR OF
"CAPILLA” HAIR TONIC
131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
A. <®> F.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest % Co., 495-7, Bourke Sheet,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Bohemian Eomance.
I was a mild Bohemian,
Unstable as the rest,
And wasted my alloted span
On wine, and song, and jest.
No money had I in my purse.
For dross I could not hoard,
And when I earned a cheque by verse,
I spent it like a lord.
And I was happy as a king
May never hope to be,
I lived to love, and dance, and sing,
And I was glad and free !
I bought my humble board and room
From one who was but made
To sweat and toil in sombre gloom—
A bootmaker by trade.
He wakened me before the stars
Their morning course had ta’en,
With everlasting hammer bars,
That hammered on my brain !
He had a wife—a happy lot
I thought his case would be ; .
Yet marriage is, I quite forgot,
An unknown quantity.
Sometimes I sat upon a throne,
And dreamed of castles tall,
And heard the knightly bugles blown
Before the castle wall.
Then she would mingle with my theme,
And sit her by my side,
And bid me tell her of my dream,
And list to me wide-eyed.
And I would tell her : “ ’Twas a maid,
And ’twas a baron old,
Who came in gloomy garb arrayed,
To win her with his gold.
“And ’twas a youth—a lover-lord—
Whose heart was shrined in hers,
With scarlet cloak and flashing sword
And clanging golden spurs.”
And how the uncle, old and weak,
Unto the maiden said :
“ Thou shalt not to thy lover speak,
. And must the baron wed.”
And how the lover and his knights,
In glittering array,
Rode up and stormed the castle heights,
And carried her away.
Once in her eyes I almost caught
A look uncircumspect.
And would have kissed her, but I thought
Her husband might object.
So while my days in happiness
. Sped on their even course,
The bootman fled all. pleasantness
And labored like a horse.
It wasn’t long before he went—
He worked himself to death ;
Above the final boot he bent
With his last failing breath.
He left his widow heaps of gold—
A thrifty man was he;
I wish that bootman, bent and old,
Endless felicity.
His widow’s fair, I must confess,
And makes a bonny bride,
And often do we softly bless
The thrifty man who died.
TAS.
THE GHOST.
If All the Girls.
N.S.W.
If all the girls were ray girls
What ever would I do ?
The merry, and the shy girls,
The fickle, and the true !
I scarce could write a poem
For every little flame,
And yet I’d have to show ’em
I loved each one the same !
Beneath the glaring bar-light,
Or where the shadows fall;
In sunlight or in starlight,
How could I kiss them all!
The writer of the far lands,
The rhymer of the sea,
The singer of the star-lands
Would have to rescue me !
I’d weary, too, of walking
By sweetly-crooning streams ;
My tongue would tire of talking
Of love-engendered dreams.
The simple, and the sly girls,
The quiet, and the gay—
If all the girls were my girls
I don’t know what I’d say !
Oh mercy mine ! If all girls
Who love belonged to me—
The midget, and the tall girls,
Where ever would I be !
If all the girls were my girls—
The fickle, and the true,
The merry, and the shy girls,
I don’t know what I’d do !
GILROONET


THE “BRUNSWICK”
fdg
Household
ICE MACHINE
COLD STORAGE FOR PERISHABLE
ARTICLES OF FOOD.
HAT a lot of food g-oes bad during- the hot weather
in Australia ! All this could be prevented by
having a BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE. Especially to
Squatters and Fanners out wayback, too far to get ice,
to these the “Brunswick” is a necessity; they could
enjoy all the luxury of ICE —all that refrigeration
means—even better than they do in the city. And all
required to drive this little machine is a £ lI.P. Oil
Engine, which we can supply. The smallest sized
“Brunswick” gives refrigeration equal to the melting
power of 200 lbs. of ice right along.
Write or call ; we will supply full particulars and
Illustrated Catalogues on application, post free.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., s ° fej,ge " te - 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
A SUMMER. BOON. Don’t forget
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER
Has the larg'est sale and is superior to all others.
RISK’S WHISKY
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 100 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid t
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l«y Dr.
Warren Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
VW~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. /
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brake el),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-»(I ; TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
fdgf
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
II
Johnßeccs.
SPECIAL lIDIHUR
Scotch whisky
=*
m
WWi
it
a
m
ijku
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
%
%
A
A
dgf
d
~ Mist KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
55SKS2I COCOA
Says *‘l find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
Y All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
"Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
_ endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
7 etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
\l
By Royal Warrant to
ďf
His Majesty The King:.
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing;
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute;
illnesses of all kinds.
Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
1
L
i3_
Ruberoid
May be
obtained
from all
Storekeepers.
"DOOFING qualifications for private residences, farm houses, wool sheds, warehouses,
etc., are not so severe as they are for factory and foundry buildings. Factories
and Foundries are constantly heated from the inside with steam, hot air, smoke, and the
fumes and gases from the fires. The expansion and contraction are so great that the best
galvanized iron soon corrodes and perishes. RubcrOld Roofing treats all these severe con-
ditions with impunity. On the farm in the summer time a galvanised iron roof turns the
house into an oven. RubefOld takes no notice of the hottest summer day, the house is
always cool, while in the winter time it is warm and cosy.
ANY HANDY MAN CAN LAY A
RUBEROID ROOF.
*
Wholesale Agents s
E. RICH (SL CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1409.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1907.
PaioE Go.
RETURNED EMPTIES.
The Australian Government proposes to meet the expenses of returning from S. Africa the destitute Australians stranded there.—News Item
RETURN OF THE AUSTRALIAN EXILES FROM S’AFRICA: A DEPUTATION OF THE “EMPIRE’S FRIENDS” WHO REAPED THE
ADVANTAGES OF THE WAR COMES TO SEE THEM OFF”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A nstrnlia for the A list ml tans.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Ne\vs]>aper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 1114 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 018 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Till? Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Busi n ess Comm unicat i.o ns
tone addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
lloil' to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'I n A imitniirs in llluc,h itntl White.
Anyone supplying to Tin? Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Goteh, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. It. A. Thompson & Co., 28 liiebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
llongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Braver and Co.
Agents’ Sjiecinl Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1907.
THE ISLE OF EVANS.
Captain Evans, ex-master mariner and inci-
dental Premier of Tasmania, drifted back the
other day from a visit to Maoriland. The cap-
tain returned in a self-satisfied mood. He had
wandered from end to end of the hustling isles
where Seddon hustled himself to death, and he
was convinced that Tasmania had all the natural
advantages of Maoriland and others to boot—
that it was as rich in minerals, at least as good in
an agricultural and pastoral sense, and far better
in climate. Therefore Captain Evans went back
to the Apple-land of Leisure, where things are
slow and poor, and was content. It never once
seemed to occur to the ex-mariner that his own
statements constituted a scathing indictment of
the Ministry which he leads, and the system
which he represents, and the party to which
he belongs, and of the whole Evans show
generally. All the things he has said about the
possibilities of Tasmania are true to the
letter. For its size the Apple Isle has chances
that no other State of Australasia enjoys. Yet,
with all these opportunities, its sluggishness is a
bye-word, and the only explanation is that
its great possibilities are killed by the awful
incapacity of a long series of Tory Governments.
Tasmania is more blatantly Tory than any other
State of Australasia. It is a place where even
the Hobart Mercury is possible, and it is difficult
to say anything more severe than that. Tas-
mania isithe oldest of the States bar N.S.W.;
that is to say, it has had more years in which to
accumulate wealth than five of its neighbors. It
isn’t mostly desert, like S. Australia and Wes-
tralia, nor largely desert, like Queensland and
N.S.W. It is splendidly watered and fertile. In
proportion to its population, it shows more
mineral wealth than any other State, except
Westralia. There is nothing wrong with it, so
far as any one can see, except Captain-Premier
Evans, and the Hobart Mercury, and the methods
which they represent. Toryism—old, blatant,
slothful and incapable—has produced its usual
effect in driving capital out of the country, and
enterprise has followed capital.
* * * *
The Tasmanian census of 1901 was a dismal
commentary on the results of Tasmanian mis-
government. No less than 35 towns showed a
loss of population as compared with the figures
for 1891. Even Hobart, the capital, had decayed
a little. But this is nothing new or unusual;
dotted over the Tasmanian records can be found
quite a number of cases in which the annual
official estimates show a decrease of population
for the whole island. The fact that the general
tendency of late has been towards increase is
mainly owing to the recent mineral developments,
and they were largely brought about by Australian
—not Tasmanian—enterprise. In an agricultural
sense, the situation is gloomy in the extreme.
In 1905 the area under wheat was less, and
the crop was less, than they were 32 years
previously; the area diminished by one-half,
and the crop by two-thirds, in the last
eight years. The total area under cultivation in
1905 was less than it was a few years previously.
The number of sheep in 1905 was less than in
1874. The pig industry reached its maximum in
1890, and has declined considerably since. Sopie
of these things may be trifles, but they all point
in one direction. Further, Tasmania is the State
where wages are lowest; and there the propor-
tion of illiterate adults, so far as can be estimated
by the proportion who sign the marriage register
as “John x Smith, his mark,” is incredibly l.arge
in comparison with the record of the other States
of Australasia—almost three times as large as that
of Victoria, and far greater than that of Queens-
land, despite the extensive, unlettered brownAind
black population which adulterates the Queens-
land statistics. Tasmania has by far the worst-
paying railways in Australasia—in fact, they pay
so badly that they are in a class by them-
selves. And, in the matter of unprofitable
debt—loans that were used, not for reproductive
works, but to cover ordinary expenditure—
Tasmania, judged by the returns from its public
works, is also in a class by itself —the worst class.
The class is so unspeakably bad that only one-
fourth of Tasmania’s interest bill is covered by
the revenue from its works; in other words,
three-fourths of its debt represents, to all intents
and purposes, waste, folly, and swindle. And
the unprogressive isle shows the poorest revenue
per head in the Commonwealth and Maoriland.
There are other things that might be quoted, all
pointing in the same direction, but these are a
few to go on with.
* * * •
Yet we have the assurance of Premier Evans
that Tasmania is by nature even a better land
than Maoriland, and what Maoriland is, as com-
pared to Australia, can be estimated by the fact
that it can take an average of 28 bushels of wheat
off each acre, as compared with Australia’s seven
bushels. Under these conditions, set forth by
himself, it is up to Premier Evans to say why
Hobart is dead while Auckland is exuberantly
alive, and why Launceston just totters along,
while Wellington hustles like a steam engine.
The only visible or possible cause is the dreadful
Tory policy of Tasmania. The old Vandemonian
Toryism loves big estates, and great landlords
who block settlement and keep vast, fertile areas
a howling wilderness. It loves rack-renting,
absentee corporations like the Van Diemen’s Land
Co., which retains immense areas in an empty con-
dition, and grudgingly lets small bits of land at ex-
orbitant rates, and sends the profits—which, by
reason of the foolish narrowness o'f its policy, are
far less than they might be—to England. i It
wouldn’t levy a graduated land-tax, or pass a law
to restrict the area which one grabber can hold, to
save its life. It has still a vast belief in Freetrade,
and its antiquated manufactures toddle along
almost at the rear of the Australian procession. It
looks upon the social laws of booming, bustling
Maoriland—the Old Age Pension Acts, and Work-
men’s Compensation Acts, and Factories legisla-
tion, and all the rest —as a wild dream of Anarchy,
just as the men of the Middle Ages did. Nomi-
nally, Tasmania is one of the richest of the States
—its estimated private wealth per head is high up
on the Australian list. But a far greater proportion
of the estimated wealth is land —just the bare unim-
proved land values which Nature created when it
furnished the Tasmanian climate—than in any
other State. In the matter of houses and other
improvements, live stock, machinery, shipping,
merchandise—all the things that represent human
hustle and which make incomes—it is behind.
Its great wealth in land shows what it might be
under a vigorous Democratic Government, such
as that of Seddon, in Maoriland, or such as
Kidston’s in Queensland. Its poverty otherwise
shows what a long continuance of incurable Tory-
ism has done to wreck its chances.
Tasmanian Toryism has maundered for decades
about how its dull-headed policy was the one that
would bringaboutwealth andstability, andhow the
democratic methods which have wakenedupMaori-
land and which are wakening Australia would
“ drive capital out of the country.” And, mean-
while, it was sitting down amid poverty, sloth
and potential riches, while the Democratic States
at which it pointed the aged and palsied finger of
scorn were pushing ahead. Tasmania has few
wealthy men; even the Tory leaders and land-
lords who have been explaining so long how to
avoid driving capital out of the country are, as a
rule, not rich according to Australian or Maoriland
standards. Tasmania has no life assurance concern
of its own. Its two fire assurance offices are sorry
little affairs compared with the South British,
New Zealand, National or Standard of Maoriland,
the Colonial Mutual or Victoria of Melbourne, or
the United or Australian Mutual of Sydney.
Tasmania’s best Trustee Co. comes 12th on the
Australasian list, and its other one 14tli, in point
of wealth—and there are only 16 of them on the
list. Out of the 24 Australasian banks vvorth
mentioning as such, the best Tasmanian institu-
tion comes 15th in point of profits and the other
Tasmanian bank comes 20th. Tasmania had some
kind of a shipping business once; now the best
thing owned in the island is apparently a 512-tqn
steamer. Australia and Maoriland, “ ruined by
Democratic legislation,” can show 5000 and 7000-
ton locally-owned steamships, but Tasmania’s
record nowadays seldom goes beyond the harm-
less little ketch. And it isn’t much of a boom
that a Fat Man can make out of city property on
the island nowadays; even the unearned incre-
ment doesn’t feel well in Evans’ country. Be-
tween 1894 and 1905 the rateable value
of Hobart only increased from £186,000 to
£197,000, and of Launceston from £136,000
to £142,000. which isn’t much for the Fat
Men to bite at; the erection of a few new
buildings would account for all the increase with-
out any unearned increment at all. Tasmania is
not much of a place even for the Fat Man, and it
is the Fat Man who has made it so. It is a poor
place for banking, insurance or trustee co.
dividends ; it is a poor place for shopkeeping be-
cause wages are too low to encourage the masses
to extravagant buying ; it is too dead for land
speculation ; and regarded as a region in which to
trade off a four-roomed wooden cottage standing
on stilts it doesn’t begin to compare to busy,
hustling, socialistic Wellington where you can sell
a dog-kennel any day at a profit. And Welling-
ton —regarded as a place where the Bank of N.Z.
announces £330,000 net earnings for the year, and
the South British Insurance Co. declares 27J
per cent, dividend, this despite “disastrous
and revolutionary legislation perpetrated by
ignorant mob politicians who aim at the confisca-
tion of property ” —has some right to look down
on Hobart as it hugs its decay and its mouldy Baby-
lonian traditions beside the Derwent River. So has
every other capital city in the Conmonwealth.
Hobart, with its dreadful House of Silly Landlords,
is the “dead finish.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Clamorous Person and a Capital.
There is something boundless, incredible and
sublime about Lindon Biddulph, the man who
cries out so terribly for an Australian capital con-
venient to his own back-door at Lyndhurst
(N.S.W.) —unless the daily paper reports belie
him badly. On February 9 the Sydney Tele-
graph published some more reputed Biddulph
ravings, of which the following is a sample :
The Victorian Government is contemplating the con-
struction of a railway from Melbourne to near Dalgety,
so as to neutralise the concession New South Wales was
to receive from a capital city, which, according to the
agreement arrived at by the conference of Premiers,
SUBSEQUENTLY EMBODIED IN THE CONSTITUTION
ACT, IS TO BE POSITIONED ABOUT 100 MILES FROM
SYDNEY. . . . Owing to this long and disgraceful delay
in honestly and fairly carrying out the provisions THAT
THE CAPITAL SHALL BE NEAR THE 100-MILE
RADIAL LIMIT FROM SYDNEY, the Federal Parlia-
ment has been sitting all this time in Melbourne, instead
of this State, in consequence of which Australian politics
have been strongly over-ridden by the Victorian element,
and Melbourne itself has gained enormously, both finan-
cially and in prestige, by the expenditure and presence
there of so influential and moneyed a class as the Federal
Parliament sways in its train.
The more one thinks of this question, the more one is
impressed with the injustice and un-Federal spirit dis-
played towards this State by members of former Federal
Parliaments. ... I hope that members representing New
South Wales in both the State and Federal Parliaments
will stand to their guns, and see that their own State is
fairly dealt with, and the conditions implied by th#
Constitution strictly enforced.
The case for Lyndhurst rests mainly on the
impudent and outrageous lie quoted above, that
there is embodied in the Australian Constitution
a proviso that the Australian capital shall be
“ near the 100-mile radial limit from Sydney.”
There is no such proviso or clause in the Consti-
tution, and there never was. The thing is as
gross an invention as would be an assertion by
Queensland that the Constitution provides that the
Australian capital shall be 100 miles from Towns-
ville. The original creation of the lie, and the
action of some Sydney papers in allowing it to be
repeated in their columns, are equally disgraceful.
It is partly on the strength of this lie that the
N.S.W. Government and Parliament have kept
the Australian capital question unsettled for
years, and it is really time the old falsehood
had a rest. The constant attempt on the part of
a small section of clamorous persons to impose
this impudent piece of mendacity on Australia in
general, and their impertinent scoffs at all who
decline to swallow their impossible assertion, are
calculated to one day make N.S.W. the best-hated
place in the Commonwealth. People often fail
to discriminate as they should, and Lindon
Biddulph and the Sydney morning papers make
such a row that they may yet be mistaken for
N.S.W. This is assuming, of course, that there is
any Lindon Biddulph —that he is a man and
not a convenient myth invented by the morning
press and used as a peg (if a myth can be a peg) to
hang their fabrications on.
-♦
Philp.
Time softens many unpleasant recollections, and
a hope is evidently entertained in Tory circles
that it has blurred Queensland’s recollections of
Robert Philp, ex-Premier, ex-Treasurer, ex-
Chief Secretary, ex-Secretary of Mines, ex-
Minister of Public Instruction, ex-Minister of
Railways, ex-everything, and all-round failure.
Three years ago, when Philp was fresh in the
public memory, hardly a single paper dared to do
more than apologise for him. So great and
obvious a bungler was he, ana so huge a scandal
had his Continuous Ministry become, that even
his friends had to lie low and find excuses for him
in a humble frame of mind. Now, however,
the Brisbane Tory press and such outside
papers as the S.M. Herald begin to paint a
glaring and impudent halo round Philp, and,
when they occasionally acknowledge that his
success wasn’t quite overwhelming, they always
point to the drought with which lie struggled as
sufficient explanation of everything. In a general
way, it is implied that Fhilp was the one dry
spot in Queensland politics—that there was heavy
rain before Philp and tremendous rain after
Philp, but that there was no rain during Piiilp.
Therefore, Philp’s Government being extraordi-
narily dry, he wasn’t to be judged by ordinary
rules ; and Kidston’s Government, being extra-
ordinarily wet, isn’t to be judged by ordinary
rules either ; in fact, if the rain were deducted
from Kidston, and added to Philp, it is claimed
that Philp would make the better showing of the
two. There has been so much of this folly that it
is worth while to point out that there was quite a
respectable rainfall in much of Philp’s time, and
that for quite a lot of the time there was nothing
wrong with Queensland except the incredible
incapacity of Philp and his friends. In 1901,
under Philp, the State had the biggest wheat
harvest known up till then in all its history—afar
larger one than it had in 1905 (the last year
for which statistics are available) under Kidston.
It had 10,000,000 sheep, which was 2,500,000 less
than in 1905, and it had nearly 3,800,000 cattle,
which was 800,000 more than in 1905, and one
thing about balances the other. It had record
crops bf r oats;>bai4ES!y, maize,l ipid hay; the,.sugar
area was the largest on record and the crop was
heavy ; and the gold output was greater that it is
now." And that year Philp had the record
revenue for Queensland, with this result: —
Queensland Revenue and Expenditure.
Deficit
Revenue. Expenditure. (Piiilp).
Philp (1901) .. £4,096,298 £4,624,479 £528,181
Surplus
(Kidston).
Kidston (1905) .. 3,595,399 3,581,403 . 13,996
And on top of that Philp, in 1901, added
£2,500,900 to the awful public debt of Queensland,
whilst Kidston, in 1905, reduced the debt a trifle—a
most incredible thing in the spendthrift Banana
State. Also Philp, with a much larger revenue
than Kidston enjoys, went on having deficits
till he was ejected. Piiilp was a spend-
thrift all the time ; the various Governments with
which he was connected added over £9,000,000
to the State debt in seven years. It was under
Philp, too, that the great exodus of population
from Queensland commenced. Over every-
thing was the blight of Philp and the crew of
blatant incapables which hung around him. They
believed in preserving the big estates and block-
ing settlement. They believed in every wild-cat
railway for which a loan could be raised at any
price. Money ran through their fingeis like
water, and no revenue, however vast, seemed
capahleof keeping aGovernment with which Philp
was connected even moderately solvent. Jobs
that stank to high Heaven seemed to grow up
round Philp’ s associates ; if they didn’t job them-
selves they never appeared to have the energy or
ability to avoid being used by jobbers. The
central sugar mills, in which an immense
amount of Government money was in.
vested, drifted into bankruptcy unheeded.
Everything drifted, and debts grew, and de-
ficits accumulated, and settlers left, while Phij.p
the lazy and incompetent, wandered on his
dreadful way, like a chip on the surface of a
stream. Now Queensland has been rid of Philp
for nearly four years, and begins to recover a
little. So the Tory press thinks it is time its old
loafer came back to his inheritance and took
credit for what has been done in his absence; and
it also fancies that the short-memoried public
may have forgotten his incapacity, and will endure
having him put up on a pedestal as a heaven-bom
statesman. The cry goes up that owing to the
lack of Philp “ capital is being withdrawn,” and
that “lack of confidence is keeping the State
back ” ; and the way to put everything right, it
seems, is to resurrect Philp and his deficits.
■ ■ 4
State Insects.
The item which follows is quite the usual item,
and turns up, in one form or another, about twice
a month, when it doesn’t happen three times a
week. It transpired again the other day
Mr. Bent received a letter from Mr. J. H. Carruthers,
Premier of New South Wales, to-day, stating that he had
written to Mr. Kidston, Premier of Queensland, urging
him to agree to the suggested time and place for the
Premiers’ Conference. Mr. Carrutiiers saysl hold
very strongly the view that unless strong, united action
is taken to counteract the influences which are evidently
at work we shall find our States put in a position of very
great subserviency to the Federal Government, as well as
being ignored by the Federal authorities. Besides finan.
cial questions, there are many other matters that can be
discussed with advantage, such as old-age pensions,
invalid pensions, and additional departments, which it is
proposed to transfer to Federal control, navigation,
lighthouses, etc.”
Anyone who kept an eye on the passing show of
politics could have told, not only that Carkuthers
would write that letter, but, almost to a day, when
he would write it. A few unpleasant questions
have been asked in the papers as to the why and
wherefore of the N.S.W. Government’s Jong
silence over the report of Judge Fitzhardinge
on the mysterious happenings of the Crick-
WILLIS trial. The same papers—papers which used
to boost the “Reform’’ movement, and Premier
Joey, and all the Joey tribe —have been dropping
hints of late about Carruthers’ retirement, and
these hints almost amounted to an order to get
out. The Telegbaph and Herald have told him,
with a frankness that was quite harsh, that he is
a failure. In time of trouble, the one resource of
the pathetic Carruthers is to discover that some
Federal outrage has been perpetrated on the Ma
State; and this being a time of trouble, he
naturally regards it as the right moment to divert
attention by weeping about Federal encroach-
ments. It is the silly proceeding of a weak man
trying to change the subject. Most of his Pre-
miership, Carruthers has been trying to change
the subject, and has done it badly, but the present
attempt is even below his average. It is shock-
ingly incoherent and lacking in details. (Jar-
RUTHERS demands “strong, united action
kind of action not specified—to counteract “in-
fluences which are evidently at work,” but he
doesn’t say what influences, or how they
have shown themselves to be at work. He wants
the meeting to yowl about the proposed transfer
of lighthouses and navigation matters to the
Federal authority; the Australian Constitution
gives the Commonwealth absolute control of these,
but apparently Joey proposes to call it a dreadful
case of Federal encroachment all the same. And
Joey professes to be alarmed lest the States
should be “ignored.” The States constitute
Australia and Tasmania, and Australia and Tas-
mania constitute the Commonwealth, and the
Commonwealth can’t ignore the States without
ignoring itself. It might, of course, ignore the
State Premiers, and thereby hurt the little, sawn-
off vanity of certain people, but that is quite a
different thing. Yet even that much hasn’t been
done ; instead, the affable Deakin has carried the
policy of “consulting the States” to ridiculous
excess. Unfortunately, almost from the day
of the foundation of the Commonwealth,
our history has been a long tale of
mean conspiracy on the part of little State
insects against Australia, and no amount of
Federal affability will alter this tendency. The
departure of the larger-sized politicians for the
Federal arena left the insects in charge of State
affairs. They were inflated with their promotion,
and buzzed till they thought themselves vultures
instead of bluebottles. Then they got mad when
they realised that the transfer of many depart-
ments to the Australian Parliament had reduced
their importance as State insects. They wanted
the Australian Parliament to continue, for if it
were abolished the larger men would come back
to State politics and brush away the present
State insects. But they wanted the Australian
Parliament to have no powers whatever, because
every power it possessed must be something
deducted from the importance and the buzz of the
State insects. Filled with these mixed sensations
they started the wickedly unpatriotic theory
that the Australian Parliament, both Houses
of which are created by the people of
the States under the fullest and widest suf-
frage on earth, is a foreign institution and
a natural enemy, and the pose of such creatures
as Philp in Queensland, Carruthers in N.S.W.,
Jenkins in S.A., and Newton Moore in Wes-
tralia, became that of valiant insects holding the
bridge—four bluebottles abreast—against an im-
placable- enemy, even as Horatius did in the
early days of Rome. It is time a large, patriotic
foot, shod in an Australian boot, stood on some of
these State insects.
4
The Question of Australia’s Back Door-
Once More.
Certain men of affluence have come together in
Adelaide and formed a parochial league, which
may prove of some importance or of no import-
ance at all. Its object is to prevent the transfer
of the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth,
to get the transcontinental railway finished on
land-grant and Private Enterprise principles, to
make Port Darwin a British naval station, and
some sundries. The league may be only an insig-
nificant symptom, but, added to other symptoms,
it should help to convince Prime Minister Dearie
of his folly in wasting time over petty financial
details, instead of closing with the offer of South
Australian Premier Price and takjng over the
Territory in one prompt act—taking it over with
all its debts and deficits, with its unfinished
works, with the liability to complete the
transcontinental line, and with all the
other advantages, disadvantages and chances.
The Territory, to a Power which can find
the money to "develop it, is worth the amount
demanded 10 times over. Just now there is a


mineral boom in this great Lost Province. It
is a small Chinese boom, but with railway-
communication and a vigorous policy of settle-
ment, it would almost certainly be a big white-
man boom. While Deakin is affably loafing
over small details, and lingering in that beautiful
uncertainty of mind which is one of his chief
characteristics, this chance is being eaten up by
the Mongols, while other chances are being con-
sumed by land syndicates, and Australian settle-
ment in the North, and the defence of Australia’s
back entrance, get no “forrarder.” It is when a
great subject like this crops up that the desire to
stick a long pin into A. Deakin becomes
almost overwhelming. Regarded as a per-
fect gentleman, who would look well potter-
ing over rare engravings and quaint
Elzevir editions in a beautifully-furnished
study, with a rose-tinted light falling on
his head and a statue—not a nude one—in the
corner, A. Deakin is a stupendous success, but
his affability and the painfully accurate details of
his conscience keep him from getting along fast
in politics. The time he has wasted haggling
over the question whether the Commonwealth
will take over the Territory and its 3J millions of
debt, or only take it over with about two millions
of debt, has probably cost Australia, directly and
indirectly—in the set-back to settlement and to
effective defence, and in leaving the Chow another
year or two in which to root up the Territory’s
mineral wealth and send it to Asia—ten times the
wretched little sum at dispute. And if invasion
comes in the North before the Transcontinental
railway is finished, and before settlement
is sufficiently advanced to effectively gar-
rison the Territory and to hold the back-
door of Australia, the utter ruin of this
country may yet be traced to the loss of
that year or two which Alfred Deakin
spent in affable and conscientious argument with
Thomas Price about financial items which,
in such a huge transaction, were hardly worth
consideration. In such a case Price will share
the awful responsibility, but as far as money is
concerned, the terms which Price demanded were
reasonable, and on that basis he may be appor-
tioned about one-quarter of the blame and the
disgrace. The other three-quarters will be
Deakin’s allowance, and the epitaph of Aus-
tralia will read, “Killed by Various Causes, but
largely by the Excessive Conscientiousness of an
Affable Gentleman.” Unhappily, it seems impos-
sible to persuade Australia that it isn’t merely
pretending to be in danger to amuse itself,
that it isn’t simply playing at soldiers,
that Defence isn’t only a game, and that
the overwhelming possibilities connected with
the awakening of Asia are something more
than a ghost-story told by the fireside. The
present position is that the Territory, without a
railway and without population, is much nearer
and vastly more Accessible to the Asiatic invader
coming by sea than to any place from which an
Australian land force could be sent to meet the
invader. No one knows that better than Alfred
Deakin, yet his progress towards doing anything
is as gradual and unruffled as if there were no
Asia. The one good feature of the case is that,
after a long stoppage of negotiations, he and the
S.A. Premier again “ confer ” this week on the
matter. And, if they don’t confer too much,
something may come out of the matter.
National Affability.
From “Locust”: —
On a South Head tram recently, on the way to Watson’s
Bay, Sydney, I saw a small squad of “ our brave little
allies.” Two of them had cameras, and another had a
local map, which he frequently consulted. A small
matter to remark, it may be said, but an important
phase of our easy-going, happy-go-lucky defencelessness
is shown in it. We have not realised that the ally of
to-day may be the enemy of to-morrow, and that in inter-
national, as in other matters, you should “ never intro-
duce your donah to a pal.”
Now, in Japan they manage matters better. In Japan
no one dare take a camera anywhere near a fortified part
of a town. The first to remind you of the fact will pro-
bably be the polite, not to say servile, bedroom steward
on board the liner. He will request you courteously but
firmly, and even angrily and peremptorily if necessary—
in spite of the risk of losing his tip—to refrain from tak-
ing pictures from the ship in such places as Nagasaki and
in the Straits of Shimoneski. Should you disobey, you
would very soon find your films or plates seized and
destroyed, and yourself liable to arrest and im-
prisonment. There is no sentiment about the business ;
ally or no ally, you can’t take photos, in Japan in for-
bidden zones. Maps are supplied to visitors by the
Welcome' Society, and on those maps are marked, in red
circles, the fortified zones. To use a camera, or even to
carry one, in these zones is to invite arrest.
In one fortified town—Moji, in the Straits of Shim-
oneski—to which I had gone on perfectly harmless busi-
ness, loaded up with passports from Australia, and intro-
ductions and credentials from Japanese officials and
British Consuls, 1 was subjected to constant police
espionage and great personal inconvenience. I was
shadowed all day long—or rather subscanced, for they
took no pains to hide their pursuit. Policemen sat next
to me in the great wrestling booth, where I had gone to
see the two great Japanese wrestling guilds in their
tournaments, with 350 picked wrestlers a side (the best
sight in Japan), and stared at me hard. They followed
my rickshaw, and if I wanted to go up a hill to get a
better view, an official politely, but firmly, stopped me.
They woke me up in the middle of the night to examine
my papers, and feast their eyes on “ Billy ” Hughes’
autograph and admire the way John See wrote with a J
pen. However, I did not complain, though I was vir-
tually a prisoner, and was finally “accompanied”—l
blush to write “ escorted ” —from Moji to Nagasaki by a
squad of policemen, who made believe they did not see
me, while I pretended I did not see them. Other police
unostentatiously met me at Nagasaki, and followed my
rickshaw to the hotel, looked at my name as I registered
it in the visitors’ book, and bowed and “soo-soo’d”
themselves out. I took it in good part, as I thought it
right that a nation living in the shadow of danger of
foreign attack should take every possible precaution, and
that it was the duty of even the man in the street to see
that strangers took no liberties.
And it is so elsewhere. Let a man go about with a
camera in Strasbourg or Metz, or some other picturesque
European border place, and he will have to put in a few
days explaining things.
But Australians take the visitor round, trust him with
a camera in the vicinity of fortified places, and show him
everything. In fact, so far as can be seen, there is
nothing to prevent any foreigner from going a-snapping
and a-mapping wherever he likes, so long as he doesn’t
wear a long fur overcoat with an astrakan collar, a fero-
cious black beard, spectacles, and a slouch hat. In this
costume he runs the risk of attracting the attention of a
policeman, and of being run in and taken to Bland
Holt as an escapee. The simple, smiling, guileless,
“childlike and bland ” Japanese can, of course, go where
he likes. I have no doubt that in Tokio may be
found many fine maps of the South Head and
Middle Head and other coast defences, and admir-
able photos, illustrating - them—better maps than
our own, no doubt. Again, the cable services re-
cently shrieked out all over the world the details of
the Commonwealth small arms. Perhaps the agents of
“ our ally ” are allowed to have a privileged peep into the
factories themselves at the weapons which are to be ex-
ported to Australia. We in Australia should, without
delay, shed our affability in defence matters, and take a
leaf from the book of the Japanese, who are—every
mother’s son and daughter—on the alert, amiable and
intelligent observers and spies. So universal was the
system of espionage in Nippon, during and before the
late Vodka war, that even the bagnio women furnished
spy reports to their local consuls. When you remember
that the Japanese is the universal bagnio woman, from
Cairns and Thursday Island to Vladivostock and
Saghalien, and from Manila to Singapore, Batavia,
Saigon, Hongkong, Seattle and San Francisco, you can
imagine what a wonderful secret service corps the
Japanese have at their command, all working for love of
“old’’Japan. Australia should he closer about defence
than even England. Our guns may not amount to much,
but that is all the more reason for not giving away so
utterly the nakedness of the land.
Lost Souls.
In the dreadful, Chow-ridden, Hindu-haunted
land of South Africa it is calculated that there are
at least 1000 stranded Australians—mostly men
who went over after the war, expecting to find
another Bendigo or a Turon as it was in the early
days, and beguiled by glozing lies about the pros-
perity which was to ensue when the British flag
was hoisted over Johannesburg. It is hopeless to
expect Bruce Smith to provide for their return,
although Mr. Smith volubly stated that there
would be a great time in Africa as soon as “ these
splendid workers,” the Chinese, got going, and
Smith’s false prophecy may be partly responsible
for the trouble. So Prime Minister Deakin pro-
poses that the Commonwealth should put up half
the return fares if the States will put up the other
half, and most of the States seem willing. The
whole amount, it is calculated, will be about
£lO,OOO, but even if it were £20,000 or £30,000, it
would probably be a good investment. Australia
wants population, and to recover 1000 hardy Aus-
tralians from Africa is much cheaper than to bring
out the same number of unacclimatised British
people from a place twice as far away. Moreover,
there is no cost for lectures, magic-lantern shows,
and advertising literature to attract the men from
Africa ; all they ask is almost any kind of vessel
to carry them out of hell, and some food, and some
place to sleep, and a chance to carry bricks or
whirl a pick and s iovel when they arrive
here. Even if common humanity didn’t call
on Australia to do something in the matter,
this country should interfere from purely
selfish motives. These 1000 or more lost citi-
zens would be the best missionaries in the
cause of White Australia that this country could
have. White Australia may be a gospel to
others; to them it would be a passion and a
frenzy. They have seen the Chow curse and the
Hindu devastation at close quarters, and know
the poverty, misery, and degradation they bring.
They have been trodden on by the Asiatic leprosy,
and have starved in a piebald land. It is a casein
which Prime Minister Deakin should not hesitate
a moment, and it is a pity that his incurable ten-
dency to “consult the States” made him stipu-
late that the provincial Governments should pay
half the cost, and that he should have wasted
time over the stipulation. The money involved
is not much, and the Commonwealth might as
well have paid it and annexed all the credit. By
doing so, it would at least have convinced 1000
Australians that Federation is a noble idea.
4
Papua,
The Australian Government learns nothing fresh
from the report of the Royal Commission on
Papua;.but the report, a wholesomely straight-
forward document, at any rate presents old truths
in such a way that they can hardly be any longer
ignored. Almost from the first day of the Aus-
tralian administration of Papua, it has been recog-
nised that the government of Captain Barton was
inefficient to the point of absurdity. Practically all
the white residents of the Possession are pro-
foundly dissatisfied with a “ Johnny ” adminis-
tration which has all the vices and none of the
virtues of the English colonial tradition. Captain
Barton has been well-meaning enough without a
doubt. The trouble is that he didn’t know, and
was too cock-sure to learn. Pitchforked into a posi-
tion for which he was quite unfitted—it is said
by the influence of Governor Le Hunte, of
S. Australia—he has been kept in it so long only
by occult persuasions. Long ago, the Australian
Government was convinced that a change was
necessary. Then Atlee Hunt was given,
at his own solicitation, some sort of mission
to report on Papua, and he is said to have been
enlisted as a friend of the inefficient Governor.
But, despite the championship of Atlee Hunt,
the Australian Government resolved, before the
close of last Parliament, to make a change, and
invited Governor Macgregor, formerly of
Papua and now freezing in Newfoundland, to take
Barton’s place. He refused, and the Cabinet had
not the courage to replace Barton with the Austra-
lian Staniforth Smith, who seemed to be marked
out for the post. As a middle way and a half-
hearted device it appointed a Commission of
Inquiry. That Commission was half expected to
bring in a non-committal report. It has surprised
most people by coming out with a decisive con-
demnation of the Barton administration, and
now even a Government which loves to be non-
committal and to take the middle way must really
act. The investigations of the Commission have-
brought matters to a head in Papua, so that it is
impossible for the present chiefs of the civil
service to act any longer with their “ Johnny ”,
chief. It is not conceivable, for instance, that
Justice Murray can continue to act asjudge under
Governor Barton after the serious accusations of
disloyalty and the other charges which have been
made against him. The Commission reports that
Barton’s system is to divide up the civil service
into two classes —his friends, and his opponents—
and to treat them accordingly. The chief Aus-
tralian officials are all classed among his oppo-
nents, and this fact probably provides the key to
the position.
-♦
Immigration.
Dr. Arthur, the apostle of the cause of More
Population, who is a living example of the uses of
a fanatic in public life, has returned from a
southern tour with fresh laurels. Talking More
Population to Tasmania and Victoria, Arthur
was insensibly and irresistibly drawn into conflict
with the Upper Houses of Rich Landlords which
block the way to the increase of the inhabitants of
those States. The development is a somewhat
new one. Arthur hitherto has talked Popula-
tion, and only Population : “ Bring people here,
somehow, anyhow,” he has cried. Now the logic
of events forces him to discuss also the problem of
what to do with the people when they come.
They must have access to the land, and where the
greed of rich landlords, entrenched in legislative
fortresses, blocks the way, something has to be
said on political reform. The wrath of the Tas-
manian and Victorian Tories, which Dr. Arthur
has incurred, is about the best advertisement his
Immigration League has secured up to date.
The Imperial Conference.
The last time an Australian delegate went to an
Imperial Conference he brought back the naval
subsidy scheme, which now disgraces Australian
nationalism, and stands in the way alike of
improved Imperial and improved Australian
sea-defence. It is natural, therefore, that
there should be some uneasiness at the
prospect of another Imperial Conference this
year—some question as to what new folly
or wickedness will be agreed upon be-
hind the back of the Australian Parliament,
and then forced on the people here with the plea
that “ the honor of the country is pledged.” But
this time, happily, there appears to be little reason
for uneasiness. In the first place, the delegates
are different. Deakin is an affable Prime Mini-
ster, and, confessedly, an Imperialist in the sense
of looking to the advancement of the British races
as a whole. But he is singularly free from that
social snobbery which has led so many Aus-
tralian politicians astray. He has neither
a desire for a title for himself, nor a
reverence for a title on the other man;
and he has always made Australia the
first consideration. His recent appeal to the
British Government to forego the naval subsidy,
which offended the national consciousness of
Australia, and stood in the way of a far more
valuable and dignified contribution to the defence
of the empire, breathed the true Australian sen-
timent. Going to the Imperial Conference in
that spirit, he will not be likely to be led into any
anti-Australian arrangements. It will be to his
advantage, too, to have Lyne as a colleague.
No one keeps closer in touch with Aus-
tralian public sentiment than William Lyne, and
he will be ready to lift a warning and politic
finger if occasion calls for the hint. It is unfortu-
nate that Watson does not also accompany the
delegation ; his singular gifts of wisdom and sunny
tact would have been precious in London. Still,
even without him, it is not a delegation which is
likely to come back with apologies in its mouth
and foolish documents in its pocket. There is
another reason, too, why this conference is not
likely to be the same pitfall as the last. British
ideas of Imperialism are changing. Such
organs of London public opinion as •'the Morn-
ing Post, The Times and The Outlook
now talk an Imperialism to which The
Bulletin can almost subscribe without sacri-
fice of its aggressive Australianism. This
change is largely due to the work of Richard
Jebb, who, from a study of “the British race
overseas,” came to the conclusion that the surest
way of binding them in close affection to their
Motherland was to encourage them to develop
their own nationalism, and make them sister
nations rather than subject colonies. That idea
of Imperialism is not much represented in the
present British Government, but it is the idea
which is rapidly winning its way among the best
types of British thinkers ; and it is an idea which
promises, in the near future, to make Imperial
Conferences something very unlike the man-traps
and spring-guns they used to be.
White Australia and One Enemy.
The great C.S.R. Co. monopoly, the silent but
unwavering advocate of any sort of labor except
white, wants Federal attention. It makes one-
eyed agreements with the sugar-cane farmers,
which really say that the co. can pay what it
thinks fit, and the growers must accept. Since
the establishment of the so-called “bonus” for
white-grown cane, the great 'monopoly has paid
less for cane than it did before, which simply
means that it is neutralising the effect of the
bonus. (The bonus, as often explained, is a
refund of an excise duty.) The co. continues to
distribute enormous profits each year, despite any
adverse industrial circumstances, although it
is always calling out that the industry is
doomed because of progressive legislation-. It
especially makes a large profit out of its
refinery monopoly, for the difference be-
tween the price of raw sugar and re-
fined in Australia is much greater than
it is in other countries. If the old Contin-
uous Government in Bananaland had not
made such a mess of the State mills when it
established them—a mess that has been since
straightened up a good deal by the Morgan and
Kidston Ministries—a State refinery might ere
this have been in full swing. The need for the
refinery is as urgent now as ever it was in Philp’s
day. The need for more State mills is also
urgent. These, however, are old and standing
grievances. Now, in this fight against a White
Australia, another weapon has been brought into
play. In some of the Queensland districts, where
there is no opposition, the Monopoly is saying that
it will not make advances to the farmers, owing to
the probable scarcity of white labor next year —a
scarcity which it has no warrant for presuming,
for the State Government has announced that, if
the required labor is not available in the Com-
monwealth, it will be imported in good time from
Southern Europe or elsewhere. At one time the
Monopoly scoffed at the idea of whites doing the
field work. Convincing evidence last cane-harvest
showed that whites were much more capable than
the black and yellow races. So the co. is bran-
dishing this new axe at the struggling farmer.
The farmer is under the thumb of the soulless com-
pany from which he purchased his land on the
time-payment system. Advances are as neces-
sary almost as labor, and the mutter of the
advances is in the co.’s hands. Cunningly, there-
fore, it uses that lever. “Recover colored labor,”
it says, in effect, “and you shall have an ad-
vance.” It looks as though, with the Federal
elections just over, and the State contests coming,
the Monopoly has been, and still is, determined
to squeeze the industry and all who are engaged in
it into a sort of revolt against a White Australia.
It looks as though it wants to drive these men to
the ballot box to vote, not according to their own
convictions, but as this soulless co. desires. The
Australian Government needs to keep a sleepless
eye on the Monopoly. A threat to further penalise
the black-grown product of the Monopoly’s pro-
vince of Fiji, which comes into the Common-
wealth. might have a steadying effect. But the
best effect of all would be achieved by the estab-
lishment of a State Sugar Refinery. It would be a
good subject for Kidston to disagree with Philp
about.
♦
A Tell from Some Islands.
“ Thomas Clodd ” writes from Maoriland :
Consider Maoriland as a brain-garden. Its people are
robust enough to wear an average adequate thought-bin,
but its Protection isn’t robust enough to keep its brains
at home. Bachelors of Arts grow on every office-stool in
Maoriland. Men knock off bush-whacking and become
barristers; chemists blossom forth into fully-qualified
appendix-hunters; policemen write poetry; butcheis
drift into white chokers an 1 holy coats. Maoriland
keeps these more or less commonplace persons, or at
least, the commonplace persons stay in Maoriland because
they don’t aspire to lofty salaries.
Maoriland has a remarkable habit of producing special-
ists, though. It has a pretty good kind of an educational
system, and there are no particularly stiff chock and log
fences between the scavenger’s son and the University.
Supposing the scavenger’s son knocks out all existing
local school-rivals at geology. Maoriland immediately
offers him something equalling a carpenter’s wage to
become a geologist under the Government. The
ungrateful wretch hies him away to India, be-
cause the Indian Government offers him three
or six times the money. Specialists in chemistry,
in fiiining, in science—anything you like —are literally
“ turned out ”in Maoriland, and from Maoriland. The
peoplewho protect boots andclothes makers aren’t worry-
ing about Protection for the country-builder, the man with
the big think under his hat. Maoriland, however, has to
employ specialists ; in fact, it is very fond of employing
them, and they are mostly foreign. Having found that
the best available native-born cow-expert won’t look at
£2OO a year, it sools him off the premises, so to speak,
and offers a Canadian or a Dutchman or any other stray
foreign person thrice the sum to fill the billet. The
Maorilander, it is understood, doesn’t know which end a
dog neighs with, or where the horse’s bark issues from,
so he has to go away and be a vet. in foreign lands.
That’s why foreign vets, go to M.L. to teach the pigs
to chew the cud in the good old English way, and to see
that the bullocks are not lamed in the shoeing. The
State’s blow-holes at Rotorua could never be looked after
by a local doctor, so the mere native goes to Hingland
and sets up a practice in Park Lane, while a German,
after much pressing, accepts £lOOO a year to soothe the
tourist’s liver and administer No. 2 mineral water.
Meanwhile the Park Lane sawbones develops a British
drawl, and swears he was born in Mayfair. Similarly,
Maoriland mining-schools boys leave the schools and are
next heard of from Coolgardie or California or Peru. They
absolutely and impolitely refuse the 3s. 6d. their own
State offers them to run its mines. When the boys are
gone Maoriland frantically cables to the dear old Ma
Land to send along the most talented gold-mine manager
the Forest of Dean can supply. He comes, protesting
about cannibals and about the lonesomeness of being
buried alive on the blasted prairies. Also, he brings his
elephant guns and a recipe for curing tiger-skins.
Similarly the M.L. pressman grafts for years, until his
thought-thatch wears out, and there’s something decent
under it. His boss dies of apoplexy when told that 355.
and free copy-paper won’t keep a wife and ten children.
Then the ungrateful ruffian steps over the corpse of the
boss, and asks Australia for a job. Australia threatens
him with a hundred per cent, rise, and if he, too, doesn’t
die of shock, in six months he will tell the guileless
stranger that he was born on his father’s run at Bourke,
and that he has heard there are May-ow-ries in M.L.
*■
Straight Talk.
Joseph Ward, Maoriland’s boss political rooster,
rather turned down the Bruce Smith faction in
some recent remarks at Melbourne over the
necessity for keeping out the Chow and the Jap
and the Hindu and the rest of fragrant Asia. ‘‘ I
don’t want to put my oar into Federal politics,”
soliloquised Joseph, at the beginning of his
remarks ; but, before he had gone very far, his
oar was in to a most commendable depth. His
subject was the Imperial Conference in London,
and he said that he was going to put both his
boots down on the question of the control of
immigration. This is how he said it: —
Another matter of vital importance to us in Maoriland
is the question of exclusion of undesirable immigrants.
We are, of course, only a small country, but feeling in
Maoriland is unanimously against the admission of the
Asiatic races. We recognise the Japanese and the
Chinese as our natural enemies, against whom we shall
have to struggle in the future, and we cannot let them
come in and settle in our country as they please. At the
conference some definite understanding shall be sought
with the British Government as to the position of the
colonies in regard to British treaty obligations. We do
not want Great Britain to enter into any treaties with
foreign peoples which will give those people the right to
claim entry into the colonies. We do not want prohi-
bition, perhaps, but we must have the right to regulate
and check such immigration as we think best. Our
position out here is not appreciated in England.
When I w'as there some time ago I met a
number of leading statesmen at dinner, and in
conversation afterwards I was astounded to find that
they did riot understand our reasons for objecting to the
Asiatic races, and were in favor of throwing Australia
and Maoriland open to all comers. I set to work and
explained the position to them at once. I made quite a
number of converts, and I think that this time more can
be done confidentially—in conversation, for instance—
than by public speech-making. British statesmen must
be convinced of how vital this matter is to us. In
Australia you have a party, I understand, which is
against the exclusion of such immigrants. There is no
such party in Maoriland. The day I came away I was
entertained at lunch by the merchants <9f Auckland, who
are the most conservative of our people, and they cheered
me to the echo when I spoke about alien exclusion. We
will not have these immigrants in Maoriland, and you are
in the same position in Australia. Englishmen are apt
to overlook and under-estimate the importance of these
colonies. They cannot grasp the vastness of the territory
and resources of Australia. There is no doubt that, in
years to come, Australia will be more important than
England, and it is essential that it should be kept
British, and for the British. The one thing that would
The Younger Generation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’d chant a song of summer, but, alas ! no song I
sing
Of sunshine joys that dazzle on ether-cleaving
wing;
I limp with my companions, with both feet in a
sling—
The Younger Generation makes the pace.
The Younger Generation has cobwebs on the brain,
Wears specs., and its progression, with crab-like pace
and pain.
Is gradual as a horse-tram, or Bent's historic
train.
The Younger Generation's got the gout.
In precepts ante-dated its apostles all are
schooled;
It favors ancient dummies from the Mausoleum
sooled,
Too “ripe,” like Simon Fraser, as faded as Ma
Gould,
Who gather inspiration from the tomb.
The Younger Generation does ex<ictly what it’s told,
And hesitatingly resolves it shan’t be overbold ;
It plumps for Moderation, but, Great Scot ! when it
grows old,
There’ll be a boom in mummies at the Morgue.
It worships stiffened ponies, twirls totes, and
dreams in drink.
Its politics are Two-Up, its creed is “Never
Think.”
It knows not that Australia stands sheer on
Danger’s brink,
Nor hears the Alien knocking at the door.
The Younger Generation pursues its rotten prize,
Elects decaying Waxworks in this Fools' Paradise.
Though the Serpent of Old Asia in wait around us
lies,
The Younger Generation doesn’t care.
Its thin voice squeaks and wheezes, “Don’t hurry,
God forbid ;
Ten thousand years from now we’ll build Aus-
tralia’s Pyramid.”
Tote tickets in its pockets, a “dead bird” in its
lid—
That’s the Younger Generation at the door.
The Younger Generation was born long years ago,
Wears specs., is bald and fangless; its cake is mostly
dough ;
The Younger Generation beats the hearse for going
slovj —
When will it rise and batter on the door 1
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


make Australians and Maorilanders turn and fight
against their own flag would be an attempt to force them
to admit these aliens. It is an easy matter for England,
in her treaties with foreign powers, to conserve the
rights of the colonies in this respect.
It is time some one went to England and talked
to Bull like a father on the subject of his great
nigger empire. Joseph Ward seems the man to
do it.
4.
Last Tuesday both the Sydney Telegkaph and
Herald broke out violently about the wrongs of
the Ma State:—
Mr. Carruthers has received a letter from a well-
known resident of Sydney at present in London, in
which the following statement appears :—“ I should like
to point out that Victoria is always to the fore. New
South Wales is not even given an equal chance. For
example, at the Office of the Commonwealth to-day I
saw files and files of the Argus and Age, but not a
Sydney Morning Herald or Daily Telegraph file or single
copies of the papers. I asked myself : Is Victoria Aus-
tralia ? And, if not, why have not New South Wales
papers the same prominence as Victorian? It is surely
time New South Wales woke up to her position in the
Commonwealth.” This is simply another instance of pre-
ference to Victoria on the part of the Federal authorities.
The Bulletin heard this same story from a press-
man in London some time ago. His explanation
was that the Commonwealth authorities, in their
desire to avoid that “Federal extravagance”
about which so much violent language is used,
don’t pay for newspapers, and the Sydney papers,
assuming their usual attitude that the Common-
wealth is a foreign enemy to be rigidly discour-
aged, don’t supply copies gratis.
♦
A. S. MoGlew, a Brisbane business man, just
returned from Asia, tells how the Japs are swarm-
ing over Corea and Manchuria, and reaping
bushels of hatred in the process. They are
running steamers to Vladivostock, and buying up
ships for the east-of-Ama trade. Also—
The general belief in Japan is that before many years
the country will again be at war with Russia. Any-
how, preparations are being made on a huge scale. An
enormous military depot, covering 250 acres, is in course
of construction at Nagoya, near Yokohariia, and every
arsenal in the country is working at high pressure, turn-
ing out arms and ammunition so speedily that one would
think the country was actually at war.
Also, says McGlew, large bodies of Japs are
migrating to Honolulu, every vessel going there
being loaded ! Japan may be preparing to meet
Russia; but it is swarming into Honolulu,
and that is on the road to Australia, not Russia.
And, anyhow, when a gun is made it is just as
good to shoot an Australian with as a Russian.
By way of turning that gun aside, how many
arsenals has Australia got working at high pres-
sure ? Is it turrfing out even one rifle a day !
—♦
The new League of Vic. Sportsmen is a lovely
thing. Its avowed purpose is to counteract the
influence of Judkins, and nobody questions the
sincerity of the avowal. The League is said to
have 5000 members at a shilling, in addition to
sundry enthusiastic patrons who have subscribed
sums of £2O, or so, towards the good work.
Barney Allen is the principal good worker, and
brother Samuel has doubtless given his enthusi-
astic patronage. The crusade of the awful Judkins
seems to be somewhat justified by the League of
“Sportsmen.” Legislation which sets the book-
makers squealing must inevitably hasten the
arrival of the Tote, so there is reason to hope that
Judkins, in due course, will be shocked to find
himself a great Racing Reformer.
Melbourne piles up evidence of the awful incom-
petence of its too-numerous municipal councils.
The Board of Health does its best, and might do
some real good if it had the power, but it only
gets the chance to do anything sudden when the
councils refuse to move, and that they haven’t
pluck enough todo ; they simply postpone things,
and get reports, and so forth. The Board’s officers
lately inspected the public baths around the Bay,
and found most of them pretty well all that baths
should not be, those of Williamstown especially
being shocking. Yet all the Board could do was
to inform the councils and the Lands Department
of the circumstances. Again, another Health officer
reported that the huts of the local Chow gardeners
are “monuments of insanitation and municipal
complaisance.” The Board can’t summon those
Ohinkies itself ; all it can do is to “forward the
reports to the councils concerned’’—the very
councils whose “complaisance” is the cause of
the disgrace. But the councils’ last folly, the
ignoring of repeated breaches of the Pure Food
Act, has moved the Board to go on its own, and
it intends to prosecute. It is a great pity that
the whole care of the health of the public isn’t
handed over to the Board, and the councils left
to attend to their little quarrels, their little bor-
rowings, their little sectarian grudges, and their
little festivities in their little mortgaged Town
Halls.
t • o -
Melbourne Exhibition of Australian Manu-
factures, although a veritable “eye-opener” to
all people who visit it in a patronising spirit,
doesn’t make the display of woollen goods and felt
hats which was expected by its best friends. Not
being able to present the process of manufacture,
the woollen millers, seemingly, didn’t trouble to
put their results on evidence. There is an
exhibitor of cloth cap-making, but one may spend
an hour or two at the interesting show without
happening upon any big display of tweeds or
hats, calculated to convert male believers in
foreign wearing apparel from their bad old faith.
If the mills are properly represented, their pro-
ducts are not conspicuously placed. This is the
more regrettable because the public needs a lot of
instruction re the merits of such goods, and
can get it only from the manufacturers. Other
classes of goods are “ pushed ” by the retailers, or
their Australian character is proclaimed by their
brands, but the tweeds made in Victoria (no
N.S. W. manufactures are exhibited) get no boom-
ing from shopkeepers.
The A.M.P. life-insurance office, the other day,
paid its No. 21 policy. In 1849 J. M. Pearse’
then 28 years old, insured his life in the office,
which had just hung out its shingle, and he went
on paying £4 12s. a year for 57 years. Even then
he had only paid in £262 4s. ; yet compound
interest is a thing of such amazing power that the
policy was worth £864 10s. at the end of 1905, and
there is another pound or two to be added since.
The A.M.P.’s money isn’t earning 5 per cent,
now, but that would be a low average for the
whole period, so the ancient’s first £4l2s. would by
this time have compounded itself into something
like £7O. Also, if N.S. Wales, which owes about
£85,000,000, laid by £460,000 out of the surplus
that Carruthers can’t avoid, and invested it to
earn even 3| per cent., by the end of the next 57
years it would amount to enough to pay off
about £4,250,000 of debt. Carruthers’ idea of a
sinking fund, though, is to use the £460,000 to pay
off £460,000 of debt, and then stop paying interest
on it, so that at the end of 57 years it will have
paid off only the same £460,000 that it had paid
off in the beginning of things and no more. And
yet Carrutiiers is a director of an insurance
society, and is supposed to know what sort of a
whale compound interest is, and to understand
the real meaning of a sinking fund.
Since Premier Bent took to careering round Vic-
toria in a motor-car, the man on the land regards
him more than ever as he would a black duck or
a crow—something to be shot at. To his old
demands for bridges, park lands, foreshores, &c.,
the cadging landlord has now added another—for
help to keep his main roads in order, because they
are much used by outside traffic (as if all roads
were not used by outside traffic). It is such an
impudent, hypocritical, brazen demand that
Thomas soon wearied of it, and when the South
Barwon Council lately came at him for a grant
towards keeping the Colac road in repair,
Thomas flew off the handle. “What? What?
Why should I spend the income-tax to improve
private property ? We pay a 2s. rate in Brighton
and you only levy Is., and thousands of people
from Melbourne use our roads, but we say
nothing. ... It would be a sin on my mortal soul
to give you a penny.” Then another sturdy
beggar of a councillor asked for £BO to put a
picket-fence round the Barwon reserve. Thomas
almost burst. For a minute he spluttered and
stamped, and pounded the table. Then he
realised the splendid impudence of the request,
and subsided. “Look here,” he bellowed, “you
got that reserve for nothing, and the least you
can do is to fence it.” Then he plunged into the
motor and puffed out of the district.
The average Legislative Councillor believes de-
votedly in low wages and lots of work. When
that average Councillor is chairman of a bank
his belief becomes a mania. That’s how it
is with Miller, M.L.C., chairman of the
Bank of Victoria, which is notorious for pay-
ing its people as little as possible. At the
half-yearly meeting of the bank, Miller announced
his creed as follows:
As to the staff, every now and then the salary list was
reviewed., and salaries were raised whenever possible. Of
course, the first thought of the directors always was the
interests of the shareholders. He congratulated the
shareholders on the progressive and prosperous slate of
the institution.
Then, at the conclusion of the meeting, it occurred
to one shareholder that there was a mighty lot of
prosperity knocking about loose, and some of it
might as well be handed over to the men who
helped to create it. This was what happened :
Mr. Samuel Crawcour said that he had come to the
meeting prepared to ask if the Board could not see its
way to recommend a bonus to the members of the staff.
He had, however, understood the chairman to say that
the matter had been dealt with.
The Chairman : Every half-year that is attended to.
Mr. Crawcour said he was pleased to hear that.
The Chairman : The Board goes through the salary list
every half-year. They prefer doing that to giving
bonuses.
Yet, despite all this back talk of the Board’s, no
increases have been given. The “ first thought ”
absorbed all the cash, and the staff got left. The
salary list was gone through right enough, but
that was all. It’s a great game, this banking.
In a long article on the alleged dumping of oil by
the Trusts, the Sydney Telegraph shows its
usual over-sea sympathy. After pointing out
what it is alleged the Trusts have been doing, the
Twaddler proceeds to state that the people who
have made the charges are undoubtedly inter-
ested local people, whose statements will there-
fore have to be carefully examined before
judgment is passed. Also, that the yarn may be
the result of “ trade jealousy, prejudice, or ignor-
ance. The price of oil may have dropped just at
a time when the local manufacturers find it a
little awkward,” &c. The Twaddler goes on to
suggest that “ such a not extraordinary happen-
ing may have been put down by the chagrined
local suppliers to the malign influence of their trade
opponents.” Also, “ the oil trade outside the Com-
monwealth seems to be in the hands of big Trusts,
but that fact alone would not be sufficient to warrant
a prosecution, as it has to be proved, before a
prosecution can succeed, that any operation is in
restraint of trade, because such a thing as a
philanthropic monopoly can be imagined, though
history does not record many such.” Shade of
Rockefeller ! How he would grin at the sugges-
tion of philanthropy in connection with his trust !
And how easy it is for the Telegraph to excuse
and palliate what outsiders do as against the
actions of “local” people! If the English eo.
that is working the Australian oil deposits at
Lithgow were simply sending oil into Australia,
it would, no doubt, receive the same charitable
treatment as the American Oil Trust. But
having put its money into the country, it must
be put down as a “chagrined local supplier.’’
A KAFFER WOMAN WITH A ROOF ON
HER HEAD.
A scholarship, or a sum of £5O a year for
three years, is offered to “any gentleman’s son
who will devote himself to missionary work in the
diocese of Melanesia.” Any gentleman's son !
Does that include the sons of bare-footed fisher-
men ? For instance, Peter’s son, if he had one.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “A Modern Judas.”
Her Majesty’s “Leah Kleschna.”
Theatre Royal “ The Breaking of the Drought.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Cos.
Palace Theatre “.The Kelly Gang.”
Bondi “ Wonderland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The New Clown.”
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Cos.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
♦
Next week Her Majesty’s (Sydney) will
be preaching much the same sermon as it has been
preaching since Christmas, but the text will be
different. Tittell Brune, though she will be
Kundry no longer, will still be torn with conflict-
ing emotions, like Solicitor Meagher in the tram-
car. Going a-robbing as Leah Kleschna, she will
encounter a Great Reformer, who will take her
in hand, and finally pursue her to a cabbage-
garden and marry her. Douglas Gerrard came
out in ’OS to play the Reformer; Kingston will
probably try to do it without corsets, and in this
and other changes in the cast and clothes the chief
interest in the brief revival will centre.
* * * *
“Revenge” will unfold its weird tale at
Sydney Royal on Friday night for the last time.
On Saturday “The Breaking of the Drought”
will be revived. Sydney is just in a mood for a
new presentment of that piece, for the inland
drought has broken up this few years past, and
the inlanders, with fine fresh grass growing on
their whiskers, have just been down to Sydney
breaking up the drought there. It was a fairly
joyful celebration, too, and the drought got very
wet.
* * *• *•
“Home, Sweet Home” has proved an
attractive enough proposition to make good busi-
ness the rule at Sydney Criterion this past week ;
nevertheless the bill will be changed on Saturday
next, when “A Modern Judas” will be staged.
The old play was described as “domestic ” ; this
one is mentioned as “ thrilling and sensational,”
so, presumably, the assassin’s knife will wave
some, and blood will drip now and again into the
orchestra.
* * * *
If the weather were not so trying, The
Bulletin might put on its evening clothes and
opera hat and take up a high moral attitude over
the presentation of the Kelly Gang Biograph at
Sydney Palace. But, even if the weather were
bracing, isn’t it a waste of energy to be angry
with a film and a flicker ? A packed house comes
nightly to the pictured history of the Bushranger
Kelly Gang, beginning with the Mrs. Kelly
homestead, and ending with the fall of Ned. And
if the people who pack the Palace really like
to furnish their intellectual attics with pictures
of Australian history in which policemen are shot,
banks stuck up. and mad gallops perpetrated
over the Strathbogie ranges, that is their business.
And it keeps the attic aired, so to speak. For
that matter, the taste in art of the National
Gallery trustees is not above suspicion.
* * * *
With these few remarks the watcher of
history, as she is filmed, goes on to add that for
over an hour the scroll of fame is unrolled.
Younghusband’s station is stuck up, the police are
outwitted, again and again, women act as “bush
telegraphs” and fool the mounted troopers, and
when the latter fall into the trap they are
sassed by the sun-bonneted riders. Platelayers
tear up the line at the bidding of the gang so
that a train shall be wrecked, and a schoolmaster
waves a red flag in front of the engine so that it
shan’t. The bush pub. and the rain of bullets,
and the heroic priest entering the burning
house—it’s all there in the scroll of fame
and infamy, and because it all happened
so long ago, and is so like the Drivel
of our Fathers in the history books, and because
there was feckless courage against considerable
odds, and because good horses are around, Syd-
ney is going to make that show a money-making
one for its sponsors. The background of Aus-
tralian scenery is splendidly managed, and the
only item that wants sandbagging is the hard,
indistinct Voice that explains things from behind
the scenes.
* *■ *
Anderson’s “ Wonderland ” strikes many a
visitor as a place which von can enter for six pence
but can’t leave under six shillings. That, however, is
a crude way of enjoying the picturesque open-air
amusement ground. It implies a hungry desire
to swallow everything and a tendency to dine with
both front hoofs in the trough. The bare sixpence
provides enough amusement fora fair appetite. A
constant succession of novelties keeps interest in
Wonderland fresh. The latest is a lady who used
to be “The Human Firefly,” but at Wonderland is
“ The I .ay Comet.” She nightly makes ineffec-
tual and sensational efforts to get burnt to death.
It is a cooling and satisfying spectacle. This
writer doesn’t know if the lady has a fire insurance
policy about her; if she hasn’t, she certainly
ought to have one, for she looks much too valuable
a property to be left uncovered. At the same
time, the present scribe would n’t care to be the
office that held the policy. His reserve fund
isn’t large enough.
* * *
Fred Russell, a pretty fair ventriloquist,
is back from Europe, at Sydney Tivoli, with the
same Coster Joe and co. that helped him through
a successful season a couple of years ago. Other-
wise things at the Tivoli are as they were, with
Gracie Graham as the brightest little star in the
Rickards universe.
* *
“ A Brace of Partridges ” had a prosper-
ous flight of two nights at the Palace last week.
Winged by the B. of N.S.W., they (or it) flew in
aid of the North Shore Hospital. The play gees
its name from two cousins (as like as two coffee
beans) named Partridge, who unconsciously per-
sonate one another, after the manner of the
Dromios and the Antipholi, and Miss
Girofle and Miss Girofla. One man doubled
the part, but it was too much of a mort-
gage on the audience’s imagination. The
Partridge double was done by a young gen-
tleman in an apricot wig and moustache.
And his name was Brown (on the programme).
Miss Elsie Prince, got up as Peggy Stubbs, the
landlord’s daughter, looked a nice bit of beauty
in a blue frock and fair curls, and Miss Meta
Hayter presented the stage Californian heiress
Evangeline, and dressed well. But the best of
the cast was Mr. W. Lloyd, as a livery stable lad.
He acted like a good professional. Satisfactory
houses cheered the “ Brace.”
* *
The inevitable financial triumph of “ The
Squatter’s Daughter,” staged for the first time at
Melbourne Royal last Saturday, entitles a prepos-
terous work of fiction to serious notice as “An
Australian Play for Australian Audiences ” (vide
advt.) It might be truthfully termed a typical
modern English bellowdrama Australianised for
the Andersonian public. Even in comparison
with those Australian dramas which George
•Darrell introduced more than 25 years ago, “ The
Squatter’s Daughter ” is a poor composition.
There was little enough of sweet reasonable-
ness in “The Sunny South” (less, perhaps,
than in Darrell’s later and less fortunate efforts);
nevertheless an ordinary Darrell play had’
moments when the plot tried to be feasible and
the characters seemed anxious to make them-
selves humanly interesting. Nothing quite so
absurd as the modern English bellowdrama had
ever happened in this country up to the time
when red-shirted George Darrell (as Mat Morley)
stood with his back to a tree in the “ bushrangers’
lair,” and bade the wickedest bushranger “Fire !
and be d—d to you !” In a more captious age
than this “ The Sunny South ” and its theatrical
connections (one of Darrell’s, by the way, was
called “The Squatter”) earned a measureof respect
as well as a larger measure of good humored
ridicule for the Father of Australian Drama, the
ridicule being partly due to the fact that he always
overloaded the hero parts with dialogue and
“fat” for the glorification of himself who played
them. The mechanism of the plays was not all
borrowed from English workshops of the worst
type. There was some invention in them, and the
touches of novelty were Australian.
* * * •
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” credited to
Bert Bailey and Edmund Duggan, is destitute of
Australian feeling as regards the “ book.” Every
bit of the structure has been taken from
the stock of Andersonian imported bellow-
dramas with which Bailey and Duggan are
familiar, the scene only being changed from
England to Australia. Instead of the squire’s
country house we get the squatter’s homestead.
The wrongfully accused confidential steward of
the squire’s estate is here converted into the
squatter’s overseer. The lurid villain is the bogus
son of the rich man, and because of his debts he
is in league with bushrangers per medium of an
ex-convict who knows “the secret of his birth.”
The hero and heroine respectively are lured and
abducted to the Jenolan Oaves (where bushrangers
abide) and Waterfall Gully instead of to the
Thames Embankment and Seven Dials. The
providential counter-plotters hide behind logs
and tree-ferns whereas their British prototypes
lurk under dark archways, or crawl around the
Benches in the Park. And all the chasings, and
rescuings, and impossible poppings-up of the
principal performers are branded, “Pavilion
Theatre, London,” on every link. Stripped of
its Australian disguise, the play is a mere com-
pilation of stale foreign trash.
* ■* * *
But the disguise—the mounting ! No pre-
vious series of scenic arrangements for a genuine
or spurious Australian drama (not forgetting
“Thunderbolt”) has been nearly so effective
as this. The idea of the sunset, nightfall
and sunrise in Musgrove’s production of
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” is here applied
with audacious incoherence to a Eucalypti
Gorge scene, where gallant George Cross is left
bound to a shaky rock after inviting a bushranger
to Fire and be d—d ! The moon rises on the im-
pressive spectacle, and the more it rises the blacker
falls the night—the eccentric Australian night.
Presently, next day’s dawn is announced by a
number of crimson clouds which light the world
on behalf of the unseen sun. Coming as a restful
pause amidst a chapter of wild alarms, this
crudely artistic piece of stagecraft was loudly
applauded on Saturday, A Subsequent Water-
fall Gully, with a fine falling water supply
and a real ducking pond into which
the bushrangers fall this is quite a
masterpiece of realism. Scene-painter Robins,
and the carpenter, and the powers behind the
.scenes have given “The Squatter’s Daughter”
every chance of success. Horses, sheep (two of
them get shorn on the stage every night), buggies,
stockwhip-cracking, and many revolver shots are
incidental to this notable show. Also, the mem-
bers of the Anderson co. appear to their best
advantage. Bert Bailey, the part-author, has
given himself somewhat too much low comedy,
but in other respects the talk is allotted with wise
discretion, and the intense foolishness is rarely
wearisome.
** * *
The famous tragedy of “ Mother Goose ”
has now lasted sixty performances (nights and
matinees) at its Melbourne domicile, and the end
is not yet. Julius Knight and Cos. are to appear
in “Robin Hood” at Her Majesty’s when the
panto, retires, but meanwhile the bird that lays
the golden eggs is putting up a record, therefore
the romantic drama aforesaid has gone to Ballarat
for a preliminary canter.
** * *
“ The New Clown,” late of Sydney and
elsewhere, will be transferred on Saturday to
Melbourne Princess’s, under the direction of
Edwin Geach. The fact that Hugh Ward, Miss
Palotta, and George Willoughby are concerned in
the farcical comedy aforesaid is generally known
to Melbourne. Something bright and frivolous
is expected, and all those people who don’t want
to laugh in spite of themselves are viewing the
advts. of “The New Clown” with grave suspicion.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the “turns”
of Charles Fletcher and the Charlenes continue to
be matters of the first importance. Also, Miss
Cora Casselli is dancing with more of her natural
force of character than she exhibited a fortnight
ago. The latest arrivals are Miss Leonie Dixon,
a satisfactory step-dancer in the serio-chronic line
of business, and The Kwerries, who accomplish
an illusion and call it a miracle. But the audi-
ence on Saturday night seemed to think there was
nothing very marvellous about the Kwerries
except the allegation that they had come all the
way from London to do what they did.
Pretty Olive Lenton, who has made a bright name in
Australia, goes to England, and was given a cheery send-
off, the other day, by theatrical friends.
The Tyree Spray is now being used by
the —
Harbour Trust, Sydney
Health Dept., Sydney
David Jones, Sydney
John Sands, Sydney
Sanitary Dept., Town Hall
Sargents
Water and Sewerage Board
Dept, of Public Works
Buzacott & McFarlane
Prince Alfred Hospital
J. Keep and Sons
Dept, of Public Health
Abattoirs
Govt. Railways
J. Inglis & Sons
A. G. Gillies
Eesoh’s Brewery
Australia Hotel, ltd.
Sydney Preparatory School
Municipal Council
Robbie, Supt. of Parks
A. Hordern & Sons
Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
Bulletin Office.
J. Sands.
Horton & Co.
Holdsworth & M‘Pherson.
Waters & Co.
Government Architect Dept
Daily Telegraph.
And about 1000 other firms.


insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
.
-3
96 Queen-street, Woollahra, Sydney,
Messrs. Fisher & Co. 7/12/’O6.
Dear Sirs, —Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials
for a teacher of Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled
as a Tonic to invigorate the whole human system. To combat the after
and weakening effects of Influenza I have found FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE invaluable to set me up good and strong. I write the above
to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary consideration
whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest
Medicines on earth.
Prof. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police
of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me, LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TONIC,
Fisher’s Phospherine
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
Sole Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Midnight Wedding,” at Adelaide
Royal, has been taking some pains to assure the
public that it has nothing to do with the Fatal
one. Probably the management knows that Ade-
laide, while it will spend its last shilling on anew
play, does not take a great interest in revivals.
“The Midnight” ceremony is very new. It is
not as good as its own posters, though (there is
one picture—a dismounted swordsman, on a wet
road at dusk, all alone, but expecting trouble —
that is the Real Thing). Nor is it as good as the
acting which Hareourt Beatty and Charles Yane
lavish upon it. But it is a fine, breathless
“Prisoner of Zqnda” kind of drama. The
Corricks, who have gracefully left off calling
themselves “ marvellous,” have farewelled at the
Exhibition ; and Alfred Tennyson Dickens, lec-
turing on his illustrious father, has given what
he calls a “long night”—it was all that, for it
lasted over two evenings! The Tivoli and the
Hippodrome continue much as before.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Charles Hall, an intellectual and highly capable actor,
was buried at Waverley (Sydney) on Saturday. He was
6 J years of age at the time of his death. In his later
vears he dropped out of the active practice of grease
paint and mummery, and was a teacher of elocution. In
the palmy days of George Rignold, at Her Majesty’s, Mr.
Hall held a prominent position. In the revival of “Julius
Caesar ” he played the name part, while the immense
Ueorge was Mark Antony. His latest Shaksperian
character was Brabantio to Rignold’s Othello.
“ J.A.C.”: A little over a week ago died Charles Hall,
who, until recently, was among our best stock actors.
For a quarter of a century he was known to every play-
goer in Australia. 1 first remember him, some 26 years
back, as a very good, quiet and subdued mummer, with
a tall figure and gentlemanly appearance, suited to
the parts he played. Of late years he was a
successful exponent of what the French call the pire
noble, and possibly his best effort was as the clergyman
in George Rignold’s production of “Man to Man.”
Although an importation from England, he was to all
intents Australian, for, since his first appearance in this
country, over 40 years ago, when he supported Walter
Montgomery, he was almost continuously connected with
the Australian stage. Barring an absent-minded habit
of speaking fervently to the atmosphere in the street, he
had no mannerisms or eccentricities worth recording.
His widow is one of the Duvalli Sisters. They were a
pair of the most graceful and agile dancers ever seen in
Australia. The other sister is married to another
“ Charlie,” also an old actor —“ Charlie ” Coutts.
Julius Knight, according to all accounts, has resisted
the temptation to which he was expected to succumb.
The dramatic co. he organised in England for the plays
wherein he will absorb most of the limelight is a good-
looking co. The leading lady stands for loveliness, and
two or three of the men are understood to be johnnies of
somewhat “ killing ” appearance. At any rate, they
made a favorable impression on the Williamson panto,
girls at a recent picnic. Some of the other fellows were
much disturbed by the new-comers.
“0.K.”: What strikes one most forcibly in Charles
Fletcher’s performance at Rickards’ is the foolishness of
the speeches which he gives in imitation of Mark Twain.
No after-dinner speech is worth repeating—least of all
the effort of a weary and worn humorist laboring to talk
up to his reputation.
“Melb. ” : Everyone is delighted with the substantial
fashion in which Willard’s benefit panned out. Leslie
and Bellew have imitated Irvine, but Willard, in face,
simply is the Irving of 30 years ago, after the mighty
actor had shaved off his moustache. Willard has been
supposed to luxuriate in stage villainy, but he hates it as
copiously as any god. Give him an amiable part, and
how earnestly he strives to point the moral, “ This is
my line.” Yet the public will have it that such a nice
fellow must be a smiling fiend all the time. Willard never
can get away from the plausible and iniquitous. When
will he have a chance to act Joseph Surface ? Irving
dropped into the ruck of villains the same way, from
Sikes to Compton Kerr in “Formosa.” Then there was
E. S. Willard. What a disgusting time he had as Wilson
Barrett’s villains, inLights o’ London,” “Romany
Rye,” “Silver King,” and so forth, before Miss Jeffries
replaced the blonde little Miss Eastlake, who looked so
much like, Eugenie Duggan ! Other persistent London
villains were Abingdon and Beveridge. O. Smith, the
illustrious villain of the yore-time Adelphi, was a parti-
cularly mild and benevolent man. So are they mostly,
like H. O. Willard.
“ Eros ” : The other night Angelina and I wandered
into the Queen’s Hall, Sydney. The Biorama of the fight
between Jack O’Brien and Tommy Burns was flickering
gaily. Twenty rounds flickered and the man in charge
described the incidents of each, and that the prize was
£5OOO. I was astonished to find that Angelina wasn’t the
only lady present. She had longings to see a fight, and I
had gratified her desire with much misgiving. Many
ladies wore evening dress and all wore irreproachable
blouses and skirts and hairpads. They looked real
blockites—not factory ’ands, as I expected/ Angelina was
disgusted with the fight. She complained that just when
the two pugs got into holts and started to punch with
vim the big hulking referee stepped in between them and
separated them. She objects to referees—they spoil the
fun by their interference and are a blot on the landscape
of the flicker. Even nigger Jack Johnston mauling
Micky Dunn in the flesh—three bouts of two minutes
each —did not mollify my Angelina. She wanted a fight
with some “ berlud ” attached.
“ N.” (printed verbatim, capitals, and all): Some
Sapiency, in your columns (30/l/’O7), remarks on the
dramatic performances in Cole’s Melbourne Hippodrome
as atrociously crude. I will reply to him with what
Thackeray’s Jeames de la Pluche would term a Fash’n’ble
Nannygoat. The Lord Bishop took a long ride in a
Hansom Cab, and placed a small coin in Cabby’s palm.
Cabby used variegated language, as purple as the Bishop’s
vestments. Says His Lordship, “ Don’t swear, my good
man. Where do you expect to go? ” Cabby: “ And where
do you expect to go for Sixpence ? ” Hippodromic Cole,
at a sprat, is as good as Bland Holt at a hob, that is to
say, properly, half as good. You don’t go to Menzies’ for
a Fourpenny “ Irish Stew Wan,” nor to Buck’nam Pallis
for Burgoo.
The Australasian notice of Miss Lenore White, who
does “Living Art Poses” at Princes Court, must have
been written by the athletic editor. It said : “As a
model of female beauty, Miss White is not to be compared
with Miss Boobier, who recently gave diving exhibitions
at the same place of amusement, but her turns are well-
devised,” &c., &c. Needless to say, the two feminine
figures ought not to be compared. Miss Boobier is a
muscular young athlete, whilst Miss White is a figure of
voluptuous curves, billed as the “California Venus.”
Muscular development would be an artistic fault in one
who poses as Leda, Andromeda, Cleopatra, and various
allegorical forms of Love. There’s no suggestion of
physical strength about the ideal Venus of Greek sculp-
ture. The goddess never trained herself to turn somer-
saults.
Adelina Patti’s final performance in London as a con-
cert-giver drew a crowd of nearly 12,000 to the Albert
Hall, a crowd that cheered and encored the 65-year-old
artist as though she were still a brilliant singer. And
when the confiding 12,000 had paid their money for what
was advertised as a farewell function they were told that
Patti would appear again this year to sing for the benefit
of her manager. One of these daysan indignant old gen-
tleman, with money and time to waste, will get a Full
Court decision as to whether a bogus “farewell”
announcement by a popular entertainer is, or is not, an
obtaining of money by false pretences. In Patti’s case
the crowd came to see the last of a celebrity on a public
platform, not to hear an aged voice. The occasion was
hot the last of her, so they didn’t get what; they paid for.
The old lady “ took them down.”
“Eros”: Re “A.B.’s” par. about fifth-rate imported
vaudeville performers. The boss of the show is not alto-
gether to blame that part of the imports do not come up
to high-water mark. He wants a juggler, ox comedian,
or comedienne, or something for a star turn. Unfor-
tunately, the star is married to what theatricals term a
“rotter,” and refuses to come unless the “rotter” is
included in the contract. Consequently, you will find
that some fifth-rate ladies have first-class husbands, and
Vice versa. If “A. 8.” will study a vaudeville show for a
few weeks he will find that a star man and a female
“rotter” arrive at the same time, and when the talent
is reversed he may notice that the star woman and the
male “ rotter” depart at the same time.
SYD. GREGORY, CRICKETER.
“Philo”: The London Era contains a column advt.
to the effect that “The Australian diva, Madame Ada
Colley, prima-donna, Pavilion, Glasgow, thanks Messrs.
T. Barrasford, J. de Frece, Sam Lloyd, E. Dottridge,
H. S. Worswick, W. Robinson, and the various agents
for offers for the British Isles, Continent, and America,
and wishes to inform those who have not yet secured the
services of this great artist that open dates are rapidly
being filled.” I seem to have heard of the lady, too.
’Cellist Gerard Vollmar —the young Dutch master with
the face that is reminiscent of the Old Dutch masters—
who has so often delighted the music-lovers of Sydney,
has been stricken sore with illness. His friends—who
include most confirmed concert-goers—have decided to
give him a substantial purse. Subscriptions may be sent
to Paling ’s.
Alfred Woods, remembered in these parts as a short,
muscular, pugilistic Australian actor, who used to deal
harshly at times with disobliging porters, cabmen, and
theatrical critics, writes that he will soon be home again.
He is now in Africa, under Wheeler, and hurries back
when he has finished. Alf didn’t like America, and he
didn’t like London, and, by appearances, doesn’t like
Africa. It is hard to satisfy Alf.
English play-writer H. A. Jones has been scratching
the U.S. back with the remark : “ Your language is
better fitted than ours for the modern living drama.”
Well, “The Silver King” is still a modern living drama,
and it contains one famous speech—The “ Hand from
Heaven,” or “Denver’s Dream Speech ” —which is credited
to Jones aforesaid. Does Jones wish us to understand
that a number of “smart” Yankee idioms could have
been introduced improvingly into that speech, or can he
name any American play which is likely to retain popu-
larity for 30 years in all English-speaking countries by
the strength of its language ? Smart, up-to-date idioms
catch the passing fancy, whereas the taste for literature
is slowly acquired ; but the fancy changes, whilst the
taste endures. The chances are that American literature
in the next century will be quite innocent of the “ bite
and sting” and “lusty young idioms” which “make
American language better fitted than English for modern
living drama.” H. A. Jones, who was formerly taunted
with preaching like a literary prig, is now' talking like a
commercial drummer —in Yankland. But perhaps he
wishes to imply that modern livingdrama is not expected
to last longer than its modern living audiences.
“ 0.K.” : In throwing bricks at newly-imported come-
dians because they are not exceptionally humorous, the
indignant “ A. 8.” should beware of taking the pro-
gramme’s word for the genuineness of every “ importa-
tion.” What he says about “ the comic Scotchman” in
the Melb. panto, is true enough. The comedian in ques-
tion is painful, but the fact that he is said to be making
a “first appearance in Australia” doesn’t prove him to
be a foreigner imported for this occasion. He isn’t quite
new to the Australian stage. He’s a misrepresented
native of this country. As for “ A.B.’s ” disapproval of
Harry Phydora, and his bitter scorn for the imported
book of the panto., there is something to be argued on
the other side. Phydora has more to do and say in this
long panto, than any previous comedian has ever said
and done in any previous panto. If the book is the con-
temptible thing that “ A. 8.” calls it, so much the worse
for Phydora, who has to bear the brunt of it. A
thoroughly competent man—nothing more or less —Phy-
dora is undoubtedly popular, and the show wherein he
figures so prominently is far and i vay the most success-
ful panto., the longest sustained “boom,” on Australian
record. In one respect, his performance of the she-male
is highly commendable. He avoids vulgarity
Stated, a few weeks ago, that the artfully advertised
La Milo de Oruikshank bad found a new means of getting
notoriety. She was about to take libel actions against
certain members of the Cardiff Young Women’s Christian
Association who referred to her as a “ perfectly nude
young woman ” making an improper show of herself.
The Christians evidently thought Milo was appearing in
her skin—whitewashed.
The musical gusher of the Otago Daily Times, in his
frenzied notice of The Besses o’ th’ Barn:—“ All
the throbbing elements of life were in the enchanted
music that poured from the instruments of ductile brass.
Probably few in the audience would ever have imagined
the womanly tenderness of tone, soft as a shy lover’s
caress, that those wonderful instrumentalists seemed to
arrive at so easily, or the clash that bespoke the warrior,
the dreamy excursions in fairy land of the poet, the
ardenr, aspirations of the religious enthusiast. All
the language of the heart, the brain, and the
subtle searchings of the soul found audible expression.
Brazen instruments, indeed! They were the throats
of angels pouring out the Beatitudes.” And so on.
This kind of writing always gives the impression that it
begins with a shout of inspiration. It may be only the
sort of inspiration that the police court reporter arrives
at, but it is the frenzy of a soul —every soul has its own
size of frenzy. The inspiration fags out and you can
presently imagine the scribe walking up and down his
room and clawing the air for beautiful sentiments. Then
you picture him feverishly drinking out of his water
bottle, and smiting the air with the decanter in quest of
more inspiration. You can picture him, if you like,
having a drink at the pub. w'hen the written shout is half
finished, and at last tearing his hair over his peroration.
It is a very labored business, especially when the writer
is a person who inspires with difficulty.
A not-long-since popular tenor is losing his mana.
The once clear high C is gone, and now he can’t get past
Beer flat.
“ Hiphen ” : There is one refreshing item about
“ Mother Goose,” the Melbourne pantomime. I refer to
the Australian setting. There is one bush scene with
tall gum trees and a kangaroo ballet which is as tasteful
as anything I have ever observed. It is calculated to
make the youth of this country go on the mud, if any-
thing is. Personally, lam on the look-out for a nice
quiet selection. I have been deceived by the zoology
books of this State. I thought that the only wild animals
to be found here were kangaroos, ’possums, monkey
bears, burrs, and sand-flies. But you should have seen
the great natural resources that emerged from every
nook and corner of that stage scene and danced among
the bracken in wild abandon and tights. I’m only a, poor
city lad, but I reckon that there are great possibilities for
a pushing young man on the land, and it seem to me that
the loneliness of a country life has been grossly exag-
gerated.
Miss Jessie Maclachlan is due back in Sydney, to begin
another Australian tour, on April 1.
‘ * Ross ”: The actor-man who starts a ‘ ‘ dramatic school ”
in the country place he’s stranded in has a stony corner of
the vineyard to struggle with. One, who later promoted
the “Sara Bernhardt Dramatic School,” got left high
and dry at Kadina (S.A.). With the help of his pupils, he
proceeded to put on anything from a Shakspearian play
to a panto, after about a week’s rehearsal. Once they
went to storm a mite of a township, 12 miles from here.
They started at 3 p.m. in a hired turnout; arrived at
9 p.m.—had to walk nearly all the way. After hunting
around the farm-houses, they at last found the kev of
the hall, and by the time the “scenery,” &c.
was fixed up, it was getting on for 10 o’clock. The
ladies had had nothing to cheer them up since
mid-day, and Mr. Sara Bernhardt who had inad-
vertently' left his purse at home, borrowed a few bob
from the Wilson Barretts of the co. to buy them light
refreshment. Eventually they found him spending the
last sprat on a “ long-’un ” at the one and only pub. ;
then, as only one man and a boy had turned up to see the
“ show,” the co. packed up and sorrowfully left for home
at 11.15.
How to grow a moustache. How many thou-
sands of men there are going- through this world
moustacheless because they know of no preparation that
will force a growth of hair on their top lip. “ Capillarine "
is guaranteed to produce a heavy, wavy moustache on
any lip. The preparation is a secret one and was pre-
pared by a clever Dermatologist. “ Capillarine ” has met
with remarkable success as a moustache forcer and we
know of no other preparation that will produce a good
moustache in such quick time. Posted free from Messrs.
Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street, Sydney for 10s. 6d.*
J. J. Miller, who issued the handy Sport-
ing Pamphlet and the half-yearly Racing
Chronicle, is also the producer of an annual Date
Book or pocket diary, which is more generally
useful than the horsey publications aforesaid.
The first pages of the neat little Date Book are
loaded with information of the kind that is often
wanted and never obtainable at the moment,
unless you are carrying it in your pocket. You
get the distance by rail between the capital and
smaller towns in each of the States, tabled so
nicely that the glancing eye pauses to take in the
figures. There are tables of everything, but the
most instructive of all are those that give the
approximate population of the principal towns in
the Commonwealth and Maoriland. That’s where
the Date Book caters for all who are willing to
put money on a dead certainty. The average
man has very incorrect ideas concerning the
population of any well-known town up-country,
and he can sometimes be lured into backing his
ignorance against the solid, but carefully con-
cealed knowledge of his wily friend, who has been
studying the statistics. ;
Hearken unto the voice of Eli Williams,
Mayor of Coburg (Vic.), in Melbourne Argus
Just arrived back in Melbourne by Sydney express
with wife, eldest son, and daughter, after being in Maori-
land for eight weeks touring from Invercargill to Auck-
land, having done Exhibition and Rotorua, &c. Am
quite satisfied Victoria is the best of them all, including
Sydney.
Eli may be weak in bis grammar, but at least
there are no Stinking Fish tendencies about him.
“ Locust ” sends this bit of description :
For some hidden reason, there was a rush to the open-
ing of term in the N.S.W. Supreme Court on Monday.
The occasion was the swearing-in of new Probate and
Bankruptcy Judge Phil. Street. Full muster of Judges—
six on Bench—red robes, ermine, full-bottomed wigs—
very hot, awful—phew ! Heaps of King’s Counsel were
present, and a great roll-up of the senior-junior and the
junior-junior Bar. Some of the very old senior-juniors,
aged 60 or so, were there in stuff gowns —won’t take silk,
and give up their lucrative chamber practice, and thus let
loose a lot of work for the junior-juniors. But this is a
digression.
Wade, with his hardest, coldest Crown-Prosecutorial
voice, congratulated. He, however, summoned up an
exultant strain when he touched the Patriotic Australian
keynote. George Reid couldn’t get in through the
crowded passage, so he came through the Judges’ cor-
ridors, and down the steps. General laugh—as when the
clown enters and says, “ ’Ere we are again ! ” The ladies
in the jury-box laughed louder than anyone. Yet George
is not funny—he only looks funny. His policy, of course,
is funny. Street carried the matter through with admir-
able dignity. Some of the elder Judges, at the Australian
keynote aforesaid, drew down the corners of their mouths
until their lips met under their chins. The elder Judges
said nothing, made no speeches, but had their best “ con-
curring” manner on to most of the sentiments expressed.
They all five shook hands with new Judge Phil. Street,
and congratulated him in dumb show.
Altogether it was an admirable function excellently
stage-managed—except once when Attorney-General Wade
came in before his “ call,” and the Bar, which had stood
up, sat down hurriedly (those of it who had seats,
course).
Charles Tucker, of Adelaide, ex-M.L.A.,
ex-Mayor of the city, a personage whose pomp,
clothes and lavishness made him for a time almost
the same sort of potentate in the Holy City that
Malcolm M‘Eacharn was in Melbourne, has been
convicted of huge frauds on the Customs, and
sentenced by Chief Justice Way, amid tears
(Way’stears), to two years imprisonment. Tucker’s
career was in every way an amazing one. The
chief visible basis of his financial and social
greatness was a Customs house agency busi-
ness, and when one considers the average
Customs-house agent, and his half-crown and
five-shilling fees, it seems a remarkably small
foundation for any kind of social pomp. Tucker
also dabbled in mines, but the Customs-house
agency was apparently the foundation stone ; so
far as the evidence goes it had to support Tucker
and the mines too—or, at least, some of the mines.
The charge was simply that Tucker got a Customs-
house officer’s stamp made ; that he, or some
one acting for him, got access to huge quantities
of goods belonging to Tucker’s clients, and un-
officially stamped the packages as duty paid ; and
that he collected the duty from his clients and
kept it. It is a simple-minded Customs house
which allows any outside agent with a bogus
stamp to get the run of goods in such a loose,
large manner, but it is alleged that the primi-
tive business went on for something like 10 or 12
years, and that £30,000 disappeared during that
time. Tucker seems to have put aside nothing—
absolutely nothing—against the day of trouble ;
apparently he foresaw no day of trouble. He
lived garishly, and if he had wanted to flee when
the wrath came, it is said that his surplus of assets
over liabilities would hardly have paid his fare to
Kangaroo Island. In fact, it is questionable if it
would have paid a fare on the horse-tram. His
nephew, Forwood, who is also sentenced to two
years, did vanish, but was captured in Auckland,
almost penniless and unable to get further. For-
wood, however, was never a notable character,
and attracted little attention. Tucker, as a
gaudily-painted public butterfly, was quite an
institution. By the way, business-like little
South Australia gives a clear hint to other States
as to how to fix up a big scandal.
There seems to be a chance that the reasonably-
priced, compact, portable typewriter has at last arrived,
in the shape of the “ Briton.” It is a type-bar machine,
but has about 1200 less parts than the old line type-
writers manufactured b3' the Trust, and is sold at about
£l2 less. The carriage runs on ball bearings, the ribbon
is reversible and easily detachable, the whole machine
weighs only 141b5., the type bars are each made in a solid
piece and have no joints to work loose or get out of
order. The alignment is secured vertically by the
solidity of the single piece type bar, while horizontally
it is guided into striking position by a converging throat.
The simplicity of its construction make for durability,
and the Southern Sales Co. guarantees to replace, free of
cost, any broken or faulty part that makes its presence
known within one year of purchase, provided the fault
or breakage isn’t clearly due to misuse.*
S.M. Herald, still craving for the im-
ported expert: —
Sydney is practically in its infancy, and the time will
come when there must be a comprehensive and well-
digested scheme for serving a vast population with transit
conveniences. Moreover, the appointment of a Chief
Railway Commissioner who has just decided that he has
sufficient experience with tramways to refuse expert
help raises the question whether he should not be given
a chance of reviewing the position.
Sydney, with over half -a - million people,
and the second largest tramway system
in the world, is a nice, healthy, well-grown
infant, and it is rather late in the day,
when the city is running 14,000,000 tram miles
a year, to ask it to stop construction till an
imported panjandrum, who knows nothing about
the place, comes along with a “ comprehensive,
well-digested scheme.” What Sydney really
wants is a well-digested scheme to prevent the
Herald being quite so dead a paper as it is.
TIS FOLLY TO BE WISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, I pray you, Sons of Duty,
Turn just once and see the beauty
Of the seas and fields and skies.
Poet sad and melancholy,
Monk in humhle ways and lowly,
Who would hunger to be holy,
Since ’tis “oily to be wise ?
I have trod the self-same measure—
Days of toil, unblessed,of leisure
Where the hidden wisdom lies.
But in all the learned sages,
Who have writ in all the ages.
All I culled from all the pages
Was—’tis folly to be wise.
Once I, too, walked sad, eschewing
All the swept excess of wooing—■
Danger lay in lovers’ eyes.
Now the joys of love enfold me,
Every winning glance may hold me,
For the first long look had told me
It is folly to be wise.
Gilding all the grey of morning,
Shore and sea and sky adorning,
Slowly does the red sun rise.
Light upon the waves is playing,
Little vagrant winds are straying,
“ Come and join us,” they ...re saying,
“ For ’tis folly to be wise.”
There are joys still worth bespeaking.
You, whose days are spent in seeking
For the wisdom which is lies,
Leave the noisy, crowded highway,
For some cool, untrodden byway,
Sing a song, and sing it my way—
Oh, ’tis folly to be wise.
VIC.
NEVILLE GOEDER.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statement: —
The Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner),
writes : —“ lam pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises,
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years.
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you,
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EAROSCOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
‘continually receiving from our successfully cured
Jpajtients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
VHE “ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
To those Afflicted with Sore Eyes
Dimness of Sight, Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids.
HAVE YOU TRIED . .
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion.
The great Australian Remedy. This marvellous
preparation is an absolute specific for Sandy Blight
and is now in general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout
the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a postal note
for 1/9 to the
Sole Proprietors, H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 Geor&e St.. Sydney.
g|CJr BEWARE OF THE MAN WHO HAS SOMETHING JUST
AS GOOD.
SOCIETY
Some of the Victorian municipal co ncils
that don’t know what audits are for, and always
grudge paying more than a guinea for one, are
beginning to see things differently. Collingwood
lately lost its town clerk—and £7OO with him ;
and when it went to the guarantee office, in which
it was protected up to £SOJ, that corporation
pointed to a clause providing that losses would
be recouped only within three months of the
close of the year in which they occurred. As the
defaulting clerk had extended his operations over
a series of years, the guarantee office firmly de-
clined to part up a penny more than £272 —the
last year’s defalcations—and £9llos. towards law
expenses and cost of audit. The affair will pro-
bably hurry on a municipal co-operative guarantee
fund; but even that fund will have to draw the
line somewhere —it certainly won’t be able to let
liabilities pile up indefinitely.
A YOUNG WIFE'S TROUBLES.
"George, you'll have to speak to your tailor;
this is the fourth time I’ve sewn this same
button on this week.”
The opening of Melbourne’s new cemetery
at Fawkner has started a keen competition be-
tween its trustees and those managing Spring
Vale cemetery, on the south side. Fawkner sells
a garden plot 9ft. by 4ft., digs a grave, carries
the deceased out thither by rail and hands over
the deeds, all for £2 ; so Spring Vale has reduced
its price from £3 14s. 6d. to the same figure, but
it doesn’t reckon that people who are buried
there ought to be more than Bft. long. Business
in Melbourne is at present slack in the industry,
and by-and-bye bagmen will be going round
offering to throw in a pound of tea with a small
but compact permanent residence. There’s a
rare chance offering, though, for these enter-
prising trustees; as they already carry out the
corpse and dig the grave, why shouldn’t they go
the whole ghoul, so to speak, and do the complete
undertaking ?
With his big bequest to Melbourne National
Gallery, wholesale chemist Alfred Felton left a
nice burden of woe to those appointed to look
after its fulfilment. Some thousands of pounds
are available under the bequest for expenditure
each year. In 1905, Bernard Hall, the English
director of the Gallery, travelled to Britain and
selected a batch of pictures. Result, a terrible
wail from most of the newspaper “critics,” who
were backed up by “Fro Bono Pub.” and
“Mother of Twenty-five.” The committee
hearkened to the wail, became perturbed in
spirit, and appointed English painter George
Clausen as selector. Clausen did his best,
but there was another “silly season” yelp over
the batch which arrived from him towards the
end of 1906. The Felton committee again got
flurried, and held a conference with the Gallery
trustees (Premier Bent is a trustee, and there are
others of equal eminence as art judges). It was
decided that Clausen had misinterpreted his in-
structions. The main objections to his selection
seem to be that he got too many pictures for the
money, and that he dared to use his judgment in
choosing some work by comparatively young men,
whom the elderly portion of the trustees did not
remember hearing of in their young days. Now
the Argus announces that Clausen, with
two “connoisseurs ” unnamed, is again ap-
pointed to spend the £7OOO or £BOOO avail-
able this year. “The money is not to
be frittered away on small, unimportant
examples of mere technical dexterity, but Mr.
Clausen is to concentrate the expenditure by pur-
chasing one, or perhaps two or three, important
and typical works by men of unquestioned emin-
ence and fame.” But where is the artist of abso-
lutely unquestioned eminence and fame ? The
pictures of some who came a - s near as possible to
the description a few years ago, are now selling
for next to nothing. It is not encouraging to find
the opinions of art magazines quoted in favor of,
the expenditure of thousands of pounds on cer-
tain pictures that a London dealer now finds un-
saleable. Even art magazines can make mistakes.
They used to pour the melted butter of their
approbation on daubs which the Gallery bought
at top prices many years ago, and which
it would now gladly burn if it thought no-
body was looking. Also, £7OOO seems a bit stiff
for the possible purchase of Holman Hunt’s
“ Lady of Shalott,” which Hunt acknowledges to
have been painted in part by another artist under
his direction, on account of his failing sight. So
those who are embarrassed with the load of
Felton money go on their perplexed way with
faltering footsteps.
* * * •
Dreadful example of the condensed advt.
in Sydney Telegraph (2/2/’O7): —
Ct O V FUN ESS, Eng., Fch., music, sing., draw.,
'A n’work, 12 m. ref., matric, certif. ; Eng., Fch.,
Latin, music, draw., n’work, superior v. lady ; Eng.,
Fch., music, draw., n’work ; A. Gov., Eng., e. music,
good n’work, 3 yrs.’ ref., fond of children. Apply
Miss Gardiner, 110 Bathurst-jt.
The struggle for a crust is tough and bitter, and
it pays a lot better to be a d’e serv’t than a N.
Gov. who can speak Fch.
* * * *
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : There has been quite a
flutter of excitement in our street. Our neighbor,
Mac., announced that his son was coming out
from Edin-
bo r o’. 01 d
Mac. had not
seen young
Mac. since the
hitter was a
mere bo y.
Mac., senior,
talks pretty
broad Scotch
even after five
years of Aus-
tralian citizen-
ship. We an-
ticipated that
Mae., junior,
would not be
able to make
himself under-
stood, and ex-
pec t e d he
would be pink
and white as
tocomplexion,
would eat par-
ritch three
times a day,
have kilts on,
showing hairy
legs, wear a
sprig of heath
in his plaidy,
and say “ Hech,
mon.’’Mac.,junior,
arrived yesterday.
He wears ordinary
clothes, says “ Haw!” instead of “Hecli, mon,”
and has not mentioned parritch so far. He is
quite tame and might be named Biljim from all
outward appearance (except for the “ Haw ”).
Scotland must be becoming quite a civilised
country.
Genius meets with no recognition in
Melbourne. A man who commenced swear-
ing at 6 o’clock in the evening, and cussed
strongly and continuously until 4 o’clock next
morning, was fined £5. Surely a long-distance
swearer like that deserved a better fate ? He
should have been hired to conduct the negotiations
between Squires and Johnson.
* * * *
“ Reka “Cyclops” writes bitterly (B.
17/l/’O7) of the brag of the Maorilander; but
what’s the matter with an admiration for one’s
own country ? Anyone who goes about these
islands with his eyes only half-open, can’t fail to
see that we’ve a good heap to be proud of ; and
the Maorilander abroad almost invariably assures
those he meets that he hasn’t yet come across a
better land than his own. We have an agreeable
sense of our ability in wearing our own tweeds, and
eating our own biscuits and pickles, and if we are
apt to be enthusiastic at times, it’s more from a
sense of duty to native effort than a desire to out-
brag the other man. Also, it’s the American’s
hereditary confidence in himself and his country
that carries him everywhere successfully, and
saves the American manufacturer the trouble of
putting foreign labels on his goods to make a sale
for them in his own territory. The Australian is
prone to speak ill of his country; the Maori-
lander does it rarely ; and I’ve never yet met the
American who didn’t swear by his land and all in
it. He may bore us sometimes, but he never
rouses the contempt we bestow on the Stinking
Fish character who besmirches his homeland.
* * * *
Tired in t! , morning ? There are times
when the nig! s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Thos are the times for a stimulant that
will brace y aup and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
THE REASONABLE SEX.
SHE (in the course of the dispute): "O[?]y three
months married, and you kuek-kuek-call me
a fuf-fool! ”
HE: “ My dear girl, it was yon yourself said
you were a fool.”
S HE: “ But you didn't deny it.”
Australia could do with a Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Dressmaker Girls.
A common way of “ teaching the trade ” to new
girls is to keep them running messages most of
the time, till they get fairly knocked up. Fre-
quently they have to hump big parcels to remote
suburbs on 100-in-the-sliade days, or through
pouring rain, as the presiding chiffon deity is too
mean to provide a tram-fare or send the goods
per carrier. Then, when a Fat daily sends a
representative to fossick out arguments against
the Factories Act, Madame remarks that the
girls of to-day are dreadfully slow at learning
dressmaking, and she only keeps most of them
out of pure benevolence.
Broken Hill is a cheerful place to buy
sausages in. For the 30,000 odd people, the
slaughtering is largely done at any old place, so
long as it is remote —the more remote the better.
In any secluded gully one is liable to drop on a
killing-yard, a heap of entrails, and a million
crows, more or less, and 25,000,000 blowflies.
Broken Hill isn’t far off the track of stock coming
down from the North to the Southern markets,
and when an animal seems to have a tired feeling
it is naturally cut out and dropped into a Broken
Hill sausage. Sometimes the killing in a remote
little gully at the back of the dusty hills
is supervised ; sometimes it isn’t. The
other day, “Mounted-constable Warburton
came across another most revolting beast ” —this
wasn’t intended to refer to the butcher —“which
was in course of being dressed for sale. The con-
stable took away one of the lungs of the bullock,
and it was discovered on examination that the
organ was literally one mass of tubercles.” Broken
Hill, probably the richest square mile in Aus-
tralia, a place that reckons up the value of even
its tailings dumps by millions sterling, hasn’t got
any public abattoirs, though it has been talking
of them for years. It has had a Labor municipal
council for years, and the council has usually been
solid on the question of paying Bs. 4d. a day for
laborers ; but a small thing like preventing the
consumption of tuberculous beasts hasn’t got much
forrarder. Sometimes the beast that is a mass of
tubercle is “ come across.” Then it is burned.
Sometimes it isn’t come across. Then
Little is heard
nowadays of the
alleged demand
for “ reform ” in
lovely woman's
system of horse
riding— i.e. the
abolition of the
side-saddle, in
favor of a manl v
seat astride the
gee-gee. The
suggestion was
pushed forward
in an authorita-
tive manner
what time the
Sex was making
its first appear-
ances on a
bicycle. Because
a woman could
sit abicycle man-
fashion she was
said to be quite
as capable of
doing likewise
on horseback. It
should have been
obvious to the re-
formers that the
side-saddle is a
device for giving
the rounded
female form di-
vine a better
grip of the situa-
tion than the
same fi gu r e
would get if
placed straddle-
ways. The most
practised horse-
women, who will
do anything a
man dares in the
hunting field,
a re almost unani-
mously agreed
that their own
way is the safest
way—for them.
The plumper
they are the more
unsafe they feel
in a man’s saddle. Miss Flo Butlin, who rides
racehorses for her father on the training track
at Caulfield, is an exemplary exponent of horse-
womanship in the old accepted style. If it were
easier for a girl to ride like a boy she would doubt-
less do it.
• * * *
The shrieking Methodists who have
gathered around Bloodkins in Melbourne, show
a fine concentration of attack. For a time they
turned all their fire on Sammy Gillott, and,
Sammy being weak, old and nervous, they at last
sent him scuttling away on a sea voyage. They
tried the same howling artillery on Police Com-
missioner O’Callaghan, but that astute ex-con-
stable had met trouble too often, and the bombs
rebounded off his hide. Now the united yell )s
directed against the Abbotsford convent, wheie
the penitents wash the underclothing of respect-
able.married women, and sigh remorseful sighs
for the days when they themselves used to wear a
much more expensive sort. The wail of the
Bloodkins crowd is depressing to listen to ; but
undoubtedly it is a well-organised scream, and
always concentrates its roar on one object at a
time.
CONSOLATION.
MRS. O'DOOLY : “ The very t’ing! It's to console
a little bkoy who's lost his father.”
The sooner Bent’s Inebriate Home, at
Lara, gets started the better. One day lately
Melbourne City Court Bench sent three sufferers
to gaol for six months apiece, though their
previous convictions for drunkenness—29, 25 and
58—showed that gaol was a fool of a place to
send them. One, a young woman, pleaded not to
be gaoled—“ For pity’s sake do not send me to
gaol. I have just done six months, and I came
out almost a lunatic. I can’t stand it; I would
rather die.” A Salvarmy officer offered to take
charge of her, but the beaks sent her for another
six months to the purgatory that leads to the
madhouse —one brutally offering her the consola-
tion that “she could goto the Army when she
came out.” Probably the Salvarmy home would
only be another gaol.
ON MEETING A NIGGER IN A PRIVATE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me that sixpence back again,
My lovely, laughing maid ;
Nor frown, as though in inward pain—
For beer that coin was paid.
Baer! (And I badly wanted one !)
Nigger’s not in my line.
Glasses are washed? No, Maud ; I’m done—
No nigger’s face in mine !
I want that money back—yes, please.
And let me now announce
(Not if you beg upon your knees)
Tnis pub. has got the bounce
From me, and . . . Hurt his feelings? What?
A fat lot Tie’ll repine !
Just wait for one l By all means not!
No nigger breathes in mine !
Say, there ! Give me that sixpence back !
Gimme it back, I say !
Hare, now, I give this pub. the sa.k,
And . . . Gall another day ?
Nay, Maud ; not by a dashed long s ght.
Yes, that’s all blooming-line ;
I thought that beer was crook last night—
No nigger, thanks, in mine 1
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
A GROWING CUSTOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Victorian morality bursts out in a new locality in this
letter to the Argus, signed “ Pater”: —“ I feel compelled
to ask if the time has not arrived when a stop might be
put to a growing custom on the part of young people, re-
turning home from picnics, of putting out the lights.”
And on the following day “Mater” echoed “Pater”
thus: —“Scarcely a lamp was left burning. To quiet
non-excursionists the experience of being shut up in an
over-crowded compartment,” &c.
To softly turn the taps which feed
The over-bright illuminations ;
To hug the girls who vainly plead
For respite in between the stations ;
To muss, and kiss ’em when you’ve mussed ’em—
Alas ! it is a Growing Custom.
When Eve grew old and hard of face,
Endowed with Social Gimlet features,
She sometimes found in twilight place
Cain larking with some rosy Creatures.
In vain with words she tried to dust ’em ;
Quoth Cain : “This is a Growing Custom.”
The world through aeons rolled along—
Old Solomon endowed his palace
With dainty girls 900 strong—
Rachel, Mehitabel, and Alice.
Men chid him. He replied, “ Oh, bust ’em !
I’m fostering a Growing Custom.”
With souls progressive men were made ;
There’s evolution in the larksome
Delights that sprout in twilight shade,
Or in the railway carriage darksome.
Pater and Mater, you can trust ’em
. t to forsake the Growing Custom.
VIC.
LAU.


(fi
niTfSS
H
commercial
SHORTHAND
0
H
TYPEWRITING
H
llllllllllllltl
li*
B
©
L i£c^cS
RITINO
aw
3
Cfl C
0
r-» w *cy
o OKKEEP/^
* e
>
ARCHITECTURE
PUBLIC UAHS
mmm £
■■ & ■
BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION
(ft
pitman's]
fdg
POSTAGE, 9d.
Beal Glace Kid, Balmoral whole golosh,
welted, and in various shapes of toes.
A BOOT FOR YOU.
A
Gentleman’s 800t —full of
ease and comfort, with
just the right amount of
style—full of solid wear
and calculated to give
you all the boot satisfaction you
want.
CUT THIS OUT AHD MAIL TO US.
Messrs. Peabes & Co., Ltd.,
_ Please send me a pair of boots as above. My
size is (State whether broad, medium or
narrow toes.)
NAME
ADDRESS
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
Hen’s and Boys’ Outfitters,
309-311 George-st., Sydney.
Nelson (M.L.), the gentle, sleepy hollow,
where fair girls and ruddy-cheeked apples grow
together under the smile of a kindly sun and a
bishop whose name is Mules, was the other day
m the throes of a drought. No rain worth speak-
ing of had fallen for more than three weeks. So
tne local parsons were invited by advertisement
to pray for “rain in suitable quantities.” In
“suitable quantities” is excellent. It informs
Providence in an inoffensive way that Nelson
wants rain, but not too much rain.
* * * *
Some Sydney womenkind have started on
a campaign to found a Domestic Training School,
where young girls will be taught housework, and
so will start out equipped for domestic service
instead of having, as at present, to gain experi-
ence from a succession of equally exasperated
mistresses. At the head of this movement are
Mrs. Molvneux Parkes and other energetic
females who recently stumped the country in the
cause of Anti-Sosh and the intactness of the
’ome. And the first plank of the new league is
that the training school is to be a purely State
affair, managed and financed by the State. Talk
about the sanctity of the ’ome when the very
slavey is to be a bye-product of State Social! m !
* * * *
Private Enterprise got a further cheap
advt. last week, when the news reached Sydney
that over forty shipwrecked sailors, from two
wrecked British ships, had found refuge on Lord
Howe Island, after braving tempest, shipwreck,
and a cruise in open boats. Lord Howe is an
islet 420 miles from Sydney, a few miles square,
and 3000 ft. high in places. It is inhabited by
about 100 white folk, so the sudden arrival of 40
famished mariners ' meant a heavy strain on the
islanders’ resources. Private Enterprise takes the
stand that once the sailors leave a ship they cease
to lie servants of the owners, and their future
welfare is absolutely no concern of the owners.
It’s of no consequence whether the men are paid
off, or fall off, or are wrecked, or cast away under
any circumstances whatever. (Still, if they leave
of their own free will in port, Private Enter-
prise claims the right to gaol them for deser-
tion.) So in the present instance, the owners’
agents were quite prepared to sit down and let
the shipwrecked crews eat up Lord Howe Island,
and then starve. Then State Interference arose,
and a Socialistic Government steamer was manned
and provisioned at the State expense, and sent
out to relieve the castaways. The more one
reflects on the relations between Private Enter-
prise and the crews it employs the less does one
marvel that their names are mostly Hans, Antonio
and Demetrius.
Item from the report of the Northern
Agricultural Show (Singleton, N.S.W.): —
Mr. A. A. Dangar, with his noted liberality, presented
™the Association a handsome Japanesk flag* which was
Wn for the first time at the King’s Birthday Sports,
neld on 12th November last.
What kind of shameless disloyalty is it which
Hngs out a foreign banner in honor of King
Edward’s birthday? Has Ed. VII. become a
•Monkey ?
One of Adelaide’s chief wholesale hardware
stores—Harrold, Colton and Co.—went up in
flames last week, at an estimated loss of £70,000.
The wire-netting and the iron saucepan seemed
to burn up as fast as anything else when the oils,
paints, and cartridges got fairly going, though
the wooden shutters on the front of the building
were almost uninjured. Governor Le Hunte, out
for an early morning ride, was one of the first
spectators on the scene, and lent the firemen
some manful aid. Two men got slightly shot by
exploding cartridges, and were killed moderately
dead, but are now just about recovered.
A crushing English sneer at the foreign
“nobleman ” used to be that “a British title can’t
be bought.” Really the British bauble is as
negotiable as a Yankee LL.D. A case in which
a colonel was sued in London, last week, for
commission on a £5OOO contribution to the regi-
mental funds, alleged that the donor’s heart
opened “on the understanding that the com-
mandant put his name before the Prince of
Wales for a knighthood.” Considering that your
office-boy will do it at five bob a week, that looks
a stiff price for the bliss of being called “ Sir.”
* * *■ •
“ Reka ” ; Auckland lately witnessed the
deplorable si&ht of four babies in court as recom-
mendations to riiercy for their shoplifting mothers.
Each of the four women was fined £lO, and the
quartette wept themselves out to face their indig-
nant husbands, Auckland shopkeepers say that
shoplifting has been promoted from a fine art to
a science, and .reckon that probably not one per
cent, of the offenders meet with even an accusa-
tion. Of course, there are exceptions. Recently,
a bright-eyed girl in a big drapery saw a lady,
who moves on the very roof of society, annex a
sixpenny cake Of soap and drop it into her
parasol. The young assistant fixed on her the
bright, accusing eye, and the soap-lifter fled,
panic-stricken, leaving Gs. 9d. change on the
counter. In another Queen-street shop an assist-
ant, who was making out a bill for 2s. 6d. for a
customer who had tendered him a five-pound
note, saw the purchaser stuff a three-and-sixpenny
chiffon scarf up her jacket sleeve. He said agree-
ably, but firmly : “ Buttons, Is. ; gloves, Is. Gd.
And about that scarf you’ve got up your sleeve ?
Suppose we say £4 17s. Gd. and avoid further
trouble. That makes it just right. Thank you ! ”
Then the lady, who is also on the roof of society,
fled, screaming hysterically and calling out
“Fire!”
* * « *
“Pefcramos”: Factory girls, stand on
one side ! I’m a barracker for the little girl in
the,fruit and light luncheon shop—the
pretty little girl who would lose her job
if she couldn’t serve a ham-roll along
with a smile, and look neat and natty
in sun and gaslight. Shop girls, you’re
not in it With this lady for hard work !
She arrives in summer about 7-30 a.m.
—in winter at 8 a.m. She scrubs floors,
cleans the silver-plate, picks the stems
and chases the slugs from the straw-
berries, and does a hundred and one
things in between serving customers
till the big luncheon rush from 12.30 to
2 p.m. At 2 p.m. she has her own
lunch, and afterwards serves irritable
women and fretful children until G p.m.
That’s on, say, Tuesdays and Fridays.
Thursdays she gets in a bit earlier
than usual and has a holiday after 2 p.m.
Monday and Wednesday she slaves
from 7.30 a.m. till 10.30 p.m., and on
Saturdays from 7.30 a.m. till after 11
p.m., when, with the ten shillings het
boss has crowded on to her, she rushes
for her drunk-loaded tram. Every
other public holiday she is graciously
permitted to get “off.” And all the
time she has to look pleasant and serve
irritable customers and Willy-boy
bounders who want to meet her when
no one is looking. That’s the fruit and
light luncheon girl, and if sometimes she
gives you a squash when you’ve ordered a
milk shake, remember she’s a harder grafter than
you are, and don’t go and tell the news to her boss.
* * * m
The right to shoot a canvasser on sight
may soon be claimed by defendants in Sydney
police courts. Stipendiary Macfarlane dismissed,
last week, a case in which a sewing machine can-
vasser complained of being rushed by two dogs
arid ■bitten by one of them on entering the grounds
of a residence by the front gate. The defence,
which was accepted, was that he had no right to
be there. Now that a canvasser is legally liable
to be attacked by two dogs the gun will follow
quite naturally.
* * * *
Australia isn’t wholly without relics of a
musty antiquity. The bells of the R.C. Cathe-
dral at Perth (W.A.) bear the inscription “Anno
Domini, 1415, Valladolid.” They were cast —so
the records say—in that year in the old Spanish
town, and were hung for very many years in a
church in Naples. When Bomba kinged it in the
heel and toe of Europe, and played merry Hades
with his old city in the 40’s, the church was
razed. Bomba therefore had a homeless set of
bells on his bloodstained hands, so he secured a
number of masses for his murky soul by pre-
senting them to the Abbot and Spanish fraternity,
then busy explaining things with difficulty
to its black brother Binghi in Westralia. The
whole peal of six bells is never rung, for fear the
campanile would collapse with the vibration.
Perth Cathedral is quite Spanish in architecture—
or was quite Spanish. Lately it has had a steeple
of hairy-tooth design clapped a-top of the
campanile, and consequently looks more like a
sash and door factory with a pious turn than a
church.
* * * *
One of Melbourne’s suburban councils has
for its officers a bunch of men who were appointed
in the year One. The office-boy is the same age -
as the town clerk, and the youngest of the hoary
collection is a youth of 50. One of them, inferior
in office to the town clerk, at one time held a seat
on the council, but resigned it to take on his pre-
sent billet, worth £2 a week. When he was on
the council he once soared to the giddy and sky-
towering dignity of mayor, and he gave the town
clerk rather a bad time while inflated with his
temporary greatness. The town clerk has never
forgotten that period, and he lays for the ex-
mayor whenever he makes a blot, and gives him
beans.
* * *
In Germany the march of political freedom
is not too easy. The Social Democrats, it seems,
have to poll twice as many votes as the other
parties to obtain half their number of representa-
tives. A lot of public enlightenment is needed to
secure only a little reform. Germany is a lager
bier drinking country. Where there is a national
consumption of D.C.L. Whisky, the spirit of
progress animates the people. Australia may be
said to flourish on its growing demand for D.C.L.*
STRIDES.
Tennis is a sport that is making great strides, not only in Australasia, but in Great Britain, America and
Europe.—SYDNEY TELEGRAPH.
Camperdown, the petty Sydney munici-
pality of 435 acres which has had the bailiff in for
years now/ smells pretty tall these hot days. As
there is one Sydney municipality of 38 acres
Camperdown isn’t utterly despicable in point of
size—that is, as N.S.W. metropolitan municx-i
palities go—but its bankruptcy, its perfumes and
its general character of having gone back to an
aboriginal state make it a remarkable institution.
It has so utterly fallen into the dog-kennel that it
hasn’t even a compulsory garbage removal system,
(iarbage is optional. At one time tlie council had
compulsory garbage ; there was a charge of 7s. per
annum, and householders had their, refuse torn
from them by force of arms, and no arbitration
was allowed. This was resented as an act of
tyranny, and contrary to the spirit of a free
people, so the Council rescinded the bye-law, and
Camperdown became blessed with voluntary
garbage. Under the new system, which was
found better adapted to the sentiments of an un-
trammelled race, those who wanted their garbage
removed paid the 7s. a year, and those whodidn’t
pay the 7s. either threw their garbage into the
back lane, or buried it, or left it unburied. A
while ago Camperdown was nearly annexed to
Sydney, in which case the city wouid have taken
the bailiff outol the premises, but when a vigorous
cleaning up was included in the programme
Camperdown revolted. It had never washed
behind its ears in its life, and it wasn’t going to
begin.
* * * *
“ Stony ” : This letter, which was type-
written in the heat of the moment, was never sent.
Old man Smith climbed down, at the last minute,
on my promising to sign the pledge, and I have
kept the letter as a warning to myself against the
day of temptation. It is as follows :
Johnco smifh Esx, Shock excjange, Melbournw. deasr
MR : Smith : I Unbertand from yoyr managing clerk, mr.
Brown, that yo reqire my no longer reqwire my services
as stenograper and typewri, on account of whst yoy are
pleased tocall my drunkeb and swinishj habits. If this
wert any othrr Country bu australia, where the laws
relating to libel 9[ I am informed—] ahavf havr been
rendered ineffectivd by thr propietor of a 10-class weakly
newspap, I should hace much pleasure in suing you for
jajabes. I now wrute yiym since you refuse to see me
inperson, to inform you thay you are misaken in yout
estimage of my charactef, and I truat that you wil have
as much dßfficulty in obtaibing a clerk toe suik your
reqyirements as i shLLI have ease in secuting another
apointmJnt. I am? deat Sir, Yours faityfully, J. Jailing-
ton-Jones.
There is likely to be a sanguinary encoun-
ter in Melbourne between Chief Justice Madden
and fiery French Consul Maistre. Chief Justice
John came back from a European trip to chatter
to a reporter about his impressions, and remarked
casually that the people of Paris were “smileless
and spiritless.” Worse —he said that the French
infantry were “ numerous, but curiously dirty.”
Maistre, a plump little man with an angry com-
plexion, rushed into print in defence of the regu-
larity of the French infantry wash, and great
bitterness arose. Apparently Madden’s mangled
corpse may be shed in William-street any day
now.
* * * *
The Victorian licensing law forbids the
restaurant which holds a wine license to “send
out ” for beer, stout, spirits, or any drink except
Australian wine, while restaurants with no
license at all can send out for anything. The
position has become so difficult that two pro-
prietors of wine and food shops have applied for
a re-hearing of the claims on which the licenses
were granted. They will attempt to prove to the
Court (on February 15) that they are shocking
examples, who should not be allowed to sell
liquor ; and if they can show themselves to be
sufficiently bad, the Bench will cancel their wine
permits. Then, on account of their badness, they
will be able to send out for all the liquor on
earth, i
* * * *
You can find splendid fighting material in
Australia if you know where to dig for it.
Sometimes, but not often, it crops up above the
surface, as when, in the hot sun, glaring light and
severe mirage of a recent January day, and tor-
mented by dust and flies, teams from Briagolong,
Maffra, and Sale (Vic.) drove 30, 22 and 12 miles
to the Stradbroke range, and fired for the North
Gippsland pennant and a silver spoon. And the
shooting was so good that the man who drove six
horses for 30 miles and then scored 31 at 600yds.
was almost the worst of the crowd.
* * * *
“ Hamer ” : Of the many towns in N.S.W.
that would have been buried if they possessed an
undertaker to do the business, about the most
dead is Murrumburrah. Harden, a new town
and railway centre, less than a mile away, has
made Murrumburrah deader than it was before ;
but for a long time it has been dead. It was only
moderately dead once upon a time, so an inhabi-
tant —there are a few inhabitants—informed me,
by way, as I supposed, of apology for its present
deadness. He told me that once, in the bush-
ranging days, Dunn went through the town while
it was attending a theatrical entertainment, and
took all its money. It has never had any money
since, and is quite dead.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance,
from George or King-streets.*
ASUATTER DAY EDEN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'JT'HE day wets Soft,
-*■ the waning sun
Lit up the roses every
one,
And in an orchard
wide and old,
Where apricots, like lamps of yoi.it.
Burned dimly in their purple shade,
I lay beside the little maid.
Unkempt the garden was and lone,
And Eve and I, with rose leaves Mow'd,
Beneath the apples on the grass,
Did watch the dancing moments pass.
But Eve was circumspect, and she
Was set a full arm's length from me.
How sweet she was! The world had grown
So calm, so still, our very own
It might have been. The Eden wide.
The Eve full-lipped and limpid-eyed,
The apples and the man were there —
Alas, that serpents are so rare /
VIC.
EDYSON.
HIS BEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He was always a failure all his life ;
But his soul is gone from the endless strife.
And his place is filled, and his name’s forgot;
But his record’s writ in one earthly spot.
For they raised a stone where he lies at rest,
And they carved a sentence : “ He did his best.”
But the ones who pray for his soul’s release
Say his early death was his masterpipi e.
YIU.
KODAK.


THE CRAZE FOR FOREIGN "EXPERTS. "—WHAT IT MAY COME TO.
BULLOCKY (despairingly): “It’s no good All the cursing in Australia won’t shift them. We’ll have to import a foreign
expert same as the railways.”


ScAruffiS
fgd
Pink Tourmaline, 1 Pearl
and Diamonds, £l2.
•<v.
Diamonds and 1 Sapphire, £2l,
Special Stones.
fgd
3 different colored Sapphires
Diamonds, £9 9s.
THE
OLD
FIRM.
To a business man, the statement that an old established firm
turns out a better and cheaper product* is a truism.
The stamp of old customers’ continued approval has made it
an established firm.
WHY IS IT ?
Experience has taught the short cuts to success.
The old firm has been down most roads. Been there before.
Then, of course, capital counts. Cash buying shows on cost
tickets. Output influences, too —as big buyers buy best.
Reliability. After three-quarters of a century you feel a firm
can be relied on.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
■ in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ALMOST CERTAIN.
MR. SHEEPER: “ I’ll take my outh I've seen that
cove out-back somewhere.”
“ Batiow ” : The horse’s instinct, which
shows him a bee-line for home, is marvellous.
His head is like a compass needle, and the north
cardinal is the home sliprail, with haystack or
lucerne paddock, and, perhaps, a, lick of salt
thrown in. Get bushed anywhere in the darkest
night, get off and calmly think out the way you
should take, mount again, and give the horse his
head, and you’ll probably find that he will wheel
completely round, and go on the opposite track
to your own choice. It will he a struggle for you
to let him have his way. You will feel sure the
hoss is wrong ; nevertheless, he will land you,
nine times out of ten, at the rails. Ride him from
Talbingo north to Tumut. thence south-west to
Batiow by night, place his box of feed on the
western side of the yard, and you will find his
head (compass) hanging over the eastern or
Talbingo side of the fence as soon as his feed is
done, and not facing the road that most recently
led from home. Let him out on the western
corner and he flips round to the east, and away he
goes like'a bee or a crow for home.
According to Archie Meston, of whom it
is said that what he doesn’t know'about the abo-
rigines and animals of Queensland isn’t worth
worrying about, dingoes that live in the crocodile
districts of Northern Bananaland are possessed of
more than ordinary animal intelligence. On three
occasions he has seen them, when they wished to
cross a stream, sit on the bank and howl .for
a quarter of an hour or so, with the obvious
purpose of attracting the saurians. Then
they would suddenly race along the edge
of the stream for some distance, plunge in,
and swim across. On one of these Occasions,
Meston states that he shot one of the rep-
tiles which had come along in haste to eat
dingo.
The residents of Fisherman’s Bend, the
little village facing Hobson’s Bay between Port
Melbourne and the mouth of the Yarra, are ex-
peering to receive notice to quit. They have to
make room for the reclamation works now in pro-
gress on the stretch of swamp between the lower
river and the bay. The
houses and shan-
ties, about 40
in all, are
scattered
promiscu-
ously along
the beach
or among
the sand-
hills. and
are protect-
ed from the
southerly.
winds by
clumps of
tea-tree.
borne have a
piece of
fencing along
the front to
keep the sand
from blocking
up the door-
way. The oc-
cupants are
mostly fisher-
men and boat-
men, who keep a
dog apiece and
an assortment of
goats, as well as
a wife and family.
There is no store
or shop in the town-
ship, and the only
building other than a
dwelling-place is a large gal-
vanised-iron shed built by the late
Baronet Clarke and used for years
as a sail shed for his yacht Janet. For
several years past this shed has been
called The Fisherman’s Bend Mission Jrlall,
and is used as a Sunday school for youngsters.
On week days the poor kiddies have to trudge
about a mile over the sand to school at Port Mel-
bourne.
“Brumby”: Re the allegation that a
bullock will die after working a while alongside a
bull (B. 27/12/’O6). Jim the Bullocky pulled his
pipe out and spat reflectively when I sprang it
on him. “ Et’s just plain heart-break—thet’s
what et is. I’ve often watched the beasts talkin’
together—kind er sign language. An’ there’s
nuthin’ more sneerin’ in its ways ’n a bull when
et gets a charnst er pokin’ borak at a bullock, and
the bullock gits thet disgusted an’ miser’ble thet
et frets itself inter a herly grave. Thet’s all.”
* * * •*
“ L.E.” : For strong nerves, commend me
to the Lone Female who once lived alone in a hut
in the Muchong Valley,
N.W. Victoria. This dis-
triot was almost un-
peopled then, and the
Lone Female’s hovel was
40 miles at least from
any station, railway, or
township. What she
was, I can’t find out; she
may have been a shep-
herdess. But she never
whimpered. I have ex-
amined her hut. Its
speciality is the mural de-
corations arranged by her-
self. The walls are papered
with pictures of notorious
criminals, with all the read-
ing matter about gruesome
murders and executions
carefully preserved. There
is a full account, with por-
traits, of Deeming, Mrs.
Needle, the Kellys, Elijah
Somebody, Jack the Rip-
per, &e. There are also
three dainty drawings of
people in the act of being hanged. Her little
room is an art gallery and library of crime and
horror. This sort of thing is hpr solace in the
dreaming Bush.
* * * *
“Wurrym”: Witnessed a little street
comedy, t’other day. Painter had just completed
work on a verandah-post outside a barber’s shop
when a loose-built fathom of man from Wayback
mooned along with the tired feeling and came to
rest against the just-decorated post. In a minute
or so the painter sighted the tired one and ranged
up to him : “What the brimstone rivers o’ Eblis
is the use o’me paintin’them gory posts when
blidiots like you come along and rub it all off?”
he asked. The long ’un straightened up, his
khaki coat bearing a fine decoration in national
colors. I left them arguing and swearing like
two bags of cats.
• • • *
“ G. ’Rooney ” : Be animals meeting with
strange deaths. Bush horses don’t hold a mono-
poly of peculiar fatalities. A few years ago, on a
south-western (N.S.W.) station, a flock of sheep
were being hurried through a narrow yard on the
side of a ridge. Some of the leaders fell, and in a
few minutes, before the men in charge could
grasp the situation, something like 300 were
smothered. Another case : A farmer near Gun-
dagai (N.S.W.) had a big haystack, into which
some poddy calves had eaten several caves. One
windy night it collapsed, and half-a-dozen of the
calves were found dead under it next day. I also
saw the skeleton of a bullock hung up in the nar-
row fork of a mountain-oak tree. Evidently in
a dry season the bovine had been reaching for the
leaves, shoved its head through the aperture, and
then pulled backward, thereby fastening itself as
in a bail. Probably the unfortunate beast died
from thirst and starvation. When I last passed
that way the body had become detached, but the
fork still held the head in a vice-like grip,, and
the bark had already commenced to grow around
the horns.
A TERRIBLE THREAT.
IT: “Now, I tell yer strife, if that dog bites
me, my Gawd! I’ll bite ’im back.”
“ San ” : It seems to me you take a wicked
delight in printing what any fellow writes against
English beer. Now, I’m a plain Geordie man
from Durham, in the North, and I rise on my
hind legs to denounce “ Austra ” (B. 3/l/’O7), for
a misrepresenter of that grand old institution,
British beer. “Austra” reckons that a man
can’t fight on it. Well, when I left England, a
few years ago, it was potent enough. On a pay-
Saturday night I have gone down to the village
after tea, and in a very short time there would be
half-a-dozen fights ; and not any real bad blood
either. Geordie might remark to his “ marra ”
that the coal in his bord was the hardest blanky
hewing he had ever
known. Geordie's
mate would dispar-
age the said hard-
ness in favor of
their last place, and
soon “smack”
would be heard, and
out they would all
tumble, and per-
haps ten or a dozen
scraps would evolve
out of the disturb-
ance. Eight! I’ve
known them fight
in the dark all down
through the villa ere,
no man caring whom
he hit so long as he
hit something. He
would sooner hit a
donkey or a cow or
a gate-post than not
hit anything. If he
couldn’t find any-
thing solid, he
would spank the
atmosphere. Mind,
I like Australian
beer in Australia,
but I don’t think it
would be thick
enough in England;
and perhaps when"
“ Austra ” has been
there ten years he’ll
be able to plug
someone on a pay
Saturday night as
well as his neigh-
bors, or, at least,
he’ll be able to
wallop his “ small,
lame wife.” Mighty
few of that sort did
I ever see, though.
Generally Mrs.
Geordie waits up
to render first aid
to His Nibs, who is seldom inclined to carry
war into his own domain, having had a stomach- .
ful up the street. So Mrs. Geordie puts a bit
of steak (they get some in that part of Eng-
land) on Geordie’s eye, and washes off the
gore, and puts Geordie to bed, whence he will
emerge in the morning to don a clean shirt and sit
smoking on the fence at the corner and “ crack ”
with his “ marras ” as peaceful as a lamb.
There’s a crisis out in some of the western
townships of Queensland, and up to the moment
of latest advices the local fathers couldn’t see
even a ray of light breaking through the gloom.
The goat out there treasures up the same giddy
ways that it occasionally shows in southern parts;
it will any day leave good pasture country to eat
the foundations out of a pair of pants hung high
upon a line ; and it will run half a mile from tons
of lucerne and clover to tear up a treasured flower
that wouldn’t fill a tea-cup. Man, therefore,
.meeting in council, decides in his prosy way that
the goat is a nuisance and must be registered,
and even impounded if it carries its villainy
too far. But woman likes her cup of tea
with real milk in it, and a little drop
over for the children’s porridge, and while she
mourns the uprooted flower she says that it isn’t
the poor creature’s fault, and that if her husband
wasn’t so fond of passing stupid by-laws, he might
have time to put up a fence. The western man
may therefore pass resolutions about registration
and impoundings, but the bravest of him isn’t
brave enough to carry them out. Clermont a
while ago advertised far and wide for a man who
would take the goat by the horns ; after inquiry,
all the likely applicants decided that they would
just as soon take a shark by the tooth or a lion by
the beard. So the Clermont woman still cherishes
her goat unmolested.
* * * •
“ Itan ” in a poetic mo@d :
Why do the vast tracts of the West so overpoweringly
attract and allure? Concerning almost every eminence
there are local traditions of vast mineral wealth. The
faithful suggest that “some day” there will he great
activity here and there. “ Gold was found in that range
many a year ago, but the prospector died and didn’t
reveal his secret.” So the visitor’s curiosity remains
unsatisfied, and he moves cn, regretting in his mind that
he hasn’t time to follow the bubble. ;. . A sheep five
miles distant on the north-western Downs of Queensland
is magnified to the proportions of a house or an
ox ; an out-station hut assumes the pretensions of a
palace. But the deception is revealed as you move on
and distance is annihilated, You think that, distance
may cause the same curious increase of size as regards
the mineral wealth dreamed about in the blue hills
beyond. This, mirage, which continually beckons the
inexperienced, fills the landscape with beautiful lakes,
sparkling with the brilliancy of diamonds under the
glare of the torrid sun. The new-chum is held in admira-
tion. Surely he can trust his eyes? At first he refuses
to believe he is the victim of a myth', for each gem is
bordered by the most beautiful shrubbery, dancing a
, welcome, and the trees are quite obvious, and the grass
is so genuine that deception is impossible. ... In a good
season the feed on these seas of verdure is the richest in
the world. Six or eight months without rain, and the
grass is reduced to chaff, but the stock continue to
thrive and fatten till the last vestige disappears. The
settler, still under the strahge influence which is always
breathing Hope, lingers—lingers on till his stock dwindle
to ghostly skeletons on the plains, and then he reluc-
tantly makes for civilisation, but only to respond to the
call of the mirage after the drought has broken. Hope
is the tallest vegetable that grows in the west—taller
even than the grass in a good season, or the gum-tree, or
the legend of the eternal dead prospector who perished
with his great secret in one hand and a measly speck of
gold—not enough to buy threeper.n’orth of beer —in the
other.
THE WORKINGS OF PROVIDENCE.
THE WIDOW: “ Yes, poor M’Ginnis was
drowned last Tuesday, Strange are the
worlds of Providenev, McGuire.”
BULLOCKY (sadly): “ True for you, Mrs. M'Ginnis.
Strange, indeed. Bob would have been alive
to-day if the river had only been run on the
other side of the pub.”
THE OPAL-SEEKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve drunk full deep of the brown she-oak, and of spirit
like liquid flame ;
We’ve padded the hoof when we were broke, and we’ve
each of ns lost a name ;
We’ve rattled the cubes to a lively tune, and we’ve staked
our all on a card ;
But we’ll be even with Fortune soon though she ever has
used us hard.
Gold in the South and gold in the West—we’ve followed
it half our lives,
Till some have forgotten who loved them best (and two
of ns once had wives) ;
But pledge your luck in the drink ybu choose, and here’s
to a regal find ;
There’s much to gain and little to lose —and the lean
years drop behind.
For down below there’s a sunset hid in a sheath of the
solid stone,
And out of the crevice in which it slid we’ll each of us
take his own ;
Locked and prisoned and crystallised, and a million ages
old,
The rock that guarded the thing we prized shall soon o
its wealth leave hold.
Ho! pick and shovel and iron bar shall wrench at the
prison door,
And we that were led by an evil star shall follow its gleam
no more ;
For that which broods with a latent,glow shall burn in
the light of day,
And we that groped for it down below shall carry the
prize away.
It’s better to work through thick and thin till we stand
at our fortune’s door —
Till it swings to our knock, and we walk in that never
were guests before—
Than toil for a wage by day and night till the noon of
our life is past;
Till we’ve bartered muscles and brain and sight, and
beggared ourselves at last.
We’ve drunk full deep of the brown she-oak and of spirit
like liquid flame ;
We’ve carried the swag when we were broke, and we’ve
each of us lost a name ; ■
We’ve rattled the cubes to a lively tune, we’ve scattered
whac most men store,
But we’ll enter the doors of Fortune soon that never
were guests before.
VIC.
C.G.A. COLLES.


HALF-A.GUINCA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything- that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKT.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
A LITTLE
LEARN-
ING.
VISITOR:
“ Why, Mrs.
B. you must
have been a
regular walk-
ing encylopa-
dia.”
MRS. B.: “Oh, no,
nothing of the
kind. I 'teas just
as stout then as
I am now.”
“ J.G.” : lie tenacity of life in animals
(B. 17/l/’O7). I once saw an eaglehawk that had
been visiting a poultry yard for several days and
commandeering prize hens. The poultry farmer
fished out his gun, and one day he got a chance at
the feathered murderer. Bang went the gun,
and down flopped the hawk with part of its head
blown away. But when the shooter went to pick
up the apparently “dead bird,” it rose and com-
menced to fly away again. Bang went the second
barrel of the gun, and another lump of the hawk’s
head parted company from the rest of its body.
This time the farmer secured his trophy,
which evidently was as dead as the most
ancient door-nail. Its skull was literally blown
to pieces, and shot had entered its body
in a number of places. The poultry man
then spread-eagled the hawk by nailing its out-
stretched wings to two high stumps, as a warning
to any other aerial pirates that might be knocking
round. About a week after, that farmer had
occasion to pass by the place where the hawk was
crucified. To his amazement, the bird was alive
and kicking, and feebly shaking its remaining
fragment of a head. The man called me over to
view the extraordinary spectacle. We then took
it down and chopped off what was left of its head,
and threw its body into an adjacent burning
stump. Even after it had been consumed we kind
of wondered if we would see the bird rise, phoenix-
like, from its ashes; but, as far as we knew, it
didn’t. [This is sickening. The Bulletin goes
out for a drink and a quantity of cold shudders.]
“Gip”: What a plucky little chap the
willie-wagtail is ! If you listen, you’ll hear him
down by the creek, in the overhanging wattle or
willow, whistling flatteringly to his mate all the
moonlit night through, “Sweet pretty little
creature.” That is wag. in his gentler moods. But
let a dog approach his nest, and the wagtail will
fly straight fpr its eye. Saw a wagtail tackle a
magpie, the other day. With lightning darts he
pecked savagely at mag’s head, his onslaughts
being made always from the rear. The air re-
sounded with vicious, rifle-like cracks as the mad-
dened mag.’s beak met in the air in vain attempts
to punish the tiny streak of black and white.
Eventually wag. won the day, mag. leaving in
disgust, with his Sunday feathers much dis-
arranged.
‘ ‘ Spawler ” : Was yabbie-fishing at a tank,
20 miles from Broken Hill, when a swagman with
a very heavy Matilda approached, and expressed
his disgust to see us using the usual piece of meat
tied on a string. He wanted to know why we
didn’t use our blanky dogs. “So help me,” he
said, “I’ve caught hundreds of yabbies in this
very tank with me dog. All I had to do was
whistle him and point to the tank, and in he
would go and sit with his tail under water till a
couple of yabbies started to eat it. Then he’d
give a yelp, and make for the bank for me to take
’em off. Try it; you’ll be surprised how the
yabbies make for dog’s tail. My dog’s no good
now —you can see for yourself,” and he pointed to
a short-tailed collie; “the yabbies have ate his
blasted tail too short.” I have wondered ever
since if the bearer of Matilda was reliable.
* * * *
“ W.S.T.” ; Sharks don’t often attack
persons in a boat, but Mr. Want, K.C., and
another “limb” once had an unpleasant experi-
enceofthekind. They had been fishing off that good
schnapper-ground, Terrigal Head, from Want’s
yacht, but getting nary a bite, they thought they’d
go bream-fishing in the dingy close under the Head.
At this they were doing well, when a big shark
sprang fair and square on board. By vigorous
efforts they got the brute over the side again,
half-swamping the boat and dropping an oar in
the process. This they didn’t wait to pick up,
but sculled hard for the yacht, which they
reached without further interference from the
other shark. The K.C. characterised the inci-
dent as a “ gross violation of professional
etiquette.”
* * m m
“ Kiro ” : All the candidates for The
Bulletin’s handy-man competition are, or have
been, bookkeepers, clerks, or accountants. They
have never been solicitors, doctors or chemists or
anything else but bookkeepers—and this, too,
usually after nine years of wood-chopping or
sparro w-catching or some other brainy occupation.
Does it then require no brains or experience to be
a bookkeeper? The facility with which carpenters
and laborers
take on book-
keeping (espe-
cially secretary-
ships of friendly
societies, etc.),
is, as a rule,
only equalled by
the state of the
books after
months (or less/
It is time it
became gener-
ally known that
a bookkeeper
(to say nothing
of an account-
ant) must be
something more
than a man who
can write his
name and who
knows that
pence divided
by two are ha’-
pennies. An
out-of-work may
get the loan of
a pen and a
blot of ink and
sit down before
a volume at a desk, but the book won’t make
him a bookkeeper any more than a keg of salt
horse at sea will make him a regiment of cavalry.
* * * a
“ Cecil P.” : About fifty years ago a gin
near Dubbo saw a swagman with a wooden leg
approaching her. The lady had no previous
experience of artificial limbs, and promptly
abandoned camp and piccaninny, howling “ Wan-
dong waddy mundo-o-ee ! ” or words to that
effect.
• * • ■ •*
“The Prooshan”: It is master rooster
that mostly brings disaster, in the shape of the
fox, in bush places, by his crowing at night and
morn, and on occasions when, having knocked out
Bill Orpington, or “Snowy” Leghorn, he mounts
the fence to tell, the world about it. On this
account it pays a bushman, whose objective is
merely eggs, to keep no rooster.
* * * *
“ Falder ” : It is worth good money to see
a dingo at a tiger-cat. He tries to make the
“ tiger” take to a tree, so that he can break its
back by grabbing it across the loins as its claws
are busy on the bark. The tiger knows this, and,
instead of climbing, sits up against the tree. As
the dingo runs in to snap, the tiger grabs the
dingo’s head with its long claws, and chews the
attacking party’s countenance. Then, before the
dingo can express surprise, tiger is up the tree.
Of course, if the dingo has a mate handy, that
settles it. It is impossible to chew fhe counten-
ances of the whole firm simultaneously.
* « • •
‘ ‘ Have folio wed the shearing season through
New Zealand and all over Australia,” says Mr.
R. L. M’Bean, Duntroon, New Zealand, “and
the changes of water and tucker always bring
on an attack of diarrhoea, and the only relief
I can obtain is Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy. Every shed now has
some shearers who use this wonderful medicine,
and always carry a bottle with them.”
Mr. T. R. Davis, Truro, S.A., writes : “ Some
months ago I had a very severe attack of diarr-
hoea. Knowing that Chamberlain’s Colic, Cho-
lera, and Diarrhoea Remedy had effected a cure
in many similar cases I decided to see what it
would do for me, and am pleased to say it
checked the attack. I can confidently recom-
mend Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarr-
hoea Remedy to anyone suffering from the same
complaint.”
Everybody who has used it says Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is the
best. Eor sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
PUSH
SOCIETY.
“ What did Rob-
bo do that to
you for?”
“ I arst ’im to
stand me a
drink. ’E
said ’e on 'y
’ad a sprat, an ’ ’e wanted ’arf o’ that fer a
shave; an’ I simply sez to ’im, ‘ D'yer fink
yer face is worth it?’”
“Paddymelon” : I once owned alien cat
with two foals at foot. One day my mate sang
out, “ Come and see what the cat has brought for
the kittens to play with.” I found Ma cat with
a whip snake about 4ft. long. She was holding
it carefully in her mouth, head hanging out one
side, balance of long reptile trailing on the other.
There was a wild look in pussy’s eyes, and the
snake was very much alive. The two kittens
stood off with their backs up, spitting and
snarling. I watched for happenings. Pussy laid
the snake down, holding: it there with her
paw on the scruff of its neck; then, let-
ting go suddenly, she sprang back. Like
a flash the snake poised himself for a
spring. Next there was a heap of cat and
snake. How it happened I don’t know, but
round one finished with the combatants in the
same position as at the start —snake in cat’s
mouth. The second, third, and up to the sixth
round were, so far as I could see, merely a repeti-
. tion of the first one. Then the snake appeared
to think he had an appointment elsewhere. Puss
fetched him back and boxed his ears. He tried
another attack and failed. This time when the
cat put him down he lay still, and it was, accord-
ing to P.R. rules, a count out. Pussy closed her
eyes pretending to sleep. Snake thought it was
a chance to leave, so he started to very slowly
wriggle away. Cat’s hair began to rise, and when
the wriggler was about a yard off and just com-
mencing to get up a scorch, there was a streak of
cat in the air, and the reptile was brought back.
This happened three times. Then Ma cat got
tired, and walked over to the kittens and gave
them a drink. I finished the snake with a stick.
When I am running a circus I mean to give snake
and cat fights. Compared to a cat, greased light-
ning on ball bearings is a slow freight train. A
cat’s just about the suddenest thing on earth.
* * * *
A N.S.W. Northern River paper collects
cow statistics:—
Recently, on the Bellinger River, a girl bailed, leg-
roped and milked 22 cows in one hour and 40 minutes,
and on another occasion 16 in 80 minutes, an average of
five minutes per cow.
On the other side, The Bulletin puts these
records : It took five people-4hrs. lmin. to bail,
leg-rope and milk one cow; and, on another
occasion, six people yarded one cow in 1\ hours.
* * • *
“ Hassan ” : “ The Prooshan” (B. 3/l/’O7)
does justice to that Solomon among birds, the
white cockatoo. Prince Krapotkin, a Russian
scientist, deals thus with Cocky in the Nine-
teenth Century Review, Sept., 1900:
Take for instance a band of white cacadoos (sic) in
Australia. Before starting to plunder a cornfield, they
first send out a reconnoitring party, which occu-
pies the highest trees in the vicinity of the field
and the forest, and transmits the signals. If the
report runs “all right,” a score of cacadoos will
separate from the bulk of the band, take a flight
in the air, and then fly toward the trees nearest
the field. They will also scrutinise the neighborhood for
a long while, and only then will they give the signal for a
general advance, after which the whole band starts at
once and plunders the field in no time. The Australian
settlers have the greatest difficulty in beguiling the
prudence of these parrots ; but if man, with all his arts
and weapons, has succeeded in killing some of them, the
cacadoos become so prudent and watchful that they
thenceforward baffle all stratagems.
Take the case of George Arthur, of
Gumbit (Vic.), as an example of gnawing
aggravation. George is a confirmed fa?
sicker, with a small wife and familv'
both increasing, and an occasional aDne’
tite for beer. George's beer habit is
periodic not perpetual, and between
drunks he is a sober and industrious
inoiler, with a bee in liis hat about a mag
nihcent quartz reef hidden awav some
where in the hills about Quinbit. Hither
to the gold got about this centre has all
been alluvial, but occasionally a small
specimen turns up in the dish as a re-
nniider of the parent lode. George
Arthur’s faith in that lode is so pro
found that it lias kept him at Quinbit for
years, scraping out a miserable living
m the creek, and prospecting sedu-
lously all the time he can spare from
chasing the bare—and beer—neces-
saries of life. A few months back
George had his periodical jag.
It was a very thorough jag, and
it kept him at large for a fort-
night, during portion of which
time his landscape was dotted
with quaint animals un-
heard of at the Zoo. He
came home from a spasm
in the hills, covered with
clay, bleeding from many
scratches, and with the
tail-end of Ins fading pro-
cession of fantods behind
him. In his right-hand
trousers-pocket was a
specimen containing loz.
7 weights of clean gold ; in the
left-hand pocket of his trousers
was another Specimen weighing
30z., to which clung a few
grains of quartz. Mrs. Arthur
showed George these things
when he was well enough to
grasp the hard facts of life, and
for nearly a week George
Arthur put in his time with
j; a wet towel round his head.
- But for the life of him he
can’t recollect where he was
during that break in the
bush, and, search as he may,
he can find no trace of the
reef from which he culled
those lovely specimens when
he was out with his familiar devils.
* » * «
“ Yarrum ” : At Christmas time I spent a
couple of days under Mount Kembla, which is
the highest peak in the Illawarra range. Threw
up my window, at daybreak the first morning,
and, with blankets drawn about me and pipe
going, listened to a band of feathered singers up
along the face of the mountain, the like of which
I never heard in my life before. I recognised
magpies (grey, and black and white) with their
delightful warbling. Coachbirds were theie
galore, near the summit, and the sharp crack at
the end of each prolonged, sweet note reverberated
up the gullies, and was lost far up on the table-
land. The bell-bird tinkled tunefully lower
down ; tom-tits twittered gaily about the base,
and the big-throated goburra laughed often and
loudly, and as if he liked it. He appeared to be
here, there, and everywhere. The lyre-bird was
there, of course, and mimicked all the other
singers in turn, sharpening saws in the intervals.
A draggled old crow that was out of the fun
wandered to and fro beneath my window and cawed
dismally. He failed to understand that he was in-
terrupting until one of my number twelves whizzed
by his napper. The concert went on, without
intermission, hour after hour, until the sun had
climbed high up the ladder of the heavens. Talk
about a contest! My breakfast of ham and eggs
and coffee waited, and was getting cold; but I
let it. ’Twould have been sacrilege to leave
such a soul-feast to crowd a body with plain pig
and hen-fruit. The lyre-bird, they tell me, is
being ruthlessly destroyed in the delightful
locality, notwithstanding the fact that he is
nominally “ protected ” all the time. It’s a pity.
» * * •
“ Outback,” from Mt. Jackson (W.A.):
There are eighty of us, good Federalists, in a
mining camp 100 miles from railway, with no
means of communicating with friends, business
, people, or relatives. Our Australia won’t give us
a mail because it says a mail won’t pay. Is it
right that we should be cut off from the outside
world for that reason ? Only heard the winner of
Melbourne Cup six weeks after the race was run.
This is our grievance, and we want it remedied.
We guess it doesn’t pay to rush the calico orders
from Australia to England, and the bill back from
England to Australia; but those letters get
rushed all the same. Now, we’ve got an idea that
we’re doing more for Australia than the man who
posts an order for calico from Sydney to Man-
chester. What’s yours ?
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Mulga Mat rebuked
me sternly for throwing away a huge gohanna I
had shot at Tingeegee, on the Paroo. “Gohanner
fat’s the best cure in the world for roomytisiim ;
but ya gotta be very careful with it, because it’s
terrible penetratin’. I once put some in a sound
soda-water bottle, hung it up on th’ v’randah in
th’ afternoon, and found most of it soaked through
th’ thick glass and dripped on the floor next
mornin’. If ya rub it hard on th’ palm a yar’and
goin’ ta bed, ya sure ta find th’ back a yar ’and
quite greasy an’ oily next day with what’s soaked
right through. But it’s rare good stuff, and onlv
fools waste it —like you done ta day. Why, I
knew a fella at Cantgetfulla what rubbed ‘’go’
oil on his chest for a week ta cure roomytisum in
his ribs, and th’ oil cured his roomytisum com-
plete, an’ quite healed up a sore between his
shoulder-blades. He reckoned they wuz a for-
chune in ‘ ’go ’ fat if it wuz made into a patent,
and well-advurtissed. ”
MULGA HARRY IN TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'-IC.
In the great metropolis
There’s no place for me ;
Traffic, shops, and offices
Put one all at sea.
Give me scope and breathing space
Where a man is free.
Here the world wags feverish
With a thousand schemes.
There time lags in dalliance
By pleasant fields and streams,
With drovers plodding cheerily
Beside familiar teams.
When, as far as eye can reach,
Hill and fell and down,
Stretches one’s inheritance,
Grasses long, and brown,
Undulating distances—
Who would live in town ?
For that calm serenity
That makes the days sublime
Can never dwell in slums and dens
. That reek in petty crime—
The constant grind of poverty,
The heavy hand of time.
Nor in the hard eternal streets
The loveless brick and stone,
Amid it all there is no place
That Nature calls her own ;
And here a soul goes wandering
Eternally alone.
Nor in the busy thoroughfares,
Nor wealthy men’s domains,
you’ll find the peace, the native peace
That dwells upon the plains ;
For here the world is bound about,
Enclosed and kept in chains.
For fifty feet of dusty yard
And half-a-dozen rooms,
I’d never sell my heritage,
The song-birds and the blooms,
The waving grasses of the downs,
The scented wattle-glooms.
For Nature croons a symphony
That enters in the brain,
Through ear and eye, in cadences,
Of wind and stream and rain,
Of bird and beast, yet varying
To one old sweet refrain.
Out there a voice is echoing
Where all the world is green ;
Where changes in its constancy
One grand, familiar scene.
The cycling seasons call to me
From pasture lands serene.
A.B.C.


»sdivided-~
Wblftfer foe •
I Jo s t- her btobcller T>l*dreljy
I 2n o'bS'fi'Mc.fion if, PorT FH* ili|»
Jv. or !+■ SMufilY' ••
gbv "drf>|>M off "on ifsewi-
m
-le M"'! s«r, v J T s_
,Ift voTerjot- °<*r vte
Ve "»% r 1 %7.f
off A"} jM'oJjeller J
A
1 !L
Jr
\
''Vic Stifc Scl/oo )
Scljolvs tjAve
"by utj
v 20,000 Sii/ce <902
v^vTjj
\i.v if (ci
\^kJQ*S^
k. '=
rrjr>^ .
#. c <wV
\w\
Bent * Mi«JTJ rudely venture h be
so ioid *s 7°“ to *£ d J/
(cdosco.d -fe C^%M^
J£*v r
U Before Iw/iT# QuC^S^'H’ •
Mr -ta,Keo round Jk
elw.Vitsa,, by J'ifo'.r' !
Number! JX«.]
fev
A Jo m'T’
At
njtC*iicibaJify-l7V> flowed o \)
Sowieone -to e.vdctz*sb\hi'f Y>
v Tio ad" El Wood rwrene HoeirT“ v
X: lives v, One «t?f‘ 4 .f''"S r i'S U 3 i
\\\ v \ i»7 Ihe To see %, «
\\\y\yN. prertjier V'S >y
\\\m\\ \. Abroad V
\ )>re*endirfo "fo ip«7ore\y >
y N dtje obiectTofraiVlO' \l
v . Viroj'-sc«wy.'|
Vic lA"d s (6*Vn"iin2 'te*i* > 'h> in „
Quezon - " WW2 o) .
— " rabbits!*' r^\
oU /
vtouM T>e <deeply
r if ■%
Confidence, ot only A -pAc-fton
of'loe Houyz I (Arga^J
Te ll
ciiy 3£
If am
T>ego*s*“
io c W ,rt r MV vicWy
Jpiih
T. BENT AND OTHER LARGE SOUTHERN CIRCUMSTANCES.


It has such a delicious taste
and is so very refreshing.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Archie Meston, “the Sacred Ibis,” is
going to stand for Warwick (Q.) at the State
election in April.
Dr. Neville, Anglican Primate of M.L.,
the septuagenarian who went to Britain in search
of health and brought back a wife just out of her
“ teens,” is now, by decision of the General
Synod, promoted to be an Archbishop. His
wife is probably the youngest Archbishopess in
the empire.
John Colton, the founder of the firm whose
premises were burnt in Adelaide recently, used
to be known as “the Holy Saddler.” He was a
great Methodist, and was both a Mayor of Ade-
laide and a State Premier. It was he who gave
Kingston his first Ministerial office. He arrived
in S.A. nearly 70 years ago, and was an octo
genarian when he died.
A PAID.
A sane man, with a singular freedom from the narrow
prejudices which cloud the view and warp the judgment.
Gifted as he is with broad sympathies, &c., &c. — Mel-
bourne Argus guff on Chief Justice, Madden.
“... In fact, ladies and gentlemen, ’e's a liberal
and progressive person like me .” (Loud and
shocking laughter.)
Dattilo Rubbo has been lecturing in Naples
on Australian art to the Circolo Artistico Par-
tenoplo. He presented the society with a water
color sketch by Lister Lister, a reproduction of a
pen and ink sketch by Norman Lindsay, and a
copy of The Bulletin. Impressed by these
artistic treasures, the society made Lister Lister
and Norman Lindsay honorary members. Also,
it said nice things of The Bulletin.
That picturesque personage, the Duke of
Abruzzi, who visited our shores a year or so ago,
is about to be united in marriage to Princess
Elena, only daughter of the Kir.g of Servia.
Abruzzi is best remembered in Sydney as the
Prince who “cut” a church parade given in his
honor to take a nice girl down to National Park.
A State Governor recently consulted his
aide, private secretary, and butler while com-
posing his order for three months’supply of wines
and spirits. He had spent several days over the
document, erasing one brand and inserting
another. “ I think,” said the aide at last, “that
should do.” “Well, yes,” sighed the cautious
host, “but, you see, so many of these members
of Parliament have been publicans, or drink
experts that I can’t be too particular.”
Justice Street is the latest accession to
the non-political branch of N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench. It was never less political than
now, at least in modern Parliamentary days.
Cohen is the only member who held a seat in the
Legislative Assembly, and Darley and G. B.
Simpson the only members who occupied seats in
the Legislative Council. Only one member of the
Supreme Court Bench has filled the post of
Attorney-General, and then it was by virtue of a
Leg. Council seat.
The death of Josiah C. Adams, third and
last grandson of Adams of the Bounty, is an-
nounced from Norfolk Island. He passed out at
the age of 72. The original Adams of the
Bounty, whose proper name, by the way, was
Alexander Smith, struck up an alliance with the
family of the original Edward Young of the
Bounty. Among the descendants traced back
to the alliance of these two families is Lieu-
tenant Edward Young, who, a short time ago,
announced to England that he had set himself to
redeem “the lost character of my forefathers.”
He was then a policeman.
It is a risky thing now to buy or advance
money on second-hand articlesin N.S.W., the Law
insisting on the purchaser or lender making himself
acquainted with minute and delicate particulars
as to ownership. And yet, not so long ago, a
sprightly State Governor was applauded by a pu bl i c
meeting when he said that one Smith, his ancestor,
presided over a small commercial establishment to
which persons in need of money were wont to
bring goods. “ And,” remarked his Excellency,
“ I decline to say that the original Smith troubled
about whether the goods were come by honestly
or otherwise.”
Mr. J. B. Roe, a native of Westralia and
formerly Sheriff thereabouts, died at Perth on
Sunday, aged 74. His father, Captain John
Septimus Roe, accompanied Captain King in his
expeditions to survey the north and north-west,
coast of Australia in 1818, and was also a member
of King’s fourth expedition m 1821. Old Sep,
Roe was one of the pioneers of Westralia; he
went there as surveyor with Governor Stirling on
the Parmetia, and landed on June 1, 1829, He
was styled the father of modern explorers, having
traversed a good deal of the virgin bush of the
West. He was Surveyor-General for 42 years,
and died in May, 1878.
Malcolm McEacharn has relinquished
the office of Jap Consul in Melbourne,
and his shipping partner, D. Hunter,
will try to represent the body and
tail of the Monkey in an honorary
capacity until the Mikado fixes up a
permanent arrangement. But even
the most astute diplomatist of Nippon
will never be able to do what
McEacharn did. His tail was fixed
on so artistically that it looked more
natural than the real thing. All the
same, it is quite possible that Malcolm
may yet be sorry he had anything to
do with his brave allies. He has sunk
a barrel of money in a Tokio tram-
way scheme, and has obtained valu-
able concessions from the town. But
whenever foreign Private Enterprise
returns big profits, the Jap has a habit
of taking it himself and returning
the investor the exact amount of his
original investment; while if the
thing doesn’t happen to be a pay-
able proposition, he encourages the
sturdy independence of the individual
by leaving him to carry the infant.
If Malcolm’s tramway turns out as
he expects, he will probably, one of
these days, receive a very brief and
sudden cheque signed “Monkey,”
and an intimation that the under-
signed will do his own tramming in
future.
What’s the good of Victoria’s
Thistle Act embracing so many kinds
of pests if the Governor-in-Couneil
doesn’t declare Judkins a thistle ?
Mr. J. H. Knipe, a very old Victorian, is
recalled to memory through the kidnapping in
London of the little daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Knipe, of Toorak, Melbourne. The present Mr.
Knipe is the son of the old pioneer, John
Hanlon Knipe, who was born in London in 1828,
and was then the last living male representative
of the Knipes to whom monuments are erected
in Westminster Abbey. He was by trade a silver-
smith, and arrived in Adelaide in 1853 as purser
of the ship Magdalena. For a while he was
auctioneering, but the Vic. goldfields attracted
him, and in January, ’54, he was at Bendigo. Mr.
Knipe took an active part in the agitation re
diggers’ fees ; he was a delegate to a conference
at Ballarat, and was present during the riots as a
State prisoner in the camp. In 1859 he formed
the first joint stock quartz mining co. in Victoria,
the Johnson Reef, with a capital of £BO,OOO.
James Drummond, in his book, “The
Life and Work of Richard John Seddon,” throws
an interesting light on the careers of the first
Labor members in Maoriland. Tanner, of
Heathcote (near Christchurch), is the only one
who lasted, and in 1906 he was still sitting.
David Pinkerton, the boilermaker chosen by
Dunedin city; Earnshaw, the brass finisher
sent in by the Peninsula; and Buick, the
carpenter elected by Wairau, lasted only two
Parliaments, and then lost their seats. Pinkerton
was called to the Legislative Council, and re-
mained there till he died in 1906. Kelly,
sent in by Invercargill, lasted three Parliaments,
and, being defeated in 1899, did not stand again.
When Westby Perceval was appointed Agent-
General his place was filled by Sandford, a
compositor on the Lyttelton Times. He was de-
feated in 1893, and did not offer himself again.
On the whole, Earnshaw was the only one who
showed ability above the average, although to a
man they were a level-headed lot, and did much
good work in a quiet, unobtrusive way. But they
did not understand the art of self-advertisement,
and that is indispensable to a politician, no matter
to what party he belongs. Richard Seddon was a
genius in that direction.
A GOOD CITIZEN.
BUGLAR BILL : “ ’Ow much did we make outer that crib we cracked afore Christmas? Fifty
quid, was it? ”
HIS MATE: “ Wot yer gettin’ at ? We dun it in It ain't no account now."
BURGLAR BILL : “ It are, I tell yer. ’Ow am Ito make out rne income-tax schedule wivout the
correct accounts?”
Death has removed a very old Australienne
in the person of Mrs. Sarah Henderson. She was
“widow of ‘the late’ Mr. James Henderson,
formerly manager of the Bank of Australasia,
Sydney,” as S.M. Herald prints it, that paper
being afraid lest she might be mistaken for the
widow of someone who isn’t dead. Mrs. Hender-
son was the youngest daughter of Thomas Fitz-
herbert Hawkins, at one time in the navy, who,
in the ’2o’s, settled at Black town, on the Kelso
side of the Macquarie Biver. Sixty years ago
she became the wife of Mr. Henderson, when the
couple resided at the corner of Bourke and Queen
streets, Surry Hills. Queen-street is now known
as Albion-street.
For the past 15 or 20 years the Govern-
ment offices of Brisbane have been regularly
patronised by poor old Memenitch, who has piled
up a colossal account against Bananaland. He
claims to have been the discoverer of the Clermont
goldfield. At the time of the find there was
a reward of £5OOO offered for a payable field.
After considerable agitation a commission was
appointed to make inquiries as to various claims,
and it decided against Memenich. That is very
long ago, but the old battler is always hopefui.
Almost every day he does the rounds of the
offices, bent on seeing a Minister, or an under-
secretary, or a clerk, or a messenger, or anyone
else. He seldom gets anyone’s ear, save, perhaps,
that of the understrapper at the door, and his is
a perfunctory ear at best. All these years the
interest has been added to the original bill, and
Memenich now works it out at over £2,000,000.
The other day the law locked him up for trying to
present his account to the Governor in person,
but even this doesn’t seem to have damped the
hope that springs eternal even in the chest region
of a prospector who has passed his 80th year.
Those gentlemen who wear ornate aprons
oyer where they lodge their drinks, and ride the
billy-goat, and say “fee-fo-fum” and other wise
things in a mysterious way to one another, arc
much agitated over ‘‘the un-Masonic conduct ”
of Sydney Town Clerk Nesbitt. Brudder Nesbitt,
it, seems, wrote to submit his Masonic qualifica-
tions to Brudder Bawson (the N.S.W, Governor
and Grand Cockalorum of Masonry in N.S.W.).
Brudder Nesbitt, it is alleged, wanted to be
Deputy Grand Jabberwock, or something, and
wished it to be known that he had de-
livered an oration once on the death of the
Duke of Clarence, which John Morley de-
clared was “ a masterpiece of eloquence and
diction.” This led to some angry correspondence,
and Brudder Nesbitt is to be “admonished.”
It is deplorable to think of grown men worrying
themselves seriously over such things; and
the spectacle of the State Governor struggling in
the midst of the Jabberwocks and High Cocka-
lorums isn’t edifying,
A scrap of biography :
Though separate Public Service representation ceases
when the present Victorian Parliament is dissolved,
about six weeks hence, three excited candidates went
through the form of addressing meetings and conducting
an electoral campaign. About one-third of the effective
electors voted, and the honor of being the “member for
the Recess” fell upon ex-detective J. C. Carter, perhaps
the most popular man in the police force in his day. J.C.
is a brother of the ex-member for Williamstown, who
afterwards abandoned politics for torpedo-invention. He
was also a unique sleuth hound, being both deeply
religious and scrupulously fair. Carter was once in a
posse of demons which raided a burglar’s lair. As they
went in, Dungey handed to Carter, notoriously the worst
shot in the department, a revolver with which he had pre-
viously killed one desperado, remarking : “ You take the
gun, Carter ; I’m too straight a shot.” When the rush
was made, Carter took deadly aim at the full moon to
scare a fleeting house-breaker—and shot the house-
breaker by mistake. For two months he lay in the Mel-
bourne Hospital expected to depart at any moment and
climb over the jasper gate, and Carter used to spend all
his spare time at his bedside bringing him cake and fruit
and talking to him about his soul. Eventually he re-
covered, and, when he took his place in the dock, J.C.
made an appeal for mercy, which C. J. Madden treated
with a snort of contempt. In fact, Madden gave the
prisoner an extra year to be on the safe side. To-day the
burglar is an exemplary character, and helps Carter to
distribute tracts setting forth the manifold virtues of
(alas, that it should be said !) Judkins. In his early youth
Carter was a blacksmith at Sale (Gippsland), and is
probably the only man in Australia who was kicked on
the back of the head by the hind foot of a horse he
was riding without leaving'the saddle. Apart from his
piety, Carter is a genial, decent old fellow, and there
isn’t a spieler in Melbourne who wouldn’t say a good word
for him.
“Melb.” : I have never seen a list pub-
lished of Melbourne mayors. Here it is : 1842-’43,
Condell; ’44, ’46, Moor ; ’45, Palmer ; ’47, Russell;
’4B, Bell; ’49, G-reeves ; ’5O, Nicholson ; ’5l, ’52,
’54, ’55, ’57, ’6O, ’63, J. T. Smith; ’53, Hodgson;
’56, Davis ; ’5B, Walsh ; ’59, Eades; ’6l, Bennett;
’62, Cohen ; ’64, Wragge; ’65, Bayles; ’66, Wil-
liams ; ’67, Butters; ’6B. Moubray ; ’69, Am ess;
’7O, MTherson; ’7l, Eenwick; ’72, O’Grady;’73,
MTlwraith ; ’74, Gatehouse; ’75, A. K. Smith;
’76, Paterson ; ’77, Pigdon ; ’7B, Story; ’79, ’BO,
Meares ; ’Bl, Ham ; ’B2, Dodgshun ; ’B3, C. Smith;
’B4, Carter; ’B5, Stewart; ’B6, Cam; ’B7, 88,
Benjamin; ’B9, ’9O, ’9l, Lang ; ’92, ’93, ’94, Snow-
den ; ’95, ’96, Strong; ’97. ’9B, ’99, ’O3, M’Eacharn;
’OO, ’Ol, ’O2, Gillott; ’O4, Pleasance ; ’O5, Weedon.
In 63 years there have been 44 mayors, giving an
average term of a fraction less than one and a
half years. J. T. Smith had seven years,
M'Eacharn four, Lang, Snowden and Gillott
each three, Condell, Moor, Meares, Benjamin and
A BACK NUMBER.
VISITOR TO THE CLUB : “ Whom do you consider
your greatest Australian statesman?”
CLUDITE : “ Without a doubt , George Reid."
VISTOR : “Aid, Reid! I fancy I remember
reading teething about him in the papers
once.”
Strong each two. It is remarkable that, with the
exception of J. T. Smith, no mayor could get a
second term between ’46 and ’80—34 years. J. F.
Palmer, mayor in ’45, became Speaker of the old
Legislative Council, and President of the new
one. W. Nicholson, mayor in ’5O, became Pre-
mier. The City Council has full-length portraits
in oil of Condell, Russell, Greeves, Nicholson,
J. T. Smith, Hodgson, Davis, Cohen, Bayles,
Williams, Butters, Moubray, Amess, M‘Pherson,
MTlwraith, A. K. Smith, Carter, Stewart, Ben-
jamin, Lang, Snowden, Strong, M ‘Eacharn,
Gillott.
“ D.” : I see that one of Premier Price’s
possible methods of beating the local Leg. Coun-
cil may take the shape of an application to the
Imperial authorities for a freer Constitution. Is
this a necessary expedient ? The idea is repug-
nant to Australian democracy. The fact of a
Radical Premier asking for the intervention of the
Ma Land to-day may, at some future date, be con-
sidered justification for a Tory Premier doing
the same thing, and it may the
Ma Country to interfere on its own. If Premier
Price can whip the moss-grown S.A. Second
Chamber on his own, great glory will be his. The
keen jealousy against outside intervention in our
affairs makes even a proposal to knock out Aus-
tralian Conservatism with the Imperial sceptre
obnoxious to a self-governing people. Besides,
the great weapon of a stoppage of supplies hasn’t
been used yet. The day when the Assembly inti-
mates that it will vote no more money, and will
let the police, the public service, and the railways
shut up, and remain shut till the Second Chamber
passes the Bill for its own abolition, will be the
real beginning of the shindy. When that device
is tried and fails, it may be time to apply to
England.
A DIRGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo ! George has fallen low,
Backers all fled,
He now, alas, is Po-
Litically dead.
Let now your hot tears flow
Over his head,
Our great G. Reid is Po-
Litically dead.
No more he’ll say “ Yes-No ”
Smooth down his bed ;
Georgie, you know, is Po-
Litically dead.
On him the cold blasts blow.
Let it be £aid
George was not always Po-
Litically dead.
Oli, ’tis a cruel blow !
Nations he led,
Far back ere he was Po-
Litically dead.
Sweet will the daisies grow
Where he has lied ;
Rich the spot where he Po-
Litically died.
So on the shelf we’ll stow
The man of jest;
There let him, peaceful, Po-
Litically rest.
VIC.
ALP BRASCH.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served
mm
1
m
■XT' I
m
-
in
B
v: ‘ ■'
■nrii.yi.irti.TMi.niil .• II I ;y
IiSyW:.:V ? » ■; jM
m&%L. nyi
IKiEi ’ "4
WW
mi
««s
am
Bmgsmkwi
bo Mb
111
p
SII
IS!
V/
HHB
SHiiiuifsr&n
ESpEpI
m
j\i%
sm
m
mmmm
m
a
||| lU 'JJI Vi W 13 "
ill
u
m
II!
it!
il?
•H
IB
HI
iM
Embossed....
Steel Ceilings
THE old-fashioned lath and plaster ceiling is a thing of the past—its
place being taken by a strong, sanitary, handsome-looking, non-inflam -
mable ceiling of steel. The Ornamental Embossing V/ork required for
Steel Ceilings is done at . .
Anthony Horderns' Redfern Factory.
Where only first-class worK is executed.
The illustrations are a few of the many designs in which this class of work is
done, and if you are about to build or own property that would be improved by
this new method of ceiling the rooms, ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
will be pleased, on receipt of necessary measurements and particulars, to send
Design No. 2—Sheets of 6ft. x 18in.—1/5 Sheet
.
€ &**s***■ f €
fW
&
i
m
Design No. 14—Sheets of 6ft. x 18in.—1/6 Sheet.
Estimates for FIXING CEILINGS in town or country, or to
SUPPLY THE MATERIAL, which will be of the best and
of FIRST-CLASS workmanship, and you may also rely upon
making a CONSIDERABLE SAVING IN COST.
m
No. 116.—Section of Ceiling, composed of Sheets or Panels,
with Border, Moulding, Cornice, Corner Pieces, Centrepiece
not shown. Any design can be employed.
BOOK FOR BUILDERS.
A Catalogue or Price List containing a mass of
information for Builders, Electricians, &c.
POST FREE ANYWHERE ON APPLICATION.
' ■*'
|T
pffj
f'f
i%n
f m<
Design No. 22—Sheets of 6ft. x 18in.—1/5 Sheet.
Design No. B—Sheets of 6ft. x 18in.—1/5 Sheet.
ANTHO
provider New Palace Emporium
On the Historic Slope of BricKfield Hill,
fgd


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
RQBEY’S EnBrllsh Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers
Nicholson & Sons English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The remodelled N.S.W. Savings Bank, which
has taken over the business of the Advances to Settlers
Department and has acquired Alexander Macintosh,
lately general manager of the Bank of New Zealand, as its
chief officer, is about ready to start out as a State Land
Bank. Its principal business will be to promote settle-
ment by giving the settler cheap financial help. It pro-
poses to assist men to buy in this way, among others : a
certificate may be issued setting out the amount that the
Bank is prepared to advance upon a property. Either
vendor or would-be purchaser can get this certifi-
cate, though a would-be purchaser can’t get it with-
out the owner’s consent.. A valuation fee is
charged from £2 10s. to £5 according to distance from
rail or shipping port; but if several valuations are to be
made in one district special terms may be arranged. The
loans, up to 80 per cent, of the valuation, may be for 31
years; rates, of course, will depend upon the value of
money, and what the deposits are costing. For a start,
till the bank gets some sort of a reserve, the interest will
probably be 4^per cent., with a sinking fund (of 2 p.c. or
thereabouts) for repaying the advance. The borrower
has to pay fees on getting an advance—from 1 p.c. on
£lOO to i p.c. on £5OO and over. This is to help cover
expenses, and so that the interest rate may be subse-
quently kept at the lowest figure. The Bank starts off
at a moment when competition will be keen, on account
of other banks being extra-flush of money ; but the
liberal terms offered in the wav of repayment will com-
mand solid support. And, anyhow, it isn’t desirable to
Ohase business just for the sake of making big figures
with agricultural land selling at its present mostlv-
mflated price.
* • * *
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assur-
ance Society, Ltd. :
Added
Income. Outgoings. Insur-
„ . r: ! -s -> ance
Oct., Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund
1897 .. £150,602 £58,446 £121,983 £38,060 £49,005
1898 .. 155,539 58,881 108,768 41,936 63 716
1899 .. 161,603 60,853 115,640 48,950 57 866
1900 .. 171,740 62,050 122,187 52,079 59 524
1901 .. 183,805 63,293 109,639 56,519 80,940
Contingency Reserve transferred 9 324
1902 ... 182,091 67,205 138,383 51,718 59 195
1903 .. 180,405 70,073 140,982 47,523 61 973
1904 .. 175,945 72,135 152,266 50,458 45 356
1905 .. 182,998 75,239 167,442 52,045 38,750
1906 .. 184,221 75,149 162,618 53,939 42,813
The progress made by this society isn’t very marked ;
the Widows’ Fund seems to be one of the offices that have
drifted into a backwash, and to get out of it calls for
more energy than it is able to command. Yet it spends
a good deal of money; its expense rate still exceeds
20 per cent, of its income. One trouble is that, having
got business at heavy expense, it doesn’t seem able to
hang on to it. In 1902 its renewal premiums amounted
to £159,903. In that and the next three years policies
bringing in an annual income of £76,156 were issued ; yet
the renewals in 1906 amounted to £162,274, or only £2371
more than in 1902. Of course, meantime there had been
claims through maturity of policies, but the net increase
is very poor. Five years ago, when the last previous
investigation was made, policies were in force assuring
£5,023,229. Since then policies assuring £2,691,897 have
been issued ; total £7,715,126. The claims paid have
been £751,691; net total of sums assured, £6,953,435.
But so many have dropped out that the actual
amount assured is £5,352,368. If all the business
that had been got at this heavy expense had stuck,
policies would have increased by £1,930,206 ; as a matter
of fact, they only increased by £329,139. It is a depress-
ing record—all the more depressing because through
most of the period Australia has been having a good
time, and because the office has certainly done nothing
to deserve the exodus. In face, it isn’t a trouble peculiar
to this office ; at least one other office of good repute
could show worse.
The Widows’ Fund’s expenses have for the past
10 years been as follows:
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Profit on
Realisation of Securities not Included).
1897 .. £lB 4 2 per cent.
1898 .. 19 11 2 „ „
1899 .. 22 0 1 „ „
1900 .. 22 56 „ „
1901 .. 22 17 6 „ „
1902 .. £2O 14 11 per cent.
1903 .. 18 19 5 „ ~
1904 .. 20 6 9 „
1905 .. 20 3 1 „
1906 .. 20 15 11 „ „
With the accumulation of cheaply-managed funds and
the increase of cheaply-earned interest, the rate on this
basis should have steadily declined. There is, however,
no pronounced movement that way. Supposing the
renewal premiums to cost 7 per cent, to collect; that
would be £11,359. If £42,580, the balance of the expenses,
is debited to new business, the latter cost 193 per cent, of
the first years’ premiums—that is to say, the new business
takes nearly two year’s premiums to get. This very high
rate is due largely to the fact that, after the business
has been got, so much of it is lost, and is not therefore
available to help pay expenses of management. Charging
(because they are larger offices) 5 per cent, for
renewal business and thus throwing a larger proportion
on to new business, the latter still cost only 112 per cent,
in the A.M.P, and 118 J per cent, in the National Mutuai
last year. Nor are the interest earnings of the Widows’
Fund anything very large to make up for this costliness.
For 10 years
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1897 ..£4 15 6 per cent.
1898 .. 4 11 11 „
1899 .. 4 10 7 „
1900 ..4 8 4
1901 ..469
1902 .. £4 6 8 per cent.
1903 ..471
1904 ..469
1905 ..4 7 9
1906 ..461 „
Of the assets, 60'5 per cent, are in mortgages, as against
49 per cent, in the National Mutual and only 38 per cent,
in the Citizens’; while in public securities only 11-5 per
cent, is invested, as against 33‘3 per cent, in the Citizens’
and 26’6 per cent, in the A.M.P. There are mortgages
and mortgages, no doubt; but they are all more or less
liable to trouble, and, considering the very heavy pro-
portion of its funds invested in them, the Widows’ Fund
interest rate is no better than it ought to be. In that
connection, there is a suspense account, consisting of
profits on realisation of securities. This, now in credit
£4574, becomes the nucleus of an Investment Fluctuation
Fund, which, under the circumstances, is badly needed.
The Widows’ Fund has just had its quinquen-
nial valuation, and cash bonuses of £130,291 are avail-
able. The premiums received, excluding consideration
for annuities, totalled £893,834, so that the cash bonus is
at the rate of 14’6 per cent, of the total premiums. This,
though nothing extra, is a considerable improvement on
the office’s recent records, mainly on account of an
excellent experience in the way of mortality, the actual
being 64T per cent, of the expected claims. But, after
all, the bonus which comes from this source is the least
valuable of bonuses, for it is contributed by the policy-
holders themselves, in which respect it differs from
bonuses provided by working at a low expense rate or at
a high interest rate.
Union Steamship Co. of New Zealand (M.L.):
Added to Ee-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1900.. 7 p.c. =£42,000 £230,404
1901.. £91,620 8 „ „ 48,000 £43,620 274,024
1902.. 75,227 8 „ „ 48,000 27,227 301,251
1903.. 90,744 8 ~ „ 48,000 42,744 343,995
1904.. 129,928 10 „ „ 60,000 69,928 413,923
1905.. 96,764 8 „ „ 48,000 48,764 462,687
1906.. 94,906 10 „ „ 60,000 34,906 497,593
The reserves were made up as follows :
1900. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Boiler replacement .. £25,000 £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Insurance .. .. 166,239 281,604 320,056 350,961
Eeserve Fund.. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Undivided Profit .. 39,165 7,319 17,631 21,632
The profits shown in the first table above include the net
additions made to the various reserves during' the year.
Large but undisclosed amounts are also written off for
depreciation, as this table shows
Value set Tonnage Change in
Tonnage on added Value
of Shipping during during
Fleet. Property. Year. Year.
1900 .. 77,738 £746,300
1901 .. 82,847 748,400 5109 £2,100
Reduced.
1902 .. 88,263 670,700 5416 77,700
, Added.
1903 .. 89,851 678,100 1588 7,400
1904 .. 98,293 791,800 8442 113,700
Reduced.
1905 .. 103,758 708,600 5465 83,200
Added.
1906 .. 112,853 953,486 9095 244,886
During the year the Maheno and Atua and a small boat
have been added to the fleet, and some payments have
been made on account of new plant. The position is not
as plain as it is sometimes—as it was, for instance, in
1905, when, though 5465 tons were added to the fleet, the
book value was reduced by £83,200 out of profits. At
the end of 1904, the liquid assets exceeded liabili-
ties (including debentures) by £191,681 ; in 1905, by
£309,892 ; in 1906, by £115,345. In what is practically the
cash position, therefore, the co. was £118,211 better off
at the end of 1905 than at the end of 1904, after paying
dividend and adding 5465 tons to its fleet; and in 1906
the dividend was paid, and the Maheno and Atua were
added, and other unspecified payments were made, at a
cost of £194,547 to the cash position. Though nothing
definite can be said as to the past year, it is obvious that,
besides the amounts added to insurance and other
reserves, large provisions have in general been made out
of profits to cover depreciation. Of course, the reserves,
and to some extent the profits shown above, are only
tentative. The insurance reserve, for instance, is a
reserve only till a succession of bad accidents happen.
The directors have, however, come to the conclusion that
this insurance reserve is growing too large for its pur-
pose, and have taken from it the 2 per cent, bonus which
makes up the 10 per cent, dividend for the year. In
a concern of this kind, where unmentioned profits are
put aside to cover all sorts of risks and contingencies,
the only guide is the trend of things—a single
balance-sheet is not of much account. And the trend is
most satisfactory. The dividend is substantial, and, in
spite of the unmentioned allowances for depreciation,
and even deducting the large additions to the reserves’
which may not always be there, the lay-by is substantial;
on the co.’s showing, it amounts to £12,376 for the past
12 months.
The Union Steamship Co.’s shares rarely get a
quotation in Australia. Dunedin is the co.’s head-
quarters, and Dunedin has a Stock Exchange, though
the leading paper only publishes a share list once a week 1
Latest quotation there for £lO shares (there are 60,000)
fully paid is £l7 2s. 6d. ; five years ago they stood at
£ll 7s. 6d., and the movement from that point has been
very steady. AlO per cent. div. shows an investment
return of £5 16s. 6d. per cent, on present price. But
this, apparently, is the first time in the co.’s history of
30 years that so high a dividend as 10 per cent, has been
paid, omitting 1904, when a 2 per cent, bonus was avail-
able, on account of a good deal in wharf property with
the N.S.W. State Government.
* * • *
The Perpetual Trustees, Hocecutors, and
Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart) :
Divs. and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1901 .. £454 6 p.c. =£3ls £139 £4490
Dec., 1901 .. 1404 8,, „ 420 984 5474
June, 1902 .. 703 8 „ „ 420 £255 28 5502
Dec., 1902 .. 677 8„ „ 420 257 5759
June, 1903 .. 796 8 ~ ~ 420 713 5422
Dec., 1903 .. 676 8„„ 420 256 5678
June, 1904 .. 685 8 „ ~ 420 265 5943
Dec., 1904 .. 717 8„ „ 420 297 6240
June, 1905 .. 818 8„ „ 420 398 6638
Dec., 1905 .. 653 8 „ „ 420 233 6871
June, 1906 .. 718 8,, ~ 420 298 7169
Dec., 1906 .. 813 8,, „ 420 393 7562
Capital is £lO,OOO ; that and reserves together show a
return of £9 9s. sd. per cent, per annum. The co.’s report
and accounts are most things that a trustee co.’s report
and accounts shouldn’t be. The chief asset is “sundry
debtors, £11,745,” which is vague; all earnings
whether from commission or interest, are lumped to-
gether ; and no information as to trust estates in
hand is furnished. Apparently, however, shareholders
pocket their 8 per cent., note the steady growth of re-
serves, and are satisfied. Sundry debtors may, however
include accrued interest; for all the accounts show, the
securities may be for all practical purposes dead’; the
“sundry creditors, £7744,” may be largely overdraft
acquired to pay dividend while waiting for the accrued
interest to come in ; and, if it doesn’t come in, a large
part of the alleged profits won’t be profits at all, in which
case the reserves won’t exist. Most likely none of these
things are actually the case here ; but if they were the
case and the management wanted to hide it, it would
publish exactly such accounts as these.
* * * „
Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co
(N.S.W.):—
Unexplained
Additions
t 0 Re- Written Re-
Profits, serves. Dividends. off. serves
June, 1901 £973 4 p.c. = £2OOO £1584 £36,653
Dec., 1901 4106 4 „ „ 2000 218 38.541
June, 1902 2228 £l3 4,, „ 2000 3g 700
Dec., 1902 4412 1 4„ „ 2000 41’195
June, 1903 636 —4„ „ 2000 59 39’ 772
Dec., 1903 1392 1 3„ „ 1500 39’665
June, 1904 691 24 „ „ 1250 60 39!046
Dec., 1904 2412 2f „ „ 1250 1 40 207
June, 1905 435 1 2| „ „ 1250 39’ 398
Dec., 1905 3615 2| „ „ 1250 41 758
June, 1906 1143 2f „ „ 1250 41’651
Dec., 1906 6515 —5,, ~ 2500 45,666
This co.’s railway serves a district which suffered even
more severely from the big drought than the co.’s figures
indicate, because the railway did at least get some
revenue out of shifting starving stock. The recovery
has, however, been very striking. Here are some figures
for the July-December half-years :
Work- Main- Expenses in
Traffic ing Ex- ten- Inte- proportion
Receipts, penses. ance,&c. rest. to Receipts.
1902.. £10,109 £3004 £2lOB £586 29’7 per cent
1903.. 6,811 2837 2072 510 41‘6
1904.. 7,078 2247 1829 590 31-8
1905.. 8,294 2213 1866 600 26’7 ”
1906.. 11,620 2523 1982 600 21'7 "
Besides its share capital of £lOO,OOO, the co. has raised
£25,000 by 4 per cent, debenture bonds ; £lOOO worth of
these bonds were recently bought back, and, as the
balance-sheet show's cash in hand of £6952, after paying
dividend, it is proposed to redeem a further £6500
worth of bonds during the current half-year. This
will mean a saving in interest rather in excess
of i per cent, on the share capital; in other
words, it will be rather easier to pay 3 per cent,
in the future than it has been to pay 2£ per cent, hitherto"
The co. for a good many years paid 5 per cent.; in 1897 it
got down to 4 per cent.; in 1900 it got to the deepest
depths of nil. It faces the future with the advantage of
having cut down its dividend in the bad times instead of
starving its maintenance account Apart from the de-
bentures, it has no debts except current accounts (£754).
• • * *
McCracken’s City Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
Written Applied to
Dec., Loss. Off. Reserves. Deficit.
1896 ..£36,149 ... £159,768 ..£250,000
£250,000 (one-half the capital) written off.
Profit. Reserves.
1897 .. 1,002 .. £lOO2 .. 1,002
Losses. Deficit.
1898 .. 9,158 .. .. 8,156
1899 .. 23,904 .. 32,060
1900 .. 9,679 .. .. 41,739
1901 .. 3,960 .. 115,453 .. 161,152
Reserves.
£175,226 of capital written off .. 14,074
Deficit.
1902 .. 6,716 .. 14,074 .. 6,716
, Forfeited capital 3,957 .. 2,759
1903 .. 11,010 ... .. 13,769
Forfeited capital 260 .. 13,509
Profit.
1904 .. 547 547 .. 12,962
Loss.
1905 .. 8,095 .. 21,057
1906 .. 9,034 .. 30,091
The profit and loss account shows a loss of £7122 ; but a
semi-reserve account, built up out of forfeited shares,
has been reduced by £1912 ; and that makes up the total
loss shown above. The distressful concern, a nightmare
left over from the drunkest days of Victoria’s boom,
seems to be nearing its end. Its remaining share capital
is £284,688 (£38,000 preference ; £246,688 ordinary). But
£500,000 worth of debentures stand ahead of these, and
the interest upon them was not paid all last year. The
debenture-holders, however, held their hand, appar-
ently, pending the brewery amalgamation, long talked
of, but moving slowly to a head. The directors
of this co. say they “ believe an agreement will
be completed in the near future.” When it is com-
pleted, according to the arrangements made between the
debenture-holders and the directors of this co., the
M'Oracken brewery will be shut up, certain of the co.’s
assets will be turned over to the combine, shares in the
Trust Co. will be issued for these assets and the
M'Oracken share of the Trust's goodwill, these shares will
be cut up between debenture-holders and the two lots of
shareholders, and the debenture-holders will collar the
rest. As awhile ago they looked like collaring every-
thing, this is a little saved out of the wreck, though the
ordinary shareholders’ share isn’t likely to be exciting.
A few more figures :
1897. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Capital .. .. £250,000 £287,760 £287,820 £284,688
Debentures .. 600,000 500,000 500,000 500,000
Mortgages .. 99,996 Nil Nil Nil
Other liabilities .. 61,720 16,472 15,760 36,481
Freeholds, &c. .. 794,343 680,000 680,000 680,000
Sundry debtors .. 69,443 52,974 46,141 42,619
Stock, &c 49,084 58,167 56,380 68,459
Profit (working a/c) 26,102 27,915 19,584 19,441
Management .. 2,601 4,867 4,962 4,063
Run along the line, “ Profit (working account ”), deduct
management charges, then remember that the deben-
ture interest is £22,500 a year, and, unless an excessive
amount has been charged against revenue for deprecia-
tion (which isn’t likely), the real interest of anybody else
but the debenture-holders in the concern can be judged.
That is to say, under old and present conditions. The
brewery amalgamation, by cutting off unnecessary ex-
penses and knocking out competition, may possibly
greatly improve things from the shareholders’ point of
view. But it can’t improve them enough to make share-
holders even moderately cheerful. The drunk of the late
eighties and early nineties left grog-blooms that no
financial skill can pull out by the roots.
* * * *
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd., the co.
that runs the Melbourne papers which the late “Stormy ”
Winter so long steered, has a paper asset, “Goodwill of
Herald and Times, £198,000 ” ; and as goodwill is some-
thing that can’t be nailed down or fixed to the premises
with glue, or locked up in a safe, the only way to treat it
in a review of this sort is to disregard it. This naturally
doesn’t improve the look of the following table
Dividends.
f '— Written
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. off. Deficit.
(6 p.c.)
Mar., 1904 £3750 8 p.c. = £5OOO £164,131
Sept., 1904£13,873 3750 8 „ „ 5000 £720 159 728
Mar., 1905 14,887 3750 10 „ „ 6250 701 155 542
Sept., 1905 15,306 3750 10 „ „ 6250 706 150 942
Mar., 1906 13,846 3750 10 „ ~ 6250 722 147 818
Sept., 1906 16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,’530
The capital is £250,000, half preference, half ordinary;
all shares fully paid to £l. The weak point in the situ-
ation is the large amount of capital represented by the
intangible thing already alluded to. Still, though
nothing is being written off it (the amounts shown as
written off are for wear and tear of plant), the undivided
profit is mounting up ; there is now £50,000 of a reserve
fund, of which £39,909 is in deposits and public securities
and. the balance in the office property, After paying
sundry creditors and the current div. the capital is repre-
sented as follows: — r
Freeholds and fittings ~ ~ £31,360
Machinery ~ ~ 29,319
Stock (cost)av .. ~ ~ ~ 9,400
Outstanding accounts ~ .. 9,020
Public securities , . ~ ~ 4,910
Deposits and cash . ~ ~ 23,461
Goodwill .. .. ~ 142,530
Total ~ ~ .. £250,000
The amount written off machinery and plant amounts to
just about 5 per cent, per annum. Herald shares are
about the only Australian newspaper co.’s stock regularly
trafficked in on ’Change; ordinaries stand at 355. 6d,,
worth £5 128. Bd. per cent, as an investment; prefs.
stand at 255., which gives a return of £4 16s. per cent.
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co., Ltd. (Sydney
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1901 2972 7J p.c. = 2784 188 8,627
Dec. , 1901 .. 5010 8 „ „ 2972 2038 10,665
June, 1902 .. 4873 8 „ „ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec., 1902 ~ 5913 8 „ „ 2972 2941 15,507
June, 1903 .. 6048 10 „ „ 3717 2331 17,838
Dec,, 1903 .. 6484 10 „ „ 3720 - 2764 20,602
June, 1904 .. 5748 10 „ „ 3721 2027 22,629
Dec., 1904 .. 5543 10 ~ ~ 3722 250 1571 24,200
June, 1905 .. 5606 10 „ ~ 3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905 .. 4469 10 ~ „ 3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906 .. 4398 10 „ ~ 3726 672 26,605
Dec., 1906 .. 3723 10 „ ~ 3726 26,602
Times are too good for the Mont de Pi4te, and it is just a
question whether the 10 per cent, ought to be kept up.
Certainly the co. for many years paid 10 per cent., but a
good deal of that was after the bank smashes. Later on,
when things began to get normal again, the dividend
had to come down. In the time of drought and stress
profits jun ped up once more, but they have been steadily
creeping ajwn 1903. The co. has very nearly ai
much lent out as . j had in 1903 (£82,001 as against
£88,400), but it can’t get the same interest, no doubt on
account of keen competition. Quite a lot of highly-
respectable people who can’t stand getting a 3£ p.c.
return are financing casual money-lenders, who in turn
finance (and often fleece) the sort of people that used to
drop into the old reliable “Monty Peet.” Also in the
natural order of things expenses have moved up. Mean-
time, as business hasn’t increased, the undivided profits
are sufficient, along with the capital, to make all the
advances called for; so the deposits, which stood at
£12,200 at the end of 1903, have been reduced to £2950
practically the only public liability the co. has.
* ♦ * *
Queensland Meat Export and Agency Co.
Dividends and Added to Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividend-Tax. Reserves, serve*.
1896.. £1,040 Nil £lO4O £33,660
1897.. 8,189 Nil 8,189 41,849
1898.. 11,011 Nil 11,011 52,860
1899.. 47,340 10 per cent. = £11,474 35,866 88,726
1900.. 75,050 10 „ „ 11,474 63,576 152,302
1901.. 39,480 10 „ „ 11,474 28,006 180,308
1902.. 72,308 20 „ ~ 22,949 49,359 229,667
Forfeited capital .. 240 229,907
1903.. 52,793 10 per cent. = 11,474 41,319 271,226
Loss.
1904.. 9,472 Nil 261,754
Profits.
1905.. 20,330 Nil 20,330 282,084
1906.. 22,207 Nil 22,207 304,291
It is a gamble, and no strong current of luck has vet
turned this co.’s way. Yet it seems as though the eo
ought to have done better. Up to 1902 it didn’t do
much but buy stock and freeze them. Then in 1903 it
put about £150,000 (nearly all borrowed money) into
Northern stations. The co. seemed to have bought just
at the right time ; since 1903 it has reported fine seasons
every year. As a meat-works co., the high prices of
stock would have killed its profits. As a big station
owner, however, the high prices ought to have played
into its hands. The net result is only very moderate;
but, then, we don’t know what loss in the meat-works
business the squatting business may have had to make
up. Of course, there is also the tremendous swag of in-
terest to hump. This shows how the debt has moved
1902. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Overdraft .. Nil £118,728 £72,400 £119,861
Creditors, se-
cured .. £26,647 72,379 56,812 41,139
Creditors, or-
dinary .. 20,136 27,043 20,998 61,534
£46,783 £218,150 £150,210 £222,534
This is apart from drafts against consignments. The in-
crease of debt for the year thus amounts to £72,324,
represented on the other side mainly by sundry debtors
and unsold products. Interest and insurance, lumped
together, cost £12,073 last year. The share capital is
£109,279. Considering the size of the debts and of perish-
ableassets, that looks ridiculously small. Certainly there
are the reserves. But £102,056 of those (including £14,542
added during the year, reckoned in with the profits in
the table above) is a depreciation reserve ; and it is more
than probable that some or all of that is merely a set-off
to actual depreciation. The position, anyhow, is that
the co. has £284,358 in factories, &c., which at present
are unprofitable, and as an asset they can’t count for
much ; so the reserves for the time being may beregarded
as nominal. The squatter has the habit of bursting into
sudden affluence, and this co. may do that, but it isn’t
wise to build too much on it. The co. ought to have
done some of the bursting before this. The best consola-
tion shareholders can get is that they may yet make a
good recovery this way, whereas if they had been relying
only on the meat-works the situation by this time would
have been almost ghastly.
The Sydney Tobacco Co. (Sydney) is one of
the little concerns which are making a game struggle
against a vast competitor. The New York and Brooklyn
Co. was founded in 1897 with a capital of £17,500, and a
deficit of £2119 represented by goodwill and other paper
assets. It did fairly well for a few years till the great
tobacco octopus spread its feelers but over Australia;
then it began to go to the bad. It altered its name to
the New York Tobacco 00. awhile ago and made some
other changes, but they didn’t make much difference.
Then during the year it changed its name to the Sydney
Tobacco Oo.—practically the old co. went out of exist-
ence and a new one arrived. As very often happens,
there is a chasm gaping between the accounts of the
new concern and the old one ; but as far as possible this
shows how it has been bridged :
Applied to
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1897 ..
1898 .. £2603 10 per cent. =£1625 £978 1141
1899 .. 1520 10 „ ~ 1500 20 1121
1900 .. 2111 10 „ „ 1500 611 510
Reserves.
1901 .. 2318 10 „ „ 1500 818 308
1902 .. 1432 10 „ ~ 1500 240
Deficit.
1903 .. 445 6 „ „ 796 lll
Loss.
1904 .. 1110 Written off, £458 1679
1905 .. 1127 Written off, 3274 6OBO
May, ...
1906 .. .280 Written off, 776 7136
Capital written down from £17,500 Reserves,
to £8750, leaving reserves of .. 1614
Dec., Profit.
1906 .. 238 238 1852
There is some doubt about the result of operations for
the earlier half of last year, but that is apparently how
things stand ; if the loss was less the amount written off
was more, so it can stand at that. Unfortunately, the
new co. starts off with a debenture debt to the bank
(£3775) ; there may be a great deal of money in Australia,
but apparently it isn’t available under exisiing conditions
for a deserving industrial concern of this sort. However,
apart from that, it has a clean start, and it sets out on its
little way with a blessing.
* ♦ » •
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £3776 7 per cent. =£3719 £57 £5,522
June, 1902.. 3742 7 „ „ 3790 5,474
Dec., 1902.. 6453 7 ~ „ 3937 2516 7,990
June, 1903.. 4724 7 „ „ 4153 571 8,561
Dec., 1903.. 6495 8 „ ~ 4997 1498 10,059
June, 1904.. 5366 7 „ ~ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904.. 6782 7 „ „ 4768 2014 13,031
June, D 90.5.. 548| 7 „ „ 4812 672 13,703
Dep., 1905.. 7229 7i ~ „ 5270 1959 15,662
June, 1906.. 7474 7f „ „ 5465 2009 17,671
Dec., 1906.. 8014 7j „ „ 5622 2392 20,063
The urikpown quantity is the amount written off for
depreciation. At the end of Pecember, 1901, the fixed
investments were in the balance sheet at £116,072 ; now
they are in £184,535, an increase of £68,463, partly
provided by undivided profit (reserves), partly by new
capital (£43,733), partly by new debts. It is possible,
however, that various extensions have been paid
for with revenue set aside to cover depreciation; but
nothing definite can be said one way or the other. A gas
GO, in a rapidly-expanding place like North Sydney can
go on hiding away profits for years without detection ;
and just as easily a gas co. can for years go on failing to
provjde for renewals, and paying more dividends than it
ought to, without detection. Investors evidently believe
that this co. is doing the former ; for they are paying 41s.
for 20s. shares, which gives a return on present dividend
of £3 13s. 3d. per cent., and wouldn’t give a 5 per cent,
return even if the div. were put up to 10 per cent, per
annum. Though the profit (including additions to re-
serve) last year showed about 11 per cent, on the average
capital alone, this is discounting the future with a ven-
geance. Some day the eagerness with which investors
rush to buy into concerns that supply' nece-sary things
like lighting will make the public think ; and then there
may be trouble.
* • * *
Christchurch Meat Co. (M.L.), which has had
an erratic career for some time, ended a highly profitable
year on Oct. 31st. It wiped out a profit and loss debit of
£14,494, spent £15,033 on replacements and renewals, and
carried forward £43,164, after paying interest on £173,500
of debentures. Share capital is £165,921 ; after paying 8
per cent, dividend, the reserves are £54,337. Including
£19,918 drawn against consignments, &c., and £173,500
of 5 per cent, debentures, the liabilities are £264,820;
assets are plant, buildings, &c., £369,646; consignments
and debtors, £127,692 ; cash, £678. A larger share capi-
tal would probably be an advantage, though two or three
years like the last would end the need of it.
* * * *
At the half-yearly meeting of the Sandhurst
Trustees 00. (Vic.) the chairman supplied a want in the
co.’s report by giving particulars of the trust funds. The
total is £1,283,943. The commission (“ after providing
for contingencies ”) was £3977; so the cost of the co.’s
services averaged 6s. 3d. per cent, of the capital value of
the estates, and of that amount 3s. lid. per cent, was
absorbed by expenses.
*. * »
The usual plausible yarn was told at the annual
meeting of Oobar Gold Mines, Ltd., in London. “The
co. has been in existence some years, but in one sense is
at the commencement of its career ; the past has been
devoted to mining and milling a laijge body' of oxidised
ore which overlaid the mine as it exists to-day.” Which
was a pleasant way to put it—the oxidised ore was a sort
of overburden ! Fortunately there was a shareholder on
hand who, in effect, said “Rats!” and added that the
proposition which had just been put before shareholders
as though it were a new one was the same old
proposition that had been before them for 10 years.
Which w r as rock-bottom truth ; the directors have known
for years what was under the free-milling ore, but, instead
of tackling the problem it presented at the same time
as they tackled the free ore, they waited for something to
turn up ; and in mining things don’t often turn up—
they have to be dug up. C. M. Rolker reported on the
mine six months ago; practically all he could tell the
directors was to make the experiments which ought to
have been in progress for the past six or eight years.
He estimated 101,000 tons of ore below the second level;
but since then there have been good developments at the
third level, and at the fourth also, though the copper
contents are lower there. Experiments with the ore are
being made in Europe, and there is mention of a report


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Has
Unca 1 led Capital « £975*000
Perpetual Deposit
with Govt* • 20*000
Reserves - - - 20*500
£1,021,500
As SECURITY for its
Management of Trust Estates
under Wills, Intestacies,
Marriage Settlements, and
Trust Deeds of Every
Description.
2,4» Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
being available this month. The co. has £62,373 cash
after paying outstanding accounts, and that is some-
thing handy to go on with. This represents all that is
left of profit from the chairman’s “ overburden.” The
capital is £176,407, and no dividend has ever been
paid.
• • • •
From a Broken Hill man : “There is something
pathetic in the ‘discovery’ that Block 14 hasn’t really
found anything much at the 600 ft. level. When the
make-believe of a continuous body extending into B.H.
I’rop.’s Block 13 was pricked, an attempt was made to
bolster up the development, so that favored holders might
have time to get out. But the scheme didn’t work too
well, and the market tumbled much too early. As a
matter of fact, the 600 ft. ore body is little more than a
narrow pocket, with probably no depth. If Block 14
doesn’t get the eastern vein, what is it going to do for
ore ? The present development must have been relied
on to balance extraction, and it has failed to do
so. The ascertained width of the shoot at the
lower level is 18ft., and from that has to he deducted
about 2ft. for an intrusion which extends for the whole
length of the body. Of course, there is a chance of the
ore body making wider at the 700 ft., and the shaft will
be k sunk to that depth. But, from present appearances,
the shoot is likely to bottom in less than another 100 ft.
If things don’t alter very shortly Block 14 will find it
difficult to keep its mill going.”
* •* -* •
It has been entirely a paper reputation that
Block 14, Broken Hill, has had during the past 18 months.
The shameless booming began with the purchase of a big
block of shares at dirt prices. Two years ago the old
shares stood at 12s. and the preference shares at 12s. 3d. ;
and nothing was found subsequently to justify one-
quarter of the jump to 355., which gave the mine a value
of £350,000. On the estimates, made three months ago,
the mine, so far as ore, &c., in sight go, was worth not
more than £120,000. And it is not a mine as to which
large additions can be safely made on account of probable
developments. The deeper workings have always proved
unsatisfactory, and there was no reason to expect any-
thing better from the 600 ft. level. Block 14 joins on the
B.H. Prop, at the latter’s northern end, and the northern
end of the B.H. Prop, has been explored much deeper
than 600 ft., with results that have always been dis-
appointing.
* * * *
While Block 14, Broken Hill, is bewailing the
disastrous absence of sulphide ore bodies, the South mine
is revelling in them. From a shaft which is being sunk
near the boundary of the South Blocks a crosscut east
has gone through a nice lode of from good to high-grade
ore close to the shaft. This is a good thing for the South
Blocks, which will probably get the lode at its 700 ft. level.
* * * *
The British is another Broken Hill mine which
is depending a good deal on the erratic eastern vein.
There is still a prospect of sulphide and carbonate ore
bodies being found near’Block 14 boundary, and a good
deal of attention is being given to that possibility. Block
14 is at present working a sulphide lode at the 300 ft.
within 10ft. of the British boundary.
* * * 0
Both the Zinc Corporation and the Gillies Co.
have recently altered their style of zinc-extracting pan
from their original variety to something more like the
Delprat pans. But even the Delprat pan is far from per-
fect, and has recently been modified. De Bavay’s zinc
plant on the North mine hasn’t lately been as successful
as it was hoped it would be, and some changes are being
tried.
* * * *
The judgment given in favor of the Broken Hill
Prop, by Justice A’Beckett in Victoria knocked'Potter
zinc-process shares from shillings to pence. But there’s
a fighting crowd, headed by David Syme, behind Potter ;
and, on the chance that the venue will be shifted to
N.S. Wales, shares recovered to 2s. The idea seems to be
that, though the B.H. Prop, is a Victorian co., the
Potter people may get an injunction to stop the use of
the patent process in N.S. Wales.
» * • •
Past four months’ work at the Harden gold
mine (N.S.W.):—
Ore Working Approxi-
Mined, Costs, mate
tons. Revenue, per ton. Profit.
October .. 324 £1063 £1 18 1 £445
November .. 631 2120 1 8 5 1218
December .. 874 2589 1 4 8 1555
January .. 1053 3735 19 11 2687
That is a fine record. The cost per ton (itemised better
than that of any other gold mine in N.S.W. or Queens-
land) has now been got down to 9s. 4d. for mining, 6s.
lOd. for milling, and 9d. for sundries, including city office
expenses and income tax. The balance is for cyaniding.
* » » *
For the half-year, to the end of December, the
Harden mine produced £10,587 worth of gold at a cost
of £4560, exclusive of depreciation (£545), making a net
profit of £5482. After paying £2500 during the half-
year, in two divs. of 6d. each, and £3418 for the new
plant, &c., there remained £lOOl cash in hand on Decem-
ber 31st. Six months before that, the cash was £1278.
The ore reserves on December 31st were estimated at
8574 tons, worth £4 17s. 7d. per ton ; this is exclusive of
low-grade stuff, partly expos din what is known as No.
3 ore-shoot. The profit for January, working under what
may now be regarded as normal conditions, was £2 11s.
per ton. That, exclusive of slimes, would give a value
for the present ore reserves of £21,864, or Bs. 9d. per
share. As present market value is 305., speculators have
heavily discounted future possible developments. Just
now the principal work outside ore-breaking is the
sinking of the main shaft; it is down nearly 300 ft. When
that point is reached the reef will he probed for. If it is
where it is expected to be it will be cut about the end of
this month. It is not much use discussing what it is
likely to be, for Harden reefs had not put up a reputation
hitherto for pertinacity ; but if it maintains its size there
will be 20,000 tons between this and the level above.
That, however, is a gamble, and the Harden isn’t run on
gambling principles—the market can do enough of that
sort of thing.
* * * *
The Wyalong Gold Mines, Ltd., has been
formed to work the Called Back, a seven-acre lease,
about two miles north of Wyalong (N.S.W.). Capital,
£2OOO ; 100 shares of £2O each. For pegging the claim
out afresh and applying for a lease the vendor takes 25
paid shares. The Called Back, which was worked with
indifferent, success in the early days, has been blessed by
a report from manager Duncan, of the Golden Fleece. It
is proposed to sink a serviceable shaft 250 ft. and erect
hauling machinery. The stone is friable and only re-
quires battery treatment. The best that can be said
for the Called Back at present is that it is worth another
trial, and that it won’t cost much to give it what it
deserves.
• * • *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) should be getting near
Smith’s reef, which the management is driving for at the
17th level. The reef is small, and when smallest it seems
to be at its best. The peculiarity of reports from Hill-
grove mines is that gold is rarely referred to. Baker’s
Creek blossomed out with some rich crushings, but it was
done so quietly that the market nearly forgot to spurt,
people having their attention on Cloncurry and other
places a long way off. The winze being sunk from No. 16
to 17 level on Smith’s reef will prove the continuity and
value of the reef one way or the other. If the co. has any
gold it is modest about it. But silence doesn’t neces-
sarily imply poverty, for, with a narrow reef and short
erratic shoots of gold, there are a lot of poor places.
Meantime, the rich stuff mined on the boundary has
helped to tickle a few people’s imagination.
* * * •
Canbelego copper mine, which kept its original
owner going without heavy labor for years, but was
practically abandoned in 1905 and 1906, promises to do
very well for its new owners, a syndicate of 100 shares.
From the old workings, whose greatest depth was 90ft.,
over £lOOO worth of copper was won by John Saunders.
The syndicate started a new main shaft, and struck the
lode at 100 ft., and there is already about eight tons of 20
per cent, ore at grass, won from the last few feet. At
time of writing there is a strong body of rich ore showing
right across the Bx 4 shaft, and indications point to an
early change to sulphides. Mine is situated six miles
from Mount Boppy ; £5 per share has been paid, and the
shares are now marketable at about £l7O. There is a lot
yet to be done in the way of development before anything
definite can be said of the mine’s future, but what has
been done gives encouragement enough for a fair-sized co.
to he already talked of.
• * * »
Canbelego North, of 100 acres, was floated in
Sydney and Cobar into a co. of 1000 shares with a nominal
capital of £lO,OOO. It adjoins the Canbelego, and also
has the north end of Canbelego West, and is in the best
position to participate in whatever is going. Further, a
costeen on the strike of the Canbelego lode, put down by
Brookman and party some five years ago, shows an out-
crop similar in appearance to that in the parent mine ;
this is about 500 ft. from the latter’s main shaft. The
co. will start to work promptly ; if it turns out all right
it will be a good thing, not only for itself, but for the
Canbelego, too.
• * * *
No matter what the position of the mine, there
is no doubt that, in the Melbourne market, a bald-headed
gamble is going on in shares in South German, Maldon
(Vic.). Just before Christmas, values stood at 16s. ; last
week, they touched 555. From the time shares were
bought at 15s. there has been more than a faint suspicion
that a neat little Maldon. coup was under way. Now
there is the certainty that some Melbourne-made copper
and silver-lead profits have gone to “ country yokels.”
The nipped, who have oversold, look as blue as
the Maldon rock, but they have to stand the volleying.
Their entrenchments seenied safe, too. Here was a reef,
only just cut, on a line that at depth has provided such
dreary duffers as the South German Extended and Derby
United. The lode where worked by the German
itself was not good enough to go on with, and that co.
was not over-flush of cash. Here surely was good
“ bear ” ammunition. But the stone cut has panned out
nearly an ounce. This and the popularity of the mine
routed the hears, who can only now growl at a safe dis-
tance. The co. reports treating 165 tons of stone for
1520 z. of gold ; 10 stamps are at work, and some 20 days
have been taken over the crushing. This means less than
a ton a day, which would be slow even on Pentridge
“bluey,”and is much slower on the Maldon blue-stone.
Why, too, is such a splash made over the gold in the
concentrates and tailings before it is won ? Assay values
there are not always realised. The same thing happened
over the South German Extended. And look at the claim
to-day. After all, even if the gold in the concentrates
and tailings is thrown in, 165 tons have been handled
for 2770 z. Yet on such a drop in a big battery bucket,
scrip has been lifted from 15s. to 555. There may be a
reason, but the mine doesn’t yet supply it.
* * * *
Port Arthur is out Linton way, and that is not
far from Ballarat. Scores of thousands have been spent
thereabouts in reefing, but without hitting on a mine that
lives in the memory, like the Jubilee at Scarsdale, or the
Birthday at Berringa. Still, Port Arthur is a good deal
more than a promise. A shoot of stone opened out at
100 ft. has put the co. on the dividend list owing to the
usual Ballarat hurry to get there. Instead of paying
divs., directors should have earmarked the money for a
decent plant to enable sinking to be done. More than
that, sinking ought to have been hustled along, new
plant or poor plant. The position of the mine is
that there is a proved shoot nearly 300 ft. long at
No. 1 level. Stone has also been cut at 200 ft. As it is
nothing novel for mines in this district to get decent
gold near the surface, the gamble starts at this point. A
decent mine at Linton would revive prospecting in a
district that should not always draw a blank. Luck,
then, to the Port Arthur !
* * * *
Even though “Monty” Grover has left Mel-
bourne to liven up stodgy S.M. Herald, there’s one
imaginative soul still on the Argus staff. The “ horse ”
reporter used to be the general stand-by. Now it is the
mine “ expert.” This one was turned loose with Gover-
nor Talbottle up at Moclort the other day, visiting Bull’s
deep-lead shows. So he lit out in a new style “Down
into the depths where this romantic fight between the
tireless energy of man and the subterranean river had
been waged, the Governor and his party descended.
Below, astrong stream of water, Bft. wide and Ift. deep,
was coursing along the drive. Everywhere was the
sound ' of falling water. But the bore pipes
that a few weeks ago were thundering water
down from the intermediate : levels were dry or
dripped mere lazy trickles.” Worse piffle hasn’t
been talked about deep leads even in London. Bores
don’t thunder water at any time, and when they run
down to a lazy trickle you don’t get a stream coursing
along a drive. A pressure of 301 b. to the square
inch is not much of a mouthful unless you are
new at the game, or have the bore running on the
top of your head to cool off the champagne luncheon.
The one straight par in the tale creeps in at the end:
“ In the working faces the water fell from every point
like a tropical shower.” That’s it. The water isn’t
beaten, and Bewick-Moreing’s new pumps couldn’t have
got it down to the point talked of unless the old plant
had been at work for years. Even now only a bit of the
lead is drained, and it will take 12 months, if not more,
to get to work in the wash.
* * * *
Queensland is rushing cash into the “ground-
floor ” specs, of the Etheridge. Reliable information is
to the effect that the railway will be started immediately
after the wet season, which ordinarily means the end of
March. Present wet season, however, is running a bit
late in many parts of Bananaland. The Etheridge is
Dopularly known as a goldfield, but some of the patient
ones have been holding good things and bad things in
copper, silver, lead and tin ; and it seems quite possible
that the industrial-metal shows will make a name for the
field when it gets a railway. The gold propositions have a
fair start, though, and will have the backing of men
to whom gold mining is not new. G. D. Miles and Co.,
of Charters Towers, are already on the job, while an
apparently harmless little float took place, the other day,
with a board consisting of Robert Philp, G. C. Willcocks,
Robert S. Archer, William Maxwell, and James Stewart.
Understood that this group has something good on the
Etheridge, and as Willcocks leaves for London almost at
once, knowing ones are putting two and two together.
Maxwell, who has stuck to the Etheridge through thick
and thin, and has fought its battles in the House,
deserves something after his years of toil. The latest
report is that Miles and Co. have taken options over John
Candlish’s properties.
* • * •
Consider the slump of the Brilliant Extended,
and you get some idea of the way the Charters Towers
market plays ping-pong with its principal producers. At
the close of 1904 the Extended was worth £117,500.
Then a bit of a boom happened along towards the end of
1905, and shoved it up to £317,292. At present it is down
to £131,250, with the glass still falling. Although nothing
in the mine warranted the high value reached towards
the close of 1905, subsequent disappointments do not
justify the recent knock-out. At November last the ore
reserves were estimated at 90,000 tons. The battery says
the average value of stone treated was £2 16s. per ton.
Costs were £ll4s. 6d. per ton, including development.
On those figures there should be somewhere about
£92,250 clear profit actually in sight; and no information
has been given to lead shareholders to believe that the
ore reserves have been encroached upon. Yet the market
value is only £131,250.
* * * *
December returns from Charters Towers made
it look like a good gold field, but some of the gloss came
off when the January returns were published. December
saw £32,800 paid in dividends; for January only £2875
could be squeezed out. Calls for December amounted to
£9159 ; January took £B6OO. In January, 1906, the divs.
amounted to £B6OO.
* * • *
The Victoria and Caledonia Block is easily the
most consistent Chatters Towers “caller” since the
Vesuvius put up its shutters. It has announced its 82nd.
Then comes the Ruby United with its 63rd. Queen Cross
Block has made 48, and the Deep Levels 41. Wallis’ had
almost enough saved up once to pay a dividend, but
things went against the co., so it made 32 calls instead.
* * * *
One Central Queensland show which has all the
symptoms of a mine is the Fitzroy. Originally it was
the Mt. Chalmers, an auriferous copper proposition,
which followed the usual Queensland course of erecting
a smelter before finding the ore. Capt. Osborne, in
conjunction with Philip Charley, picked up the derelict,
and, after the furnace and s rplus plant had been got rid
of, they set to work systematically to see what the
property was stuffed with. Result, a very big copper
deposit proved down to 200 ft. Values will probably
run slightly over 3 per cent, copper, 4dwt. gold,
and 2oz. silver, through many thousand tons of
ore. It looks a big thing, and has been inspected
and sampled by Dr. Jack. His report should
be available this Week or next. Mt. Chalmers is
only about three miles from rail, and is close to the
Fitzroy River, on which Rockhampton is situated.
Treatment of the ore will demand careful metallurgical
investigation, and economic handling of both ore and
fluxes is required. Given this and a big tonnage (which
may be reasonably expected), there should be money in
the Fitzroy.
* » * *
Glassford Creek (Q.) is in a bad way ; smelting
is not likely to be resumed for three months, and the
chances are that it will he much longer. Meantime the
staff has been practically disbanded. Dr. Bayley, the
general manager; is in Brisbane, and it is doubtful if he
will return. One tremendous drawback has been the
transport difficulty ; this took a lot of organising to even
partially overcome, and all that organising (which means
expense) will have to be done over again. “Develop-
ment work ”is still going on at the mine—“ development
work ” is the nice way of putting it.
*■ m ■* *
“ Gossan ” : Don’t agree with The B. that the
Lady leases are the pick of the properties of the Queens-
land Exploration Co. at Cloncurry. The Great Australian
Freehold is the boss property; away back in the late
80’s, when copper smashed, the co. had no railway nearer
than 400 milts, and had to bring in supplies and export
matte via Normanton, 270 miles away. It smelted ore
of an average of 23 per cent, copper, bub low prices and
high charges blew it out. With a railway it must talk,
and the attempts to open what is really a new mine are
attended with good developments already.
* * * *
Thus Warden Linedale, in Queensland reckoned
a very capable mining man, concerning Cloncurry : “The
ore in most instances occurs in pockets as bedded de-
posits, more or less lenticular. They follow the stratifi-
cation of the country, which is throughout a metamor-
phosed sedimentary rock, more or less on edge, and in
some instances nearly vertical. The ore, which is mostly
high grade, appears to me to be impregnations that have
undergone a process of enrichment.” Warden Linedale
is evidently expressing a well-balanced opinion, but it is
not what the boomster is saying. Note, however, that
the Warden goes no further than “ most instances.” It’s
the very existence of the few exceptions that makes
Cloncurry so dangerous for the punter, who sees them
and then goes in blindfolded.
* * # *
The effort to shift the management of Dalziel’s
to Irvinebank, near the mine, in North Queensland, has
dropped through for the time, owing to some informality
for a start. The show itself is sick. Instead of going 8
or 10 percent., as the surface stuff suggested, the last
crushing gave only 3‘7 per cent., and the concentrates
are of wretchedly poor quality.
* * * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, will shortly regain
its old position as premier profit-earner of the State. All
three working shafts are being deepened, and the direc-
tors have decided to continue the main shaft to 4000 ft.,
or double its present depth. Once this great work is
done, the future of the Golden Mile will be measurable.
The accumulated tailings and slimes are to be re-treated
in Ridgeway filter plants. The ore tonnage will be
shortly increased, though the profit will not be so much
altered, as the grade will be reduced.
* * » *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), shows no
improvement at the thirteenth level. The north drive
has been extended to 785 ft., and the last 28ft. driven
has averaged only 6s. 4d. per ton. This level, practically
from start to finish, has been a dead failure. The
attempt to locate a fresh reef to the east has also proved
a failure, as the bore hole has encountered nothing of
value for a distance of 600 ft. Manager Lovell is being
transferred ; his place is to be taken by Hollow, who
years ago managed the Brown Hill.
* -re * m
Kanowna (W. A.) may have a revival. A per-
sistent Scot named Rollo has been boring for the past
eight years to try to locate the continuation of the once
famous north lead. To give him a chance the Govern-
ment made a reserve of 300 acres, on which Rollo has been
boring. Some time ago, Rollo’s boring resulted in
locating a lode instead of a lead, and this apparently ran
up to 30ft. wide. A small syndicate was formed and a
shaft has now struck the body. According to assays
made at the School of Mines, it is payable, hut more work
will have to he done before this can be said with confi-
dence. It is certainly strange that at Darlot, Kurnalpi
and Kanowna, the three richest alluvial fields in the
State, no payable lodes have hitherto been found.
* * * *
“ Yigilans ” : Six months ago I wrote, “ Horse-
shoe Creek and Mount Todd (Northern Territory) will
some day be a tinfield.” The field was then an infant,
with 40 white men and 50 Chinamen. To-day there must
be nearly 400 Chinese, but only 28 Europeans. A second
battery (10 stamp) is nearly finished, and Chows are
pouring in. The gullies are being rooted out everywhere,
and Chinese in flowing garments are flying all over the place
in search of tributes, often “worked” through natural-
ised heathens. It is a great misfortune. No one would
think he was in an Australian town. Grass humpies are
everywhere, also drinking hells, bagnios and gambling
dens, until the place stinks in the nostrils of the clean-
living. There is no supervision ; no police are to be
found here. John Chinaman is master of the situation.
Mining is done without any inspection ; rich tin is found
by chasing leaders, but dead work or development is not
attempted. The wealth of the place will go to China.
And it is a rich field ; how rich it is hard to say.
* * » •
The north-east corner of Tasmania struck a
water-spout last week, and when the different mine
managers could get the rain out of their eyes, some of
them had to cast about for their barges and dredges.
Pioneer, Bradshaw’s Creek, came off worst, and no
wonder. The creek was backed out of the big ex-
cavation by a dam. Now there’s a lake, where the
ducks and geese paddle, and beneath them are hidden
three big pumping plants. Pioneer is the one Fatman’s
tin show in Tasmania, and Money Miller, Harvey Patter-
son, and Gibbs-Bright can stand the racket. Of course,
Weldbrook was hit. It wouldn’t he in the eternal fitness
of things if one of Northey’s shows wasn’t filling the
public eye. Last time it was the Briseis Extended ; but
Visick’s dam stood, and so saved the mine. Now it is the
Weldbrook, which is 6ft. under water.
* * * *
About the most idyllic spot in Maoriland is
that Sleepy Hollow known as Nelson, where there are
hop gardens and lovely girls, which girls are all waiting
because their natural companions have drifted away to
Wellington to get the wherewithal to furnish the dove-
cot. But there are indications that Nelson’s days of
sleep are numbered. In the Collingwood district there
are vast deposits of hematite iron ore, and they will pro-
bably be worked on a large scale at no very distant date.
The Cadman-Smith Co. and Turnbull, Wayne and Jones
are both making preparations to erect works. The
latter combination has already ordered its machinery,
and works capable of producing 100 tons of pig-iron per
day will occupy about 30 acres. A deep-water wharf is
to be erected, and a railroad two miles long will be laid
down to connect the works with the wharf. At present
Maoriland imports 300,000 tons of iron and steel per
annum, and the Turnbull, Wayne and Jones combination
says that not only will its works turn out that quantity
per annum, but it will have a surplus for export. The
co.’s pay-sheet will run to £30,000 for the first year, and
when this industry is in full blast, sleepy Nelson should
become one of the busiest places in the strenuous State.
Donnybtook: Thanks; Will keep in mind when
dealing with the matter..... A.C. C. : Information not
available Oxides : Nos. 1, 2 and 3 are not investments,
though No. 3 may be a good gamble. No. 4 looks good,
though there’s a liability of 10s. per share and a debt of
about £50,000.... .Investor : Commercial of Australia
(pref.), Manly Gas, Port Jackson Steamship, Q.N. Bank.
Tertiary : With scarcely an exception, North Queens-
land tin concerns are over-capitalised; they are fine
fields for small parties and first robbers.
* * • *
The outlook for the Adelaide backers of Smith’s
Creek (N.Q.) is not even as good as the returns would
suggest, because development isn’t keeping pace with
extraction, and it looks as though the ore were being
gouged out. Some of the great stopes in the mine don’t
appear to be any too safe ; and, though Captain Warren
is as good a miner as ever went north, he can't do the
work of a shift boss. Generally speaking, State mine-
inspection in these northern mines amounts to a mere
trifle; yet many of the mines there need a good
deal more watching than old-established concerns at
Charters Towers, &c. The struggle to do without timber,
for one thing, amounts almost to a disease. Smith’s
Creek has been almost guiltless of timber; but recent
warnings have induced the owners to do something more.
• « * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.* |
* * * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [D.]
* * * »
The Insurance Freeman (Liverpool), in its
issue of Ist September, wrote :—“ Quietly, unobtrusively,
but none the less surely, The Colonial Mutual Life
Office is becoming a most important factor in the Insur-
ance World. To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000
in 32 years is in itself a performance unique in the history
of British ordinary life offices, and this achievement is
but one among many of the accomplishments of the
society.”*
* # » *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• • * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—WriteG. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* • * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
*■* * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
•* * » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• » • •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cose
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
• * • •
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby" Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street. Mel-
bourne.*
•-* * •
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * • »
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
m * * #
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.* '
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 2£).


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOOK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BpC. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
fd
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagen. Ltd.
foreign stamp importers,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
i
**V(s
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &C.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Railway-man Taifc will continue to smoke
his cigars in Victoria for another four years. The
woman-in-charge, and the funeral of the over-
worked stationmaster, and the passenger carriage
standing on its bead are interesting phenomena
which Victoria will not have to forego.
TOUCHING MR. REID’S LOVE OF
THE SEA.
Denham has joined the Philpite gang in
Queensland, and they have formed a joint party.
Their policy is “to develop the great natural
resources.” Also they approve generally of the
Ten Commandments.
The cheque for £282,581 11s. 3d., bearing
the signature of Thomas Gill, Under-Treasurer,
which, on Feb. 5, was paid by the Government
for the Adelaide trams, is the biggest one ever
drawn in South Australia. Probably not many
bigger ones have been drawn anywhere in the
Commonwealth. Tom Price, the Labor Premier,
is proud of his connection with this record finan-
cial transaction.
It’s an encouraging fact that the parsons
don’t all join in the deplorable insectarian cam-
paign. That wild no-Popery fanatic, Rev. Merveil-
leux Archdall, who raises his voice like a goat in
the West to urge people to hatred, malice, clamor,
scoffs and uncharitableness, has been pulled up
with a sharp turn by Rev. S. H. Childe for in-
vading his parish, North Sydney, with insectarian
meetings.
Beazley, late Speaker of the Yic. Legis-
lative Assembly, and president of the Vic. Pro-
tectionist Association, is threatened with oppo-
sition at the coming State elections. His likely
opponent is a fellow-councillor, William Rain,
ex-Mayor of Collingwood. Rain, who will be the
Yellow-Jud. candidate, is an ex-Salvationist.
Collingwood Council contains no less than three
ex-Salvarmy men.
The Melbourne Building Trades Strike
Committee has struck a medal—a circular piece of
white metal with five 8’s and a 4 printed on it—to
commemorate the recent struggle for 44 hours a
week. The Bulletin’s idea is that eight eights
and a four ought to be printed on the other side—
to commemorate the State and municipal debt,
which the committee apparently reckons the
country can shift by working 44 hours a week.
Maoriland Premier Ward spoke straight
out to the 999 years’ leaseholders who are clamor-
ing to be allowed to acquire the fee-simple of
their leased land at the original valuation. “You
will never get any Legislature in the country to
grant anything of the kind,” he said. And then
he went on to say that, if this land was to be con-
verted into freehold, it would have to be revalued
and sold by auction to the highest bidder, so that
the rest of the community could have a chance of
acquiring it. This isn’t what the leaseholders
want. They stand on velvet as it is, and, like
most other privileged classes, have developed a
fine healthy appetite for further concessions.
The Federal Post Office promises another
boon —a Sydney to Melbourne telephone, with a
shilling rate for conversations. Under the State
regime this line was often mooted, and a ss. rate
was talked of. The Commonwealth will actually
supply this great convenience at a figure just one-
fifth of the old estimate.
N.S.W. Labor League President Fred
Flowers —himself a highly religiousman —referred,
the other day, to “ the devilish cry of religion in
politics.” He didn’t complain about religion,
but about the religious cry, or bellow, or howl,
and he explained the distinction as fully and
clearly as it could be explained. But Jud, of
Melbourne, professes to misunderstand Flowers,
and calls on “decent and religious men” to cut
loose from a party with such sentiments. It is
hard to believe that Jud really does misunder-
stand —he would be an awful fool if he did. It’s
just judding.
The virtuous indignation of G. Reid, at
the idea of postponing the tariff revision on
account of the Imperial Conference :
Surely those who have empowered the present Parlia-
ment to make changes in the direction of more efficient
Protection — and they are clearly in a majority in the
new House—surely they deserve better treatment than
that.
It is good to hear Greid, the Foreign-trader, call-
ing at the top of his voice for “more efficient
Protection,” and wanting to know why he doesn’t
get it right now. Suppose the country throws
out Deakin for slowness about “more efficient
Protection,” will Greid take on the job and sup-
ply the article ?
“Red Tape, junior ” :
Holliman, Premier Carruthers’ find for the Under-
Secretaryship at the N.S.W. Treasury, is a cause of
anxiety to Premier Joseph. His apparition at the Trea-
sury has ended all dissensions, sectarian and otherwise.
There is just one grievance now —the wrong done to the
Department by Joe when he practically declared it unfit
to supply its own temporary head. The aggrieved
Treasury people have united, and are fomenting an anti-
Joe feeling in the Public Service Association ranks, and
the mutterings of the storm were loud enough to make
Carruthers publicly announce that Holliman has no per-
manent lien on the billet. When the new P.S.B. can feel
its feet it will make a permanent appointment. Joseph is
reckoning on the Public Service vote next August; hence
his haste. Of course, if the new Board appoints little Holli-
man on the ground that he has worked the claim satisfac-
torily for half a year, Joe will say that the Board takes ajl
responsibility, and the appointment can’t be laid to his
door. But Joseph needn’t bother. He has lost the
Public Service vote, and wouldn’t regain it even if he
appointed Beelzebub to the Water and Sewerage Board
At Warrandyte (Vic.) the local miners
have beaten Bent’s stringent Sunday closing law
bv establishing a Pleasant Sunday Afternoon
Club. Members of the P.S.A.C. pay so much a
week, and with the money the executive
committee buys beer on Saturday. The
beer is drunk on the Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon. The club is at no expense
for rent, etc., as it meets in the open,
and guzzles its great hogshead before an
envious audience under the trees. Bent’s
officers are now busy examining the
Licensing Act through powerful glasses
to see if Sunday closing can be made to
apply to boozing in the open.
The Sydney papers seem to acquire much
cold comfort out of the news that the German
elections have resulted in the defeat of the Demo-
crats. They have got the Kaiser and George
Reid mixed up, and think that because some
Democrats have been defeated in districts with
unpronounceable names, it doesn’t much matter
now about Pumpkin Smith. And they also want
to know what Deakin is going to do about it.
The Deakin-Lyne Ministry has run up
against a small bit of luck. The great American
Oil Trust has already bumped against the Com-
merce Act. Shipments of oil have been landed in
Australia branded “ 150 test,” instead of “150
fire test ”as required by the Act. These have
been allowed in on the ground that at the time of
shipment the shippers were probably ignorant of
the law, but the Trust explains that it isn’t worry-
ing about the law, and threatens to stick its
salary-hook through the Act. The Australian
Foreign-trade press has all along declared the Act
to be unnecessary and useless, and Lyne could not
have better luck than a chance of a scrap with the
bloated Oil Trust. Such a fight would crystallise
public opinion in firm support of the Commerce
law and its authors.
“Buttery Bob” Philp was bound to fall
into the hands of produce-merchant Denham some
day. Philp, spineless and oily,
is so obviously in Digby’s line
of business.
MR. REID ON SECTARIANISM IN
POLITICS.
So far as political influence on votes is concerned, one
Cardinal Archbishop of Australia is worth one thousand
Tasmanian prelates, or even one thousand Australian
Primates.
“ If,” said Mr. Reid, pursuing his subject, “ Mr. Wat-
son and his friends will publicly appeal to the Cardinal to
cease dabbling in politics, and get his consent to do so,
I will engage to do the same, and get the consent of
every head of the other churches in Australia to do
likewise.”
George Reid (by his own statement of the casej :
“ You call off your dog and I’ll call off mine.”
It was seriously stated last week that
already 262 “regulations” and 386 “ordinances”
have been issued in connection with the N.S.W.
Local Government Act. All these rules and
regulations are supposed to show the shattered
local authorities how to carry out the Act, but
the shattered local authorities say that 648 of
them are too big a rush for a shattered local
intellect to cope with.
ALL THE SAME IN A HUNDRED YEARS.
Australia, from, a defensive point of view , looks
vent much the same as it did the day Captain
Cook landed—except that the niggers are now
white.
G. Reid is most clumsy when he thinks
he is most clever. Blowing up the embers of
religious intolerance, he suggests that if Watson
will ask Cardinal Moran not to interfere with
politics, he, G. Reid, will keep the Protestant
leaders from doing so. Now, Watson doesn’t pro-
fess to have the slightest control over the Car-
dinal, but, on his own showing, G. Reid keeps
the “Protestant leaders” on a string, and can
hold them or let them loose as he wills.
Jimmy Graham, who appealed to the
South Sydney electors against statesman Watson
on the ground that he (.Timmy) had been
very good to the poor in hospitals, and foil
(Jimmy did) with a bump at the poll,
now proposes that .Joseph Carrutheis should
amalgamate his blight with G, Reid’s rot,
and that they should in future be one political
disease, so to speak. A hat has Joseph done to
Jimmy ? Carruthers’ chances look very poor now
for the elections ; if he burdens himself with the
Reid incubus his name will be just Loam.
The N.S.W. Man on the Land heard a
rumor last week which made his hair stand up
under his faded hat. It was to the effect that, in
transferring the land-tax to the new Local
Government bodies, the £240 exemption had some-
how dropped down a hole. r lhe old tax did very
little indeed to discourage the accumulation of
great estates ; a £200,000 estate paid only about
one-tenth of a penny more per pound than a £2OOO
one and the difference didn’t discourage much.
But, if even that little bit of discrimination is
gone, then the Federal graduated land-tax had
better bustle some.
The Japanese training squadron is coming
South to make another batch of budding naval
officers familiar with Australian waters and
coastal defences. Brisbane is to be “honored
this time, and the South China Morning Post
puts it this way :
The visit will cause gratification in Brisbane, and will
serve as an excellent advertisement of the safety of Bris-
bane River, and its importance.
Yes, it is “safe” all right. One can already
almost hear the senior Monkey asking the junior
Monkey to note that there’s nothing in the way
of defences to be afraid of in this fool country.
Even this “ Freetrade ” Government in
Britain has leanings towards the creature
Protection. Announced that “ the Govern-
ment intends to revise the Patent laws
with a view to compelling foreigners pos-
sessing British protection to work their
Patents in Britain.”
If . there is any truth in the startling asser-
tion that multitudes of surreptitious Chows are
growing surreptitious opium along the banks of
certain rivers in York Peninsula, then Australia
requires a navy even worse than it was previously
aware of. At present there is absolutely nothing
to prevent the landing of whole cargoes of Sin Fat
on these northern shores; it is only a question
whether Sin Fat can escape notice when he gets
on land. Therefore a patrol of small swift armed
vessels is badly wanted on the north coast. It
is up to the Federal authorities to make inquiry,
and perhaps even to send their public ketch,
or whatever floatable thing they have, to
investigate.
London Graphic has just published a
large picture of the whole of the effective ships
of the British navy. With a couple of exceptions,
one looks in vain for the vessels of the Aus-
tralian squadron. They are apparently good
enough to defend Australia, but too^ beastly
obsolete to appear on a chart of the British navy.
Carruthers hasn’t gone fishing on Sundays
for nothing. Rule I. is: “When you cant
change your fishing grounds, change your bait.
He watched Reid at the Federal elections, and
now announces that that bait won t do, and he
won’t be Anti anything. G. Reid expresses his
disgust—naturally enough, because Carruthers
cackled his approval of the bait while the other
failure was fishing with it. But then who ex-
pected that Carruthers would have the pluck to
stick to even a brother worm that he had recom-
mended ?
“ Q. Laborite ” writes :
Re Worker editor’s comments on my quotations in
recent article. I expressly pointed out that the bomb-
shell ” language was not contained in a leading article,
but appeared over a certain literary pseudonym ; also,
that that kind of utterance was quoted by the Tory
press as the genuine opinions of a Labor journal —an
indication that I did not regard it as representing the
actual views of the editor. At the same time, it might
be pointed out that, right from the days of Lane and the
“Working Man’s Paradise,” it has been the custom of
Worker editors to occasionally expound their political
views in the form of literary sketches and stories. I
notice that the Worker editor offers no explanation of
the other quotations, viz. : No Gods or Dogs ad-
mitted,” “When the Labor movement hasto turn to
God for help, it will be God help it indeed,” The colored
alien’s goods can do us no harm.” These sapient dicta
were not embodied in story form.
When the Sydney
Hydraulic Power Co.
got its concession to
tear up the streets, it
was provided that the
co. should share any-
thing over a 10 per
cent, dividend with
the City Council.
Later on, when the
profits increased, the
co., seeing that some
of the profits were
made out of the sort
of engineering that is
done with a forge and
a hammer, floated off
the Sydney Hydraulic
and General En-
gineering Co. For
the half-year to June
last a dividend at the
rate of 20 per cent,
per annum, making
15 per cent, for the
year, was paid by that
co. Mayor Allen Tay-
lor thereupon took
steps to get part of
the Engineering Co.’s surplus over 10 per cent,
for the council, holding that the Engineering
Co. was covered by the Act. The Engineering
Co. countered by calling up ss. a share. The
shareholders will then have £22,600 in the
business, and 10 per cent, will call for the
same £2250 a year that it took 15 per cent, to
absorb before; so the hope of the City Council
vanishes in one act. A draughtsman has to get
up pretty early in the morning to frame a Bill
that Private Enterprise can’t punch a hole
through somehow.
London Daily Mail lately got hold of
some of George Reid’s political lies, and gave
them a fair amount of space. A sample :
The industries that the Socialists intended to nation
alise by way of a beginning were worth £1,000,000,000.
These are the industries which, according to
George the Wriggler, the Socialists proposed to
nationalise for a beginning only.. Apparently
there were lots of other industries to follow. Yet
the N.S.W. State statistics set down the value of
all the private lands, buildings, permanent im-
provements, live stock, furniture, household
goods, personal effects, machinery, tools, imple-
ments, shipping, mines, mining plant, merchan-
dise and produce in the Commonwealth at
£956,000,000. So, if the whole boiling were
nationalised, even down to Bill Smith’s old coat,
they wouldn’t come to the thousand millions that
George airily mentioned as a mere beginning.
The Daily Mail evidently didn’t look up any
book of reference to verify George’s tremendous
lie ; it just took the tremendous lie for granted.
A NERVOUS OLD GENTLEMAN.
UNCLE SAM : “ He's so all-fired narvous about
gun-play that he puts up his hands every
time I reach for a chaw of tobacker."
—Reproduced from Toronto World (Canada).
The ungainly stampede of Digby Denham
from the Democratic camp in Bananaland was no
surprise to students of that State’s politics. He
was a round peg in a square hole most of the time
he held office in the Morgan Cabinet, and an even
worse fit in the Kidston Administration, hrom
this time onward Denham will probably be known
in Queensland as Two Rats. He left Bhilp to
ioin Morgan and Kidston for the sake of office,
and he leaves Kidston to go back to Philp, appa-
rently in the hope of more office. The success of
the three Tory Senate candidates—Savers, Cnata-
way and Sledger—seems to have persuaded Digby
that there will be a Tory reaction at the btate
election also, and that the best thing is to cease
being a Democratic Minister and rush to quality
for a billet as a Tory one. But Digby, m addi-
tion to being Two Rats, goes back to Toryism
with the odium of having approved of the Dana
Monopoly Tax, and a lot of other progressive
measures (when he was sitting with Kidston, and
was only One Rat), and it is questionable it the
Tories will ever trust him. It is certain the
Democrats won’t. He is now m much the posi-
tion of Drake, and Drake couldn t be politically
deader than he is at present.
OPEN SESAME.— Hunyadi Janos Mater
is the “ open sesame ” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. millions of
human beings all over the world.
GEORGE AND JOSEPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since little Jupiter was nursed
By clattering: Oorybantes
This suffering planet has been cursed
By divers kinds of “antis.”
And, like Apollo’s noisy sons,
Our statesmen cause a clatter
With clamoring, brazen pros and cons
Containing little matter!
Our Liberals have no lack of gall,
But no Australian knows if
George has a policy at all ;
And ’twas the same with Joseph !
But Joseph says that he is tired
Of being “ merely anti,”
Which has with indignation fired
Don George on Rosinantb !
“ When one's in office,” murmurs Joe,
“ Not leader of a faction,
One must say either yes or no,
And have some plan of action ! ”
Great is the wrath of George to-day
That Joseph talks in that form,
Because 'tis possible he may
Be forced to frame a platform !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


CALLAGHAN BOOTS
Are made from the best thoroughly
solidified skins, both for Uppers and
Soles. The Uppers are so durable
that some of them have been re-
soled as many as six times before
giving out.
fd
You can SEE the
STYLE.
You can FEEL the
COMFORT.
Yon can PROVE
the LONGWEAR.
In Fine French Calf, 225. 6d.
In Tan - 235. 6d.
Post and Duty Free
TO ALL THE STATES,
INCLUDING W.A., for
23/6
IN TAN -
24/6
SEND FOR THE NEW
CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK.
POSTED FREE.
90 Illustrations.
WRITE
TO-DA Y
FOR
IT!
Through our Mail Order System, gentlemen
can have a pair of these Boots sent to them,
closely examine them, FIT THEM ON.
They can exchange them, or we can refund
their money. Oiir Mail Order Goods always go right.
CALLAGHAN&SON
395 George St., Sydney.
m
't
5^
H
r-*
LR
2>o
MA/v
PA WATtR)
QfcH Flat 3PRUIO*
jm>
& v r«
Lw * i"K>
/LANDS
OUKN6 1
'A SFA CO
0
The MODERN
HOSTESS. &
“ I give you * KOOMAH
SPA ’ ! Drink it. In ycur
whisky, in your wine, cr
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water tirm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
MALTHOID
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
SAN FRANCISCO in its up-to-date scheme for re-building, is listen-
ing to the Chief Inspector of the Fire Underwriters’ Bureau, who, as a
leading authority, SPEAKS OUT, and specifies MALTHOID as one of
the most satisfactory roofings against all risks. FIRE—STORM—RAIN.
We would like to protect you.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'CUmZ
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & 00.
JAMES SANDY & 00.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mm
liliii
m*
fe!«
mss
C3:2<
n
HP
fd
gd
WB
jMBMS
me^es
illwii®
ESTV 178 2
PHCENIX
Assurance Company of London
\\l PITT ST„ SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers),
LTD.
ROBERT WALTER MARTIN, Manager.
AT LAST !!
Standard Typewriter a t a
i
©
>*•
£
H
" *
m '■ *
BRITON
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High=Grade Machine.
Our "Direot Drive” Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
(KEY)
fdgsg
(s an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week without an instructor.
\Afyi4- r\ Ttk tiff 1/ ror P ctrtlcu,ctl 'S of our Free Trial
grf ftp I WilUJf offer. All our literature is Free.
Southern Sales Coy.,
6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GREY ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.


•V
% '*•
OF
4 Ga
Charles HEIDSEICK
CHAMPAGNE
IS IN THE BEST
CONDITION
Since Judkins there has been quite an
epidemic of “foxing” in and about Melbourne
parks and gardens, and along the silent sands
where couples settle to canoodle and smoodge in
the dark of the moon, and now the young man
takes a sling shot in his coat pocket as a precau-
tion against creeping moralists. Recently a
youth named James thought he had hit upon a
cosy corner in Albert Park sacred to himself and
Sarah, but after putting in several evenings there
he discovered a dark shadow lurking. Being a
small man and peaceful, he put up with the dark
shadow on three occasions, and then he invited
the co-operation of a combative friend for one
night only. In the retreat James donned a white
skirt, and posed as a damsel, and the pair waited
for the foxer to put in an appearance. He came
creeping, as usual. James and his friend did their
dash, landed on the curious intruder, and began
dealing out misery to him with both hands. The
moralist screamed with a shrillness that could not
be mistaken, and the avengers desisted, for the
creeping thing was a woman disguised in the
habiliments of man. What a power must
Juddism be, when it even leads a woman to risk
her life on all fours in the dark in the interests of
morality!
BEAUTY CHATS, by Helena Rubinstein. The
Structure op Your Skin. —You know, of course, that
your skin is pitted with myriads of little pores. But do
you know that the function of these pores is both to
breathe in pure air and to be the passage way for the
escape of waste products of the body ? If the pores are
clogged the skin is stifled. To ensure their activity they
must be cleansed and all impurities expelled. If not, a
“ bad complexion ” is certain, with a crop of wrinkles
and crowsfeet as its attendant. Now, Valaze first cleanses
the skin of all impurities, and then it sinks hungrily into
the pores and is absorbed by the skin cells, and gives
them nourishment. You’ll sometimes feel a tingling
sensation of the skin when you first use Valaze—this is
when your skin has been very neglected and the cells are
starved. And how quickly Valaze does beautify the com-
plexion—how it braces up the tired skin, making it as
clear and radiant as a child’s—soft and caressing as vel-
vet, smooth as satin. Your chemist sells Valaze in 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jars. Get a jar and see how it will improve your
skin. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure cures the
most obstinate cases ; approved by medical authorities.
2s. 6d., posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, beautifully
cleansing and purifying, made from almonds and rare
herbs, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair-killer, for the
home removal of superfluous hair ; won’t harm the most
delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe, 5s., postage
3d. If your chemist tries to press another Skin Food on
to you, write direct to me for Valaze, adding 6d. postage
extra. The Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Gollins-street, Melbourne.*
OYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY.—A. sub
scription to the above library secures for you the best
reading published either in England or America, whether
it be fiction, history, travel, biography, science,
reminscence, etc. More than sufficient quantities of all
the popular new books are always available to meet
requirements immediately. Lucas Malet’s “ Far Horizon,”
Percy White’s “ Eight Cousins,” Ralph Connor’s “ Doctor
of Crow’s Nest,” are just now the most popular novels,
while the history making Hohenlohe Memoirs and Bram
Stoker’s chatty life of Henry Irving hold first place
amongst the more solid readers. Any of these and thous-
ands of others may be had by any subscriber immediately
upon request. Town subscriptions range from £1 Is. and
£2 2s. per annum, and country rates for parcels of eight
volumes, sent as often as desired, range from £2 I2s. 6d.
per annum ; shorter periods and larger parcels at pro-
portionate rates. Catalogues and particulars posted to
any address upon application to Dymock’s Book Arcade,
428 George-street, Sydney.*
No One Escapes. —Every cold is an assault on
vitality ; every cough is a threat against life. Most
people realise this, and few would neglect such troubles
if they knew of a remedy that could be depended upon.
Senior’s Black Currant Balsam is such a remedy. It
contains all the rich flavor of the fruit, and is equally
good for children and adults. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
per bottle. Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street,
Sydney.*
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
ds
Dress Fabrigs
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 12, 1907.
My Dear Arini.—
There has been a mild epidemic of weddings
before the Lenten rigors set in, and the sackcloth
garment is put on (over the nice white silk things),
and the shovel-full of ashes is poured on the
bonnet. A pretty bride of last week was Miss
Agnes Hurley, of Bondi, who married Dr. Percy
Clifford, of St. Vincent’s Hospital. The bride’s
robe is described as “hand-woven Parisian gauze,
over ivory chiffon, with fine lace and seed-pearl
designs.” _ Three priests officiated, but consider*
ing the bride’s fair and honorable clothes, and the
bridegroom’s magnificent name, the case called
for a whole Cardinal. Now one priest is enough
when the bridegroom’s name is plain Hogsflesh
(pronounced “Hofley”).
The Union Club will celebrate its fiftieth anni-
versary with a banquet and a ball. When Pa
Pure Merino (who is a member of the Union)
was memorialised to' this effect at his private
house a few days ago, Mrs. and the Misses Pure
Merino read the tidings with great joy—but the
Ram of the household growled at the devilled
kidneys, and went out without kissing anyone
good-bye. The dinner will occur about the end
of this month. The ball, which will outroll any-
thing of the kind given before, is set down for
April.
Sydney can’t breathe normally till it learns if
The Engagement be a fact. Feminine Sydney is
afraid to leave home for fear of missing the
telephone message from its dearest friend (who
finds out everything) saying that The Engagement
is a fact or a fiction. Millionaire sheep-owner
Samuel McCaughey is said to be about to marry a
widow—a handsome one, the relict of a noted
solicitor.
I have seen for the first time a copy (the latest)
of The Throne, an English weekly, born late last
year, and sponsored by a list of peeresses an
eighth of a mile in length. A big, cream-colored
paper it is, with a gold crown fore and aft. The
personal pars are very much in the vein of those
of M.A.P., such as: “Lady Millicent Snooker,
who comes out this season, is the beautiful
daughter of a beautiful mother, and has the small
wart on the left ear-lobe which has for centuries
distinguished the Snookers of Snoker, and of
which they are as proud as they are of
their long descent. The fair debutante speaks
all the living languages, and is a noted
huntress. Tradition says that the first Snooker,
known as ‘Warty,’ was with King Canute when
that monarch brought himself into the seascape
in order to prove to his sycophantic courtiers
that he had no power over so fixed a law of nature
as the inrush of the tide. The House of Snooker
may boast intimacy with Royalty, as the follow-
ing anecdote will show. His Majesty King
Edward, when Prince of Wales, was one day
walking with the then Lord Snooker, grand-
father of Lady Millicent, in the grounds of Castle
Snoker, when the rain came down in torrents.
The Prince had an umbrella, but his noble
host had none. With the unfailing courtesy
which has always been a distinguishing feature
of the English Royal Family, the Prince
bade his friend share his shelter. Lord Snooker
thereupon held it over both, and presently burst
into uncontrollable laughter. Recovering him-
self, he apologised, then explained to the future
King that the umbrella belonged to his head
game-keeper, the man’s name showing distinctly
on the handle. The Prince was greatly amused.
When telling the story he would begin it with :
‘I, too, have stolen an umbrella.’ Last year
Lady Millicent’s brother, Albert Edward Canute,
married Miss Katherine Winker, the heiress of
ohe of the oldest untitled families of Great
Britain, and there is now a tiny son who has the
fine grey eyes of his mother, and is bald like his
father.”
But what I really intended to write (when the
pen bolted) was of “The Hon. Mrs. L.’s” com-
plaint in The Throne. She belongs to a well-
known ladies’ club, but dare not leave her purse,
powder puff, gloves, or handkerchief on a table
and turn her back for a minute. If she did she
Would never see those articles again. Hon. Mrs.
L. goes on to say that “ the thefts are committed
by members of the club, and that such conduct
is unheard of in a man’s club.’’
Then I picked up another English paper, and
read another lady clubber’s indignant story of
how her fellow members, in a large club devoted
to intellectual women, stole fur cloaks and
“snow boots with rubber uppers, softly lined
And fur topped.” “Onoe,” continued the com-
plainant, “I would have felt hurt at the action of
a fellow-member who, taking off her rings before
washing her hands, looked at me in the most
significant way and put them in her mouth. Now
I would do the same myself rather than leave my
pretty things lying within anyone else’s reach.”
In time the clubwoman’s mouth may develop
(under necessity and stress) storage capacity
equal to boots and fur cloaks. Then we may read
something like this : “ Lady Ethel Smith, voted
unanimously to the chair, smilingly placed her
Sfeal skin stole, purse, goloshes and bunch of
violets in her mouth, and then called upon Miss
Twitcher to read her paper, ‘Woman: Man’s
Superior.’ ” And then the report may add :
“Considering the way she was occupied, the
chairwoman’s utterance was remarkably clear.”
Line from a letter from an Australienne in
London: “I would have entered my Borzoi
‘Snow’ at the Birmingham dog show if the
Queen hadn’t been a competitor. Where’s the
fun of dogging against a Majesty?”
That chronic blister, the domestic servant
problem, was again up for pricking at an im-
portant meeting, last week, at which gathering
the Mayoress of Sydney sat in the seat of the
soother. When several women bring their several
different kinds of intellectual needles to bear
upon this trouble, the woman in the chair needs
much of the wisdom of the serpent, and a tongue
anointed with honey and oil. Mrs. (Prof.) David
and Mrs. Robert Farrell have outlined capital and
seemingly workable schemes for the training of
girls for domestio service, always provided they
can catch the girl. Both schemes would require
Government nursing—Private Enterprise isn’t
equal to the job. A resolution, “That a
Domestic Training School be established in
Sydney for the training of girls in New South
Wales in all branches of household work,” was
carried as easily as a feather. Now remains that
the useful schemers and adherents should dress
themselves pretty and make a sortie with the
Government’s wooden head for objective.
Concerning domestic work—the laundry branch
of it. A lady, writing from a township “200
miles from anywhere ” m West Queensland, tells
me in a recital that begins like a “Miserere” and
ends like a “Te Deum” how she did her own
washing after her laundress had left her. All the
township washer-ladies had as much as they could
do at home and didn’t want outside work “ at ten
shillings a day.” For the first week the gap was
filled by the nursemaid’s mother, but the husband
of the latter objected to cooking his own peacock
(or whatever is eaten in West Q.), and the
wash began to accumulate fearsomely. So did
the heat. When the soiled articles were up to
5000 or so, and the heat to 105°, the lady wrote
the nursemaid’s mother a note asking her to come
for another week at £2. The bait somehow mis-
carried, so the lady tackled the mammoth wash
herself, and her naive recital at this part reads as
if it were meant for insertion in a laundry journal:
I commandeered two black “ boys,” and got them to
fill the boiler with rain water. Into this I put three-
quarters of a pound of barilla soap sliced up. When it
had been boiling some time, and all the soap was
thoroughly melted, I plunged into it the first instalment
of dry clothes consisting of those from the cleaner
bundle ; the black boys rubbing the dirtier ones. I
worked hard, getting the boys to help me wring the
counterpanes and heavier articles. The fire was covered
in under the boiler, and, with a slight westerly wind
blowing through the laundry, I felt tolerably cool. I
marvelled to find that the heat troubled me less there
than when aimlessly wandering about looking for cool
spots.
Only the laundry journalist would probably
tell the lady that she was very naughty to plunge
the dry clothes into boiling water. The scientific
explanation is not far to seek—boiling water
tends to “fix” the dirt in the material. At
Darling Point and Point Piper we always
“plunge” the clothes (previously soaked and
rubbed with soap) into water that should not be
even hot. Well, that heroic Queensland “ wash ”
and the consequent “folding” and “damping”
was all over by 6 o’clock. The professional laun-
dress had never done it so speedily. Next day
the lady mangled and starched and ironed, and
she mentions that both the cook and housemaid
paid her spontaneous compliments about her
speed and perfection when they saw the piles of
ironed articles.
The council of the Sydney Agricultural Society
makes known, through its secretary, that women
workers who intend to exhibit at the Easter
Show, will have a lot of real-pie arrange-
ments made for their benefit. A fine room has
been set apart for the women’s section, and the
schedule has been more than doubled. A book
containing all necessary particulars may be had
on application, by post or otherwise.
Miss Arline Thackeray, who went from Sydney
to fiddle at the M.L. Exhibition, is having a
holiday in Wellington, and is staying with the
Mayor and Mayoress of that wet, wooden, windy
metropolis.
The German singers—Herren, Frauen, and
Fraulein —engaged by George Musgrove for
Wagnerian Opera in Australia, are pictured in a
recent British Australasian. They are solid-
most of them ! If our climate takes off some of
the too, too solid flesh, then the Elsas and Wotans
and Brunnhildes will owe more than their engage-
ment to Mr. Musgrove. Fraulein Mary Stoller
looks to be a light-weight, Fraulein Valerie
Waller is not too large, and the beauty of
the group, Beatrice Stellion, a soprano described
as petite, 22 years of age, and prima donna
at a Berlin theatre, is a most cuddlesome
looking pet. lam sure someone with sheep
stations will give her a chance of remaining in this
country. After these the heavy-weights begin.
Soprano Johanna Heinze looks a good natured
crusher of 14 stone. She is described as “a
luscious and vivacious Carmen.” The two gentle-
men whose, portraits are given—Oeser, a tenor,
and Mohwinkel, a baritone—have a prize-bull
appearance.
A correspondent sends an original issue of
“ The Song of Australia.” As the history of this
land goes, the piece of music is an antique, for it
bears the date 1859, and its cover sets forth that
it took the prize of twenty guineas awarded by
the Gawler Institute (S.A.). Words by Mrs. C.
J. Carleton, and music by Herr Carl Linger. The
“Song of Australia” is an inspiriting thing, and
the public school children of this State often sing
it while Herr Hugo Alpen waves his time-direct- (
ing stick. It and “ Advance Australia Fair ” are
generally given on flag-flapping occasions. But
few of us knew the venerableness of the first-
named warble.
Mention of Herr Alpen reminds that he has
recently lost his daughter, Beatrice, a pretty and
clever girl of 16.
The two David Anderson girls, over whom Nice
lost its head and whose appearance in French
hotel dining-rooms used to bring the gallant
Frenchmen to their feet in admiration, returned
with their mother from foreign parts last week.
Another of the returned is Miss Enid Clift, of
East Maitland. That section of the State is
fairly owned by Clifts. Miss E. C. is a champion
golfer, and has the reputation of wearing her
clothes just the way the swell dress-designers
wish to see them worn.
Talking of swell frockmakers : One of the most
stylish of Sydney builders of chiffon masterpieces
has gone to a Collins-street firm to achieve dream
draperies for Melbournians. A frilly little French-
woman steps into the wide gap made by the
opulent brunette’s departure.
All last week Sydney’s toothaches were accu-
mulating hundreds deep, and this week the lead-
ing dentists have scarce time to put nourishment
between their own teeth. The first Australian
Dental Congress was lately inaugurated, and from
a Monday to a Monday there was a great reading
of papers and vast discussion at the Great Hall of
the Uni. All the States sent delegates, and several
papers came from abroad. Dr. Henry Peach, as
president of the Dental Board, reared his auburn
head, and Dr. Burne didn’t swell visibly as
President of the Congress—he might have done
so with rage when the rain came down in
Niagaras and spoilt his “swarry” at Clifton
Gardens. Dr. W. Weston, who helped to organise
the Congress, had, when the tumult and the
s*houting died, a gorgeous silver tray bestowed
upon him by way of a remembrance from the
Congressers. Dr. Dick, Dr. Basil Jones and Dr.
Ernest Blackwell read papers that were said to be
very illuminating; and Dr. Foster, with his
Radiograph, which is quite new here as applied to
dentistry, put the constellation-roof on the Tooth
Triumph. But while these people were holding
Congress and revelry, Teeth were accumulating on
their doorsteps and ringing hard at their bells,
and how they have to settle down and struggle
with great arrears of Tooth.
What a wave of song is sweeping hitherward !
Philip Newbury, Albani, Jessie Maclachlan,
Saunders (the tenor), Maud Powell, the violiniste,
Marie Hall, another fiddler, and many besides.
One —or two —of the invaders are derelicts. It’s
time they settled down with flannel next the skin,
gruel, toddy, and a mild family novel.
A rather unusual application was made to the
Chief Judge in Equity here last week. It seems
a lady, well-known in social circles, recently
married an officer in the British navy. He has
now resigned his post and intends entering the
diplomatic service—one qualification, amongst
numerous others, being ability to dissemble in
half-a-dozen languages. To learn these means
residing in Europe for a considerable time, and,
of course, it also means money, and the aspiring
couple hadn’t enough money. Consequently, a
trustee company sought the advice of the Court
as to whether it would be justified in increasing
the lady’s allowance, she having an interest in an
estate which is in the co.’s hands for adminis-
tration. His Honor graciously considered that
the allowance might be increased so as to enable
the lady to live with her husband in Europe and
help him to learn to dissemble in six languages.
Miss Elbert Orton has arrived in Melbourne to
play Maid Marian to Julius Knight’s Robin
Hood. With bated breath a Melbourne chronicler
records some of her qualifications : “Miss Elbert
Orton travels invariably with her own maid, and
her baggage for Australia consisted of no fewer
than twelve trunks of costumes from Paris and
London.” Twelve trunks ! And her own maid !
Who says the drama is declining ?
Mrs. Leahy (Mayoress of Mosman), Mrs. (Dr.)
Phipps and Mrs. (Dr.) Arthur, are these days
three souls with a single thought—the formation
of a cricket oval in the Mosman Park. A large
number of other ladies are taking thought in the
same direction. So an All Nations Fair is forth-
coming in aid of the oval idea, and word has been
passed round to likely supporters, and it is hoped
that things will come out square. A moonlight
excursion for the same object brought in £4O.
Another grievance—new to us, this one—which
the enthroned weekly has is that “ the flapper is
now man’s ideal.” In quite the recent past the
lately come-out girl had her great rival—and,
therefore, enemy—in the young or middle-aged
married woman. Now she has to fight “the
flapper ” —the girl with short skirts and her hair
down. “It is entirely due to certain musical
comedies in which flappers have been the
heroines.” Now, that hits a man right on the
waistcoat. Wouldn’t you as soon steal your
fellow club-woman’s snow-boots as let a musical
comedy strutter be your arbiter of taste in men ?
Things level up wonderfully !
Best thing in the paper is “ Lions in Embryo,”
and it is nearly all about Percy Grainger, whose
portrait—(what a remarkable upper lip that boy
has ! Full, not to say protuberant. Mark Ham-
bourg has the same distinction underneath his
nose)—adorns the screed. Percy of the Lip and
the Hair holds, as one of his life’s aims, the reconsti-
tution of the music of the past. He has collected
hundreds of old English folk-songs, almost for-
gotten, pre-Stuart, pre-Tudor—possibly pre-
Caractacus.
From London : '
One of the notable Australian weddings of the year was
that of Miss Hetty Holroyd (professionally Esta D’Argo)
and John Tillett, the well-known concert agent, at St.
Saviour’s, Haverstock Hili. The heavy snow-fall the
previous days beautified everything; it was a novelty to
the Australians present—except the Gippsland contingent
—to wade through a fleece of white to the porch of the
church. The pretty little Sydney singer was gowned in
rich ivory satin. Her gown, veil and coronet wreath were
given to her by Madame Clara Butt, who has taken a
great fancy to the soprano. Clara would not hear of a
quiet wedding, saying, in her usual breezy fashion, “I
won’t have it. I’ll give you the dress, wreath and veil,
and my little Joy will be the bridesmaid !”
True to her word she saw that everything was complete.
She was at the wedding and reception, a fine, handsome
figure in black, with rich white fox furs, towering above
everyone, even above her good-looking husband ; and
little Joy Rumford, a miniature bridesmaid, demurely
followed in the bridal train.
You remember the clever Sydney pianiste Elsie Stanley
Hall ? I came across her recently in Peterborough, where
she has been staying for many months with the Bishop of
Peterborough and Lady Mary Glynn, sister of the Duke of
Argyll. Elsie Hall—the Stanley is now dropped—has had
rather bad luck, for herarm gave way, which necessitated
a complete rest. Next week she is playing at Lady
Exeter’s, where a large house party is assembled, includ-
ing Princess Henry of Battenberg. After recitals in Ham-
burg and Berlin, Elsie comes to London to reside.
Switzerland this year has attracted many Australian
, visitors. A friend, just returned from Caux, mentions
Mrs. Leslie Walford, Miss Eadith Walker, and the Bayley
Macarthurs among those at the Grand Hotel. Last year,
Captain and Mrs. Charles Bancroft were among the gay
throng of Australians at Caux ; now Mrs. Bancroft, a
very sad and attractive widow, is leaving by the Mooltan
on the 18th, on a visit to her father, Henry Moses, of
Sydney.
George Boyle, the Sydney pianist, is now in London.
The Australian circle, at the Lyceum Club, is taking an
interest in George, and will give a musical reception early
next month, to introduce him to the London musical
critics.
Miss Una Kidgell, the clever girl who, under
the pen-name of “ Nimitybelle,” acted as Sydney
correspondent to the Brisbane Sun ever since its
inception, a few months ago, left for Brisbane last
Tuesday. Her crisp, readable accounts of Sydney
doings were highly appreciated by the proprietary,
which promptly offered her the best position at
its command in the head office. Feminine fancies
take up a lot of room in the Sun, and hencefor-
ward the whole page will be conducted by her.
Which seems a pity, as “Nimitybelle” is that
rare creation, a woman who understands politics,
and she has, in addition, a neat turn for descrip-
tive writing. .
From Brisbane:—
There is a dearth of matters social this week, chiefly
owing to the heat wave that has rolled heavily upon us
during the past few days. Their Ex.’s have flitted back
to Gabbinbar after stirring up the Children’s Hospital
FSte committee, giving a push to the Exhibition of
Women’s Work, and creating a worshipful brother or two at
a new Queensland Masonic Lodge at Nambour. His Frail-
ness had the support of Dr. Byre and several other promi-
nent Stone Chippers on this excursion to the wilds, and
a banquet, with some fair samples of the dimpled coun-
try Phyllis to wait, relieved the gloom of the proceed-
ings and made the Enslaved Bricklayers feel that for the
moment the heavy hod was lifted off their minds.
Next week everyone who is anyone (in Toowoomba)
will flit to the vice-regal lawns, where their hands will
be shaken and their inner man (or woman) fed by Lord
and Lady Chelmsford.
The Chief Justice, daughter, and companion returned
townwards to-day, after a month at Southport. Mr
Cooper looks brown and jolly, and Miss Cooper stronger
for the rest. The companion looks bored.
A full-fledged meeting of the Chelmsford FSte even-
tuated this week, at which her ladyship presided. The
first result was a printed circular with a list of patronesses
(as long as one of Badger’s tram-cars) attached. One of
the items of the fete is to be a story competition. There
is two of it. Seniors (over 16) may scribble to the extent
of 3000 words, but juniors (under 16) are restricted to
half that amount. The stories are to be Australian, and
there is no restriction as to the number of bushrangers
that may be inserted.
A gale of contradiction is raging this week over the
rumored engagement of a flaxen-haired major. Some say
that his heart has been gathered in bv the pretty
daughter of an M.L.C. (an ex-Bung), whose singing (the
chick’s singing, not Bung’s melody) has melted his war-
like soul. Another faction says his fate is a pretty,
black-eyed damozel, a relative of a prominent Australian
authoress. Anyway, it seems clear that the major is
engaged to somebody.
The Women’s Club has taken on a new lease of life, and
promises to close its year with a credit balance. Last
year it nearly shut up for lack of funds. Good music, a
French conversational class, and a literary coterie have
helped things along.
A good band of grafters has been got together for the
Women’s Exhibition work. Cash for initial exes, and an
office are on hand, and the work begins “ right here.”
Mrs. G. C. Willcoeks and daughters have been getting
a round of farewell entertainments ere they depart for
Europe on Tuesday. Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Gray also go
Londonwards for a holiday, and will be much missed.
By the time this is in print pretty Edith Griffith,
daughter of the Federal Chief Justice, will be married in
your sea-girt city. Brisbane, however, managed to save
the job of making the wedding cake from the grasping
hands of the big metropolis. That eatable was composed
at the Cafb Eschenhagen.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.


EVER
TRY
MX E
HAMS AND BACON ?
If you have never tried this famous
brand of Hams and Bacon you can
have no idea how delicious they are.
You have longed for sweet breakfast
bacon but have never been able to get
it. You CAN get it in Q.M.E. It is
surpassingly delicious, and always the
same.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR Q.M.E.
HAMS OR BACON, NEXT TIME.
II /
W
f 7
fj
m
m
3'!
PrJv.*;:
lie'll
::==3 N s?«i;>C
* "<
Kg^Sfc?
STiiSsSl-Sis*;
X
'At
SportiM
Hoods
! Represent the Highest Quality ,
of material and workmanship in
Golf* Tennis* and Bat
Handle Grips*
Golf Balls*
Football and Punching
Ball Ble !ders,
Rubber Soli * Waders*
etf ,
Obtainable all Lead j Sports Depots.
Accept only (I Dunlop Brand.’*
OUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
V 3
JT
$53
i?n
LOP
MOTOR I
TYRES
WERE FITTED TO
Six out of the
Nine Oars TH4 T
Scored
IN THE RECENT
New South 'Wales
Reliability Contest.
The Quality
of our New Pattern Grooved
Tyre can be gauged from th«
fact that the TYKES oa the
& Dunlop-Shod
Cars covered
an aggregate of
9376 MILES
for the sum total of
One Puncture.
This is how the QUALITY ana
WORKMANSHIP of the “DUNLOP"
emphasises itself In all Contests.
Inspection Invited of Samples
of the New Grooved Tyre.
Motor Booklet on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
ALL STATES and NEW ZEALAND.
gtocw
ORESS
SHIELDS
than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
sd
lorDistinctiorv of jMPE
oanrai
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 11, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The most stylish bride-elect of the present hour
is said, by a George Washingtonian parent, to
have acquired her fiance in a Family Herald-
story way. She was cantering alone through a
quiet village of a hot but picturesque part of the
Empire. Her nag bolted, and neared a dangerous
embankment. A solitary horseman, in the
distance, drove his spurs into his gallant steed,
and poured furiously across the landscape to the
rescue. Before he could gain Diana she was thrown
clean off, and the nag went on and committed
suicide over the cliff. But the collapsed Grace
was saved. The horseman caught her on the
rebound, and subsequently had her driven home.
They were in love before being introduced, and
became engaged shortly after. The clergyman
will make the usual remarks to them in church
before the end of the month.
Signora Dane-Valenti sang at Cliveden, before
sailing off to rejoin her Italian spouse. The
Cliveden widow had the idea of imparting a
benediction to the voyaging Signora to keep level
with the Rupertswood dame, who was very kind
to the exuberant Irish-Australian in the Bull
capital. On Tuesday the Signora leaned over the
deck-rails of the Mongolia and fluttered an agit-
ated final hanky to her mommer and a large rally
of, farewellers. She was a treat to behold on that
languid day. Her presence breathed forth great
health, high joy, and broad sanity. She Was very
good to see. “ I wish I could take away the dear
mother and the big sun. It’s a terrible wrench
to part with either,” she complained. “Some
Australian sun” is the monotonous cry of every
Cold Country visitor.
The Maoriland Wards held high revel at the
Grand before quitting Melbourne. On the day
of departure their sitting-room was a bower of
presentation posies and floral garlands. The trio
—Pa, Ma, and Miss Ward—left by a special
express to the Holy City, guarded to the last by
Mr. Owen Cox and solicitor Croker. An official
clan at Spencer-street worked off much good-bye
steam and hilarity in the Ward cause. Victorians
are. fond of relating that the Maoriland Premier
was a State School product of this State. His
memory remains green in South Melbourne.
In spite of the Melbourne Argus controversy,
and the wailings of “Pro Bono Publico,” and
other hoary kill-joys, rather naked mixed bathing
is general round Hobson’s Bay from Mornington
to Brighton. The little-clothed lady and the
moderately-clothed man gambol and splash by
the sea-shore in native innocence and large num-
bers, and the interest displayed by the wicked sex
in the female forms exposed, is usually limited to
the church-going strollers who are too modest to
go into the waves. The young people, fortu-
nately, take little notice of the agitated church-
going person. They wade and frolic regardless
of the local J.P. and his spy-glass. And they
will continue to do so without either moral or
physical risk to themselves—or to the local J.P.
if he’d only sell his spy-glass.
A little tale is told of a Melbourne dame who
has considerable buoyancy on the sea of social
affairs. This person, while having money to
burn, is inclined to save pence and disregard
pounds, and spends a good deal of time o’ morn-
ings in making jam or darning socks. Hubby,
who is boss, came home one day and made an an-
nouncement. “ We’re going to London next
month, Ellen,” he said, and waited for the ex-
clamations of pleasure which should have fol-
lowed. Not a solitary burst of thankfulness took
place. Instead, Ellen put on a look of the
deepest gloom: “Well, if I’d known that, I
wouldn’t have hemmed those new sheets.”
It seems that the Cats who enjoy [the cream of
life are earing for their paws some. I met a
manicurist on her rounds, the other day, carrying
a silver-mounted initialled tool case. She was as
neat and perky as a sparrow, and had a keen, happy
glow in her eye and a spring in her step that spelt
prosperity and easy times. The same nymph, at
the start of her manicuring career, a year ago, was
wan, pale, anxious-eyed and stepped out like a cat
on egg-shells with her Gladstone bag of tools.
Now she is affluent.
There must be an excessive supply of colonels
in the Big Smoke. Every Australienne circu-
lating for long in the hub secures a colonel mate.
She, only has to wait patiently, and he marches
along for sure. It’s not a youthful title, and up
to this (save in the case of Judge Molesworth’s
chick) the ’Roo-landers who acquired colonels for
better or worse have all been middle-aged or
thereabouts. Widows should note the apparently
inexhaustible supply of lonely colonels. A male
friend of mine, by the way, had his life blighted
years ago because his best girl went on a voyage
round the world, and in her wanderings married a
South American general. She must be middle-
aged now, and I expect her face is haggard with
revolutions. I have been told that revolutions
age a woman very rapidly.
Mrs. Frank Stephen, the energetic blonde who
secured her decree nisi from Dame Madden’s big
brother, and then went to London to open a
bonnet shop, is booked for matrimony. Of course,
it’s a colonel.
Two hours after the momentous landing of the
Madden family, the whole feminine clan of am-
vals were in a Flinders-street hat and ribbon
store making brisk purchases. There was a
summer sale on, a harvest in bargains, and they
couldn’t postpone their buying eagerness. My
private opinion—and I am to the manner born
is that woman would leave the Day of Judgment
and the "V alley of Jehosaphat waiting in the cold
to rush a bargain sale in haloes (or ice-chests).
Miss Vera Clarke, the second hope of the
Dowager, steamed off to Sydney last week, on a
visit to Mrs. Cruickshank, before that lengthy
widow enters on her second matrimonial venture.
The greatest affection exists between the step-
relatives at Cliveden. Even Rupert exhibits a
friendly and fraternal interest in the Cliveden
chicks, though he doesn’t go afternoon-calling or
charity-visiting with his step-mamma.
Miss Edith Smith was just about rehearsing
the march to the altar, when Lieut. M’Culloch,
the groom-elect, was called abruptly to head-
quarters, and had to leave off ordering fancy
braces and climb the companion-way of the Mon-
golia. Now the pocket-edition heiress has to
follow her lad to the Cold Country with her bridal
accoutrements.
The formidable bronze figure of Joan of Arc
mounted on her short bronze charger now glistens
in the February sunlight at the entrance to the
Public Gallery and Library, but raises no excite-
ment, and very small interest in the minds of the
daily visitors. The lady is a disappointment—a
sharp disappointment. She is represented as a
defiant Juno, a fiercely valiant she-Viking—a
tempestuous battler over w’hom the Christian
halo hovers inappropriately. The figure, clothed
in armor, strains to a standing position in the
stirrups, the charger is bearing along General
Joan with flying pennant, spear poised, and long
hair sweeping down her armored shoulders.
There’s a violent purpose expressed. One sighs.
The spirituelle, divinely-inspired Maid of Orleans
is not there. Perhaps, when she waded into the
besieged city, with Dunois and La Hire and De
Retz, and all the rest of her gallant ruffians, she
really looked like Joan of Melbourne, but I don’t
like to think of her that way.
A fresh arrival from a globe-trot declares that
we may rest secure in the conviction that the local
architect of chiffons is as good as any in the world.
The authority who makes this thundering big
assertion is chic , smart and knowing. She left
Melbourne last year with only a limited wardrobe,
having in view poetic and wonderful creations of
Paris and London cut. She says: “Don’t fret
about Australian style. The one coat and skirt I
wore away was admired by swaggah Londoners,
and even excited the interest of a Bond-street
tailor. And no wonder. He turned me out an
ugly rig. Many a smart Melbourne shop-girl
would eclipse an aristocratic Fashion Journal
Britisher. It was a revelation to find Australians
walking away with the clothes prize at many a
London corroboree. I’m satisfied about our
smartness. Of course physique counts a lot.
There are no finer girls anywhere than ourselves.
Fact ! The Americans lack grace. They’re too
mannish, too strident, too overwhelming. We’re
just It.” She certainly is.
Last week a Collins-street cafe was interrupted
in the act of sugaring its tea by the presence of
Julius Superbus striding in, Monsieur Beaucaire
fashion, to a rose-pink table. A Tooraketty dame
was sacrificing at the High Altar of the Tea Leaf
to him of the lovely calves. And a large, assorted
party was bidden. It’s touching to see the
Knightly air of modest deference when the
charmers flutter round him. “It is too, too good
of you, fair ladies.” If Julius doesn’t say it, his
eyes and his mauve cr&pc de chine tie murmur it,
and sometimes a pearly-white hand is raised
gracefully as a coy defence when attentions grow
too thick. Beaucaire Knight has just enough
self-consciousness to save him from being ridi-
culous at a tea-party when the butterflies brush
the colored fluff off their pretty wings in his very
eyes.
A prominent citizen is casting round for some
polite means of adopting an infant. He has an
interest in the new-comer and tells his chums its
pedigree with much feeling. May a man adopt
his own infant, when that infant is an informal
and unlicensed happening ? This question vexes
a popular Collins-street club, which likes the
proposer vastly well and would see him out of
his quandary. There is no guidance in the prayer-
book. It only says that he may not marry his
grandmother.
The she-scribes’ club has a sensible way of frisk-
ing. It gathers at the Botanical Gardens, and
consumes nut-cake, and sips its tea in a glad,
gr en environment, with soprano sparrows on the
high C and bulfinches in a melodious mezzo
chorus. Miss M‘Gowan is the head and front of
the club, and being the lightest-hearted, gladdest
scribe —but one, say—in the State, makes the
occasional outdoor frisk a real blithesome revel.
Clairvoyancy is booming. Any she-person who
has mislaid her thimble, or her husband, rushes
to the witch who undertakes to unravel mysteries
and rend the veil of the future for something like
2s. 6d. The sixpence isn’t essential. For two
shillings, which is less than the price of a pair of
gloves, one is instructed in the color, age, and
size of one’s future partner, his history and his
digestion chart; or one learns the whereabouts of
a deserting husband, or the site of the inebriate
lover’s suicide. I visited one of the craft last
week to trace a mislaid joke, but her oracle was
surrounded by a heterogeneous cluster of females,
and I gave up the quest. It was a musty oracle,
and a deathly stillness. reigned. One’s very
breathing seemed an infringement of the unholy
calm. The consulting females stole furtive glances
at one another. Some wore a worried look, as if
half afraid of the word that would locate the
missing husband. Others of the spinster species
looked guilty or coy, and one or two, out for a
defaulting lover’s blood, wore a defiant and terri-
ble air.
I know members of the bearded sex who consult
Sibyl for practical information concerning racing
nags, gold rushes, and billets. Seldom does a he-
inquirer go on a sentimental voyage of discovery.
Bill is never perturbed about Molly’s state of
mind or her kaleidoscopic moods. Bill doesn’t
deal in female moods and tenses. He has a girl-
plain girl—and no humbug. Adolphus is minus
all curiosity concerning Agatha’s psychological
dispositions, for the simple reason that he is so
enamoured or so conceited that the degree of the
charmer’s love is never questioned. He doesn’t
deal in the sentimental processes that evolve
weird fancies in Agatha's brain cells. But she
works out Love’s chart by the aid of the oracle of
Delphi, and questions the intensity of Adolphus
affection, or plagues her soul with the why and
wherefore, and the how much and the how long,
with vague terrors about the how short thrown in.
The ornate figure of Inn-keeper Becker no
longer decorates the entrance to the White
Hart. He has gone into Suburbia and retire-
ment for a while with his family. Country
priests, Federal politicians and mummers will
miss him.
The star of the Julius Knight Co. is a large
Dieu-et-mon-droit sort of personage, with a high
pile of coppery tresses banked upon her intelli-
gent brow. It’s wonderful hair. At Menzies’,
Miss Elbert Orton causes cricks in the neck by
virtue of her clothes. A big section of the hotel
is packed with her frocks and frills.
Our Board of Health, in its anxiety to prevent
an outbreak of plague, has decided that every
household must keep either a rat-trap or an
"effective dog or cat.” Nobody is named as
the arbiter of efficiency, so the chairman of the
Board (Dr. Norris) is presumably the judge.
Already some scores of law-abiding citizens have
brought along the household dog or cat to be in-
spected and reported on. Sometimes the animal
came voluntarily; sometimes it was dragged; some-
times it was carried in a box or a bundle. One after-
noon last week there was a tremendous uproar on the
stairs of the Board of Health when a brown paper
Earcel made a brutal assault on an innocent lunch
aslcet and rolled it down the marble steps,
together with a peace-making dog of unknown
origin which had determined on a policy of inter-
vention. Later in the day, a man emerged from
a neighboring hostelry to encounter a neat card-
board box careering along the footpath propelled
by seven dogs of assorted sizes and with an indig-
nant elderly female hot upon its trail. The squalls
of anger that came out of the box were terrible.
The onlooker concluded that the liquor was telling
on him, and declared that he would never drink
again. I hear that Dr. Norris is preparing an
amended regulation.
"Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
The Frill came out of its summer retirement in great
force on February 2, to decorate the Polo tea, manip-
ulated by Messrs. Bertie Barr Smith and H. J. Henderson.
The guests included several hundred smartly garbed shes
and a he or two (the he-item is rare in South Oss, and
being much hunted he has become very shy ; when one
is seen grazing in the distance, the best method is to
surround him.) These were put in a special train arid
deposited at the scene of action. The ordinary stand
was given over to the brass band, and a marquee of noble
pretensions served to shelter the peerage’s best frock and
complexion. The poloists achieved various clever
onslaughts upon each other, and the guests sat round
devouring large quantities of ice, and saying
“How weird!” at intervals. Mrs. Chief-Justice Way,
who Dames the State at present, distributed things to
the victorious polacrobats, one of whom, a small school-
boy' Barr Smith, received much feminine acclamation
for his prowess. The flocking was almost Melbourne
Cuppish in its splendor. One of the daintiest rigs w r as
w'orn by Miss Fotheringham, a Medindie maiden ; she
sported a chiffon voile of green and white, with a
botanical head-piece. Mrs. Herbert Rymill also cast
much of the garbing into the shade by a toilette of many
hues, surmounted by a rose-garden ; and Mrs. Albion
Tolley’s elaborately embroidered silk bespoke a recent
European jaunt. Among many white-muslined charmers,
graceful Miss Evan Kyffin Thomas shone like a star. The
afternoon tea was well-managed, and never once pre-
sented the saddening spectacle of two well-dressed ladies
struggling for the one bun and clamoring “ That’s my
bun.”
His Ex. has returned from his brief holiday in little
Melbourne town, and now stays quietly at the residence
entertaining Maoriland Premiers and the like to break-
fast. His one little aide, Captain Ryder (I thinks he wears
some of the alphabet after his name, but don’t know
which), is climbing giddy peaks in Maoriland, and his jolly
Ex. has his wants attended to by his youthful private
secretary, Mr. Walter Stuart Baillie Hamilton. This
gentleman’s pedigree is so long that it is dark at one end
of it wdiile it is still noon at the other.
A junction of considerable interest will collect the in-
habitants of the local Debrett in April next, when Miss
Crozier and Mr. Bert Saunders will take each other for
better without any worse. The delinquents are enthusi-
astic follow’ers of the aniseed bag, and have frequently
slain that animal in its lair. It is whispered that it will
be a hunt wedding, with the aniseed bag in attendance.
The bride is one of the Croziers who squat somewhere
up on the Murray, and have considerable animals to their
credit.
Latest absentees are the John Gordons, who rushed
away on a business-cum-pleasure jaunt by the Mongolia
last week. Mr. Gordon (not to be confused with the
Justice Gordon crowd) is one of the David Murray firm,
and is connected with the Duncans, Hughes, and other
moneyed folk. Three nice girls go to inhale the effele
atmosphere of Europe with their parents.
Our dear little horse trams have been sold to the
Governm nt at lrst. T’other day a number of celebrities
gathered in the Chief Secretary’s office to witness the
paying of the cheque and the handing over of the deeds
(but not the misdeeds) of the various tramways; Then
the Ministry invited everyone to lunch at Parliament
House, where butter of many brands was exchanged.
There seems to have been only one thing which the
Government omitted. It did not present each of the
sweet little tram boys with a bar of soap as a souvenir of
the occasion.
Adelaide’s one little ewe theatre re-opens its doors
after a long playless interval, and Sassiety wanders in to
witness Midnight and Fatal Weddings with more enthu-
siasm than usual. Sassiety does not behave well by the
drama, as a rule. It grumbles when there isn’t any, and
doesn’t go when there is. In Adelaide it is mostly the
unmoneyed folk who fill the play-house, and damp it with
their tears when the villain knocks the heroine’s head
hard against the kitchen safe or tells her she will find
the remains of the hero in the coal-scuttle.
Strange how the talents and industries of a
family get mixed up. There are three local cases
in which sisters are respectively engaged at
painting and making hats. The Geaeh family
presents the best illustration of the success
achieved by two sisters in different walks of life.
One is selling Panama hats with brilliant results.
The other is painting portraits of The Woman in
Mauve and other ladies of psychological distinc-
tion, with artistic feeling and perhaps less cash
profit. Another artiste, gifted at hammering
copper in allegory and chiselling marble to the
likeness of classic grids and modern man, has a
sister who is clever at the toque business,
Yours Affectionately,
TRIPHENA


Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report : Onr wool
catalogue comprised 4737 bales, of which we sold at
auction and privately 4020 bales, bringing our total sales
this season up to 53,741 bales. The selection included
several large clips, but the bulk was composed of farmers’
and selectors’ lots, many of which were heavy in condition
and unskirted. An excellent demand ruled for all good
and medium descriptions; faulties, however, s<'i
irregularly. The quantity of withdrawals was main!}
due to the high reserves imposed by owners on many of
the lots submitted. Our next auction is fixed to take
place on the 13th. inst.*
ďsds
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, tic.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE. CARSON & CO.. Ltd.. r.nmmiccinn Salesmen Onlu QVnMFY_
The Wellington Trust, Loan and Invest-
ment Co. (Wellington, M.L.): —
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1901 .. £10,040 8 p.c. =£Bloo £1940 £21,920
1902 .. 12,372 8„ „ 8100 4272 26,192
Property written up .. 1000 27,192
1903 .. 10,073 8„ ~ 8100 1973 29,165
1904 .. 10,426 8„ ~ 8100 2326 31,491
1905 .. 10,913 8,, ~ 8100 2813 34,304
Property written up ~. 2000 36,304
1906 .. 11,952 8,. ~ 8100 3552 40,156
The profit and loss account shows a profit of £11,417.
But the co. had a fire during- the year, and there is a
balance-sheet item “ Insurance recovered £1000” on one
side, and “Fire expenses and re-instatement £465”
on the assets side. This apparently means' that
£lOOO has been recovered for the loss of property
that wasn’t valued in the books at anything- at all, but
that £465 will have to be spent, or has been spent, to
restore things. The co. carries on an extensive loan
business ; but there is no way of telling what trust busi-
ness it does. There are much the same objections to
loan and trustee businesses being run together as there
are to law and trustee work being done in the same
office. The trustee co. necessarily has to be a loan office,
for it has to find investments for its clients ; but when-it
is finding investments for itself and for other people at
the same time, there is liable to be trouble. One or the
other must get the second-best investments. This co.,
besides its own capital of £101,250 and its reserves of
£40,156, has deposits of £308,006, apart from other small
liabilities. The size of its own funds certainly disarms to
some extent the possible criticism that a trustee co.’s
capital ought to be the testator’s guarantee fund ; but the
fact remains that, when a company does a big loan busi-
ness on its own account—“mortgages and other
securities ” run to £437,969 —it is impossible to tell how
much, if any, guarantee this office’s trust estates have.
For instance, if something serious happened to Maori-
land, and the securities slumped £150,000, the only guar-
antee left for the due fulfilment of the trusts would be
the uncalled capital. There is no visible reason for
suspecting trouble ahead; a respectable proportion of
the profits is being laid by, though this frequent writ-
ing-up of securities suggests that the co. likes to put all
it possibly can in the way of reserves in the shop-
window.
* * # *
The Australasian Plate-Glass Insurance
Co. (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. £1059 20 p.c. = £lOOO £59 £2995
1903 .. 936 13J „ „ 800 136 3131
1904 .. 1182 13j „ „ 800 382 3513
1905.. PB2-13J ~ ~ 800 182 3695
1906 .. 995 13J „ „ 800 £693 3197
The reserves include £4OO provision for unexpired risks.
Properties have been re-valued during the year ; the
amount shown as written off is the consequence. Capital
is £6OOO ; on that and reserves profits give 10J per cent.
There is fine, if limited, feeding in this little byway of
insurance,; even reckoning in the amount added to the
reserve for unexpired risks, claims did not quite reach
one-third of the premiums.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria): —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £2925 12 p.c. =£2520 £450 £18,641
June, 1904.. 2461 12 „ „ 2520 164 IS 418
Dec., 1904.. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 „ „ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 ~ „ 2520 200 - 19,047
June, 1906.. 2563 12 ~ ~ 2520 112 18,978
Dec., 1906.. 3271 12 „ „ 2520 751 19,729
This co. furnishes what for a gas co. is almost the model
balance-sheet. : ut, while the form is satisfactory, the
matter itself is different. Repairs certainly are paid for
out of revenue (£409 in the past 12 months), but the
amount set aside out of revenue to meet extraordinary
renewals or repairs has in recent years been inadequate,
and the diyidends have been excessive. The last half-
year’s receipts show, however, a good improvement.
If it lasts and the directors keep the dividend
where it is, things will right themselves. Of the
present reserves, £5383, after paying dividend, is in liquid
assets ; the balance is in plant. And, as the plant is wear-
ing out and no proper provision has been in progress to
replace it, the reserves are to some extent merely paper,
unless the provision made some years ago to cover wear
an.d tear was excessive. It can’t be too plainly said that
a co. which pays dividends only by neglecting to lay aside
enough to restore the assets as they wear out, is just as
much paying dividends out of capital as if it dipped its
hand direct into the till where it put the shareholders’
money.
**- * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S. W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
•Tune, 1902.. £762 15 per cent. =£7so £l2 £5991
Dec., 1902.. -942 15 ~ ~ 750 192 6183
June, 1903.. 938 15 ~ „ 750 188 6371
I)sc., 1903.. 953 15 ~ ~ 750 203 6574
June, 1904.. 1160 15 ~ ~ 750 410 6984
Dec., 1904.. 1180 15 „ ~750 430 7414
June, 1905.. 1111 15 „ „ 750 361 7775
Dec., 1905.. 1205 15 ~ ~750 455 8230
June, 1906.. 997 15 ~ ~ 750 247 8477
Dec., 1906.. 1079 15 ~ ~750 329 : 8806
Something unmentioned is written off plant out of pro-
fits. In December, 1904, fixed investments stood at
£12,772 ; in 1905, £12,634 : now, £12,495. So, presuming
no plant is being sold, extensions are being paid for out
of revenue, and that and about £l5O a year are a set-off
against depreciation. The reserves therefore look solid ;
they, anyhow, don’t have to carry the whole weight of
the depreciation. In the past two years the surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities has moved up from £5591 to
£7250, which points the same way as the foregoing. The
only trouble is that, though cash is accumulating, the
business isn’t extending. In fact, that is no doubt one
reason why cash is accumulating.
m * • m
A Victorian mining man speaks in parables :
There was a man trained in mining ways, and in fulness
of time he became a King. His territory extended from
Oreswick to Maryborough and from Ballarat to Pitfield.
Here people delved in the deep ground of alluvial mines.
But when the ground was getting poor, James, the King,
set not his heart against cutting it out of his kingdom.
Thus, first Maryborough, and then Oreswick, passed to
others. The leader of these others was also a man
called James. A blunt, thick-set fellow he, who,
if needs be, could hold his own by weight of left and
right. So was a great gulf fixed between him and the
older James, whose silvern speech won his battles. Blunt
James did not disdain the abandoned territory, knowing
that a cast-off coat sometimes contains a sixpence. Thus
the twain remained apart. Still, it was inevitable that,
as the kingdom of James the elder became restricted,
the two must meet. And so it fell out at Pit-
field, and it seemed as if the two would rule in
harmony in the shadow of the Glenfine South poppet
legs. This was not to the liking of Blunt James’s
friends. Some, playing the parts of Sir Censor and Sir
Tattle-Bearer, seemed hurt that James of the silvern
speech did not proclaim such richness in the quartz as to
build up a rampart of high prices. Even though foraging
their hardest, they could get little food for the Baby they
had to Nurse. Sir Discontent urged them to take the
law into their own hands, even to the extent of giving
Wise James the kick-out. This they did while the two
monarchs were beneath the shadow of a Peacock-
trimmed canopy. So they placed Blunt James in
possession. But they forgot that Outsiders might say
that this change would not put gold in the mine, or that
it would not prove that Wise James was less wise. Nor
did it show that the eastern reef was likely to be less of a
duffer tha,n the western. What the gentle Public now
moralise over is that the “payable western stone” was
not payable, and that the deep alluvial ground barely
paid. They think, therefore, that the best thing to do is
to keep their doors closed so that the baby, at present
nursed elsewhere, may not be left on their hearth.
The Ways of Virtue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was one of those divinely fragrant days,
a debauch of sunlight, which only Australian
spring can suggest to Australia’s poet-
children. A slow, soft, sensuous breeze crept a-
tiptoe up from the dazzling harbor lying below
the proud peak on which our house stands. There
was a subtle smell of violets in the atmosphere ;
whether it came from her or from the garden I
am not quite sure. Being a woman, I should say
that she had liberally sprayed herself with Parma
violet, so as to be in harmony with her surround-
ings. Also, my husband was bringing home to
dinner a man who happened to be her appanage,
a detail she possessed in common with most pretty
women.
And she was that, I reflected ; or, with a little
unconscious feminine malice, I changed the
word to “has been,” for to young things like me
thirty already commences to be a “ has been.”
She was one of those white muslin fichu women,
born to wear Romney hats and low necks. She
had the loveliest throat—a suggestive sort of
throat, soft and creamy ; I can imagine a man
wanting to hurt it. And her eyes—l don’t think
I want to describe her eyes. They were just
“eyes,” and shone like green lakes with moon-
light in them. You couldn’t possibly look at her
cheek with serious attention without wanting to
kiss it; pale pink satin it suggested to me—and I
am but a woman. I often pitied men who had
to regard those cheeks with cold politeness. It
must have been like asking a baby to watch
strawberries.
HE DIDN’T LOOK IT,
EITHER.
DOGSODY DAWKINS: “ Yes.
Mister, his name’s ’Orace,
’ n’ he’s a gentleman born
but, Lor ’ blesh per, he ain’t
a bit stuck up.”
I glanced at her hand, hanging idly over the
hammock—dimpled, of course, to distraction,
and small and velvety as a kitten. A wicked
little hand, with a very large grasping capacity,
I should think.
She always liked visiting me, chiefly because
she escaped from the orbit round which the
gentleman, called by courtesy her husband,
rotated ; also because I was that peculiar being,
a woman possessed of artistic appreciation of
other women’s curves—purely artistic, of course.
I never thrust other women’s curves rudely upon
the attention of my own male friends. She
attended to all that. And she liked visiting me,
thirdly, because she occasionally met a dear
Platonic friend at our house. This is the feminine
for masculine lodge-meetings. We find it just as
useful
I had a dear friend of my own, whom she had
not yet met—at least, as far as I knew ; and
though she often told me little scraps of some
mysterious, buried romance, I did not take it
seriously. She used to drone out those scraps
with her eyes filled with bitter-sweet retrospec-
tion. She seemed to like the after-taste of her
tragedy, and I knew, well that, when a woman
gets to this stage, serious emotion, for that par-
ticular hero at any rate, is a back number.
I was reading “Omar Khayyam” to her. I
believe she was listening in between the pretty
kisses of self-love which she was bestowing on the
soft little palm of her duck of a hand. She was
doing it quite unconsciously. She was that sort
of a woman.
Ah, fill the cup—what boots it to repeat
How time is slipping underneath our feet;
Unborn To-morrow and dead Yesterday,
Why fret about them if To-day be sweet ?
“ That is what he used to say,” she sighed, in
her low, sweet, monotonous voice, and I felt it in
my bones that I was in for some more tender
reminiscences.
“ He wanted me to leave my husband and go
with him,” she went on, in a shocked, childish
voice.
“And why didn’t you ?” I said, brutally.
“Lilian, the man hadn’t a penny!” she ex-
claimed, deeply wounded.
“ Ah !” said I, feeling snubbed.
“So,” she continued, “I told him I was
shocked at his wickedness, and that I could never
see him again. You know, dear, I had my sense
of honor. I owed something to my husband.”
“Really !” said I, in polite wonder.
“Well, you dear innocent, my husband has
given me a good home and a nice position—really
quite a nice position. He gives me a fair allow-
ance, and a good deal of liberty—really, dear, I
do owe him something.”
“ Yes ? ” said I, a little puzzled. I was getting
out of my depth over this moral obligation ques-
tion.
“So I sent him away,” cooed on the tender
voice, the eyes dreamily closed from the blaze of
the September sunset. “ And I think my heart
was broken. He was over six feet, and he could
kiss—oh, Lily ! Poor boy ! he just adored me.
He used to kiss my little bare feet, and cry over
them.” Genuine tears made her sweet eyes
dewy.
“Did you never meet him again ?” said I, won-
dering about the bare feet.
“No ! ” she admitted, the ghost of five years’
wounded vanity struggling in her voice. “I—l
suppose lie wanted to save me pain, and (doubt-
fully) he may have thought of my reputation.”
“ Ah,” said I, “they do—sometimes. I suppose
he is busy kissing some other pair of little
feet since then.” She gave a little hurt cry at my
remark.
“What would you do if you met him again ? ”
I asked tentatively, balancing my Khayyam on
the arm of the chair.
“Why, I should just be coldly polite and try to
be as uncharming as possible. I would try to
cure him by my—er—plainness. It is the duty of
every good woman, and I hope I am that. In
cases like that, to flirt is most sinful.”
I looked at her admiringly, open-w'orked stock-
ings, laced petticoats, Parma violet and all. She
was most seductively virtuous.
“Would you feel affected in any way should
he appear on the scene ?” I inquired, anxious for
knowdedge.
“Not in the least,” she said, airily. “I should
behave with polite indifference.”
Just then we both heard the delightful sound of
male footsteps Gorging up the path.
“ Your husband comes home early ?” she asked,
pulling her laces a little further up from her open-.
worked stockings.
“It can’t be Jack,” I said, watching her uncon-
scious alertness at the approach of a possible prey.
Just then the figure of a man appeared at the
top of the steps, his face just discernible in the .
oncoming twilight. It was that of my dear friend
whom she had not met yet.
,1 heard a little gasp from the hammock, and
saw dimly a cloud of laces and a slender vanishing
figure round the corner of the verandah. I
looked quickly at him. His eyes held five years’
laughter in them.
“ Do you know my friend ? ” I asked slowly.
“I once thought I did,” said he, taking my
hand, “ I am fairly sure now that I do.”
His enigmatic reply enlightened me. We
entered the house together—he to the drawing-
room, I to my bedroom, where I found her
standing before my dressing-table, busily search-
ing for something.
“What do you want, dear?” I asked, glancing
with admiring wonder at her scarlet cheeks and
brilliant eyes.
“Darling Lilian,” she said, hurriedly, “tell
me quickly, ivherc is your powder-puff ! ”
HEDEN JEROME.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no Ms', will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Constant Header : There is a Labor union
objection to Kneeshaw, who had the saving grace to
stand by his persecuted Chief, Oliver. Therefore, Thk
Bulletin is a Tory and a liar, because it championed
Oliver against injustice ! It seems that you have “con-
stantly read ” The Bulletin to very poor purpose. We’re
pretty tired of saying it, but this paper doesn’t blindly
follow any section—trade union, Chamber of Commerce,
or Employers’ Union. It tries to come to a fair opinion,
without regard to party or class prejudice. The opinion
may sometimes be wrong; but it is at any rate honest
Wager: He appeared for The Bulletin in that
case... The Lyre : That “ protrude ” joke was sent from
Adelaide; after publication we found it was a chestnut,
and we could have stolen it ourselves from a back num-
ber of The Bulletin, if we had known enough
Church Hill: Yours is the prize scrawl of the universe.
Have given it up.... Mac. : “Face at the Window” too
long-winded. Too much Face and a superfluity of
Window... .Syd. C.: “Forecast” makes us feel there is
too much Jud. “Snakes” held for further considera-
tion— 8.G.: “Outer Track” too well beaten and over-
much strewn with bones Wilgar: Poem bowled first
ball. Prose item has a chance... .Nance McG. : Couldn’t
think of heaving such verses at any “Little Bush
Maiden.” Mulga Burtie : Will print. Thanks....
Y.M.N. : Hardly worth space. If man fell he fell a long
time ago... .0.0.5. : Surely you don’t want to pass on
the fact that snakes swallow each other as something fresh
and new? R.E.S. : Only point that pleased us about
“Back to the Army” was the handwriting.. ..J.L.D.:
“Squib” too slight.... A. Cusack: There is one syllable
too much in -your name to express our opinion of your
work... .Koald : Yes, but did Bent appoint anybody
else? F.L.C. : “Muddled Mud” is too muddled
E.M.D. : The drunk has gone to bed with the corpse so
often in Australia that there is no “story” now in such
an incident J.A.M.0.: Notup to the mark Mafuta:
Yarn been told before G.H.C. : “Schools” of sharks
are not uncommon, and may sometimes be seen in Port
Jackson F.W.8.: If you were a little more mystic and
incomprehensible you might be another Blake. As it is,
you are too mystic to be reasonable, and not mystic
enough to be really curious West: Hardly bright
enough... .Edna R. : Send along whenever you have in-
teresting pars; no hope for a regular letter as yet....
Self-constituted Detective: The Bulletin has always
favored a rational law which would make the wife-
deserter and wife-beater work out his wickedness with-
out starving his family, and will continue to do 50....
R. : Yes, it’s a fool suggestion, but you scorch it
rather clumsily Nimble: Yes, you submit “under sepa-
rate cover ” and then wonder why things go astray. En-
dorse your name and address on the copy or picture with
a s tamp (loosely attached), and you won’t have to complain.
... .H.M.K.: “ Ever—Evermore” is just a wail, and a small
wail at that... .Nilgo : Have passed out “Dagmar”—if
that is the name of it; it looks like “ Dagmar,” anyhow.
... .T.N. : “ Call of the Bush ” only another dying stock-
man, and a poor one... .Carlos : Hesitated a while over
“ Yarra.” Then it joined the torn majority... .E.E. :
“ A deux ” too slim.... A.O.G. : “ Hollyhock” just fails.
... .C.B.H. : “ Team ” a very small love trifle... .5.P.8.:
: A thin little thing is “Mistaken Identity”-—thinasa
sieve made, of blotting-paper... .J. Palmer : It is quite
true that “ Pelorus Jack ” is protected by Act of Parlia-
ment, and that he habitually accompanies steamers
through the French Pass Secur : Socks joke objection-
able Smudger : The last slow train crawled in some
weeks ago '-’am Ramey : No hesitation about which
w.p.b. your contributions went into. It wasn’t the “ Well
Perused Bulleiin.” G.J.D. (Junee) : Just failed L.
Greene:—
The jackass’s laugh ■}.
Comes from yonder tree
With a goo-goo-goo,
And a ha-ha-ha.
Also,• Ho-hodio ! Brownie: Might have slipped in if
you hadn’t tried to bribe us with a six-months’ subscrip-
tion conditional upon our printing your poem P.J.R. :
Victorian gauge is sft. Bin., N.S.W. one is 4ft. BJin
Kikapoo : You aren’t a poet. Don’t know for certain
what you are. You may be a heaven-born cook J.S.:
“ Sarah Jones ” is a great subject, but you haven’t risen
to it Golliger: Very poor. “Pollywog” would be
about your size for a pen-name Sydolt: One striking
line only—
In a dreamy mood I stand near Worry’s Bier.
After all the huge • remarks we have received about
Sorrow' and Despair there are points about “Worry’s
Bier.” How about the Tomb of Inconvenience? Ugly
Duckling: “Nap” cost 4d. for short postage. You
Maorilanders seem to think a pehny stamp will carry a
stove to Patagonia Jay Boon: “Essay on Drinking
Bouts” doesn’t breathe any realistic whisky odor
Printer’s Angel: Letter received, but in the rush of busi-
ness we couldn’t tell now what joke was alluded to
S. Brand : If it’s a conundrum we give it up. Maybe it’s
only verse... .Tom Kermode : Metre too rocky Gool:
“Bad Company” might be more pithily expressed....
Geeser: Two steep for a family paper like ours
G.F.R.: “Bullock Driver” just doesn’t get there
J.C.O’D. : Incredibly bad poem.... Zoe: Unfortunately
that magnificent lie appeared in print years ago.
.... J.S.P. : “ Judex ”is a doleful thing with a bump in
the rhythm N.E.D. : Yes, we have heard that some
yellow organ said that some U.C. authority said that if
the Labor party only came out on top, Australia would
soon be a R.C. country. But, after looking at the
Labor party, we don’t think anybody outside the office of
the yellow paper was fool enough to say it. How is the
Labor party—which is mostly Protestant or indifferent-
going to convert Australia to R.C.-ism, or any other
“ ism ” ? Has Price, the Primitive Methodist Labor Pre-
mier of S. A., made much of a start yet in his State?
For goodness sake, don’t be a raving ass .Possum:
Hopeless.,... E. Loe : Poseidon is pronounced Pos-i-don—
long i accented ; it is the Greek name for Neptune, the
god of the sea (don’t tell Dan O’Connor this, or he will
drop “wathery Niptune" for “pluvial Poseidon”).
Jacinth is hyacinth spelt differently, and hyacinth is a
flower which got its name from a Greek (mythological)
personage, Hyacinthus T. Evans: (1) Registrar-
General of Shipping and Seamen, Carlisle Place, West-
minster, London, S.W. (2) Gen. Registry Office for
Births, &c., Somerset House, London .'Unsuitable :
Freyberg.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Les. A.: No great artistic points about either of them.
J.A.F.A.: Not worth mentioning artistically, and the
jokes don’t arouse any enthusiasm B. Lake : Not
within cannon-shot of being good enough S.B. (Albert
Park): Terrible thing in bright mauve tints declined
V.E.: “Sarcasm” you say is “ drawn by” yourself.
Wouldn’t have thought it was drawn. It looks
as if it had just happened or transpired L.L.:
Rather crude, but we won’t say anything beastly about
it.. . .Skipper: Yes, they are somewhat promising, but
years below publication level J.M.N. : Very rough.


7
1 la a V io-JClu-
OTv
9
3 s *
1
£
pefcSS
;
y*
m
V.< v/4 ."I
?
..
is
-..Si.
>nt
TV
Mf/ :" - ■ ■?• ••. >' <. - ■■ -.
■ ■
■
w
r
w.'iiii
$
f L
\ "'
-*
#
'. f-
v,;
Si
r
;0
i p
6
i
H
6
■
.. .
mm
m
;
mm
■
r
■jr
IP
m
%
m
J£S*<**^
W;
m
S?I
/*•.
S/
-■■■
u
t>
«
,v:
if
A
A*)
A^-■
c-2*
-• . •
___
f* *3l
The Great Australian RusH,


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the "inners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ 11. ita ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Bib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Surf-bathing claimed another victim at Bondi
beach (Sydney) on Sunday, and four others narrowly
escaped. Some time ago an indignant correspondent
took exception to The Bulletin’s statement that there
were no life-saving appliances at that place, but on Sun-
day, when five men were in danger of their lives and one
was drowned, someone had to run 500yds. through heavy
sand with the life-line, so it was far enough away
to be fairly described as being at some other
place. By the time the exhausted runner reached
the water with the line one of the men had
disappeared. In all probability, had there been
proper life-saving apparatus in a handy spot, he would
have been saved. In the confusion and excitement of
getting four exhausted men out the lost one was not
missed, and it was only the discovery of his clothes in the
dressing shed that intimated that he had gone down in
the undertow.
•* * *
The surf-bather is raising a pretty fuss in the
Sydney press just now. Wholesale accusations of im-
propriety are flying around, accompanied by nasty
replies. One angry man writes to say that women and
girls take books and sit under the men’s dressing sheds,
and never open the books the whole time they are there.
This correspondent demands that the police shift the
bold creatures. Other outraged gentlemen complain of
the stockingette costumes for women, and demand that
failure to wear skirts shall be punished by 10 years im-
prisonment. Crowds of women complain that men who
dress well enough while in swimming come out on the
sand and take the sun-bath in the altogether. Most of
these correspondents suggest hanging as a deterrent.
Manly Council has forbidden ladies who will not wear
skirts to take the water on the beaches within its juris-
diction, so the stockingette ladies go away over past
Freshwater. The women who want to bathe go to
Manly, while those who want to exhibit themselves go
just outside the Council’s jurisdiction. The stocking-
ette costume is, when wet, fairly remarkable, but the
worst thing in the way of covering is a balloon-like cos-
tume of some diaphanous material which, after it has
been in the great deep, becomes quite transparent, and
clings tighter than the tightest of stockingette. Sunday
is not the best day to go to this Art Gallery. It is during
the warm week-day afternoons, when there is not too
large a crowd, that the best pictures are on view.
* • » *
N.S.W. is a great swimming State, but all the
same, its representatives could only secure second place
in the Australasian Championships meeting at Christ-
church (Maoriland). F. W. Springfield, of Queensland,
was the lion in the path, and he mopped up the Mile,
Half-Mile, and Quarter-Mile. Worse than all, the Kieran
Memorial Challenge Shield goes to Queensland as the
winner of the largest number of events. N.S.W. came in
a bad second with the 100yds. and 220yds. Champion-
ships, won by Harold Baker. Despised Westralia was
third with the 220yds. Breast-Stroke Championship,
appropriated by Matson.
* » * *
When, last week, a newspaper bill advertised
“ Victor Trumper Hits Out,” a lot of people thought they
had missed a match, and bought the paper eagerly, only
to find that, on this occasion, Mr. Victor Trumper had
been smiting with his mouth. It is in no way uncompli-
mentary to Mr. Trumper to say that he uses his bat much
move skilfully than he does his mouth. Although
apparently a professional, and unable to hold office
under any circumstances, Mr. Trumper gave the
N.S.W. Cricket Association particular beans, and
with the haughty independence that befits so great
a player—he made 11 in the last inter-State
match I —Victor implies he will see the Association
a homeless institution humping its swag before he
will make personal application to have his disqualification
removed. He declines to crawl. This shows the advan-
tage of having nothing to gain.
The Trumper head swells visibly, and that
young man now claims the right to veto the choice of
the selection committee. He declines to go to Westralia
because he considers that Sullivan and Mclntyre should
give place to Hickson and Carter. It is said that the Wes-
tralians particularly asked for Trumper, and apparently
the fact has put Trumper in an autocratic state of mind.
Of course his action is not due to any resentment he may
feel re the attitude of the Association over the disqualifi-
cation trouble. He says so himself ; and it is well known
that Mr. Trumper and the rest of the players have too
much regard for the feelings of the public to take revenge
on the Association in that manner. In fact, it is only
their love for the public that has kept them in the game
since the row; otherwise they would have told the
Association to go to Sheol, and it would have gone.
This regard for the public is touching.
* * * »
N.S.W. Cricket Association has probably
realised by this time that it played the plain goat when
it decided that it would lift the disqualifications on the
application of the suspended players. The players and
their friends have taken the concession as a sign of
weakness—a submission to the wearing-down process
that the loud-mouthed allies of the Melbourne Cricket
Club have been keeping up all these months. Following
Trumper’s sore-headed yelp, M. A. Noble has written to
say he will not apply for re-instatement, and that he con-
siders it is up to the Association to show some “spon-
taneous and unrequested consideration.” The so-called
“ Citizens’ Committee,” of which Jawbone Neild and his
moustachios are the most prominent features, has
already sent to England a document which is calculated
to create an impression in that country that there is still
a struggle for supremacy 7 raging here. The players were
said to have nothing to do with this document, but as it
is announced that all the players will probably take part
in a conference with the C.O. to consider the next move,
they will certainly 7 be identified with it in England.
Time the Cricket Association got eut its axe again and
ehded the controversy once and for all.
■V * * *
Saturday’s First Grade cricket at Sydney
showed the unusual spectacle of four century makers
carrying their bats at close of play. F. A. Iredale had
made the neat 100 when the whistle blew. G. Payne
pounded up 115, and H. Collins was only 7 two behind
him. But the star performance was Hopkins’ colossal
score of 229, against Middle Harbor, at North Sydney.
Yet, despite this triumph with the bat, the bowlers’
figures were also good. Carew, of Middle Harbor, took
six North Sydney wickets for 97. Pye, of Central
Cumberland, cut down five of Balmain’s sticks for 21.
Minnett, of University 7, laid out four Gordon wickets for
44. Rose, of Waverley 7, captured four of Paddington’s
for 40. Barbour, of Burwood, dismissed three Sydney
men for 12 in the first innings, and three for 40 in the
second. Allen and Harvey, of University, took three for
57 and two for 30 respectively. Gallagher, of Glebe, took
one of Red.'t rn’s for no runs.
The breakage of Gordon by University was
the bright particular feature of the afternoon. Till
it met the Uni. Gordon had trodden on every-
thing that tried to stand against it, and was far
ahead on points. Saturday saw it blotted out by 109
runs on the first innings. It was no chance victory, but
a straight-out beating by hard bowling and good fielding
on a ground as rough as a motorist’s face. Even as
things are, Gordon is still at the head of the competition
with 12 points, and the nearest rival is Paddington with
nine, while Glebe and Burwood are together in third
place with five each. It was in the second innings of
this match that Iredale made his century, but had he
made it in the first innings it would not have saved
Gordon, of whom it might be written as the Scripture
hath it, “and those whom he predestinated to evil he
damned.”
* * * *
H. Stuckey, after being away from turf wickets
and out of first-grade cricket for two years, turned up at
Carlton (Vic.) last Saturday in the East Melbourne team.
Three wickets had fallen for 78 when Stuckey joined
Rainey, and the result was startling. Before the fourth
wicket was captured they had put on 215, and then
Rainey departed. Stuckey stayed on for the rest of the
afternoon, and made 251 before he was run out in the
very last over. Apart from Stuckey’s performance the
highest score made in Melbourne first-grade games on
Saturday was Vaughan’s 73, made for Melbourne against
Hawksburn. Old man Trumble was fairly effective with
the ball, taking five of Hawksburn’s wickets for 58.
Green, of Carlton, did even better, knocking down four
of South Melbourne’s for 36. So did Forsyth, of Essendon,
who broke five of St. Hilda's for 61, and Sampford, of the
same team, who got four for 54. Fitzgerald, of St.
Hilda, retaliated by taking three of Essendon’s for 29.
* * » *
Among the batsmen who have scored at least
1000 runs in N.S.W.-Vic. matches M. A. Noble is easily
first. He has carried his bat five times in 38 innings, and
in these 38 innings he has made an aggregate of 2006
runs, at an average of 60'78. Trumper is a bad second,
having carried his bat only once in 27 innings, and aggre-
gated 1243, at an average of 47'80. His highest score
was 230 against Noble’s 281. R. A. Duff also carried his
willow once in 25 innings, with an aggregate of 1147, and
an average of 47 - 79. The best among the Victorians is
W. W. Armstrong, who has played in 26 innings, and
carried his bat for 168, with an aggregate of 1049, and an
average of 41 '64.
* » * *
Syd. Gregory’s benefit match commences to-
morrow (Friday). Good representative teams have been
picked for both sides, and as Gregory is one of the
whitest of men, as well as the best of cricketers, he
deserves a bumper attendance.
* # * m
The portrait of Sydney E. Gregory, in this
issue, is one of the best ’ produced of that great
little cricketer. Sydney E. made his initial appearance
in first grade cricket on Sydney C.G. 16 years ago, and
from then till the present day has remained in the first
flight of Australian cricketers. Asa matter of fact,
Sydney E ; is still in the first flight. His record, which any
player might be proud of, appeared on this page last
week. He is regarded by English authorities as the finest
cover-point in the world. His benefit match will com-
mence on Sydney Cricket Ground on February 15, and
will take the form of N.S.W. versus Rest of Australia.
Gregory, on that occasion, will play for Rest of Australia,
and, considering how the Rest of Australia has been
shaping of late, it is likely to want all the assistance he
can give it.
* • * •
This is the story of the fnaking of the Invin-
cible : Charles H. Relph, a marine engineer with a first-
class certificate, decided that a position at moderate
salary in the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board, with
home life, was preferable to the pomp and gold braid of
the engine-room on the rolling wave. He knew all about
driving engines—that was his profession ; but of build-
ing or designing them he had no experience. When the
motor-boat craze struck Sydney he caught it, as he does
most things, badly. While the attack was acute, he
bought one of the Imperial torpedo boats that had been
condemned as obsolete, chopped the deck off, fitted in a
cabin top which formed a promenade deck, replaced
the engine with a 30-h.p. Australian-made Victor motor,
and christened the transformation the Empress. This
roomy yacht is now a familiar sight about Sydney Har-
bor. It contains a saloon, a state room fitted with two
berths, an engine-room, a kitchen, and sleeping quarters
for a crew. It is fitted with bulkhead watertight
compartments, and is a roomy, comfortable motor
yacht. Having made the Empress, Mr. and Mrs.
Relph let their home for the summer, and drifted round
the beauty spots of Port Jackson and its rivers on their
new floating home. All the time the idea of a perfectly
new engine simmered in Relph’s brain. When he came
back to live on land he committed his new idea to paper,
and worked out its details. Then he fell into a sea
of difficulties. He had no plant at his disposal. He had
to get his castings made by men unaccustomed to the
work, and they were made at great expense and con-
siderable labor. At last he got them finished, and pieced
them together. The first time he tried the engine the
bearings ran hot, and the Lady Eileen beat him easily
while he was cooling down. Then came a period of
alterations of little details, and one day Charles Relph
had the satisfaction of seeing his pioneer engine, his first
attempt, work as smoothly as a watch. It swept the
harbor. Naturally a young man who could do this
sort of thing in the face of such difficulties was
not going to rust in a comparatively unin-
teresting position in the W. and S. Board’s service.
Mort’s Dock Engineering Cos. saw that he was full of sand,
and it snapped him quickly before anyone else could get
hold of him. Then it started a motor-boat and internal
combustion engine branch at Woolwich, at the entrance
to Lane Cove River, and placed him in charge of it at a
big salary. So far, the Invincible has been unbeaten,
but when its hour comes to go under, Australians can
still be proud of it. It was the first of its type, and it is
doubtful if any of the great engineering works of the
world ever produced a pioneer engine that was for years
the champion of the home waters. When the history
of Australian engineering is written, it will contain honor-
able mention of the name of Charles H. Relph.
* * * *
It is alleged that the reference to Mr. Davies’
new Fairbanks boat in last issue was somewhat unfair.
When the Invincible passed it, the new boat was on its
maiden trip, and had six people and half a wave on
board. Said that the boat has since developed 18 knots
an hour, and its owner hopes, by the time the engine has
settled down to smooth running, to develop even a
higher speed.
• • •* •
Norman Murray, of Sydney Prince Alfred
Yacht Club, and owner of the yacht Heather, failed to
score in his newspaper controversy over the winning of
La Carabine Cup. Mr. Murray’s contention was that
under the rules S. J.S., having accepted and started on an
approximate rating, was bound to abide by it. The
secretary of the Victorian Yacht Club replied that if the
rules had been strictly adhered to the Heather could not
have started, as Mr. Murray did not provide any rating
certificate nor forward any entry form, as prescribed.
Under these circumstances Mr. Murray’s stickling for the
full and correct observance of the laws of the game is
causing his friends to wear a pained expression.
That was an astonishing performance of Mr.
Saxton with his new yacht Awanui in the Prince Alfred
Yacht Club’s ocean race outside Sydney Harbor on Satur-
day. Although it was the first time the yacht had been
under sail, he got such pace out of it that he must have
won but for the mistake whereby he overshot the round-
ing mark, and allowed Culwalla to make up leeway.
Culwalla won the race on time allowance, by lniin. 26sec.
Mr. Saxton sailed into second place (on time allowance),
which was a mighty creditable performance for an
untried boat with new sails, and deprived of the use of a
topsail.
* • * *
Durnan and Towns seem to have a fairly-
exciting time training on the Nepean. The recent rains
raised the river considerably, and the result was that
logs, stranded in the last rise, have once more got
on the loose, and are floating about in a waterlogged
condition in the stream. There have been several narrow
escapes, and it is noticed that both scullers and their
trainers are developing a curious necktwist. By the day
of the race it is very likely that they will have mastered
the art of getting their heads right round, so that they
will present the extraordinary spectacle of men like
Dante’s spectres whose heads w ere reversed and whose
tears ran down their backs.
* « * *
Said that Towns finds the change from salt
water to fresh very distressing, and there is a growing
impression that the Australian is going to be beaten.
Durnan has rowed all his life in fresh water, and is there-
fore in his own element. Towns finds it heavier, and the
w'ater seems to strike the boat with a jar which discon-
certs him. Of course, by the time he has been rowing in
it a month, that will, to a large extent, cease to worry
him ; but in a close race everything tells, even a fly on
the sculler’s nose. But The Bulletin has grave doubts
about the fresh water affecting Towns as much as is made
out. Towns is no novice on the lighter fluid, and first
won his championship on it when he rowed Jake Gaudaur
at Rat Portage, on the Lake of the Woods, Canada. Also,
the rumors of the Australian not making much progress
should be taken with a grain of salt. There is some
betting on this race, and most of the sensational tales
have a reason behind them.
• « * *
Now stated that motoring, which is said to
eradicate tuberculosis of the lungs and throat, has a
destructive effect on the memory, and is highly conducive
to the appetite for stimulants, and some English brain
and nerve specialists have been warning patients not to
indulge in it for that reason. On the other hand, it is
urged that some of the crack drivers can remember every-
thing they see and hear during a run of 100 miles. One
of these long-memoried coves got into the witness box in
the Divorce Court lately, and reeled off two volumes of
details of what happened between the lady whose husband
owned the car and the gentleman who accompanied her.
A verbatim report was nothing to it.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association struck the down-
pour which usually afflicts wheeling in Sydney, whether it
is straight or crooked —just or unjust. On Monday, last
week, the meeting had to be postponed on account of
wet weather, and the public was notified that Monday’s
tickets were available for Wednesday. Wednesday even-
ing brought more rain, and the meeting was shoved along
another half-week.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association managed to
get its much-postponed meeting off on Monday night
last, although the heavy clouds and threatening appear-
ances scared many people into staying at home. Nine-
teen events were got off, including bike, motor-bike and
foot races. There were some bad spills, but nobody
was badly smashed. The lj-miles motor handicap pro-
vided excitement. Jarman and Finlay won the two
heats, but in the final, just when Forrest Finlay had
beaten his field and was careering home, he came down.
The field swept past him, Jarman rushing to the front.
Finlay remounted, but the race was practically over, and
Jarman won easily by one-third of a lap, with'Powell and
Doherty second and third. The Three Miles race, in
which the last man round the lap dropped out, did not
prove as exciting as on the first night, and the four men
left in at the bell provided a very weak finish. Horder
won, with Power two lengths away, and Henry 25yds.
behind Power.
* * * *
N.S. W. Cyclists’Association is likely to have
opposition in the night cycling business. The Union
is seriously considering whether it will take the
Cricket Ground and put on a carnival. The
trouble is that the amateurs seem to be a very
second-rate lot of riders, most of them without
track experience, and, as they do not live by the wheel,
they have not the time for practice that the pro-
fessional has. The result is that their exhibitions are
not very interesting, and the liability to smash is
considerable. But if the Union does decide to go in for
track racing no doubt the amateurs will improve. In the
meantime, path-racing in N.S.W. is in a parlous way.
• * * *
The Cyclists’ Union (the N.S.W. amateur body)
opened its annual carnival on Sydney Sports Ground
on Saturday last, and will complete it the day after to-
morrow on the same track. The racing, although not
speedy, was highly interesting owing to the savage
energy at the finishes. The riders were obviously out to
win. Berry, of Brisbane, the amateur champion of the
Commonwealth, appeared in two events, but failed to
score a point. The Griffiths Shield, which was held by
the Western Suburbs Club (Sydney), passed to the posses-
sion of the Enfield club. The usual number of falls,
some of them serious, gave the gathering: a Roman flavor.
* * * w *
The new cycle track at Sydney Sports Ground
appears to be fairly fast. Week before last G. H. Horder
cut down the time for the Flying Half-Mile to 55 l-ssec.,
which is a world’s record on an outdoor track. He was
not so successful in the Mile, which he did in 2min.
2 3-ssec., the fraction representing the failure to equal
the English record.
» * * *
Track cyclists seem to be the same all the world
over, and all the world is getting very tired of them and
their ways. The great “ Racing Men’s Association ”of
Germany is about to dissolve owing to the tendency of
the public to carefully avoid track carnivals.
Said that Attorney-General Wade, of N.S.W.,
has driven a field of horses through his own Anti-Gam-
bling Act, by deciding that a club can legally allow its
licensed course to be used oftener for racing purposes
than the number of days specified in the Anti-Gambling
Act. So the Ascot Olub has been hiring the sand-patch
it calls a racecourse to the N.S.W. Trotting Club. Also
said that when Parliament meets Wade will attack a few
of the chilled steel clauses of his Act with a patent wear-
ing-down process in the interests of trotting, which is
supposed to be one of the supports of civilisation and a
support that cannot live without betting. There are indi-
cations that Wade no longer wears the white flower of a
gameless life. Looks as though contact with that
inveterate punter, Carruthers, has demoralised the good
young man from Wahroonga.
• * * *
Istria, the original favorite for the Newmarket
after the declaration of weights, met with a seemingly
fair and square defeat in a Melbourne suburban event
(six furlongs) last Saturday. The well-bred Deeollette
came after Istria when she appeared to be running away
with the race, and beat her by a heck. In the New-
market the daughter of Necklet meets Istria on better
terms. She was rather a disappointing mare what time
she ran in Mr. Leeming’s colors, but a change of air seems
to have done her good. If Deeollette has developed in
her staying powers, she should go very near to winning
the Newmarket. She was always very speedy, but for-
merly she lacked the grit essential to a sustained sprint
down the straight six furlongs at Flemington.
* * * *
No word, so far, by cable of the big things done
at the Speed Carnival on Ormond-Daytona Beach,
Florida; so, perhaps, there were no big things done.
Last year’s records (the flying mile in 28 l-ssec., and two
Lance Skuthorp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for. New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buckjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snips. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
miles in 58 4-ssec.) will take a lot of beating anrl th
beatenf neWS su^ests that <*ey havfnot teen
* * *
There will be no fight-except with mud-be
tween Billiam Squires and Amurkan basher D6 '
Squires lifted his cash on the date fixed, and deehnedt;
take any notice of Mr. Brennan s belated offer to nm
vide a £IOOO purse. He will fill in the time till his dep ar '
ture on the 18th Riving sparring exhibitions with Crin t ‘
Johnson will now complete his training and fight Felixfo
Sydney on a date to be agreed upon.
* * • ,
Squires’ successful dodging of that fight with
Johnson is his least creditable performance up to date
There’s a good deal to be said from Squires 1 standpoint
though. A trip to the States is an experience that anv
man might hanker after, and a defeat bv Johnson mwht
have seriously imperilled that trip. They have no time
for beaten men in the States, and although all the
aspirants at present in the front of the Amurkan crush
have side-stepped Johnson, they might have made use of
the fact that he had walloped Squires to force disadvan
tageous terms on the Australian. On the other hand
had Squires postponed his departure for a month and
beaten Johnson, he could have stepped right into the
front row of the bruising crowd, where the big purses
are, and Brennan’s £IOOO w ould have been very useful
during the six months he may have to wait for a decent
fight in the Republic. [Boxing matters are very uncer-
tain. Since the above was written there have been two
rumors that the fight was on again and one that it was
off again. It will probably happen on the gangway of
the steamer just as Squires is leaving, if it happens at all.]
* * * w
“ Snell ” : Nothing does so much mischief to
the boxing game as bad refereeing, and it must be
admitted that refereeing in Melbourne is shockingly in.
consistent. Every referee has a method of his own, and
each claims the right to set his opinion above the rules.
The contest between Ted Nelson, of Sydney, and Fred
Andrews, of Westralia, at Melbourne Cyclorama the other
night, was shut off peremptorily in the second round,
not because either had won or lost, but because the
referee believed that on his showing Andrews would be
beaten if the fight continued. Nobody was more dis-
gusted at this unsportsmanlike termination than Andrews,
who had been hit about a bit, hut had not sustained
a penn’orth of damage, and was still fit and well.
Andrew's’ claim that it w'as unjustifiable to declare
him whipped while he was still unbeaten and still had a
chance in the fortunes of the game is perfectly legitimate,
and Basto, in acting as he did, displayed a squeamishness
that would commend itself to an audience of Judkinses
but which an audience of sports resented very warmly.
An unscientific boxer must be given time to prove what
his endurance and stamina will do for him before the
referee is justified in calling him off. Nelson was
certainly the superior boxer in the round and a half of
battling, but not long ago Griffen beat Bob Fraser after
Fraser had made him look much- more of a mug than
Andrews appeared before Nelson.
w * * *
Since James Brennan turned the National
Sporting Amphitheatre into a Variety Hall, the Gaiety
Club has been enjoying a sort of mild monopoly of Syd-
ney boxing. But the monopoly is not nearly so complete
as is generally supposed. Every suburb has its “ Pastime
Club ” where bruising is the order of the evening, and
some of the wildest fights ever fought in Sydney
rage at these suburban halls, unhonored by adver-
tisement and unrecorded in the brief and simple
annals of stoush. Some of these clubs have charm-
ing names ; one out Leichhardt way calls itself
“The Sons of Rest.” All the same, the Gaiety is
reaping a good harvest, for the men who used to go to
Brennan’s clean, airy hall must go to a fight when
there is one on. But they long for the comfort
and decency of the big premises with the sliding
roof. On Saturday last the Gaiety put on another con-
test betw'een Hock Keys and Montague Andrews. Keys
is, if possible, lighter and thinner than ever, while
Montague begins to put on the robust development of a
man who is in perfect health and working hard. The
disparity in weight was all in Andrew's’ favor. He did
not hesitate to use the weight, either, and the result was
that Keys, who looked frail beside him, was soon worn
out, and reduced to such a state of helplessness that his
seconds Whirled the towel in the 13th round. Keys has
lost none of his old-time skill, but he has lost much of his
force, and he never had any to spare. If he had the
strength to hit one good knock-out blow during a fight he
would be a world’s champion in his class.
* * * *
There was quite a touch of the Bland Holt
drama about the sudden appearance of anew aspirant
for the heavyweight boxing championship at Bendigo,
the other night. Squires and Oripps gave an exhibition
spar. The item of the evening was just over when there
was a hustle at the fire-escape, and a hoary-headed man
with straggling whiskers clambered down, laid his swag
on the floor, and announced his desire to fight William
for any amount up to £BO,OOO. Squires hadn’t that sum
about him. and Mr. Wren was.in Melbourne, so the cham-
pion declined the challenge, but Oripps took it up, and
the swagman promptly stripped off. He proved to have
a pair of violent hands, and he swung and feinted on the
middleweight champion for three vigorous rounds. Then,
remarking that he would have a go at Squires yet, he
gathered up his Matilda and went his way.
* ♦ * *
Australian cyclists have apparently discovered
that, no matter how cheap the machine may be, good
tyres are indispensable, and that the.v have practically
given up the use of the cheap imported tyre is demon-
strated by the fact that the Dunlop Tyre Cos. is now
turning out of its Australian factory, by the hands of
Australian workmen, no less than 240,000 tyres per year.*
They never let the plague rat cause
trouble at Chicago, U.S.A. A rodent there is
sausage before he knows that his health is failing.
An Elderly Lady
Relates Her Experiences of the Marvellous
Strength-Giving and Blood-Enriching
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Margaret Ferguson, of Euroa, writing
from North Williamstown, Victoria, relates as
follows “I am now 77 years of age, and as one
who has very great faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, I am only too pleased to give you an
account of my experience. For some years I was
a sufferer from liver complaint, which was in-
tensified after an attack of influenza. I had con-
jestion of the liver, catarrh of the stomach, was
severely troubled with constipation, stagnant
circulation, poorness of blood—which caused
eruptions in the skin—also great dizziness and
palpitation of the heart. Indeed, the slightest
effort seemed to upset me. Of course, I took
a quantity of doctor’s medicines, and tried a
number of pills and physic, but obtained only
temporary relief. A friend recommended Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and after a few doses I
began to feel a great improvement, so I stuck to
them, and to-day I am in better health than I
have been for years. Indeed, I regard these pills
as the sole source of my increased strength and the
improved condition of my blood. 1 have recom-
mended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to many
friends and neighbors, and I am quite sure that in
every case they have been proved all that you
claim for them. You may use this in any way
you desire, and I trust many will read it, and be
convinced of the efficacy of your wonderful
remedy.”*


KUGELMANN’S
dsds
ds
ds
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
Sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny-
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s, per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
"HARNESS THE WIND"
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S ■<£>■
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
op ....
Carbide Qf Calcium.
, Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
o
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address —
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms .
&
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
I do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
Banßers
Victoria and Royal Bantts
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King Of Sport ” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: “ King of Sport/' Collins St*, Melbourne*
2000 MILES
without PUNCTURE TROUBLE-
“ Miraculum Corporation, Melbourne,
“January, 17,1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —About six months ago I had the
tubes of my bicycle charged with Miraculum, with
very gratifying results. lam a country traveller,
and my average mileage for six months is, roughly,
2000 miles on all sorts and conditions of road. I
have picked up thorns, nails and tacks, and, on
removing them, found the Miraculum had sealed
the puncture effectively, as I could not detect the
slightest sound of an escape of air, the tyre remain-
ing quite firm. My experience proves that Miracu-
lum will do all that is claimed for it if properly
handled, and were the cost of charging 10s. per
wheel instead of 4s. for two wheels, I would
willingly pay it, as I have no doubt I have saved
the cost over and over again. Yours, &c. (Signed)
JOHN OWENS.”
If your dealer prefers charging you 6d. apiece
for patches to selling you Miraculum and giving
you an insurance for months against punctures,
call or write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
MELBOURNE : 266 LATROBE STREET.
SYDNEY : VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT BTREET.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
pr- GET OUR BOOKLET.
dsd
A DISEASE THAT
DEVELOPS UNNOTICED
ITS EARLY WARNINGS.
SYMPTOMS OF APPROACHING
DEAFNESS.
“The loss of hearing is in most cases a painless
process. If only the approach of deafness were
always previously signalled by acute pain, there
would be less deafness.
“ Always remember that the most dangerous
diseases are generally those which give the least
pain in their progress. For pain is a plain warn-
ing that cannot be overlooked, whereas Nature’s
less emphatic signals are often unnoticed or un-
recognised.”
ALMOST UNCONSCIOUS INCLINATION.
It was in his consulting rooms, at 60-64 Hunter
Street, Sydney, that Professor Louis Vernon thus
explained a very popular delusion.
“In the case of approaching deafness, while
the warning of pain is generally absent, yet there
are other unmistakable warnings, which should
never be neglected for a single moment,” added
the Professor. “At the slightest symptom of
failing hearing, the trouble should be seen to at
once, because in many cases, if this is not done
promptly, it may be too late to obtain assistance
when actual pain in, or discharge from, the organ
causes more or less absolute and, perhaps, incur-
able deafness.
“Warning evidences of approaching deafness
need not necessarily be confined to that organ
itself. The brain itself is in such close affinity
with the ears that it may be afflicted. There will
in some cases be stunning or shooting head-pains,
stammering, hesitating speech, an inclination to
talk very loudly, or even a disposition not to hold
conversation at all. Buzzing and singing or
surging noises in the ears are also frequent indi-
cations of some affection of the ear. These noises
seem to beat with the pulse, and sometimes they
are accompanied by occasional attacks of giddi-
ness. The ear in some instances appears to be
stuffed with some soft substance that but dimly
admits the sounds, and there is almost an uncon-
scious inclination to strain the head and body in
I the direction whence a sound emanates. In
advanced stages there is often a sense of confusion
in the head when in the midst of loud noises, as
in the street of a city or town, or in a large room
or public hall filled with people.
SURGICAL OPERATIONS AVOIDED.
“These and many similar warnings should
never be treated with unconcern tor a single
moment. No sufferer in this direction need hesi-
tate for fear of painful surgical operations, for
these are now obviated by my simple inexpensive
system. This is fully described in my book on
‘ Deafness, ’ which I shall be only too glad to send
free to any reader who, on his or her own behalf,
or on kind behalf of a friend or relative, is in-
terested in the subject.”
ADDRESS—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney,
to which place written or personal application
should be made.
Missing Friends.
NASSAU GEOEGE SIMPSON, or, if deceased, his
representatives, should apply at once to BLAKE
and RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120 William-street, Melbourne,
or money belonging: to him will be divided by High
Court in England amongst next of kin.
TTIRANK NESTER (or NESTOR), aged about
21 years, son of John Nester.(or Nestor),
deceased, late of Sydney, New South Wales,
cab proprietor, is requested to at once communi-
cate with M. MORNANE, Solicitor, 125 Queen-
street, Melbourne, when he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
ANNE WIGGINS, deceased. Information
desired of WILLIAM WIGGINS, last
heard of at Caboolture, Queensland, in 1889.
Apply, A. D. GILFILLAN, Solicitor, St.
Arnaud, Victoria.
TOM STEWART, native of Victoria, 45
years, on Oxley, Ulonga, and Nap Nap
Stations, in the early eighties. Any information
will be thankfully received by his brother,
JOHN H. STEWART,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
Prospectus.
What the Federal Minister
for Customs says:
The facts and figures compiled by the Commonwealth
Customs-houses tell a convincing story of the enormous
consumption of iRON AND STEEL and manufactured
wares of every variety. The point was emphasised bv
Sir William Lyne, the Ministerial head of the Federal
Customs, the other day, in reply to a deputation from
Gippsland that referred to the huge deposits of iron ore
and coal in New South Wales and iron ore in Victoria.
Sir William said: ‘‘The Commonwealth imported
£7,000,000 worth of IRON AND STEEL in various forms
every year. That showed what opportunities there were
for the development of our raw industries."
IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRIES ARE A NATIONAL
NECESSITY, AND EVERY DAY’S DELAY IN
THEIR ESTABLISHMENT IS A LOSS TO THE
PEOPLE AND TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
The New Direct Process,
Iron, Steel, and Metals
Corporation, Limited
(To be Registered under the Companies Acts).
CAPITAL . £400,000 in 400,000
Shares of £1 Each.
FIVE SHILLINGS per Share to be paid
on Application.
FIVE SHILLINGS on Allotment.
AN INDUSTRIAL CONQUEST ASSURED BY A NEW
AND DIRECT PROCESS OF TREATING IRON
ORES.
If the methods hitherto, and at present, employed in
transmuting iron ores into IRON AND STEEL had to be
employed, it is to be feared that without the most gener-
ous State assistance and encouragement the national
IRON AND STEEL destiny of Australia would be
deferred for another generation at least. So undesirable
a contingency, however, is obviated by what will prove
to be an epoch-making discovery in the treatment of
IRON ORES. That discovery will mean the prompt and
highly profitable conquest of iron ores, and bring about
the domination of the home market by home-made IRON
AND STEEL.
THE “ MOORE-HESKETT ” NEW DIRECT PROCESS
FOR THE TREATMENT OF IRON ORES AND
THEIR RAPID AND ECONOMICAL MANUFAC-
TURE INTO MALLEABLE IRON AND FINISHED
STEEL WILL REVOLUTIONISE THE WORLD’S
TRADE.
The process, briefly, represents—
SAVING IN INITIAL OUTLAY OF PLANT, 80 p.c.
SAVING IN FUEL, ABOUT TWO-FIFTHS.
SAVING IN FLUXES, ABOUT NINE-TENTHS.
SAVING IN LABOR, ONE-THIRD.
SAVING IN TIME, ABOUT NINE-TENTHS.
The cost of production will be reduced by at least 25
per cent., thereby introducing a process economically
revolutionary.
The New Direct Process, Iron,
Steel and Metals Corporation,
Limited,
ARE
Establishing a Great
Australian Industry.
It is widely kpown among all interested in the IRON
AND STEEL trade that while the visible supply of iron
ores in Europe and America is perceptibly diminishing,
the virgin deposits of the most necessary metal in trade
and commerce are in unexampled abundance in all the
States of the Commonwealth.
Mr. J. PIERPONT MORGAN says : “ The foundation
of wealth is the first twenty pounds invested.”
NOW IS THE OPPORTUNITY TO REMEMBER the
words of the world’s most successful Investor and
Financier. Now is the opportunity to become an original
shareholder in a corporation that must yield phenomenal
returns and revolutionise one of the world’s greatest
industries. To get in at once will be the anxious aim ot
every thoughtful and patriotic Australian.
Applications Received and
All Information
will be supplied by
THE ORGANISING MANAGER,
J. EARLE HERMANN,
Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney.
CLAUDE MUSSON & CO;, Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
NEIL McPHIE & OQ., Longreach, Queensland.
W. H TURNBULL & CO., Wellington, N.Z.
Bankers:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors:
Messrs, LAURENCE & LAURENCE.
Victorian Mines Department is making
another attempt to prove that there isn’t any
need to wear out ships by making them carry
hunks of Italy to Australia. Last yea,r sculptor
Summers brought samples of Orneo (Vic.) marble
to Melbourne, and experts reckoned some of it
superior to the best Italian stone. Now Summers
goes with a gang of men to further investigate
and report to the Department, which proposes to
survey and reserve the best of the Omeo marble
land, and to issue licenses to competent men who
won’t murder the industry in its infancy by un-
skilled working.
From the democratic Church Common-
wealth (Anglican)
Our Bishops have to travel far and wide in Australia,
and yet from morning to night they are surrounded by
the well-to-do. It is always at the squatter’s homestead,
or at the city magnate’s residence, that we find our
Fathers-in-God. No wonder that they absorb a one-sided
opinion of matters civil and political; the other side is
scarcely ever before them.
There are exceptions. The Bishop of North
Queensland was prompt to claim that he was one.
The Bishop of Tasmania certainly is. But, on
the whole, the paper is right. The average
Bishop loves the pure merinoes of his flock, and
his political knowledge consists mostly of the
after-dinner scoffs of the rich Tory, retailed at
second hand.


Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to pur-
chase through our Mail Order Department,
where all orders receive prompt atten-
tion. All goods sent Carriage Free.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Our Illustrated Catalogue' shows over
3000 illustrations o ' Watches, Clocks,
Jeweliery, Silverplate, Leather and Optical
Goods. Send for a copy. It’s free for the
asking. A postcard will bring you a copy
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION.
Solid Silver, comprising 6
articles, 15s 6d.
Other stvles, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 18s 6d.
a
wmm,
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, English
oak, pure silverplated
mounts, with cards, etc.,
355. Other style, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain PURSE, richly
embossed, size sin x 3Jin, 70s.
Engraved design, 60s.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
IB
S I :
KJC3A«
®S
«aP
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, silk-lined, size 4-Jin x 2Jin, 12s 6d.
Other, styles, 15s : 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUAOIiRS.
Toilet Hand MIRROR, pure silver-
plated, handsomely embossed, size
lOin, 10s 6d. Solid Silver, 355.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 35s
40s, 50s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom CLOCK, solid silver mounted,
fancy enamel dial, accurate time-
keeper. 7s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH and
COMB, in case, richly embossed, long
white bristles, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 80S, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH,
richly embossed, long bris-
tles, Bs’ GcJ. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, ps.
sds
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver plated,
highly burnished, 12s 6u.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s.
ALL GOODS
SENT CARRIAGE
FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR
BRUSH, richly embossed,
15s 6d. Others, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, solid
silver, richly embossed, in
silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Travelling, CASE,
comprising 10 articles, solid
leather, fits into case, £2.
Other styles, 10s 6d,' 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, SOs, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Walnut CLOCK, dull polished case, strikes
hours and halfs, cathedral gong, enamel dial, 16in high.
37s 6d. Kept in free repair for two years.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
2 7G
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud BOX,
pure silver-plated, pierced,
and embossed, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lemaire’s Field or Marine
GLASS, leather covered, achro-
matic lenses, with sling and
case, 40s. Higher grade, 50s.
SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather Purse and
CARD-CASE, pure silverraounts
and lock, 21s. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
Hill
: WEB
HHHN
: V' v ';
W
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET-BOOK and Letter CASE combined, black
Morocco Leather, silk-lined, pure silver mounts and
shield, 12s 6d. Without shield, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Travelling SOAP BOX, pure silver-
plated, hand-embossed, gilt lined, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s.
Mr
.IllSa
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Solid Silver, richly embossed,
floral design, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. :
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER,
solid silver, costal
glass roller, 4s 6d.
&
sank
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet Pomade JAR,
solid silver top,
hobnail cut glass,
6s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Morocco Leather, silk and leather
lined, fitted with every convenience, pure silver lock,
£2.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Swan PINCUSHION,
solid silver, velvet
top, 5s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d,
2s 6d, 3s od.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH, buck-
skin, pure silver shield, best
rubber lined, 4s 6d. Gold
shield, 7s 6d extra. Other
styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic mirror, polished
oak base, 255. Other style;,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Bell RATTLE, Xylonit
Teething Ring, 4s 6d.
dther styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s to
Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
3IGAR CASE, Black Morocco,
ather, pure silver
. Other styles, 6s 6d, Bei 6d.^
, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 2*
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
SAUNDERS,
A.
( 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


PURE ...
Aerated Waters
Can be made with “ AUSTRAL Aerated
Water Machines at a less cost than 4c!. per dozen.
o
Sfcr
.
Prices from £lB to £5O
pure:
• • •
Water Filters
TO
Fitted
with
‘Delphin’
Filtering-
Mediums
Prices from
4 51-
WRITE FOR. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS TO
Eckcrslcy vSons, 214 _2^_melbourne
As supplied under Royal Warrant
to His Majesty the KING &
«
BOOMERANG”
BRANDY^
IS DISTILLED WHOLLY
FROM GRAPE WINE ...
=& &
.'■■■». » ” • . > '
rHE LANCET” says: "It is a sound and honest brandy, and of a Fragrance, Purity
and Quality second to none”


«<
The Heavens are Telling!
99
/
,' >im
m
m
■ V, -,n
|||i. ■
-
.■ •
.
■.
gw
■
mm
-J
, ■ ■■.
,
t££
mm
mxM
'
i
if” 7:J
HP
• .
HP
svi-JVf
■
iflf
-
-
.■
MM
§
;V>
BOOTS AN
SHOES
ARE AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
(Note the word “ COLUMBIA ” on Every Pair.)


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
/NSTA NT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by .post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The “Son of a Gan” iSqairt Pistol
ds
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Ojj.n be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “Joker” TricK Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
,a m a z e-
ment o f
mm
your friends, upon re-opening: the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging’ a match, are show n
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
PUZZLE PURSES.— Superior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere,
1/9 and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbi ters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
The Look and Laugh Glass
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
t is, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
The Laughing Camera.
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties.
Write for Price List B.
The Demon R.attle Box Trick.
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Rings,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side < f the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere,
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
ds
H. L. HUTCHINSON, 710 george street,
SYDNEY.
DRINK
LEMON WHISKY
(REGISTERED).
A most wholesome and delicious beverage, intended for strictly temperate people, who are
not teetotallers. It is scientifically prepared from the juice of fresh, ripe lemons, refined
cane sugar, and the best whisky. It is free from any adulterant. It is regularly used in
our leading hospitals. It is at once a stimulant, a food, a luxury and a medicine. It can
be taken plain as a liqueur. With iced soda water it makes the finest summer drink
extants It can be obtained at all leading hotels throughout the Commonwealth. Whole-
sale from any wine and spirit merchant. Protected by Royal Letters Patent. Lucas,
Lock & Co., 24| Pitt Street, Sydney.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE; STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184- Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
si
*
m
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“MONTSERRAT” is always
fresh and pleasant to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
“ Montserrat ” is sold by all Chemists* Groceia, etc
Your Fortune Free
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/- for
postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to you in the pursuits
of your future happiness in love, business, and other
fields of life’s activities. Thousands are this day blessing
the hour they first wrote me. Address-
Prof. H6nrl do Astro, 366 Bourke St., MeUicurns.
[Ask Your Stationer for aSample of]
MAKER
TO
William Mitchells
THE
KING
WILLIAM
10 MITCHELL’S
CD 151 CLASS SHOULDER
|N?.9. First Class Shoulder Pen
[the Original quality ByThe Original maker]
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted,
i Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleasons
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
■ Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,.
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
Ss Od. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Sosos ’and Ballads of. Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. Howto Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, 1s
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted.- Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easjt, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about,
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a'superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes,to enjoy married lif,e in its
fullest sense, can'afford to dispense witli the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faudkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. On Our New Selection, (is (id.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s (id
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptambron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. (Jay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established, SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s .
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, la
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. IXGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, ever 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted- Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d postedl Webster’s Large Un-
- abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Timf, Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
| posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
THe GRANDEST LIVER PILL in tHe WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/li to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Jl\e JOarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
ZJje British jfiedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
ds
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
»"dtHe AGED.
Bender's Food Is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“CecilP”: Your leader on Elective
Ministries (24/l/’07) omitted to push home a point
which would go far to give the proposal favor in
the eyes of confirmed Tories, like myself. As,
originally, the monarch did not necessarily
appoint Secretaries of State who were in accord
on public policy, but only those of departmental
efficiency, your proposal is merely to return to an
ancient system. I, therefore, intend to use all
my great.influence on your side. What was good
enough for the Tudors is quite good enough
for me.
The military Johnnies who are opposing
the idea of a tunnel under the Channel between
England and France, on the grounds that it would
be used as a means of attack in time of war, have
not evidently been taught the grand old principles
of freedom of trade and intercourse between
nations. Through adhering to these principles
Britain is now at the mercy of the outside world
for its food. Cutting off-those, supplies would be
a much more deadly means of attacking England
than rushing troops along a narrow passage under
the sea.
“Boh”: Taking the air on Brighton
pier one Sunday afternoon lately, I noticed a red-
haired, buxom lady, gorgeous in much jewellery,
pink feathers, &c. She proudly paraded the pier,
accompanied by a copper-colored gentleman—
presumably her husband—anu two sepia-tinted
infants, shepherded by a nice, white-skinned
nursemaid. This edifying pastoral in three colors
was &nnpleted by the arrival of two more hook-
nosed, hawk-eyed, prohibited immigrants, wdiom
the buxom ladiiintroduced to her flustered nurse-
maid with loud laughter and playful ships. The
party then sat on the beach, and proceeded to
blot out the landscape w’ith banana skins. The
last I saw of the happy party was a dark, claw-
like hand clasping the muslin waist of the white
nursemaid of the sepia-colored offspring of the
black husband. It brought to me weird visions
of future piebald generations, and I staggered
away as one drunk with much thought.
Alas, the universal cadge ! Mildura (Vic.)
asked Yanko-Seotch millionaire Carnegie for
money to help in the building of a free library.
A travelling Mildewer aided the importunity by
assailing Carnegie in person. And now Mildura
has £2000 of Carnegie’s blood-money, and instead
of burying its head wdtli shame in the rnallee sand,
the town is actually proud of its successful men-
dicancy. •


VICTORIA <-
Collins &SwanstonS* Melbourne;
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395 &397 Hay ST Perm
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
W 6& 14S Queen SL Auckland .^
IS* 3 LambtorvQuay. Wellington.
236Z23 5 HighS* Christchurch.*
Princes & DowlingS'.? Dunedin^.
ds
śd
If it's from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the *
store nearest
you . „
Any article shown here will be sent
free of expense and at our risk
absolutely—on receipt of remittance. When you open up the goods
and they do not entirely meet with your views, return them and
your request for your money will be like a cheque on a bank.
Catalogues on request. Write for one to-day.
G 3586. —Silver-plated Jam Dish
and Spoon, Cs 6d.
E 4182. —Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 13s 6d.
E3o44—Silver-plated
Butter Dish and Knife,
10s 6d
F7o9s—Silver-
plated Balance
Pepper Pot, 4s 6
Large, 6s 6d.
SS2A. Silver-plated
Breakfast Oruet, 12/6.
353 —Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 8s 6d.
G3sBs—Silver-plated Butter Dish
and Knife, 6s 6d.
E 2359. —Silver-plated Sugar and Cream
on Tray, £1 10s.
—i-uivei'-ijiiited Jain Diali am
Spoon, 17s 6d.
H 20(35—Silver-plated
Serviette liiti"', 3s.
!—Silver-plated Tea Pot
Stand, 14s 6d.
G 4720 —Silver-plated Cake Basket, 16s 6d.
A Special One, 30s.
E6636.—Silver-plated Breakfast Frame, £llss.
Hl67B—New Style Silver-plated
Honey Jar and Spoon, 17s 6d.
G6B6o—Silver-plated Covered Butter Dish,
16s 6d.
G6Bl7—Small Size Silver-plated
Rose Bowl, 10s (id.
G4B77.—Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar, 12s 6d.
Cream Jug to match, 10s 6d.
H 1679.
-Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Pickle Jar, 16s 6d.
GB49B.—Silver-plated Rose Bowl,
Small size, 7s 6d.
m
“SH
G 520 China and Silver-plated Fruit Dish, £2 7s 6d.
GBB42.—New Style Silver-
plated Sugar Scuttle,
20s.
G426o.—Silver-plated Covered
Butter Dish, £1 ss.
F6X31 —Silver-plated Toast Rack, 22s 6d
H44s—Silver-plated Golf
Cruet, 21s.
HlBOl. —.New Style Silver-plated
Marmalade and Spoon, 14s 6d.
SiaA —Cut Glass and Silver-
plated Butter Dish and Knife,
255.
F6l3o—Silver-plated Toast Rack,
21s.
E7S74.—Silver-plated Honey Jar
and Spoon, 255.
G 5262. —Silver-plated Cheese Dish, £2 ss.
H 206S —Silver-plated Card Receiver, 10s 6d.
GBO52 — Silver-plated Toast Rack, 13s 6d.
Hls9o—Old Sheffield Style best Silver-plated Entree Dish, £4
Others 425, 455, 52s 6d, 635, 70s.
—Best Quality Silver-plate and
Polished Oak Biscuit Barrel, £1 Is.
G 8844. —Silver-plated
Bamboo Gong and
Striker, 21s.
G7sB3—Very Handsome Sifr-Cup Egg Cruet and Spoons, £2 10s
H 2062. —Silver-plated Child’s Oup, 10s fld.
G4s77—Silver-plated Marmalade
Dish and Spoon, 13s 6d.


BEALE
‘Enter*
Hlak in
ďs
With Beale-Vader Patent Iron Wrest-PSank.
During the whole history of Piano-making, strenuous efforts have been made towards attaining permanence in pitch
and tune. Numerous attempts have been made to devise an iron wrest-plank (or tuning-block) to form part of tie usua
iron frame, and into which the wrest (or tuning) pins could be so placed that the iron structure would take up the w me
strain of the strings. In Germany, America, England, Prance, Austria-in every land where Pianos are manufactured
devices intended to supply this want are patented almost every week. But not one of these attempts lias proved entirely
successful, and the fact remains that by all makers, other than ouiselves, the wrest plank is made o wo
Here is what MR. EDGAR BRINS-
MEAD, of Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD
AND SONS, LONDON, says in his book,
“The History of the Pianoforte,” about the
universal system of stringing to a wooden
wrest-plank, and from which the great
piano-makers have vainly tried, by a thou-
sand devices, to escape :
“1. The wires (or strings) are held by
metal wrest-pins, around which the strings
are wrapped in two or three coils. The pins
are then driven tightly into holes prepared
in a ‘ wrest-plank ’ made of wood, and the
tuning is effected by turning the pins, and
thus winding the strings around them, so as
to increase the strain and raise the pitch ;
or, turning the pin backwards, and thus
unwinding the pins and lowering the pitch.
“ These pins are held by the friction occa-
sioned by the tightness with which the fibres
of the wood press around them, and to turn
them GREAT FORCE IS REQUIRED. In
tuning the movement must be very slight,
as the diameter of the pin coils and strains
the strings so rapidly that a thirtieth part
BEALE-VADER PATENT.
am
m It)i<£//’>■
SPACE
SCREWS X
* M
$ i
'the beale-vader patent
STEEL TUNING SYSTEM.
Showing SOLID IRON I RAME,
with steel screws and tuning pins.
A glance will tell you that this con-
struction will endure for genera-
tions. The pins are lubricated, and
so can always he turned with deli-
cacy. Patented throughout the
world.
THE TUNING SYSTEM OF
IMPORTED PIANOS.
Pins put through holes in the iron frame
into a WOODEN PLANK, which, sooner
or later, must give way. In a space of
1\ square feet, 216 pins, each ljin. by |in.,
are driven. Timber cannot resist such
honeycombing under a strain of 15 tons.
The holes become oval, as shown above, by
the crushing of the wood fibres.
of a revolution is sufficient to raise some
notes about half a tone. The tuner has,
therefore, to turn the pin backward and
forward until he finds the required tension,
and even then THIS PRIMITIVE PLAN
NEITHER SECURES NOR RETAINS
ACCURACY, for no material more suitable
than wood has been used for this process,
and the wood OCCASIONALLY SPLIT. S,
FREQUENTLY LOSES ITS HOLDING
POWER, is INVARIABLY AFFECTED
BY CLIMATIC CHANGES, and ESPE-
CIALLY is this the case IN HOT
CLIMATES ; and when the loss of power
is aggravated by the pin being turned for-
ward and backward in tuning, PIANOS
CANNOT REMAIN IN TUNE, the ten-
dency of the strings being to PULL THE
PINS ROUND AND UNCOIL THEM-
SELVES, whilst nothing but great holding
power will prevent them from doing so.
“2. The wooden wrest planks are liable to
COME AWAY FROM THEIR FIXINGS,
the strain on these planks varying from 16
to 30 tons.”
This is what HERR JULIUS BLUTHNER,
of Leipzig, producer of the very best type of
German Pianos, says in the latest edition of his
work, “ Manual of Pianoforte Construction : Its
History, Theory, and Practice ” :
“The wrest-plank is formed of hard, tough wood,
usually maple or beech, in at least three layers,
glued together. In this manner a greater firm-
ness is attained, and the RISK OE SPLITTING
AND WARPING REDUCED.”
Again, on page 158, Bluthner writes In
general, the remark must be emphasised that the
timber used for this purpose must be carefully
treated, and that in upright Pianos, almost more
than in horizontal, THE MOST PAINFUL
CARE must be devoted to the good jointing up of
the timber, LEST THE PARTS SHOULD
LATER COME ASUNDER.”
But the pinch of the timber upon the wrest or
tuning pin is not sufficient to resist the strain of
the string when vibrated. Consequently, Pianos
with wooden wrest-planks will not remain for any
length of time at what is known as Philharmonic
or Concert pitch, namely, 540 vibrations per
second of the note C. Now, wind instruments
are at that pitch, and the Piano, to be in unison with
them, must be strained above its normal power of
resistance. The frequent pulling up of the strings
to pitch will not by any means tend to tighten
the pins, but rather to loosen them. In course of
time—and no long time either —the instrument
must be left a good deal under full pitch, if it is
to be in tune at all. There is no effective means
for restoring the Piano, because plugging the
holes or stuffing the pins with any substance
whatever will only aggravate the misfortune.
As aforesaid, a narrow beech plank, honeycombed
with 216 quarter-inch holes, each one-and-a-half
inches deep, and close together, cannot, and will
not, permanently withstand the full strain.
OUR INVENTION, BEALE-VADER
PATENT,
is simplicity itself. Instead of following the
universal practice of introducing a wrest-pin from
the front, driven into wood, like a nail, as de-
scribed above, we introduce a steel pin from the
back, fitted nicely into a hole drilled in a solid
metal plate. The plate is a part of the usual iron
frame. The pin has a conical butt, fitting a
conical shoulder in the drilled hole. A tension
screw (or stud) presses the pin against the
shoulder, thus controlling the p>in and imparting
any desired tension. The strain of the string is
taken up securely by the iron frame. That is all.
With the wooden wrest-plank the pin crushes
some of the fibres in front, thereby causing a cer-
tain looseness or space where the pin should fit
tightest. It follows that a part of the vibration
of the string is lost, because the pin itself, being
insufficiently supported,; vibrates. But all the
vibration from the stroke of the hammer should
go to the sounding-board, which alone develops
the musical sounds. With our
IRON WREST-PLANK
the pin is quite motionless, and thus all the
musical vibration is transferred to the sounding-
board, and conveyed in full volume and purity to
the ear. . ~ ,
Another great advantage is that our new
STEEL WREST-PIN
turns with perfect smoothness during the opera-
tion of tuning, so that the tuner can arrive with
ease and accuracy at the pitch desired. With the
wooden wrest-plank he finds always more or less
ierkiness, because of the indispensable pinch of
the wood, aided by the resin usually introduced
With our patent he is provided with smooth
metal surfaces, which are lubricated so as to
assure ease of operation.
A still greater advantage is-that as the tension-
screw perfectly controls the pin, which it touches
only at a point, the latter will remain absolutely
and permanently at any desired strain, thus con-
ferring the boon of full and correct pitch. An
enhanced quality of tone is obtained, inasmuch as
the ear receives the correct sound, and is thereby
pleased (though perhaps the hearer knows not
why). 1
But, above all, the advantage of permanence in
tune is attained by the
BEALE-YADER PATENT
in so far as that can be possible. Piano strings
are made by drawing wire from cast-steel ingots.
It is true that these strings may be said to
stretch at first, because they are really straighten-
ing Eor that reason all our instruments are
months at full strain before issue. Under the
BEALE-VADER PATENTS
the Piano receives for the first time a complete
internal iron frame above and below. The instru-
ment is, therefore, rendered durable beyond all
others in respect of tune, quality of tone, and
sectional illustration shows
clearly the construction of the Beale Pianos in
respect of the tuning system. Any construction
of wood, being an organic material, requires some
length of test in order to ascertain its merits or
defects. But when steel and iron are dealt with,
the result can be known at once, whether it
suffices its intention or not. Having fitted one
steel pin into a cast-iron plate, its strain-bearing
quality can be tested forthwith. We prepare
wrest-pins by the thousand gross, and in no single
instance—as a matter of course—have they failed
to hold as expected. The pm will hold any pitch
up to the breaking point of the string.
English concert pitch is 540 vibrations per
second of the note C. Continental pitch is C—
-517, and at the latter German Pianos are usually
tuned, for the wooden wrest-plank will hold it tor
some time at least. But that pitch does not
satisfy British ears. It is a semi-tone flat, C
being' actually the note B natural. Hence
it forms an intolerable discord with either British
or French wind instruments. Again, a singer
accustomed to concert (or philharmonic) pitch
must either transpose his or her song, or accept
an accompaniment half a tone flat. Excepting at
public concerts, where the Piano is expressly
pulled up to concert pitch, he cannot expect to
have the Piano other than flat.
By referring to the engraving, it will be
seen that the tuning-pin sits firmly in the
cylindrical barrel drilled to receive it.
The screw is not affected by this pin, be-
cause the latter touches it only at one
spot, and, being firmly in position con-
trolled by the screw, the pin cannot
vibrate.
Complete Pianos
may be seen at any of
Our Showrooms
constructed upon the above system, or
small specimen sections will be sent by
post to any intending purchaser. There
are now thousands of Pianos with these
patent wrest-planks in use with families,
in stock, and in course of manufacture.
During months there is no change in them
whatever. All the expected advantages
ha.ve been attained, and some which were
not anticipated.
If you want a Piano which will last a
lifetime, and can always be kept at
proper pitch, as a true musical instru-
ment should be, then we cordially invite
you to inspect and test the
BEALE PIANOS
before buying elsewhere. They are made
in your own climate to withstand the
climate, of the best materials, by
thoroughly competent workmen. We
give guarantees and submit proofs which
you cannot obtain elsewhere. Why not
give Britons a chance instead of demand-
ing the label “Made in Germany”?
There would be no sense in making
Pianos here at all unless we made them
better, because we can get all the labor
and skill at much lower wages in Ger-
many.
WOOD FRAME MB GAUZE.
SECTION OF UPPER PART OF PIANO.
S 3
m
m
SPACE ALLOWING
ACCESS TO BACK
OF PATENT WREST PI
PUNK
(/>4
PTf
///
m.v
!K
*\\\\ »
i
<22
m
t
SCALE* ONE QUARTER
SOUNDING BOARD
WITH RIB
TENSION
SCREW.
WREST PIN
FULL SIZE
Twenty-Five Years’ Guarantee.
CASH or EASY TERNS ANYWHERE.
Catalogue and Circulars Free.
and CO., Limited,
474 George Street, Sydney
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
10l Brisbane Street, Launceston
207 King Street, Newtown
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide
615 Hay Street, Perth


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £16 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £13 13s. to £31 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
ReserrefinGovt. Stock,£43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,021 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital '.. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Cion Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
CRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Sully Subscribed ... -£4,000,000
Capital Paid up ... ... JBl.OOO.OOO.
Reserve Fund ... .£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle,
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries ; on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
TWO POINTS ►
..ABOUT..
AERTEX CELLULAR
FOR UNDERWEAR and SHIRTS.
FIRST —It is the only mq,ke of fabric which
combines comfort, usefulness, and
wearing qualities with the most scientific and
rational requirements of a body covering.
SECOND —It is not expensive, easily
washed, and of attractive
appearance.
Write forsanples and illustrated price li ts—post
free ; or CALL AND INSPECT.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
i DAVID BRAHAM & Co..
94 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Between Georie and Pitt Sts.) i
Shipping.
BJ. ID. X..
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
w SEN £ iKR ' S LOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
ixiDraitar, London. Ant.wen** rmH ftromnn win
Steamer
"BREMEN
*BULOW
*YOROK
*KLEIST
*GOEBEN
”BULOW
*YOROK
"KLEIST
"Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
NEW Sf™ E S, Four We eks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
i? ANILA MARGE’.
P R INZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9 th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUNO ## MAY.
,„Vr Urpa i S S? Seairoin « Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnasre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Kris” r - ror *"S
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458 042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175 308 10 0
Reserve PuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
~ _ £701,351 0 0
_ „ Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews'
London Qfficb :
31 BUDGE .ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
1 at anches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
O p" A l\| Accident and Guarantee
- Co. latd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A
ML C*’ ESq ’ Melbourne : Hon - F - s - Grimwade’
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A I A
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
g
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 23rd FEBRUARY,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and
SUE VIC to follow.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LiNC.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and PREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
DAMASCUS
•tMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Sohleman
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
Noon, March 2
Noon, Mar. 20
Noon, April 26
•Twin Screw. f Calling at Hobart.
I FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £b2 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets, trom £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (In vested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
NS*
£
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
o
CEANIC S.S. COMPANY
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3J Days to Auckland 8A Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu ..21 Days to ’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 18, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11 1 p.m'.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Svdnev.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
sď
śd
sd
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
■ h !
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
uxr.s.^w.
Iflont de piete j). <$ |. Co., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To Canada, United States, and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS—
AORANGI ... FEBRUARY 18
MO ANA ... ...MARCH 18
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th .
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific.
t3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. Igt
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Pish ° (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rin«- or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT . . .
??d l jeld ? n Acc >dent Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. v\ e issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
80~ SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL-51,900,000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore. Man^r
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMsHIPCO:
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
esperance bay’
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Raven st,horpe Goldfields.
1
BRISBANE, I
MACKAY, /
TOWNSVILLE, |
And Ports North to Cairns. '
S.S. Innaniincka, Friday,
Feb. 15
S.S. Yo»gala(from Sydney)
Wednesday, Feb. 20.
S.S. Marloo, Feb. 16.
S.S. Innamincka, Feb. 23.
S.S. Wollowra, March 2
Best and Cheapest Itonte to (ioldlieUts,
first Port of S nVn e ke ,l s a '.' e interchangeable after the
lust 1 ort of call with other mter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MessageriesJMaritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
French Po ° °° t i ons - under Posfcal Contract with the
I AIDE callin K at MELBOURNE, ADE-
PORTS4m M nn COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows •-
• j t uuuacu w iioniDay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including tablewines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
. SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
Passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
Tor further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. ‘
J- LOffH, Acting Principal Agent
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
wiu flr| d every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconifield Parade
ST. HILDA.
npHr. Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union Club,
ds
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or fcom
2 Guineas per Week.
Nenry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10/,3. .^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements. *
“ARABIC” TILE- LIKE COATING.
HRHOIV COOLS Best ! Lasts Best !
Insist that Oases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA.
Chief Ironmongers and
Color Merchants.
Note Spelling:
A —K —a-^6—l—C,”
Trade Mark.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDJXTBY.


15s.
v
w*ue
*
m
A Practical Writing Machine
At a Low Price !
THE construction of the Postal is so simple and strong that not only has the number of parts been brought down to about one third of what it
is in the high-priced machines, but, what is far more important, the number of accurate adjustments has been reduced to the proportion of
1 to 28 compared with other type-wheel rpachines and 1 to 76 in type-bar machines.
The “Scientific American” referred to it as one of the most original and practical things brought out in the typewriter art in many years.
In some of the lower and medium priced keyboards arranged to suit the particular construction of the machine have to be
employed, each of such keyboards being accompanied with ajnple explanations as to why it was superior to the Universal Keyboard. As the
Universal Keyboard is used on all the high-priced standard machines it must be the best. Anyone who can operate the Universal Keyboard can
operate on any typewriter having it. The advantage of the Universal Keyboard is therefore evident. The Postal has the Universal Keyboard,
of course, as there is nothing in the construction of the Postal that ,oan make it undesirable or impracticable.
;= , ?
Interchangeable Type.
The Postal offers the advantage of chang’ing' in a few seconds
one style of type to another, or from one language to another.
THE, POSTAL
HAS UNIVERSAL
KEYBOARD
• • •
PRICE,
5. 6 15s. ■& WITH OAK CASE, £7 lOs.
OS BORN (& JERDAN, LTD., 393 GEORGE ST.
“MY OPTICIANS»»
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
Facing Royal
Hotel
SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send
date of birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and
postage, for ' i / '
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. HersclieU, who has
supplied "Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (o f London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA*
Private Address— Woodville, Mt. Albert.
Pill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt. ,
Name
Address
Date of Birth
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN^pecianst
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. <Se 12s. Course, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n . n — n mine ail I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOUD UUnb wr ILi d. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
.... ■ ... „ Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
WC3K WO 111 Bit special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
sd
Gr
"1 IYEN
AWAY
To Advertise
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch.
Post Free
3 Tips with Ospreys.
Black, or Black tipped with White.
A Marvel of Cheapness.
Write To-Day. Send Postal Notes.
Illustrated Price List Sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER. SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Syc'ney ; also at
Corner of Bcurke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne,
Mention The Bulletin.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO-
-276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
Canada is beginning to buck against our
colored fellow-subjects. From an army paper
Feeling is very strong in Canada against the further
importation of emigrants from I-hdia. Up to the present
about 2400 Sikhs and Pathans have landed in the
Dominion this year, anck although, as a rule, they are a
line body of men, being chiefly old soldiers of the Indian
Arm.\, yet most of them are without means and without
work. The condition of destitution to which they have
been reduced has brought about official inquiry, and in
all probability the men, or at least those who are desti-
tute, "ill be deported back to India at the expense of
the shipping company that conveyed them to Canada.
“U.” - I am dowered with scorn to
a considerable extent when that sneerful article
is served out by a person like the one sign-
ing himself “ Poet-Scorner ” (B. 24/l/’O7). Hi**
pose concerning the alleged lack of necessity
for artificial aids to sight has been dead enough
to be buried for many a long, tired year. 1 have
fr- inently met persons who talk in the same way.
Very often they wear glasses in private (1 don t
mean mere reading glasses), but pull them off as
soon as they go into the street, and pharisaically
refer to those who are not ashamed of their
necessary public goggles as “degenerates.” Some-
times the “Poet-Scorner” type of person manages
to doaltogether without glasses during a prolonged
life, but as a rule the exhibition he makes of himself
in such a case is lamentable. In trying to read
he blinks, holds the printed matter at arm s
length, and generally contorts his face like a
howling dervish. Those who take to glasses
know well enough that they often confer disfigure-
ment, instead of the “ dignity ” alleged by “ Poet-
Scorner.” Still, most men or women who
have to live by brain-work realise that any-
thing is a boon that will prevent tiring of the
eves, and, incidentally, of the brain. Of course,
there are some persons of fair age who really
don’t need glasses, but I believe they are in a
considerable minority, and have been for cen-
turies. It seems possible that the cause of many
early Christian martyrdoms was the fact that
Nero suffered from severe pains in the head
because he didn’t wear glasses. Poor old Nero
had to find some way of venting the bad temper
that is invariably caused by eye-strain, just as
the glass-lacking “ Poet-Scorner” does in his dis-
dainful snort. Both have the pity of all sensible
spectacled folk.


Amusements.
C R ' T E f R ' ° N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Direction of .. .. Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE SIDNEY HOWARD ENGLISH DRAMA CO.
in the Great English Domestic Drama
HOME, SWEET HOME,
by Frank Lindo.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 16—A MODERN JUDAS.
Box Plan Elvy’s. Prices, 3s, 2s, Is. Booking Fee Is
Early Doors to Stalls and Gallery, 6d. Extra. ’
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ ■ Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST WEEKS of the SEASON, and FAREWELL PER-
FORMANCES IN SYDNEY of Miss TITTELL BRUNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of PARSIFAL.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as KUNDRY.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 16, for Six Nights and One
Matinee Only, LEAH KLESCHNA.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as LEAH.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
" Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Romantic Austrian Military Melo-
drama, entitled, REVENGE.
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
Organisation of the Australian States.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, FEBRUARY 16-
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
DALACE THEATRE, S~Y~D N E Y.
■ Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
STORY OF THE KELLY GANG.
4000 FEET IN LENGTH.
Marvellous, Realistic, Sensational, Historical.
AN EPOCH IN CINEMATOGRAPHY.
W ONDERLAND CITY, BON D I
c, . ' . ( The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mb. William Anderson.
„ swept bv ocean breezes.
OHEFALO AND SENORITA CHEFALO,
Looping the Loop and Leaping the Fiery Chasm,
w a I r^ WO A?T e^ ,fch ' I)endinff Feats of Sensationalism.
BAKER AND KILPATRICK’S SPECIALTY CIRCUS.
Twelve World’s Feature Acts.
_, n KING ’® THEATRE OF VARIETIES.
The Cream of Vaudeville Novelties.
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
T IY °, L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY
s °'e Proprietor & Manager-MR. Harry Rickards.
TINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
FRED. RUSSELL <fc Coster Joe, Ventriloauial Humorist
J? uccess of graceful gracie grahame'
MISS CASSIE WALMER, MISS RHODA DENDRON
MISS FANNY POWERS.
R'R^ I^ T TTui> h A\- M S?‘ Vell0us Elecfcrical Protean Artist.
IKED. CURRAN, Singer of Quaint Songs and Parodies
Mr. ART. SLAVIN. Mr. FRANK WALSTAB
SELBO, the Kinfr of Clubs. THE ROSE SISTERS.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, IRVING SAYLES.
O P E , R A HOUSE, m e l b o u r n e
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
KWERRIES’ novel illusion act.
LEONIE DIXON, Serio-Comic and Dancer.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s. 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson
EIGHTH WEEK and
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strangest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
|\| E W THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Eessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
a Bright and Diverting Story of Australian Station Life.
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co. in
the Great Drama of Australian Life., ’
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of Ben Hall.
Prices—3s., 2s., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
PRINCESS’S
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 16, Glorious Return
and Absolute Farewell of
™ E WILLOUGHBY-WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY CO., including Miss Grace Palotta, in
THE NEW CLOWN.
PRICES—5s., 3s., Is. Plan at. Allan’s.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to il p.m. £*■“ ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
ďsd
OUTPUT, TWO MILLION
A MONTH.
GOLD
MOULDED
OF ALL DEALERS,
l
EACH.
“LYRIC”
RECORDS
VRE FAMOUS THE WORLD OVER FOR
VOLUME,
DURABILITY,
QUALITY.
tfHBU
*S,| J
WE HOLD THE RECORD
WILL FIT ANY PHONOGRAPH,
ONE. FREE SAMPLE RECORD
Wi” be Sa’m<p£ E !““ “ d
Dept. B. COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen’L,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS RAZOR ISA
ďsd
sd
PRICE 10/6, Post Fros
anywhere.
A PEW EXTRAS-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Exit Razor Troubles.
You’ll have NO razor troubles with the Plum-
no tender skin—nothing but pure comfort if
you use the
PLUM RAZOR.
It is a Eazor with a perpetually keen edge.
Shaves with smoothness and ease—ALWAYS.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG &. AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Government
đs
Notice.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be given as to whether experienced hands or beginners are required and als
to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching New South Wales weekly from’ tho ■ ¥
tural districts of Great Britain. H. 0. L. ANDERSON, Director Intelligence Department. ’
Phillip and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
THE CILMORETIN MINING SYNDICATE, N.L.
DIRECTORS REPORT.
MESSRS W. T. WHITE (Chairman), JOSEPH MITCHELL, JAS. BRODIE, JAS. TUNNIE, E. HUNTER
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,—
It is with the greatest pleasure we submit to you our first Half-yearly Report and Balance-sheet dulv audits
as correct by your Auditors, and in doing so take this opportunity of congratulating you on the magnificent
unique property you possess. Unique, in that it has succeeded in paying off over four-fifths of its Capital inside iv
months of the formation of the Company, and our financial position is stronger now than when we started odwl
tions, and also unique, in that practically all this Tin has been obtained from sinking of shafts. erd '
In all, 497 ions 13cwt. lqr. 191bs. of Ore has been crushed, for a return of 103 tons 13cwt lqr 61bs dreswrt
Tin, or an average of 20-83 per cent, extraction for a money value of £10,694 4s. 9d., from which we have miH mV?
dends and Income Tax amounting to £7696 10s. " Uv '
The Manager’s Report will furnish you with details of work done for the period, and the thanks of the Shan,
holders are due to both the past and present Managers for their able and efficient exertions on behalf nf ti
Company. ue
The continued wet weather has, for some time past, considerably interfered with transit arrangements and akr,
caused other retarding difficulties in the way of bagging and sorting, otherwise we would have been able topav off tha
whole of the original Capital in the first six months. However, we feel sure you are all thoroughly satisfied with th*
results, and we feel proud to have the management of such a compact and solid venture, and trust it will be our
pleasing duty, if re-elected, to have the next term as successfully piloted as the one now closing.
You will be pleased to hear that there is still good Tin in the bottom of the “ DOLLY GRAY’’ • also that fta
“ MIDAS ” is showing improvement. ’ e
The trial crushing from the “UNKNOWN” was satisfactory, but for the fact that the lode here has lost its
value ; yet we feel sure a little prospecting will soon discover which way the chute has jumped.
In accordance with the “ Articles of Association,” the whole of your directors retire from office but are elirihlc
for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly, as also your Auditors. 8
Yours faithfully, W. T. WHITE, Chairman.
MINING REPORT.
THE CHAIRMAN AND DIRECTORS,
GURRUMBAH, JANUARY, 1907.
The Gilmore Tin Mining Syndicate, No Liability .
GENTLEMEN,—I have to report the following work done in your Mines for the six months endimr
16th January, 1907:
“ DOLLY GRAY.”—This Shaft has been sunk to a total depth of 129 ft. from brace, and has carried good Tin the
whole way. The last few feet have not been quite so good, the richer Ore appears to be dipping to the South this
end of the Shaft showing 2ft. of good Ore ; the South drive at 95ft. has been driven 36ft. and is still in formation
cairying a small percentage of Tin. I have started a cross-cut West from this level into the hanging-wall which is
now in 6ft. ” °
, North drive 95ft. level has been stopped at 35ft., and a cross-cut drive started East into the footwall. which is
now in 4ft. in slaty formation.
MIDAS. —The original straight shaft was sunk to a depth of 43ft. and discontinued as it penetrated broken
country. We then commenced a drive North at 30ft., and continued it to a length of 37ft. from shaft. At this
point we rose on good Ore to the surface. We then squared a shaft down here, put in skid-way, and have sunk
downto 50ft. on an average of 2ft. 6in. of good Ore. The bottom has greatly improved the last few shifts arid 1
anticipate this Mine developing into a good producer.
“UNKNOWN.”—An open cut was put in on this lode for a distance of 26ft. and we then commenced sink-
ing and sunk the shaft to a depth of 36ft.
A trial crushing of 15 tons, taken from this lode, gave a return of 4-69 per cent, dressed Tin. The last fen-
fee thave not carried any Tin, and w'e will have to prospect for the lode.
“ DOLLY GRAY,” No. 1. An open cut is being put in on a seam of Ore not shown on the surface, and
carrying good Tin. It will have to go about another 20ft. to intersect the “ Dolly Gray” lode.
DOLLY GRAY,” No. 2. A cutting has been put in here a distance of 32ft., showing for the last 3ft. about
9m. of good Ore, from which has been bagged 45 bags. The lode, showing in the old shaft we are making for is 2ft
wide, and carrying fair Tin.
“ELVIRA.”—Very little work has been done on this shaft. The lode is very small but rich, and the ground is
of a rotten nature, and will have to be secured before the shaft is sunk any deeper.
“ HILL-END.”—No work has yet been started here.
ANASTASIAN Some very rich Ore has been found about this portion of your Lease, but so far nothin?
permanent has been unearthed. When I have more time to spare I will try and pick this lode up.
On the whole, I have to congratulate you on the richness of the Ore so far proven, and trust future opera-
tions will reveal a continuity of the same.
Yours faithfully, A. SHEPPARD.
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE
...OF THE. ...
GILMORE TIN MINING SYNDICATE, N.L.
To January 18th, 1907.
Receipts.
To Capital Account
„ Tin Saleß
£1,500 0 0
10,694 4 9
£12,194 4 9
Expenditure.
£12,194 4 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
To crushing, drying and bagging,
carting and railage of ore .. £950 10 5
~ Wages
~ Salaries and Directors’ Fees
~ General Expenses
~ Advertising and Printing
~ Insurances ~ ...
~ Store Account and Fodder
~ Leases and Rents
~ Purchase Claims
„ Horse and Gear
~ Dividends and Income Tax.
~ Balance
£1344 15 8
95 10 0
1,440 5 8
82 5 11
29 5 2
59 0 0
209 2 9
59 8 5
135 15 6
574 17 9
4 3 0
.. 7,696 10 0
27 17 11
£10,694 4 9
By Tin Sales
..£10,694 4 9
£10,694 4 9
BALANCE SHEET.
Liabilities.
To Capital Account .. .. £9OOO 0 0
~ Less Vendors’ Brokerage
and Floating- Expenses .. 7500 0 0
~ Balance Profit and Loss
Account
£1,500 0 0
27 17 11
£1,527 17 11
Assets.
By Stores
~ Horse and Gear ..
~ Building- and Plant
„ Q.N. Bank Current Account
„ Q.N. Bank Mine Account ~
£4O 0 0
60 0 0
30 15 0
£l2o 15 0
.. 1,367 211
40 0 0
£1,527 17 11
On hand 22£ Tons of Ore, valued at £450.
W. T. WHITE, Chairman.
A. T. CROSS, Secretary.
Examined and found correct.
OSGAR %. DAVIS,
T. M. DELUGAR,
}
-Auditors.
Australia’s alleged squadron made a sorry
showing in the gun-laying tests for the British
navy last year. Of the 12 fleets and squadrons
that took part in the tests, only one—the East
Indies squadron —managed to prove itself a shade
more incompetent than the mob of old sardine
tins that Australia’s good money helps to keep
from the scrap-heap. The combined navy record
for shooting was 71T2 per cent. ; the alleged
Australian portion of the navy put up a sorrowful
58'07 per cent. The Prometheus easily blew the
gilt-edged Pahf’l out for top score in hits, and the
other ships banged away behind in this order
—Challenger, Encounter, Pyramus, Pegasus,
Psyche, Cambrian, and Pioneer. The Pioneer
was a very small bang—24Ts per cent., to put a
figure to it.
Vic. Chief Justice Madden, just back
from London, reckons that —
The impression existing in England that there was a
desire on the part of Australia to break awaj' from the
Empire, was reponsible for the absence from the news-
papers of any information relating to Australia. He was
informed that if it were made manifest that Australia
was loyal to the Empire, the press of England would
take the matter up and do its utmost to bring Australia
and its resources before the people.
Madden’s idea that London’s press only awaits
assurances of this country’s earnest loyalty to run
up a big cable bill on its behalf is magnificent.
Newspapers want news. If this country started
a howling revolution, that would be news, and
Australia would be advertised as it never was
before. Mere peaceful humdrum loyalty isn’t
worth a paragraph to an up-to-date journal.
On reading that the tonnage of vessels
entering N.S.W. ports rose from 5,710,473 in 1905
to 6,387,866 in 1906, one would naturally expect
boom times amongst the ship-builders. Yet here
is what Labor Commissioner Schey has to say in
his report for December, 1906
Owing to the ’Frisco earthquake, the American mail
steamers have been docked in Sydney, and ship painters
and dockers have been very busy for the past two
months. Shipwrights, on the contrary, have been slack.
lne chronic condition of this decaying trade exhibits no
sign of probable improvement.
In effect, while other people build 600,000 tons
of shipping for us, our people are dependent on a
stray, job of painting and repairing, which job,
seemingly, further hinges on foreign earthquakes
and such like chances. No wonder the S.M.
Hebald spreads itself over the occasional launch-
ing of a casual ’possum-power puffing Billy.
An Australian millionaire’s certificate to a
Labor member and his party is a rare enough bird
to be published full length. Here, then, is what
o. Australia’s Barr Smith, in his pamphlet
directed against building the overland railway on
land-grab principles, says of Premier Price and
his crowd :
Fortunately for South Australia, the Labor party as a
party is altogether opposed to land-grant railways, and
is even willing to make a stand against a popular 'cry for
an expenditure which seems to go in the direction of
helping labor. All honor to them. The State has good
reason to rejoice in such a stand. It shows statesman-
ship of a high order. It is matter for national congratu-
lation when any party has the conscience and courage to
strenuously object to a policy which they know to be un-
sound, even when it seems to give a temporary advantage
to their supporters and friend--. Common sense will ap-
plaud and all experience hereafter justify the stand made
by the Premier.


The Bulletin
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists —B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
%lh George Street, Sydney.
Gfo
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
Greener
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps"
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.'
KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The Pelman-Foster
System of Memory
(OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION)
Is Thoroughly Taught in Five
Postal Lessons.
MIND WANDERING CURED!
SPLENDID TESTIMONIALS.
Write for FREE BOOK which will tell you
all about it.
The Secretary, Box 402, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
ENGLAND—4 Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.
AFRICA, FRANGE, GERMANY, INDIA.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S ETE OINTMENT.
In use since 1586.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
COOL
You can feel comfortable in the hottest
weather if properly fed.
A LITTLE FRUIT
DISH OF GRAPE NUTS & CREAjVI
TWO SOFT-BOILED EGGS
CUP OF POSTUM
SLICE OF TOAST*
That’s enough. More is too much.
“There’s a Reason."
You can find it.
Grape-Nuts
Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle Creek,
Mich., U.S.A.
©HTINEN
*
\
*
*■
o
o
o
oy
a
T 9 TAY- OPC'CrD ADD • Wl HG-wA p*
m
g\x\\\\w\\
A POT or
CAPIELARINE
will work wonders for your moustache.
It is a hair producer—the only genuine
moustache grower, and it has been doing
its good work for over 20 years.
Price 10/6, post free anywhere.
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CAPILLARINE
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Visitors
To The Old Country:
śd
Gloucester Roa.d ,South Kervsirvgton. , Londorv,
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12 Is PER DAY.
pfs>
Z°Yai.
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
GOT A MOUTH ORGAN?
What is Life without a little Music?
And when you buy a Mouth Organ you want, of course, the best Which means
you will write to us for the Sweetest toned Mouth Organ in the World 1 As you
are aware, we refer to the famous
BOOMERANG Organ.
Every good feature you could desire in a Mouth Organ is embodied in the Boomerang.
The Tone which is the most important feature, is exquisitely rich in quality, and powerful
in volume For generations the Mouth Organ was considered a mere toy for the amuse-
ment of children and no special care was exercised m their manufacture aside from the
regular stereotype process Of course certain kinds of music could be played on them, but
even the best were in a greater or less degree imperiect. The Boomerang Mouth
Organs have changed all that. It is impossible to describe the musical qualities of these
ma!n" cent Instruments as they must be seen and used to be appreciated We recommend
them however to all players as being superior in appearance, quality of tone, finish
and stvle to anv Mouth Organ on the market at the present time. On account of their
being lo perfectly tuned we also recommend them to children for the better development
° f a T“ese S Mouth r brgans are made in two styles, each of which has two sizes, viz.
Professional
“ BOOMERANG.”
Exquisite sweet tone of great
carrying power.
Large, 20 holes, 40 reeds, 4s.
Small, 10 holes, 20 reeds, 2s.
Post free.
ALBERT'S SYSTEM^*
ft?- 0
'ico
PROFESSIONAL
BOOMERANG.
800
NEEDS
NTST
ilhe
PATENT
The “ BOOMERANG.”
The finest Concept Mouth Organ
in the world.
Large, 20 holes, 40 reeds, 2s. 6d.
Small, 10 holes, 20 reeds, Is. 6d.
Post free anywhere.
The Trade Supplied. Write for wholesale Prices.
Mouth Oreran Instructor gives minute information how to correctly hold, blow,
varan effect tremolo and play double notes, as well as accompaniments on Mouth Organs.
Price 6d post free. P Catalogue of Musical Novelties given free with each order.
ft. j. SMITH & CO., i« Hunter s> - SyJn,T
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
LIFE,
< M ™“> ckWSoIS 1 .-263 Ceorgo Street, Sydney.
ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICYt.
ammiiai premium for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS • (l) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent o .
• <f> ‘Tyhsst KSS sas». ( 1W«" «
M Britisl)=Hustralasian
a**
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
CAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. C RA I G & CO’.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ďśfd
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrei Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 16s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety /
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price • • , 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. • • lp 0
All the" above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
lends the charm of a
brilliant polish to well-
dressed feet in every corner of
, life’s stage.
It puts a permanent, waterproof shine on
' boots and shoes a bright, clear shine that'
rwill resist dampness and can only be effaced'l
by continuous daily wear,
f Unequaled for ladies’ and children’s shoes.l
I Contains no acid. Applied in a moment.'
Shines at once. Used by millions of people.
Made only l»v
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd., London, Eng.
When Mosquitoes annoy you j
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other J
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their (
bites, so many people have found (
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap, 1
It is also pleasant and refreshing for <
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
(Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Effigy
“ Hiphen The trustees of the Melbourne
public Library still seem to suffer from the Im-
porting Sickness. Their latest outbreak is a
statue of Joan of Arc. It is said that it is “re-
markable for its rugged strength, clumsiness, and
uncompromising interpretation.” (Argus.) No
doubt they got it cheap, but, anyhow, what do we
want with a statue of a French girl who has never
been to this country ? Is there a statue, in the
whole length and breadth of this land, of George
Reid ? No ? Of course, I know it is more usual
to erect statues to men who are dead. But isn’t
George dead enough, politically, for 20 statues ?
Yes! No-Yes 11 Yes-No!!!


Mr. EDISON’S
AMBITION
is to see an Edison Phonograph in every home.
Of all the marvellous achievements of Thomas A. Edison, the
Phonograph alone has had his constant care.
Its improvement is ever in his mind to this day, and the pro-
duct of his great works shows the genius that first invented it,
then developed it to its present perfection, and is carrying it to
an end that we do not yet see.
Do Not Confuse
The EDISON PHONOGRAPH
with the squeaky, out-of-date machines you may have heard.
The Edison Phonograph amuses. It educates the children ;
providing a grade of music, in rendering and perfection of tone, that
nothing else on earth can bring into the home.
It plays for dancing, and it is the vaudeville, the play, the concert.
It plays the things you like as often as you like. It is better
than the show itself, where more than half the programme bores you
and only part is pleasing. It is your own little show—right in your
home, whether you live in town or country.
Three-fourths of our purchasers say “ If I had known the Edison
Phonograph was like that I would have bought one long ago.” They
thought it hateful—they found it quite indispensable.
Unless you hear the Edison Phonograph it is difficult to convince
you how fine it reproduces everything. Just fill in this coupon and
we will send you some descriptive printed matter and the name of
the nearest dealer, who will be pleased to play the selections you like
—free of charge. Better write now.
ss>
£
<5
Hr
\
i
The National Phonograph 00.
of Australia, Ltd.,
340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please send full details of “ The Edison Phono-
graph ” and the name of the nearest dealer to
Bulletin, 14/2/’O7.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH
CO. OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.
340 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Austral No. 3
r : -
& J
l\| w T
I _X: ■ ■•. ••-
1
; ; ■ V
*'U
AH
£
L
Is the
Best ♦
HAND?*
CAMERA
ever offered
at the price
£1 Is
The simplest to
handle, practic-
ally nothing to
learn, and. . .
results certain.
It can be attached to a tripod for portraits and long exposures
generally, and is fitted with all modern appliances for
FIRST-CLASS WORK. =- _!
Built in Great Britain to
Australian specification for
Australian Photographers.
PRICE (Complete)
One Guinea.
BAKER & ROUSE P ROPT
LIMITED
. . . Sole Australian Agents for KODAK LIMITED . . .
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., MELBOURNE
78-80 Queen Street, BRISBANE
37 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE
37 5 &. 377 George St.,
BILIOUSNESS.
If you recognise that the Liver is the sewage
farm of the body, you will see the
importance of its free action.
The blood is easily poisoned by morbid pro-
ducts formed within the body, and
delayed in excretion.
A lazy liver is responsible for constipation,
the greatest disease—breeding disorder
of the body.
The retention of septic matter in the bowels
is a constant source of danger, affecting
blood and nerves.
The question is—How can we keep the liver
in order ?
According to the most distinguished medical
evidence, the Liver is amenable to
Kutnow’s Powder.
The Liver is responsive to the action of
Kutnow’s Powder, without the patient
being hardly aware of it.
Kutnow’s Powder is delightfully gentle, pain-
less, and soothing, but its beneficial
effect does not finish with the Liver.
It flushes the kidneys, cleanses the bladder,
regulates the bowels, clears and purifies
the whole alimentary canal.
No artificial remedy can supersede the
natural efficiency of Kutnow’s Powder,
it has an immediate effect.
It makes you feel relieved and gay ; you can
then put your heart into your work and
do your best.
It gives you vigor, and vigor is contagious,
furnishing untiring strength and vital
force.
An inactive Liver has a most depressing
effect on the temperament, but Kutnow’s
Powder quickly relieves the tension.
Kutnow s Powder keeps every organ in the
body fit, free, and in thorough working
order, hence health follows as matter of
course.
THE LIVES
ITS USE AND ABUSE.
The Liver, like the Kidneys and other organs, is liable to
various acute and chronic diseases. It is the great wheel of
life’s machine ; it regulates the whole mechanism of man ;
when it works well—then every other gland and factor in the
system works well, and there is general good health. That is
the use of the Liver. The abuse is brought about by our
mode of living ; the consumption of rich food and alcoholic
stimulants is a conscious abuse ; we know it, but neglect to
arrest the damage by neutralising and correcting the mischief
until the liver becomes sluggish. The first sign of oncoming
disorder is headache, then a disagreeable taste in the mouth,
loss of appetite, biliousness, and constipation. The remedy
for this state of affairs is a dose of that famous Liver regulator,
Kutnow’s Powder. A desert spoonful in a glass of water,
before breakfast, acts like a refreshing bath on the whole
system ; it cleanses the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels,
and gets rid of the poisonous debris so injurious to health.
TO KEEP THE LIVER ACTIVE.
Perhaps you are not aware that the enjoyment of life
depends to a large extent on the healthy activity of the Liver.
If you wish to enjoy your food, to be able to digest almost
anything, take a few doses of Kutnow’s Powder, which rouses
the liver, flushes the food passages, clears away the sour
fermented debris, expels the surplus uric acid, and invigorates
the system.
A FAMOUS ROYAL ACADEMICIAN
WRITES
“ 1 Abbey Road, St. John’s Wood, N.W.
“ I have used Kutnow’s Powder for the last five years, and it has
added to the pleasure of my life. I take a tablespoonful every morn-
ing when I rise, and find it a most refreshing drink. I have never
needed to increase the dose, and is has acted perfectly in assisting
Nature all this time. lam now strong and healthy, and give you
my experience, which may be useful,
“JOHN MaoWHIRTER, R.A.”
THE REMEDY.
Are you anxious to maintain the healthy
action of the liver and kidneys and to per-
manently eradicate constipation ? Then send
to the nearest chemist for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. This will set you right.
Dr. H. FORESTIER
WRITES :
“ Aix-les-Bains, Oct. 2nd, 1905.
“I have frequently prescribed Kutnow’sPowder
for my patients, and always found it most useful
in uric aid troubles, Rheumatism and Gout. It
has also proved itself very beneficial in cases of
Constipation and Hemorrhoids. My experience,
both in hospital and private practice, shows that
Kutnow’s Powder greatly helps to correct faulty
tissue metabolism.
H. FORESTIER, M.D.”
(Physician to the Evangelical Hospital and the
Thermal Hospital of Aix-lex-Bains).
UNIVERSITY GRADUATE
WRITES :
“ 9 Belvidere Place, Dublin.
“ I feel bound to add my grateful testimony to
the merits of Kutnow’s Powder. Although
having no faith in any medicine for the habitual
and severe constipation I have suffered from for
nearly 20 years, I procured a bottle. Its effect
was all that I could desire, bringing about a
gentle, natural action, almost unfelt, and leaving
the bowels in a healthy, natural state.
“ F. W. BUTLER (8.A.)."
How to detect Fraudulent
Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which are
sometimes sold for a few pence less. The purchaser,
through a misdirected spirit of economy, little thinks
that he is the means of a direct incentive to fraud. The
genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly
recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,"
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s,
which you can obtain at all conscientious chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signature,
“S. Kutnow and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Deep,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations
and know
How to get genuine Kutnow’s
Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
9 9 [4—lo]


Eruption Broke Out in Spots All
Over Body—Caused a Continual
Itching for Two Years —Doctor’s
Medicine Did no Good —Cured at
a Small Expense, and Now
THANKS CUTICURA
FOR COMPLETE CURE
“Some time ago I wrote you for a
book on the Cuticura Remedies and
received it O. K. and went and bought
the Soap, Ointment, and Pills. They did
me more good than any medicine I ever
used. They cured me of my skin disease,
and lam very thankful to you. My
trouble was eruption of the skin, which
broke out in spots all over my body,
and caused a continual itching which
nearly drove me wild at times. I got
medicine of a doctor, but it did not cure
me, and when I saw in a paper your
ad., I sent to you for the Cuticura book
and I studied my case in it. I then
went to the drug store and bought one
cake of Cuticura Soap, one box of Cu-
ticura Ointment, and one vial of Cuti-
cura Pills. From the first application
I received relief. I used the first set
and two extra cakes of Cuticura Soap,
and was completely cured. I had
suffered for two years, and I again
thank Cuticura for my cure. Claude
N. Johnson, Maple Grove Farm, R. P. D.
2, Walnut, Kan.. June 15, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
.Reference: It. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
ITCH! ITCH! ITCH!
Scratch! Scratch! Scratch! This
is the condition of thousands of skin-tor-
tured men, women, and children, who
may be instantly relieved and speedily
cured by warm baths with Cuticura Soap
and gentle applications of Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great Skin Cure, and mild
doses of Cuticura Resolvent Pills, when
physicians and all else fail.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of
60) may be had of all druggists. A single set often cures.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
nay- Mailed Free, “All about '.he Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
«/
e*
PL
We are just landing
an entirely new stock
of the famous
MICHELIN TYRES,
winners of all the
principal races in
1906, including the
great VANDERBILT
CUP RACE.
s>9l_E.-AUSTRALIAN ■ AGENTS
BARNET GLASSsO
city deppt &2,e Flirxders Le>.r\c .
I PACT9DY • • •
rPARA- RU BDCR • W9RRS
PSPT SCR ZKr'
RE>.
LslLil2
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agknciks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building'S,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it oepurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “ViSIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney.
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
The Wayback iSeries*
Autralia laughed ! ! ! ! .No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, Is
MOTHER
CEIGELS
O SYRUP
THE WORLD’S
SUPREME REMEDY
FOR DYSPEPSIA,
BILIOUSNESS >nd
ALL DIGESTIVE
TROUBLES.
When your digestion
is wrong ALL is
wrong. It is impossible to
have sound health without
sound digestion; and in these
strenuous days it is practically
impossible to maintain a sound
digestion without the aid of a
digestive tonic. Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is the unfailing remedy
for ALL digestive trouble.
(♦ TAKE IT!!
!§□♦ and you will be convinced.
inatJ4
sd
“ I was almost a total wreck, and
all out of order. If I was not
suffering from terrible pains in
kidneys I was in agony with m'
head. Biliousness and indiges-
tion added to my misery and I
scarcely ate sufficient to keep
body and soul together. But
though everything else had
failed, Mother Seigel’s
Syrup restored me to
the splendid health I
now enjoy.”
From Mr. DAVID LESLIE,
115, Bourke St., Woolloomooloo,
Sydney. March 2, 1906.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IS MADE OF THE
EXTRACTS of ROOTS,
BARKS and LEAVES,
AND IS A PURELY
VEGETAB LE
PREPARATION.
INDIGESTION
TAKE IT DAILY, AFTER MEALS.
dsg
T*
fa®
3*
•• v * **S?y&>k!
“Repeater”
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
For Field or Tra|> Shooting.
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
. . WEAR . .
Buckley & Nunn s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. lO W
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
1513
dgs
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14(6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW S£RIES IV. V. VI.
FORW ARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is.* Packet of TEN, lOd
FACTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A drowning- man will catch at a shark or a money
lender.
Death does not mow men down. He picks them out
with a pair of long-handled tongs.
We are put into this world as cakes are put into the
oven. Happy are those of whom it is said “ Well done.”
Silence is golden, and so is worth nearly four pounds
an ounce, but it is without weight.
It is foolish to try to drown in drink care that killed
the cat.
Life is a sea, and few of us are good sailors.
We are such stuff as dreams are made of, but of a
narrower width and a coarser quality.
Many cause two blades of grass to grow where one
grew before —on their graves.
Give me neither poverty nor riches, but put them both
“ on the chimblev piece, so that I may take them or leave
them, just as I feel so dispoged.”
People have gone to heaven on a gridiron, but if there
is a pleasanter way, take it.
There is always room at the top —for one.
It is better to be born wealthy than with a club foot.
You can tell some people are alive by feeling their
pockets.
If a man perforin a good action some people are sure to
think that he is a good actor.
Many men write books who could expose their ignor-
ance in a pamphlet.
Boys learn Latin and the art of lying at school—but
most, when they become men, forget the Latin.
Some men are thoughtful, but their thinker is very
small.
Many men are thoughtful, but they are very small
thoughts.
The way to heaven is narrow, yet some very small souls
go the other road.
It is better to have loved and lost than to have broken
your leg.
There are some ponderous monuments keeping down
some very small mean souls.
There will be men in heaven wearing their first decent
suit.
Gambling means gain at the expense of loss to the
other fellow—therefore, do not gamble if you are the
other fellow.
The way to make solitude enjoyable is for a lot of
fellows to live together.
There is no need for your hands to idle, even if you
are waiting for the shoes on dead met. feet.
Although death is usually fatal it does not cause us as
much worry as mosquitoes do.
Nearly every man is someone’s well-to-do relation.
Be just, but not just just.
Clothes do not make the man, but it is nice to have
some.
Clothes do not make the man, but the lack of them
makes the policeman arrest you for lunacy.
The world is turned by a crank. Every reformer is, to
begin with, a crank.
The question of most importance is this: When you
die, will you go through the floor or through the ceiling?
If your neighbor loses all his property, his family, and
his reason, remember that we all have our little troubles.
I fancy that this world is the lunatic asylum of the
Universe.
We are shut up in this woild with animals in order to
see if their example will improve us.
The baby feels a pin and says the world is full of sorrow.
The god from whom January was named was given two
faces, because the cheek required to start anew year
could not be put on one.
Life is a long trial; happy are those who are acquitted.
Men call life a prison, but I have noticed that death,
the gaoler, has a pretty hard struggle to get us out when
the sentence expires.
Hard work is good—when you cannot get any other.
Kati-Kati.
“ Croson ” : I spent a recent unpleasant
Sunday afternoon looking over what had been
designed for my future home ; but I won’t take it.
When we die, we north-suburbaners of Melbourne
are expected to go to the new cemetery at
Fawkner—the southerners are supposed to go to
Spring Vale. The Fawkner site is there right
enough, 285 acres of it; also the railway siding,
a few flowers, a fence, two trees, and the mana-'
ger’s abode, an ornate dwelling in the later Mary
Ann style. Likewise three departeds repose lone-
somely. Fawkner is about the middle of a wide
plain, which begins anywhere and ends nowhere,
and the summer suu blisters all things, while the
winter winds ? Bar unhindered-across the land,
breathing a spirit of dreary desolation and
pneumonia, and making the tombstones shudder
and the cadavers turn over restlessly in their
narrow beds. There is nearly half a square mile of
God’s acre at Fawkner, yet the plans and the
open graves shbw that a slab of soil a poor foot
thick is all that is allowed between each long
home. The trustees, at least, cannot be charged
with having neglected posterity ; they have pro-
vided for about 10 generations of Northern Mel-
bourne. There is a site for a crematorium ; but
so there is at Spring Vale, likewise at St. Kilda,
and a site is only a bit of plain globe with nothing
on it. It is just as cheering to know that there is
a site for a public library at Spitzbergen.
Fawkner will not be popular for years yet; not
until the trustees have planted a small forest
about the place. No mourning relict cares to go
and weep over a dear departed when the chill
westerly wind blows her gossamer into her eyes,
or when he has to drop his tender yearnings in
order to chase his hat half-way to Ballarat. Still
it is a nice wide situation, and when people get
sense enough to patronise the decent, clean system
of cremation, a hundred or two of those acres will
come handy to the Bent of that day for work-
men’s homes or a brickyard.
The Oldest Inhabitant writes :—
The “ Crown,” as a public-house sign in Sydney, seems
to be losing caste. For 75 years the Crown Inn stood on
the western slope of Brickfield Hill. In the early thirties
it was kept by one Edney. A couple of years afterwards
William Dargin, of the old Hawkesbury family, had it ;'
and since then it has had almost innumerable hosts, in-
cluding Toby Ryan, of Emu Hall, at one time M.L.A. for
the Nepean. Now the place is known as the Eight
Hours Hotel. For many years the Crown and Anchor
stood at the N.E. corner of Market and George-streets.
When the picturesque old pub. was demolished, the
Roberts family christened the new house Roberts’ Hotel.
Over 60 years ago another of the name (Mrs. Esther
Roberts) kept the Crown Inn on the N.E. corner of Goul-
burn and Elizabeth-streets —a somewhat battered Crown,
which stood out upon the pathway, and has just been
demolished. The Crown in Sydney has been variously
conjoined. One Crown and Anchor stood near the pre-
sent premises of David Jones and Co. in George-street,
and then there was the one at Market-street corner,
already mentioned. There was the Crown and Kettle at
the corner of York and Barrack-streets. Further, there
were the Crown and Sword, the Crown and Sceptre, the
Rose and Crown (in Castlereagh-street, a great sporting
house), and the old, eccentric Bullivant had the Three
Crowns on Church Hill. And there were other Crowns
of which the memory is lost.
“ Hermes ” : There is one class of criminal
with whom I always sympathise, and that is the
burglar who has carted a heavy safe two or three
miles from the cracked crib, and then finds him-
self unable to open it. Talk about the baby that
found the oyster —that unfortunate kid is not in
it with the poor burglar. I have carried things,
and I know. I have humped the camp-oven on
my shoulders, rolled up in my blankets to make
it sit softer, when working on a mountain survey.
That was bad enough. But I lie awake at nights
and wonder if any poor devil of a burglar is out
staggering along with a heavy safe on his shoul-
ders, keeping one eye in front for the cop and one
behind for the bobby, and looking for the John on
one side and the trap on the other. And then
the bitter, bitter disappointment after having
carted the great iron horror over two or three
miles of broken country, to find that the swindling
importer has sold adulterated dynamite that
won’t burst worth a cent ! It’s a tragedy.


Weak Men!
Take this
Belt; Wear
it, and it will
cure your
Weakness.
Guaranteed
to Cure
ORGANIC
DEBILITY
or
We Refund
Your Money
We have so often proven this assertion that in each case
that we accept as curable we give a written guarantee to cure
or to refund all money paid us. (We reserve the right to
refuse any case we do not care to guarantee.)
No other medical institution ever has been able to make
such an offer to its prospective patients.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
cures all forms of organic debility and absolutely removes for
ever all signs of former weakness or evidence of neuro-vital
decay. The only known . remedy that, without fail, restores
lost health and banishes the weak, aching pain from the
victim’s back and the region of the kidneys. It is guaranteed
in such cases as nervousness, general or functional decline,
weakness (affecting the bladder and kidneys), kidney troubles,
indigestion, constipation, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, in-
somnia, sunstroke, weak back, varicocele, or rupture.
POPP Let us send you our Illus-
-1 1W L SC. U trated Free Book in which
we describe our remedy
and thoroughly acquaint you with the method of using it
to obtain desired results.
Free for the asking. Write or call to-day.
The DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
>llll
m
j
m
x
Thousands of Men
and Women testify
Every Year to its
Merits.
GENERAL DEBILITY.
WARATAH, TAS.
Dear Sirs, —For many months I suffered
terribly from general debility ; I had no energy,
no desire to work, and a few hours’
exertion completely prostrated me.
After securing your Belt and follow-
ing- your advice for three months I
was entirely re-invigorated, my
work became a pleasure, and to-day
I am strong and healthy.
Yours sincerely,
N. G. POLLARD.
We can cure you as
readily by post as if
you could come to
see us weekly.
WEAK BACK.
JONES PLAINS, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —In reply to your en-
quiries re Belt. I can strongly
recommend Dr. McLaughlin’s Elec-
tric Belt for Sciatica and Lame
Back, for before using it I could
hardly stoop down to lace my boots,
but now I am pleased to say that I
have not been troubled with my
back for about eighteen months,
and I have not got to wear the Belt
now. Yours sincerely,
CHARLES POTTER.
CONSULTATION
FREE.
If possible, call at our
office, and let us show
you the Belt and explain
it to you. No fees.
Hours 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
daily. Wednesday and
Saturday evenings.
Gold Med al,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALOPERMA-JELLY * KA LODE RM A-POWDER
Mi. Hi
■ *
m ■■
&
a '*
- ■ SH
A.
Ml
KALODERMA F WOLFF &50HN
ch aeschutzK - m m m m
Gosefzlich geschufzh
Karls ru he.
§oie Agents s
LOHMANN & CO.,
.Melbourne (EL Sydney.
O-f all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure you get WOLFF S.
dg
-s^,v
<#.<,-
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for J ligestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down " or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, ' Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
w *
<#
AND
OINTMENT
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
4re Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. _
——£3.
Warranted equal to any JSIO I Os.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOUNCE ST., MELBOURNE
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Rlair’c GOUT AND
5 RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail. 11
They Always Cure. Jl
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
BEDIi
[The Best Consoler
is a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
WC
Medicatar. size
3i laches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cttre? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
J. H. Maiden, N.S.W. Government
Botanist, has been putting in a fortnight on
Kangaroo Island since the Science Congress at
Adelaide, and says it is one of the most fascinating
places in Australia. The island is the oldest
settlement in S.A. ; .there were white men living
on it, with native women captured from the main-
land, before Adelaide was thought of. But, from
the mining and farming point of view, it has only
just begun to wake up, and this means the
destruction of a lot of plants which—Maiden
believes—eannot be found,anywhere else on earth.
The Hebrew Kangaroo is getting a
notable curl in its tail. Since the foundation of
the Hampstead prizes by the Maccabtean Com-
mittee (London) for essays on specified Jewish
subjects, open to Jewish children all over the
world, an Australian child has each year scored
one of the six much-coveted rewards. A Hebrew
’Groper took a first prize, and Hebrew Cornstalks
have (taken first, second, third, and fourth prizes.
So far, Crow-eating Israel and other branches of
Hebrew Wallabydom haven’t scored, but they
have hopes.
Prohibitionist George Fowlds, Maoriland ,
Minister of Education, promises anew journal for
schools which will persistently preach the evils of j
alcohol. The articles will be illustrated with '
pictures of the usual hobnail liver, the pink i
prohibitionist and the purple partaker. George
Fowlds can never understand how his centenarian
Scotch father has survived a daily nip all this
time. Fowlds senior will have to be put on the
free list of the paper and threatened with the
illustrated hobnail liver if he continues his wee
drap.


f
A Clear, Refined Skin and Complexion is
now within your reach.
SKTN HEALTH is too good a possession in a young girl to be lost. Clearness and
refinement of skin, and a growing peach-like complexion, are things that really
count most in a woman’s life. Without these qualifications, a fascinating manner,
or social charm will avail her nothing.
Mothers! Do you know wherein is your great lack ? You can’t fathom what it is that causes the
impurities, and the dry, coarse, pimply nature of skins that are a disfigurement to your children. Such a condition
of skin is certainly not born with a child; it is created unconsciously in after life, through the injurious substances
such as common toilet soaps, containing an over excess of acids fats, caustic soda and silica, being constantly used
on their tender, immatured skins. Such powerful properties dry up the oil that is natural for its softness,
refinement, and healthy state. The skin when in this condition becomes a prey to the attack of disease
germs, and, moreover, is aggravated by sun, wind and dust, due to it containing insufficient moisture.
These troubles may be almost immediately removed, and the skin will regain its health and
refinement, by strict observance in the use in the bath or toilet, at all times, of
Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap.
This soap has incomparable powers in ridding the skin of the evil consequences of harmful soaps,
cosmetics, etc. It contains natural medicines that renew the oil of the dry, parched skin, create new
life to a practically lifeless skin, and otherwise ensures perfect skin health.
BABY’S BATH.
The importance of using the right soap applies with far
greater force in the nursery, owing to the sensitive and
irritable skin of the baby being so liable to chafe and become
sore and inflamed. It is the want of knowledge of the nature
of soaps used on.the delicate skins of children that create such
mischief to its health and texture. Soaps containing caustic
soda and free alkali, however nice in appearance they may
look, or how beautifully perfumed, are absolutely fatal to the
skin health of a child as well as that of an adult.
Smi
fUTo ic« N * l & T Olluv
THE BEST SKIN SOAP.
Because it contains natural medicines for assimilating
the oil contained in the skin of a human being. Like your
strength and vitality that with neglect gradually grow less,
so it is with the oil contained in the skin, which, for want of
care and thought as regards the proper nature of soap to use
in its daily cleansing, it gradually drains from the skin.
Now Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap acts in conjunction with
the oil in protecting and preserving the skin in addition to
beautifying and softening it. If the natural oil is lost,
causing dryness, coarseness, and a pimply nature of skin,
then Zam-Buk Soap will replace it and make the skin as
Nature intended it should be.
For eczema, pimples, sunburn, rash, prickly heat, black-
heads, dandruff, sallow complexion, scalp diseases, freckles,
barber’s rash, ringworm and all childish skin ailments, Zam-
Buk Soap will give admirable results.
Zam-Buk Soap is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia, or direct
from the Zam-Buk Mnfg. Co., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
There is Skin Health and
Beauty in Every Tablet*
Business, Robbery, etc.
“O.K.” : The fault of the Australian Manu-
factures Exhibition in Melbourne is the fault of all
exhibitions. Too much of the best space is devoted to
decorative displays of widely-advertised goods which
could be just as instructively shown in a very small way.
For instance, the most conspicuous “ stall ” in the build-
ing was erected in honor of Silver Star Starch. Itistheboss
ornament; of the occasion—lovely as the top of a wedding
cake. There are glistening dishes of starch in many colors,
festoons of electric lights, and a fountain playing amidst
the pomps and vanities. Every good Australian is glad
to know that this is a starch-producing country, but why
was the centre Of the floor, to the extent of 20ft. x 20ft.,
or thereabouts, dedicated to one bright brand of starch l
Many 3’oung men have complained that the Silvery
Bower of Bliss, with its suggestions of Xmas pantomime,
is a misleading exhibit, because there are no ballet girls
or flying angels introduced. It sticks to its Australian
industrial text, which is starch pure and simple. Now,
at an adjacent display of soaps and grocery goods, the
exhibitor keeps a girl assistant ostentatiously employed
m making up Jib packages of Ceylon tea He uses an
admirable demonstration of Australian industries as an
incidental means of pushing lus foreign tea tiade.
* ■ * *
It was the boast of the lately murdered
Whiteley, of London, father of Universal Providing, that
he could supply anything on earth. One day an alleged
funny man went into his warehouse in Westbourne
Grove, and asked if the firm had any elephants. “ Yes,
sir,” said the shopman. “ Then let me have a couple.
“Certainly, sir. Take them with you?” No, send
them to .. & i v i ng . his address, ile went away,
chuckling at his overflowing humor, but when he got
home he found the street blocked bv a crowd, and the
elephants, which Whiteley had meanwhile procured from
Jamrach’s, waiting for him at his door. It was probably
a put-up job. Great are the uses of advertisement.
F r J * * * *
The latest suburban take-down hangs on to
gaudil.v-bottled “Real Jamaica Lime Juice.” Possibly
the earthquake suggested the swindle—anyhow, it helps
well as a sure cure for rheumatism, spots before the eyes,
that tired feeling, &c. In fact, there isn’t a thing, it
seems, except earthquakes, that “Jamaica lime juice”
can’t either prevent or cure.
* * ,
“ Itan ” : The meat ring in Sydney wants road
metal thrown at it. The recent trouble at the Glebe
Island vards reduced the supply of sheep, but rates did
not go up appreciably. Yet many butchers lifted mutton
id. per lb.—say 4s. Bd. per sheep. Now, when fat wethers
bring as low as 7s. 6d. per head—which, after deducting
the value of the bv-products, makes the cost of the car-
cage tQ the b u |; C i, er i ess than Id. per pnblic still
has to pay the prices ruling at normal times—3d. to 4d.
per lb. Butchers actually in some cases thus added to
the price of the meat as much, almost, as the meat is cost-
ing them altogether.
.* . * ■ *
Artificial rubber, it is announced, can now be
spit than any other creature, except the pony-racing
tout, and therefore is the animal for this process. Pytalin,
a chemical element of the saliva, is a necessary part of
the process, which, it is claimed, will make first-grade
rubber out of wheat mash if the hog only slobbers suffi-
ciently. * , , »
‘‘ Rypo There is every sign of a boom period
coming in Melbourne. They are talking of shifting the
Hospital to the Pig Market site, putting the Town Hall
where the Hospital is, and leasing the Town Hall corner
for business premises. Big re-building schemes are under
way Qr j,gj n g. considered. A leaven of unrest is working
through the financial world. The steady growth of recent
years i does not suit the hurried and anxious financial spirit
vv hi(;li is in the air. Men talk off-handedlv of schemes in-
volving £lOO,OOO, £250,000, or £1,000,000 just as they did
25 years ago. All these things are a warning of the
madness that is to come. It is said to be a sure fore-
boding of insanity in the individual when he wants to
move the remains of his dead relatives. So it is a sign of
approaching public madness when the community wnnts
to move its buildings and institutions around wholesale,
and make changes generally. Presently, some one will
start a land bank, and then all Gehenna will break loose.
* * • *
“ Wurrym ” : Your New Hebrides correspon-
dent (B. 3/l/’O7) can get all he wants in Westralia. He can
get a homestead of 160 acres for £l, and 2000 more acres
jf j le desires them and can work them. If he has
sons and daughters over 18 they can get the same,
It is a beastly Socialistic hole, though. When he
}, as put in labor worth £5O in clearing-, fencing,
etc-> the Government will lend him £3O to
g. O on improving, and when he has got £SO worth of
improvements, he can get more money, and then more
again—but lie must use it for improvements, not to buy
Tattersall tickets or accordeons. There are heaps and
heaps of good land available, accessible, and with reliable
rainfall. One settler from the Cold Country, with a well-
grown family, got his first return in five months after
starting, and there are others who have done as well,
isn’t Australia good enough for a good man ? What does
he want with Honolulu ?
* * ' » *
Th e Angora goat, a great source of wealth in
s>Afri looks like getting a place among the Common-
wealth indusfcri es. A Wyalong (N.S.W.) ram, which
came from the C.A. herd, once owned by Kidman and
Kempe, cut a fleece this season valued at 30s. Last
month one firm sent to the London market bales of
mohair from 17 constituents. The fact that the Angora
is a great destroyer of scrub—he is a browser and not a
grazer—should attract attention, especially as weed
pests are in full charge of great tracts of Eastern Aus-
tralia. The amount of good work performed by Billy
Angora in Maoriland is officially declared to be astound-
imr In some parts he and Nanny have completely
eradicated largo areas of noxious weeds and shrubs. In
the US.A the flesh of Billy and Nanny is largely con-
sumed, while the milk of Mrs. Angora, which is free from
tuberculosis is claimed to ha“e specially nourishing
uronerties for children And in addition to his other
e-ood dualities the Angora is a picturesque brute in his
way, and looks well against the skyline when he is con-
ciriorino- fhp appnprv
® n * * * *
“Via”- Re prickly-pear wine. Up this way
CLaidlev 01 it has been on tap for some time. It has a
ipaiaiey, qj.; id nas ueeu uo p pr iition of the
tart taste and a “heady effect, like a mua edition or cne.
S. Australian “pinkie,” but the German farmers wrap
ESfIC i o P An“S “ad tol PriSlj
R 4 b "
Brandy. „ « *
. , , . i i. „ mns : n w a
At one of the out-back mining P ,
the local merchant had on view a r „ , ’
marked 4s. lid. An old gin ambled in fr >
spied this sunset garment, and immedi
the storekeeper. “You sell red shirt, boss' How
much?” “Four and elevenpence,” said Buckley and
Nunn “Me give you white chillin’,” said the artless
child of nature. Anthony Hordern said he would see her
defunct sooner, and considerable bargaining ensued,
The gin eventually went aw’ay disappointed. In about
an hour she was back offering chillin’, but Mark Foy was
firm. Late in the afternoon she made her third appear-
ance. “ Come on, boss, you gimme shirt, I give you
chillin’.” This time she would not leave, and at last
Foy and Gibson wearied of the conflict, and told her she
could have the garment for the proffered “bob.” The
gin took up the article, and, laying down a threepenny-
piece started for the door. “ Hold on,” shouted Lassetter
and Co., “you said you had shilling; this only three-
penny bit.” “ That all right,” said the gin, “ that fellow
pickaninny chillin’.” David Jones and Co. was too
stunned to go in pursuit ; he only gazed on the three-
penny like a man in a dream. "
» * * *
Melbourne is iust now suffering from a fierce
and foolish wave of belief in “ clairvoyancy ” of the ex-
washerwoman kind. The Age joined with the detective
office (said to be devoted to the spooky creed) in boosting
one story of alleged divination, w'ith the result that the
prophetess has since been able to raise her price from ss.
to 10s.
* * * *
“Stony”,: There seems to be something about
warehouse work which is utterly destroying to the se t-
respect of those lesser vassals of the trade who have to
show stock to purchasers. Lately I have been trying to
buy a carpet of not too fierce and" indigestible a pattern,
and found the kind gentleman who waited on me to bo
of most abnormal manners—very suave and gentle and
polite. The most kind and wormlike of those who minis-
tered to my wants was a poor tiling who wore his hair
sleekly plastered down from a middle parting in a shiny
fall to each ear. He wore store teeth, which shone
dreadfully white in the gloom of the carpet chamber, and
as he darted about among his employer’s wares, he mur-
mured “Pardon me !” interminably ; also “ Allow me ! ”
“Yes, madam!” “ One moment, sir !” until we finally
settled on a design. At that stage he worked himself up
into a perfect pattern of politeness; and in the end, as
we departed, he helped us over three mats, moved four
chairs out of our way, bowing each time, opened the door
for us, and said “ Good-afternoon ” six times. If he had
had a tail, I am sure he would have wagged it.
* * *
One article of furniture (?) always to be found
in the bush home is the American alarm clock ; and in
nine cases out of ten the alarm part of its anatomy is like
New Year resolutions—broken. In the tenth case you set
it to wake you at a quarter to jackass, and it goes off
somewhere about half-past mopoke. Sometimes it gets
tired and only goes lying on its face, or back. Other
times it has to be placed on its side, or upside down,
Then Jim or Bill has to do an acrobatic turn to see the
time. Frosty weather it has to be put up the ehimnej’- to
keep it warm, and in summer it often has to be put down
the well to keep it cool. Sometimes, if the alarm part is
in ordinary working order, it takes a sulky fit, and the
more you wind it the more its infernal bell goes, and it
won’t be set except at some unearthly hour. Then, after
much profanity, Jim or Bill hurls it violently (jut of the
window, and a shocking yelp outside tells that it has
struck the dog. Will some Commonwealth clockinan
make a reasonably-priced aiiarm clock that will do its
duty without any coddling?
* * * *
“HuffinGuffin” : Said the Melbourne shearer :
“ Yes, shearingis over at the wool stores, and I’m notsorry
we’ve ‘ cut out.’ I don’t like this city shearing. It is too
cramped. W'e miss the freedom of the bush. We can’t
hang up the shears and rush off the ‘ board ’ at knock-off
time. We have to wash, change clothes, and be respect-
able. We couldn’t ride home in the train with
blood, and wool, and grease dropping off our clothes.
And there is no bucket of tea and 1 browny ’
in the mornings before starting. No rattle of tin plates
and pannikins at meal times. We have to eat out of
crockeryware at a boardinghouse. But shearing- time in
Melbourne has come as a settled thin . Each of the big
wool stores has shearing accommodation now. Forty
thousand were put through at one ‘ shed ’ this season. I
suppose it pays better to truck or travel the wool down
on the sheep’s backs. After shearing time the sheep are
travelled round the outer suburbs for a month or two
while the owner’s feed is growing. The lost art of shep-
herding is being revived—and almost in the city ”
* * * *
“Goolwa” : I travelled through the country
recently with a newly-arrived Yank. Coming from the
land of the Fried Nigger he naturally noticed the re-
markableness of some things that I had hitherto taken as
matters of course. One item that made him scoff through
his nose and made me feel foolish and w ild was the dis-
play in flaring letters by storekeepers everywhere of the
sign, “DIRECT IMPORTERS.” It seems to me that
every vendor of socks or sardines looks on these two in-
fernal w'ords with the same pride as a new civic dignity
when he first signs himself “John Smith, Mare." In
ninety per cent, of the cases the fiend inside is
not a direct importer, but that isn’t the point.
All through our travels we didn’t come across a word for
Australia in the way of a sign-board. Is it any wonder
the ’Murkan threw slag at my country, or that I felt
wild? And that foreign drummer was doing- a great
business. He told me it was fool countries like Aus-
tralia that made America so big in the manufacturing
line, and I believe he was right. He also told me some
other things—all old, and, alas ! but too true. Then he
show-ed me how to make a cocktail, and left for his home
in Syracuse or Memphis.
■* * * *
“Nebo” writes from Canada: — “In . Wild
Cat Column ’ (B. 18/10/’O6) re Australian oil-wells, you
remark that ‘ the Standard Oil Trust is a mighty
gobbler.’ It is. Here in Edmonton (not so very many
hundred miles from Petrolia), with two systems of rail
leading in, we pay 2£ dollars for one can of ‘coal oil’—
ordinary water-w hite kerosene. In Cue (W.A.) I used to
land this commodity m 120-case lots from Fremantle at
lls. fid. per case—sometimes under that figure. The
only difference one can see is that there is a fancy spout
on the Canadian can. So that oil can be carried 12,000
miles by sea and 560 by rail, and then sold inland in
Australia at a little over half what it costs the Canadian
consumer. Damn Rockefeller ! Likewise damn Anti-
Sosh 1 Let the Commonw-ealth keep a hold on Australian
oil-fields, anyhow. If it works them, it needn’t worry
about competing outside—the Australian demand will
pay exes.”
» * * -*
“ Relay ” : He was down from the Mallee and,
going home in the train, he told me how he saw the
Exhibition. When he got to the gardens—abode of Mel-
bourne harpies—two bright-eyed, laughing lads offered
to show him over the Aquarium, &c., and he agreed to
shout for them if they would. Every time he’d look
through a doorway in the (imitation) rockwork of the
Aquarium he’d see something new. “Gosh!” he’d
exclaim when he saw (for instance) the seals. “Shillin’
to go there, ain’t it, Bob?” “ Yers.” Out the shilling
would come, and one of the pair scooted to pay an
imaginary collector. Then Mallee was shown the cases of
mummies through thedoor. “ Whatyercall them? ” “Oh,
them’s only a couple er millying yeers old. I say, Jimmy,
what’s the burden to see them things?” “Two boh or ’arf a
dollar, I fink. There are about 67 different things to see
in that particular spot. “ Blime,” said Mallee —he’d
learned “ Blime ” this trip—“ Blime, it costs er bit ter
do the thing well; an’ yer’d miss more’n half of ’em if
yer poked round on yer own.”
AT THE KILN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, ~ , , ..
The dusty team drags up the track, and halts below the
dump;
Old Whiskers heaves his dunnage out with heavy hand
and slow •
The truck roll’s down and smacks against the dump-end
wittla bump
And—ba.ig ! the lime-bags thud upon the waggon-floor
below.
The lime swirls white above the load and fills our weeping
- , ~ , , , , , ,
As, smarting sore, we shove the truck slow back alon 0
the rails ;
We dodge the fiery clouds, and pant, and smother as they
r j se
. , . . „„„„„ f u„
And choke, and sweat, and curse the fat bags crashing
on the scales.
The breeze comes rushing up the hill from where our
camp-smoke floats,
And, crash!—the truck goes clattering down the incline
on its own
m„, m.d, A .kip .0 windward, Rawing breathless at
our throats,
Lime gnawing at our naked necks, from chin to collar-
bone.
Bill, here, he is a married man—and see his eyelids red !
Hespends his cash on grub, with half-a-crown for smokes
and beers;
Week in and out he toils to keep his happy home in
bread —
lie works all day with nostrils raw, witli flayed and burn-
. _
ing ears.
. , ■n. .
And you-you sit m China silk upon your shady lawn ,
You write sweet notes on lavender, and swear you love me
well ;
You’re with me when I wake and face the crimson Barrier
,
aawn . ,
But, tell me, are you worth it . . . sweating blind out here
in hell?
vie.
FRANK HENTY


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N..V.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE "»•
Aporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
°^ r Special snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
ĝdg
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38Jin., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
£1 15s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
HEARNES^iSSr 5
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Ham or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds oh the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain-.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .lly.
NOTICE.~ Heame ’® Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
■ the youngest child and the most aged person.
fp
sgds
[Disinfecting
COLORLESS,
FRA RANT,
N33IOOJS~NOUB.
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “ SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
POLICY" fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd.
A CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS
FREE
FOR
.WRITING.
For 30 DAYS we are GIVING AWAY
FREE SAMPLES of the World-
renowned EUCRASY.
A Boon to Wives, Mothers,
and Sisters.
CURE FOR SONS, BROTHERS, HUSBANDS
EUCRASY DRINK CURE .
as?
Mrs. J. HATTON,
who cured her husband with
Eucrasy, writes us that she
has cured also a near and
dear relative, and makes a
most earnest appeal to all
other women to save the
drunkard.
c
Mrs. Soott writes
“ Oh, how happy
I am that m3' hus-
band has lost all his
appetite tor whisky.
“ Your remedy is
surely a blessi g for
drunkards.”
DRUNKENNESS
or the
LIQUOR HABIT
Positively Cured
WITH EUCRASY.
It may be given in
Tea, Coffee, or Pood,
thus secretly curing
the patient without
his knowledge.
Highest Endorsement from W. F. Stanton, Esq., J.F., S. of T., and 1.0.G.T.
May ]6, 1906.
W. F. STANTON and CO., Watchmakers and Jewellers,
22 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Esq., Eucrasy Company, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—As a lifelong Abstainer, a Son of Temperance, and Good Templar, I, for years past, recognised
Drunkenness as a disease, not a crime. When you, in 1896, introduced your Eucrasy Treatment, I became
i what
and,
trying
I wish you succe'ss, for every patient cured'adds to the influence the Temperance Party require to enact
Prohibitory laws. You are at liberty to use this testimonial as you deem fit. —Yours sincerely,
W. F. STANTON, J.P.
MISS WELLAND, who cured her father after years
of misery, wretchedness, and almost unbearable
suffering, says: “ I shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach many others, and let
them know about the wonderful EUCRASY. I will
do all 1 can to help any suffering sister who will
write me.”
This Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance
into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on, the drunkard is re-
claimed without his knowledge.
Mr. JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN, Cobar, N.S.W., says:
It is eight years ago since I sent for EUCRASY,
and after a lapse of eight years I think a person
should be able to pass his opinion. I am pleased to
say that your medicine has done wonders for me.
I am frequently in the company of smokers and
drinkers, but have no desire myself for either liquor
or tobacco.
If this statement should be of any benefit you
are at liberty to use same for publication, and
remain, Yours thankfully,
(Sgd.) JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN.
yms>
'ft ; *f o
% -s r _J>*S4.fe V -'s-r
Free I Free ! If you mention ** The Bulletin/’
FOR 30 DAYS WE ARE GIVING IT AWAY.
Send for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
This is a genuine offer for 30 days only. CALL ON OR ADDRESS :
The Eucrasy Co.
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
U/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, 18. PACKET OF TEN, lOd.
BITTERS
Poor
Weak and
Weary Mothers
Raise
Puny, Pindling
Children.
Sulphur Bitters
Will make them
Strong, hearty
And healthy.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
d
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control t** 9
and aff<
gratify
ment b]
Lesson
free of c
all about this marvelous science, it
beautiful and artistic engravings, ana sbo
you just what Hypnotism is ana
what it will accomplish. Send for
jction, cure disease ana d»u uw*
your ambitions and produce arouse*
T the hour. My mammoth Illustrates
or Key to Hypnotism which I
iharve and nostaee paid, will tell y°
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
ďg
Prof. R. H. BARRADENj 09 Pftt St, Sydney
ON THE HOPS
Price 21 •. Thh Bclt.*™ Offloe, Sydney.


ds
Strengthens, Tones and
Invigorates the Muscles.
Takes out all Stiffness
and Soreness.
Gives Activity, Flexibility
and Stretching Power.
Used by all ATHLETES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. ,
śd
ďs
dgs
1/6
3 /-
CURABLE DISORDERS
There are some diseases which are incurable, but these are fortunately rare. There are, on the
other hand, two groups of disorders which afflict a large number of people, many of whom seem to
consider that there is no hope of release, for they go on suffering year after year when their cases
would readily yield to treatment if the root of the disorder were attacked. The two groups referred to
are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common complaints
Ufio
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravei and Stone
Bladder Troubles
Biliaby
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Ancemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Now all these disorders originate from the same cause —namely, the inability of the kidneys and
liver to properly perform their function of eliminating from the system the urinary and biliary
poisons which produce the disease.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their duty
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as
Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural
color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must imme-
diately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes,.or some of the many manifesta-
tions of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice,
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures affecto''!
by Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [4j
The Breakers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE, where the white-plumed sea-birds
hover
On listless wings o’er the heaving bay,
"With clean sands under and blue skies over,
I watch the great sea-dogs at play.
Afar they come from their restless ranging—
To sun one moment their coats of foam ;
Through time unceasing and seasons changing
The shore was ever and ever their home.
The falling gold of the noon sun mellows
The beach to amber and golden hues ;
The hillsides dazzle with blues and yellows.
And light is flung by a hand profuse.
A glory of azure skies is arching
A glory of sea and smiling land,
And all the youth of the year is marching,
With song and sparkle on every hand.
To smooth, white sand and white, smooth boul-
ders,
In headlong jostle, rank after rank,
The sea-dogs hurry with thrusting shoulders,
Arid growl, and frolic, and joyous prank.
The winds of noon are the sea-dogs’ lovers,
They smooth their coats and their glossy heads ;
They rest one moment —these restless rovers —
In pool and furrow they make their beds.
When thunder grumbles and lightnings redden,
And storm comes marching at end of day,
And gales arive shoreward, and seas grow leaden,
No longer as white sea-dogs they play.
But back to their old wolf forbears changing,
They leap, fierce-howling, on reef and rock ;
Through night and clamor and darkness ranging,
They shake the coast with a savage shock.
In cleft and cavern they growl and thunder,
And fling the spume of their fury high ;
The cliffs grow wet, and the white sands under
Their fierce feet torn and tortured lie.
Ah, better it is, when noontide mellows
The long, sweet beaches, to watch them play
For them, as a host of joyous fellows
They make the soul of the watcher gay.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Boomtime Stage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN who plays his first Australian
engagement in 1854, and who finally
quits the stage in 1889 (his last appear-
ance being as the King to Charles Warner’s
Hamlet at Melbourne Princess), cannot be termed
anything but an Australian actor.
Mr. Ryan’s birth name is W. A.
but he played as William Ryan in ’52, and now
he has almost forgotten that he is not Irish. Mr.
Ryan arrived in Sydney in ’52, under engage-
ment to “Paddy” Belfield, at the York-street
Theatre, playing lead, and opening in “The
Dream at Sea,” a fine old melodrama, with horn-
pipes and murders sprinkled liberally over every
act. Six months later he was engaged to support
G. Y. Brooke. The company played at Sydney
Victoria Theatre for over three months to an
average of £4OO a night, the cast including
Coppin, the Youngs, Fanny Cathcart, Robert
Heir, and J. C. Lambert. They had a fine
repertoire “ Macbeth,” “ Lady of Lyons,’’
‘‘Richelieu,” Sheridan Knowles’ “Hunchback,”
“Merchant of Venice,” “As You Like It,” and
“Love’s Sacrifice.” The last-named has as its
central figure Matthew Elmore, possibly Brooke’s
greatest part, and at any rate equal to his
Virginius. Mr. Ryan played Appius Claudius to
Brooke for over four years. Brooke’s production
of “As You Like It” at Sydney, in ’54, was also
the occasion of the first stage appearance of Mr.
H. R. Harwood. Somebody was required to play
the thinking part of Charles the Wrestler, and
Mr. Ryan introduced Harwood to his first experi-
ence of the boards.
After the Sydney season Brooke opened the
Olympic (thelron Pot) in Melbourne. “Probably
such a company,” says Mr. Ryan, “ was never
gathered within four walls before.” There were
Brooke, Mrs. Charles Young (afterwards Mrs.
Hermann Vezin), J. P. Hydes, Charles, Fred.,
and Richard Young, the subject of this sketch,
Coppin, Leslie, Lambert, G. H. Rogers, Fanny
Cathcart, and Miss Herbert.
For four years, until Brooke returned to Lon-
don, Mr. Ryan played second business, and on
occasions, on account of Brooke’s illness, or —
what is the word ? —indisposition, played the
name parts in “Richard III.” and “Rob Roy.”
Later, he supported Clarence Holt throughout
Maoriland, and for the two succeeding seasons
played second business to Win. Creswick, having
such parts as the Ghost in “ Hamlet,” and
Henry VIII. in the play of that name, to Cres-
wick’s Cardinal Wolsey. Mr. Ryan also played
leading business in the companies of such lesser
stars as Lola Montes, and, by the same token,
many is the good story he tells of the impetuous
Irish-Arneriean-Spanish-Austrian and her Percy
Follande.
Finally, after 36 years of continuous engage-
ment, Mr. Ryan reappeared from a temporary
retirement to play a part in Charles Warner’s
“ Hamlet ” at the Princess Theatre in 1889.
And for a few of Mr. Ryan’s stories afore-
said :
“ There was a big rush in Dunedin in ’6l, and
among the actors who played there during the
rush was a comedian named Bob Dale. His popu-
larity destroyed him. His salary was always
mortgaged. He was a leader (at his own expense)
of men and women. Dale, of course, contracted
debts he could not pay. His creditors summoned
him, signed judgment, and, finding distraint im-
possible, issued a warrant for his arrest. As Dale
shifted his lodgings nearly every day, his only
place of certainty was the theatre, and the bailiffs
went thither to arrest him. They did not inter-
fere with him until the curtain had fallen on the
last act, and then the principal bailiff said :
“ ‘ Bob—very sorry—l’ve a stiff for you.’
“ ‘ All right, old man ; only your duty. But let
me get into my street clothes first,’ and Dale
walked to his dressing-room.
“ The bailiff waited until the watchman came
to turn out the lights, and then discovered that
Dale had escaped through the boxes and the dress
circle. He went away, swearing vengeance.
“ Next night the bailiffs decided to arrest him
as he entered the theatre to play. But Dale had
not appeared when the curtain was rung up ; and
at last, hearing the laughter of the audience, the
bailiffs entered the theatre. Bob Dale was on
the stage.
“The bailiff stationed one of his men at each
exit, and waited the end of the last act. Then
they arrested him, and sent one of their number
to wait outside the dressing-room while he
changed. Dale bolted the door and escaped by
the window. Next day Dunedin laughed itself
hoarse at the bailiff’s expense, and they swore to
catch Robert somehow. So that night they
reached the stage before the overture began and
made the capture.
“But the manager, Clarence Holt, seeing
nearly £lOO in the house, .and knowing that if
Dale were taken away the money would have to
be returned, so used his eloquence that the bailiff
almost wept, and the play was allowed to proceed.
“As soon as the curtain fell the sheriff’s
officer, who had increased his force to 10 men,
surrounded Dale and insisted that he should
change his clothes on the stage. But that day a
little drama had been rehearsed with the stage
carpenter.
“ Dale, still talking to the little ring of bailiffs
and objecting to the indignity of being forced to
change his clothes in public, gradually edged
himself to his proper position on one of the traps,
and at the cue of ‘ You’ve seen the play, but not
the after-piece,’ shot through the stage and left
the bailiffs gazing stupefied at the closed trap.
This third escape saved Dale. Dunedin laughed
again; the creditors even smiled, and gave Dale
a full release.
“ Geelong,” says. Mr. Ryan, “ was tipped to be
the big city of Victoria. Mr. Coppin took the
Theatre Royal there. He was all hard work' and
perseverance, and made enough to pay all his
Adelaide debts and go to London, where he
engaged Brooke. There were also in the com-
pany Richard Young, Robert Heir, and dear
Fanny Cathcart a fine actress, a charming
woman and, above all, a lady. Coppin brought
out the materials for the Iron Pot, which
was erected at the corner of Lonsdale and
Exhibition-streets, Melbourne. For a long time
it was crowded nightly, but the expenses were
very heavy, and new people were constantly
coming to Australia under engagement to Coppin.
Then Coppin started Cremorne Gardens, which
cost him over £40,000. About this time Black
and co. began the building of the first Theatre
Royal on its present site. It cost £70,000, but
when opened it couldn’t stand against Brooke.
So Brooke and Coppin took the Royal over and
closed the Olympic. Lyster opened the Opera
House, and the tug-of-war began. Mr. Coppin
had to keep a big company in Melbourne, and
Brooke took a company on tour. I was out with
Brooke for a long time, and he used to send
weekly up to £3OO to help pay the Melbourne
expenses. On our return to Melbourne from
Launceston Brooke and Coppin dissolved part-
nership, the former taking the Royal, and Coppin
the Olympic and Cremorne.
“ But, as a responsible manager, Brooke didn’t
last long. He was no financier, though he was a
great actor —one of the greatest that has been,
and, I believe, the most versatile, perfect equally
in Irish comedy or Shaksperian tragedy, great
as Othello, Shylock, Richard, Macbeth, lago,
Coriolanus, Hamlet, Lear, Prospero, Falcon-
bridge, Hotspur, »Leontes, Petruchio, Jaques,
Valentine, Biron, Benedick, Antipholus, The
Stranger, Virginius, Louis XI., William Tell,
Master Walter, Sir Giles Overreach, Richelieu,
St. Pierre, Sardanapalus, and many other parts;
but a foolishly generous man ; and in money
matters a perfect babe. He had a fine stock-
company—G. H. Rogers (a great old-man actor),
Lambert, Fanny Cathcart and Bob Young. The
company’s expenses ran up to £5OO a week.
Brooke had no partner to keep him financially
straight, and he went to leeward. Ruined, or
next door to it, he decided to go to England.' He
had married Avonia Jones just before this. His
debts were very large, and he had to leave Mel-
bourne in a fishing smack—the English steamer
picked him up outside the Heads. He was
drowned, as you know, on his way back to Aus-
tralia. The people of Melbourne swore by him.
His receptions were the receptions of a king—he
moved inacontinuoustriumphalprocession. There
was more fuss made over him m Australia than
over any actor before or since. We have had in
Australia men like Charles Kean, Barry Sullivan,
Montgomery, and William Creswick; but none
of them ever touched Brooke.
“ The Princess, the old Princess —I am talking
of the early fifties now—was at first used as a
circus, built for George Lewis by Adam Kennedy.
After that it was made a theatre. George
Fawcett cut a dash there for a little time. He
had in his companies Julia Mathews, the sisters
Dunne (one of them married Marcus Clarke),
Rogers, Marie Durant, Joe Jefferson’, and good
old Paddy Belfield, who gave me my first engage-
ment in Australia.
“ Belfield was a good Irish actor, and he wrote
some melodramas, very successful in their time.
One of them, ‘The Drunkard’s Curse,’was being
played at Castlemaine in the roaring days, and
the owner of the theatre had a hotel next door.
The play was so well received that the audience
refrained from taking their usual drinks. Next
night the play was withdrawn. ‘The Drunkard’s
Curse ’ did not greatly affect its author. Invari-
ably on receiving his salary he would enter the
bar, call in strangers from the street —loafers, or
anybody else—and shout for them until he was
penniless.
“The strangest engagement I was ever in was
in support of Lola Montes —the friend of the mad
King of Bavaria. She was a beautiful woman,
and she had the temper of a devil. Most women
would have concealed the relationship between
herself and the Bavarian King, but she actually
had a play written on it. It was titled ‘The
King of Bavaria’ —she played herself, and I
played the King. That was in ’55 or ’56. In one
of her Australian engagements her terms for a
fortnight were £7OO a week and a benefit on
terms. That engagement gave her £l6OO Bs. for her
share, and she was very particular about the Bs.
“ Her lover, Percy Follande, who travelled
with her, was the most lovesick man I ever saw.
On one occasion, as he and I were standing on
the stage, talking, she came up and asked him the
time. He was as indolent as he was handsome,
and lazily took out his watch. She impatiently
snatched the watch from him, threw it on the
stage and crushed it under her heel. ‘ Hurry
when I wait,’ said she in her acquired broken
English. I say acquired, because she had to un-
learn English and substitute ‘ pidgin ’ for it. She
was really an Irish girl, but pretended to be
Spanish.
“In the afternoon of the day she destroyed
Follande’s watch she purchased another, pre-
sented it to him, wept over him and played turtle
dove. When she left Australia she deserted Fol-
lande, and he went almost mad over her depar-
ture. He followed her on the next American
ship, but suicided by jumping overboard before
reaching America.
“ The fortnight’s engagement which I men-
tioned just now was full of unrehearsed incidents.
In Bendigo she publicly thrashed a man named
Crosby whose wife was playing in Ballarat
at the time. The same day she visited a mine and
christened the claim with champagne. The
guests were christened also ; and Lola was so
much christened that she couldn’t remember her
lines that night.
“The play was ‘ The King of Bavaria’—she play-
ing Lola Montes and I the King. She couldn’t
give cues, she lost the text, and finally she
walked down to the footlights and said : ‘ The
actor who plays the King ees drunk.’ Whereupon
I also came down the stage, and made a counter
demonstration. The audience took sides —there
was a free fight, and the curtain fell when the
play was half-way through.
“ Lola Montes had the nerve of a man. There
was nothing feminine and soft about her. One
night in Bendigo we were playing ‘Asmodeus,’
with Lola as the Little Devil, to the accompani-
ment of a terrific storm of thunder and lightning.
In the middle of a scene the lightning struck the
iron roof of the theatre, made a hole a foot or so
square in the roof, and, running across the
girders, knocked out the side wall of the stage,
set fire to the carpenter’s shop under the stage,
and finished by making a large excavation in the
ground. One of the supporting pillars of the roof
—a hardwood baulk 5x5 square—was broken
into splinters, without scratching one of the eight
of us grouped round it. Add to this a tropical
rain which flooded the streets, extinguished the
fire, and left four feet of water under the stage.
The suddenness of it all seemed to paralyse actors
and audience. Hubert Macgowan ran off the
stage and away from the theatre to his hotel,
locked himself in his room, and was dead to the
world for 24 hours.
“But Lola ! She came down the stage, smiling,
to the footlights and said, ‘ Ladies and gentle-
men, I have often played the devil, but never
before to rea, thunder and lightning.’ The
woman’s impudence removed the spell from the
audience, and they hissed her off the stage. As
two of the actors had hidden themselves, ‘Asmo-
deus ’ stopped half-way in his experiences, for
that night, anyway. Later we went to Ballarat,
where Mrs. Crosby, whose husband Lola had
thrashed, was playing. Crosby got full revenge,
for his wife whipped Lola pitilessly. Never
heard much of Lola after she left Australia,
except that she died in poverty and obscurity.
“Yes! there were some funny people in the
business in the early days. There was Alice
Marryat, who was said to be the daughter of
Captain Marryat. Well, she married Captain
Charles Fanshawe Everest, and they used to
play around Maoriland. He was a cheerful man
was Everest. Nothing ever put him out of con-
ceit with himself. On one occasion we played at
Blenheim —the play was ‘The Sailor of France.’
The theatre was used as a circuit court-room, and
the stage was built against a fireplace. When the
scene was set a chair had been placed for the star,
so that all was safe. Of course, she must move
the chair, so that one chair leg hung over the
fireplace—which was masked by curtains. When
she sat down over went the chair, and she fell into
the fireplace, leaving some distance of white
stockings fti view. They all wore white stockings
in those days. A*nd then the curtain stuck, and
we couldn’t lower it for a minute or two, and the
audience laughed itself silly. Mrs. Everest con-
sidered herself insulted, and wouldn’t play any
more that night, so we had to return the money.
And what did her husband say to all this ? Did
he curse? No. He only said, in his child-like
way, ‘ This is a splendid advertisement ; we’ll
have a big house to-morrow night.' Poor old
cheerful Charlie.
“ No, I don’t think people can act now as they
used to in my time. You see we worked harder
—we weren’t fashionable —we didn’t visit people
outside our profession, and we didn’t go in for
farcical comedies, which mainly play themselves.
It was study, study, study—rehearse—play—and
study again, and what the scenic artist and the
mechanist of those times could not do the actor
had to do for them. And then the audiences have
changed. Before I started acting (and for some
time after, for that matter) whenever I went to a
play—Shaksperian or other legitimate drama —I
had my book of the play with me, and followed
the actor in his lines. So did the greater portion
of the audience—and when we caught an actor
tripping, what fearful joy we felt. But, to even
the educated classes of to-day, Shakspeare is to
a great extent only a name. And a man must
know Shakspeare to know what the drama is and
what an actor should be capable of.
“I doubt if even Brooke could make a great
and lasting success in these days. There’s too
much variety foolishness and leg-show now for
Brooke to be welcome. And for the audience
that wouldn’t fall down and worship Brooke !
Well ! ”
MARTIN LUTHER.


“WHY AM I ILL?
Have you
Suspected
Your Kidneys?
“ Every Picture Tells a Story. ”
m
11
X
2&
A
f/.
The Symptoms are often mistaken for other
Disorders, Backache, Rheumatism, Dizziness,
and Sleeplessness are Serious Signs.
But whatever your symptoms are, Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills should be persevered with until not a trace of
kidney disease remains. Bor if you neglect to give your kid-
neys help they will lose their power of throwing off the
liquid poisons; they will break down, cell by cell, and allow
the life-giving albumen to pass out. This is how the fatal
Bright’s Disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills (of
which your neighbor speaks so highly) are the one reliable
kidney medicine, because they are especially for the kidneys
and bladder, and do not interfere w r ith any other organ.
But —be careful to get Doan’s.
What Your Neighbor says:
Mr. James Higgins, Epsom-road, North Botany, this city, says “ Sometime ago
I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account for it, unless
several accidents were to blame. I consulted three doctors, and underwent treatment,
and each one failing to do ine good advised me to go into the hospital for an operation ;
they said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as
one of my kidneys was in a diseased condition. I took medicines of all sorts, the empty
bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in the
back, giddiness, headaches, and scalding urine. I was completely done up, and scarcely
able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the operation, when a friend asked me
if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew a man who was
as bad as I was, and had been cured completely and for good by these pills. I post-
poned the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight
later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in
me would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. I was not quite
cured then, but was as fit for work as a man could be. I continued taking the pills, and
have been quite well ever since.”
Mr. Higgins makes a short statement in February, 1905, eighteen months after the
above statement was made: —“Doan’s Pills cured me, and I am still free of kidney
trouble. I am eighteen months right now, and not one symptom of the ailment ever
having returned. I have advised many men in the railway and tramway service to use
these pills. They have done me a splendid good.”
Bor sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per Box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will he posted on receipt of price by
Boster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
d
:
Back to Little Lon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ENIE’S left ’er ’usband—eighteen months
.It aw’y
In domestic ’arness Renie struggled on ;
Left ther dishes dirty, ’ad no time ter st’y :
’Oo will fry ’is steak ter-night ? She’s in Little
Lon.
Back ter Little Lon , w'ere ther flarin’ bar,
Den an’ ken an’ fish-shop an’ ther buzz-blokes are;
Yappin' ter ther bleedin’ Push, dodgin’ D. an’
John,
She’s back ter Mother Shingles—back ter Little
Lon.
Bill, ’e was er lumper ; found ’er in er fit,
Cryin’, but, gor’ blime, pritty, an’ all that;
’Ad er row with Mother, Renie ’ad ter quit,
With ’er paint an’ powder, feathers in ’er ’at.
Down at Port ’e took er ’ouse—Bill was never
mean.
Booked ’er in ther proper church as ’is lawful
wife;
’Ad ther parson bloke ter tea, slap up, neat an’
clean—
Yit Renie ’ankered arter sum’ut rortier life.
She tired o’ ’ouse’old dooties, never cud be found.
Scrubbin’, scourin’, washin’ up—them was fair
fergets—
Simply’ated doin’things, liked ter laze around,
Sittin’ on ther door-step puffin’ cigerettes.
Not er very ’elpful mate ; yit Bill loved ’er so ;
Grafted liker bloomin’ ox, thinkin’ all ther w’ile
’Ow ’e’d watch ’er gittin’ tea, ev’rythink in row—
‘Struth, ther things was scattered in er messy pile !
Back ter Little Lon, an’ dr inkin’ on ther sly,
Gain’ ter the darnccs, w’ere ther feathers fly,
“ Gravy ”in ’er optic, ’ead an’ reason gone,
Rente’s “ on with ” Dido, back in Ijittle Lon.
Back at Mother Shingles, gittin’ on alright;
Dido stoushes Renie, but she don’t complyne,
’Appy, now she’s back agyne, “ lathered ” ev’ry
night,
Ribald lights o’ Sheol flarin’ down ther lane.
Never cares a snap fer ’ome, never thinks o’ Bill;
Them slums acts liker magnet, an’ she can’t
depart.
Down at Port er lumper’s off, boozin’ with er will,
Smashin’ doors an’ winders with an ’eavy ’art.
Back ter Little Lon, w'ere ther blazin’ bar,
Slum an’ drum an’ rag-shop, an’ ther pushes are.
Bill, ’e breaks ther furnitur’ ; ’ow ’e carries on !
Renie’s found that girls is cheap, back in Little Lon.
vic.
LOUIS ESSON.
An Australian Whaling Station.
THE BLUBBER THIEVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ mHB bull’s head is down twenty feet
in the water,” sang out the harpooner
from the shed. “He won’t tow till the
air lifts him.”
The harpooner’s face was yellow with oil-
smoke. In his right hand was a strip of whale
beef about the size of a doormat. He banged it
casually against his wet sea-boots, and the oil
spurted where his hand squeezed. “ Killers
pulled his head down getting the tongue,” he
added, slowly.
“ Guess the sharks will pull him a bit more if
we don’t beach him,” said Captain Davidson,
from the launch.
Ten minutes later we were tearing through the
reef channel at East Boyd towards the southern
shores ol Twofold Bay. A heavy swell was break-
ing across the entrance, and, as the launch worried
through the stinging water, the bulging outline of
a humpback whale rose suddenly on the crest of a
wave. The head was not visible ; the great fluke
dropped beneath the water. A crowd of gulls
squawked over the heaving mass. A black-
winged vulture squatted on the anchor iron, deep
driven into the leviathan’s right shoulder. The
birds rose lazily as we approached, floating with
outstretched wings over the dead thing below.
A buoy with an anchor attached was lifted
skilfully aboard the launch. The rope fastened
to the iron in the whale’s shoulder was made fast
, to our stern cleats and hauled close in.
“Let her go ! ” shouted Captain Davidson.
The launch panted out and throbbed as though it
were yoked to an immovable force. The “humpy”
answered to the strain, and the waves leaped in a
white circle about the iron-torn shoulders.
“Look out for the bar ! ” warned Davidson to
the boy at the wheel. “Give him plenty of
room.”
The launch fretted and coughed through the
narrow entrance, then slowed down with a jar as
the tow-line hummed and kissed the water
suddenly.
“ Whale on the bar ! Easy there.”
The launch panted heroically as the whale’s
head dragged over the sandrib. The inbreaking
seas flew over the stern, drenching us fore and aft.
A goose-like mollie-hawk wheeled overhead,
poised, and swooped suddenly on the harpoon-
scarped back of the “humpy.”
“ Git off, Sarah ! ”
An oyster-shell whipped the air with shot-like
precision. The mollie-hawk skipped and flew
backward, crying hoarsely. A drop of blood, big
as a prune, fell into the sea.
“ We’re running this business in the interests of
a few darned fowls and hawks,” grunted the cap-
tain. “Every blamed thing wants to get its
beak in.”
The launch hooted and strained as the bruised
whale slid off the Oar. In a twinkling the air
grew thick with gulls and down-swooping mollies,
picking, tearing, guzzling at the great harpoon
hole where oil and blood spurted at each strain
of the tow-line.
Behind us lay Mount Imlay, wearing its
morning beard of cloud. Dark forests of spotted
gum and woolly butt carved their sullen outlines
against the sky. Here and there a boulder-
glutted inlet roared as it drank its fill of the tide,
and the water turned to silver where the beaches
glistened in the little, half-moon bays.
The trying-out shed threw up black volumes of
smoke as we drew near. The blubber fumes
turned rancid in the throat and nostrils.
“Can’t smell it myself,” said Captain David-
son, earnestly. “I’ve been cutting up whales
since I was a boy, and my instincts are sort of
petrified.”
The tow-line jarred and hummed again like a
banjo string, as though a team of horses were
pulling at the whale’s head. Captain Davidson
leaned over the side and stared under the down-
drooping fluke.
Again came the savage jar on the line, accom-
panied by a soft, ripping sound ; a stream of oil
shot to the surface of the water, completely
enveloping the launch.
Captain Davidson took up a long-handled
spear, and drew the wooden sheath from its
razor-edged point. The whale heaved and sank
perceptibly in our wake, and as we swung towards
the trying-out shed, a terrific wrench shook it
from head to fluke. More blood and oil trailed
astern.
Down under the submerged fluke a 12ft, blue-
pointer shark was tearing the white fat in sheets
from the humpy’s side. It swam in and out
leisurely, ancL-when the long snout stabbed home
it brought away a strip of blubber that flashed
ribbon-like across the sea floor.
The captain watched each fresh assault on the
whale, and his eyes grew red with anger. The
shark was in no hurry to be gone. One moment
it stayed, a livid shadow under the blood-dripping
fin; the next it was rending and flenching the
leviathan carcase with unspeakable voracity.
The launch quivered at each fresh jar; the
dead whale rolled and pitched as we neared the
beach under the trying-out.
“ Last year a crowd of blue-pointers worried
and stripped a young black whale before I could
tow it ashore. See here ! ”
In a flash Davidson had skipped into a small
dingy that drew alongside the launch. Pushing
it under the lee side of the humpy he crouched
forward with his right arm drawn back.
The long wedge-like shadow seemed to slide
under the whale’s head, while the sun-rays fretted
the wells of oil that bubbled from the harpoon
holes and spear scarps. The shadow moved, and
again came the belching sound of whale beef
being torn from the body.
“ Hooslit ! ” Davidson’s arm shot down until it
touched the water. He drew back sharply. A
terrific commotion began under the whale’s head.
The livid shadow flew up in a whirl of blood and
sea-wash. A long blue snout and a pair of
swinish eyes melted in the blood red thrash. The
spear had gone home in the long, soft body ; the
attached line grew taut and quivered like an
electric wire.
“That spear’s a Yankee contrivance,” drawled
Davidson. “ Got a six-inch blade that opens
after it strikes. Guess that shark won’t steal any
more blubber.”
A blue-pointer dies harder than a whale. We
heard the spear-line twang and shake as the
writhing brute flogged the water under the launch.
One moment tail and jaws were visible through
the kicking foam, but the muscles of a sea-devil
or an octopus could not have broken that spear
with the Yankee notion inside that opened a six-
inch blade as a kind of afterthought.
A half-caste aboriginal jagged the spear-line
mercilessly, and the long, livid whale-eater
straightened its body and turned in the water.
Side by side with the humpy it lay, and as
wereachedthe skids of the “ trying-out ” a swarm
of yellow-tails and schnapper surrounded the
carcases.
The tow-line was passed ashore and fastened to
a capstan inside the shed. Half-a-dozen abori-
gines gripped the bars, and in ten minutes the
dead whale was drawn half-way up the skid to
the floor of the cutting-up shed.
Hi yah ! Johnny comes home,
Johnny comes marching home.
The shrill voices of the whalers kept time as
the capstan bars brought the (30-ton humpy, inch
by inch, up the skid until the 10-ton head rested
comfortably inside the shed.
A half-caste in rubber boots came forward,
drawing a long-bladed knife from its sheath. He
stooped and ran his eye critically over the whale ;
then, with a shake of the wrist, the knife sank
under the black hump and slipped down to the
fin with a light slashing sound. The black arm
plunged into the opening ; a sheet of cream-white
fat came away, broad as a pillow-slip and dripping
oil. The black arm dived again ; the swift, keen
knife flenched and sliced with miraculous skill.
“Clear oil!” grunted a black boy, flinging a
piece of blubber across the shed for inspection.
The unrolled blubber was packed away in long
strips beside the fuming cauldrons. Much whale
beef clings to the huge girder-like joints. The
skull has to be spaded before the last pound of
fat can be taken from the mammoth cross bones.
The blubber spade has a 3ft. handle fastened
to a blade of steel the size and shape of a man’s
hand. It cleaves through masses of hump-Hesh,
separating it like cheese. The flesh is then taken
from the floor in blanket strips and chopped small
with a double-handed knife. An aborigine slides it
into the snarling pans, where the overflowing oil
is caught in tanks and boilers. At present the oil
is worth about £l7 per tun.
The Australian demand for pure whale oil is
limited. Japan floods the local markets with an
inferior article extracted from cod and fish
entrails at £l2 per tun. The South Coast whalers
clamor fora duty on the foreign rubbish that will
give them a chance to put the finest oil in the
world on our own market.
These South Coast whalers are in love with
their work. They lie awake at night watching
the distant capes and hills for signal fires that
redden the sky whenever a spouting whale is
sighted.
As I turned from the cutting shed a hoarse
shout came from the heap of tried-out blubber
near the fires. Something bumped on the skid—
the heart of the whale rolled down the battens,
red as the face of a hot moon, big as the head of a
full-grown bullock. It fell with a lonely, gulping
sound into the fish-haunted bay.
That night in the silence of the hut I turned
uneasily on my mattress of straw. Afar down in
the surf-trenched hollow the lights of a steamer
winked and flashed as it wore towards the Tasman
Sea.
There was no sleep for me on the straw-packed
mattress. A hundred needle-points seemed to
pierce my neck and face with maddening per-
sistence.
Lighting the oil lamp I examined the bed
closely and found that a long strip of mane-like
hair had been fastened under my pillow. It was
black and swift as the wings of a nightmare. For
the life of me, I could not recall where I had seen
such ebon hair before.
A smothered laugh from the boys in the next
hut filled me with a certain suspicion. The grin-
ning face of the old harpooner appeared casually
in the doorway.
“ The fellers put tli’ derned whale’s beard in yer
bed, eh?” he said, huskily. “Those- rela-
tions o’ mine ain’t got no manners at all.”
I cheerfully forgave them. Many famous ex-
plorers have hunted in the Antarctic twilight be-
yond the Great Ice Limit, but how few have
slept on the beard of a whale !
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer's Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and n-
richesthe blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
YA
I^/
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“ Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name—AYER’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., IT. 3. A.
FRE
COLORED *
And Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED
■s.
r
R
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
•
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
HAS YOUR CHAIN
A LOOSE END ?
IF SO, THIS HANDSOME LOCKET
WOULD CIVE IT A FINISH.
■
It is of splendid design in
9 carat gold—set with Ruby
or Sapphire—post free for
32/6. Specially suitable
for presentation purposes.
Can also be supplied in
silver, smaller size, 3/6 post
free.
Many other Lockets, Pen-
dants and Alberts are very
fully illustrated and des-
cribed in our big catalogue,
and we will be glad to send
you a copy—post free on
request.
We pay the postage on
anything purchased here,
and if on receipt of the
parcel you are dissatisfied
with your purchase you can immediately return
the parcel and we will cheerfully refund the
amount paid.
TEA STRAINERS TO FIT ON CUR.
Nickel Silver, 1/0. Silver Plate on Nickel Silver,
2/g, post free.
ANGUS rex COOTE,
" The Store where Quality counts,” *
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade,
Sydney.
gdg
ds
d
HERE’B A NEW HELP \
/ greater help than \
/ been before indebted \
| THE ELECTRICON. \
I It does what all other devices have \
f been trying to do. Itdoesmqre. Itl
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable.' Send for our booklet.
the l. it. Vernon coy.,
€O-61 Hunter Street, Sydney.
sd
NERVOUSNESS
ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
*.® e "“ e “ an ha*lntf tried In vain every
■ w?- dy# and at last discovered
* EANS OF EELP-CURB, will
ene^nterl«ud^ me, **** °* ° harg6 * ‘° any "
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ďs
ds
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rioord’e Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
«erve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the ciire free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
edicine Sent
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually'. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-KTVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address t HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may <OURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SinXETZEIT-
Zl\e World’s Jtfediciqe
for Weak Sfomacfj, J repaired Jfigestion,
Slyer, arjd all fdilious arjd
ffervous disorders.
ds
A few doses of BEECHAM*S PILLS act thoroughly upon
the vital organs. They cleanse, strengthen and restore
the system to a healthy condition. They drive all im-
purities from the blood and rid the stomach and bowels
of poisonous gases. They give tone to the digestive
organs and enable the food properly to assimilate.
Appetite returns and sleep is sound and refreshing.
BEECHAM'S PILLS do all this without the aid of any
other medicine. They have a great sale because they
make great cures. They cure because they are a great
medicine. They recommend themselves. You will
recommend them after use.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price lll\ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
ds
A good Clip will
not necessarily
'
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless Handled
GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
PATERNOSTER’S
pills mm
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
o
GO
<t
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Bifflenlty in expectoration. Asthma,NervousCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Opprenion immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
BTTES. Sold by all Chemists.
&
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC Bfct-T
is the most perfect and complete ever i n vented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Or. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
A POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Office.
VVfIL/L forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
TT BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Goid-Fillec! Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ot. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Bitok Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. QOLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIR
m
d
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo> la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions cf a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Fanza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY .
sds
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears tbe name W*~
d


OS6-Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
"'easure, more
ers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sen tt for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HYPNOTISM-
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money"/
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. PA. LEE EDWA3D3, 29 o’Cc--neM St. Svdnev flus
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
ďs
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price ©d.
Posted Bd.
fig
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SICE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only CNE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLS AOEKT3: yj ft, _| | CMDDICDE 606 LITTLE COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
S 3, U. L£mrni£nC) And at 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Sold\
by
all first- n.
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176.1 2-RLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Hand/e 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
d
Lockwood Bros., Ltd,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNit/ES
are the
BcST.
u
ff
sd
ALWAYS RUN TRUE.
U/ye most generally serviceable, as well as tbe
most inexpensive Pulley,- is without doubt the
Wood Split variety. The best is the DODGE
“ INDEPENDENCE.” Every Pulley is balanced,
bores are standardised, and shaft compression
is perfect. Keep them dry and they last for ever.
PARKE <& LACY COMPANY, Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
A VERY LARGE STOCK
ON HAND.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
R.
B iUI
[td.
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL'S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK'S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
m
i m
i wm
K
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
C M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc* | etc*
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
Motor Car
Tyres-^
sd
Made by TH£
Silvertouin Rubber go.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORCE ST., SYDNEY
The Improved
CARD ORE
CONCENTRATOR.
NEW PATENTS,
Seif-Lubricating Head motion
giving greater differential
movement.
Seif-Lubricating Track Rods.
Progressively Sizing Pulp
Feeder.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS I
N. GUTHRIDGE, U?-
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
sds
THE TWO-PLANE
ADJUSTABLEDECK
Is the Greatest
Discovery of the
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating:
Art.
