

RAF
riCULAR
PEOPLE
¥B
R. Gr. WATKINS SC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
pfps
31,503 CAS, STEAM and OIL ENGINES SOLD.
JEHOBAIIT.
—-
|jadl3y>(|rientj)otsj
PIONEER
LEATHER
bXltTng
Hsau
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowid & Son Ltd,, H 7 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd.. 7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for
Ruston’s Portable
STEAM ENGINES.
Fitted with
IMPROVEMENTS.
ENGINE PARTS MOUNTED on Machined Steel Seatings, Patent Steam Stay. Improved Expansion Eccentric for
Economising Steam. o »»/
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., 7 Bent
m
mm
te
Take it back,
I must have r
Fine-Apple Brawl
ON’S
9
•71 a fieri at\
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales pranch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Othce Ansti-alian Mutual Provident
Syoietv). tv. CjiMi, Itonager.
Active Age fa untJC -vasaers Wanted. “3XI
U (M&t
OnMOIOU RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
UUNOIUN HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent.
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
A
is the Queen of &I 1 Cocoas
* For^
l Arom^Strei^tlu'-Purity:
QPEjg
a
Trade Mark.
mmmmmmm Jft |
■
irauß raarn«
QPEjg
O
&
...
r—'
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
„ SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Sole Makers— . /
HUMBLE & SONS, Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
Also largest maKers in
HELIDON SPA.
'' ~as pure as the glorious dew 1
that sparkles in the lily cup. j
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 28.—N0. 1429.]
[Thursday, July 4, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W„ Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A GREAT FAVORITE.
SELLING RAPIDLY.
PALL EViALL PICTURES OF 1907.
The best and most popular pruide to the Royal Academy and New Gallery, containing 2UU
reproductions of works actually exhibited, with exclusive reproductions of work of
J. S. SARGENT, R.A., and others.
WRAPPER (size 11 x 8 inches) Is 3d, POSTED Is Bd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 7* CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
'9/1 ‘SNIA Nl
‘SASIW3HO Aa QlOB
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANJISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
MB
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs. -
Uni vice Cough Medicines,
‘ TLUMENTHOL
ttt nTBES : ’’"do not interfere with digestion. On
V ' U fJYrv thev have a beneficial effect, as
U,eir C ° Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. L-J *
The RED PAGE
NOVELISTS OF THE NUDE
~|~IROM a tendency noticeable m recent
I fiction, it is evident that another sub-
*■*” species must be added to our elaborate
classification of literature. In depart-
ment, Fiction, room must now be found for
the sub-species, - Nude, which, in the usual
way, will be denoted by the letter N.
Students should notice that this class must
not be confused with M, which connotes
Mud. The N novels deal frankly with the
sex question, sometimes sincerely, more fre-
quently with the tongue in the cheek and an
eye askance at large sales. Novels in this sub-
species will be classified in the order of their
nudity. Thus in N 1 the earlier works of
Victoria Gross will find place.
The chief complaint against present-day fiction
is its monotony In his new story, The Yoke ,
Mr. Hubert Wales displays a more startling
originality, and an even greater freedom. It may
be that in venturing to issue it the publisher will
incur some adverse criticism. It is certain that it
will let loose the dogs of controversy ; but only
the ultra-squeamish can be offended by the author s
method of dealing (daringly unconventional
though it may be) with the question which plays
so large a part in the lives and thoughts of all
men and women.
This is an extract from the advertisement
wherein the publisher, John Long, cunningly
appeals to the jaded mind of the novel-
reader with a suggestion of the nude.
No reader likes to be called “ ultra-
squeamish.” He prefers to see for himself.
The Yoke deals in a spirit of guileless
frankness with the sex question. Ihe
heroine is “a maid of forty,” who finds
herself in the position of the guardian of a
young man of twenty-two. Like other
young men he wishes to “see life p, and
the spinster heroine —-in order to save him
from getting into trouble with some un-
worthy woman—determines to keep him at
home. As he is about to go out one night
she Says, “Stay! You shan’t suffer.” And
the boy stays. By and bye he gets tired of
his liason with this middle-aged woman - , and
the usual nice girl appears. Thereupon the
astounding heroine calmly hands him over to
her, first telling the girl of the relations that
had subsisted between the boy and herself.
And the usual nice girl weeps a little, and
marries him. And Angelica —the elderly
woman is happily named Angelica —turns
and walks up the steps into her house as
the carriage drives away. For she is happy.
She has saved the youth from the dangers
of youth, cruelly exemplified by a bachelor
friend of the boy’s, who “leads a mans
life,” and comes shockingly to grief. “Do
you feel sad for her, reader ? ” naively asks
Mr, Hubert Wales. He explicitly doesn’t.
Her golden summer—an Indian summer, it may
be—bad come and gone. She was not sad for
herself. She no longer stood where she had stood
before. She had eaten of the tree of knowledge,
and it had not turned to ashes in her mouth. She
was equal with her fellows; her life had not been
a senseless thing, an inversion of instincts ; she
knew herself. And over and above—in excess of
that abundant increase—she had fathomed the
great truth that the recognition of the natural
law, calling man to woman and woman to man, is
everlastingly right.
The Yoke is admirably written, and the
sex question is treated throughout in a
common-sense way. But, in view of the
publisher’s little advertisement, an uneasy
suspicion remains that Hubert Wales manu-
factured his plot with a view to big sales
among a class of readers upon whom his
moral would be lost. —N 2.
Another novel of the same class and from
the same publisher, is Amazement, by James
Blyth (per G. - Robertson, Sydney). This
author has a predilection for extraordinary
titles. Celibate Sarah and Juicy Joe are not,
as might be imagined, the librettos of musi-
cal plays. Juicy Joe was one of the grimmest
and most sordid novels ever written. It might
be well bracketed with Human 1 oil. Blyth
belongs to the pedestrian school of realism.
He presumably got his title for his latest
novel from the word with which, I am in-
formed, the marriage-service somewhat
naively ends. Amazement is a plea for the
Meredithian marriage, unhampered by a
religious or civil contract; and Blyth pic-
tures a couple living happily together with
their child, bound only by their mutual
affection. In sharp contrast he shows us an
ill-assorted marriage made by a youth who
is beguiled into marrying a wanton little
baggage of a nursery-governess, the dis-
carded mistress of a wealthy relative of his.
The character of the girl is realistically
drawn, and her little tricks presented with
detail. The greater part of the book is taken
up by the divorce-proceedings that both
parties ultimately take to dissolve the match.
Though husband and wife are fiercely
fighting to be free, the case ends in
“as you were.” Then the hero, sick of the
law that ties two incompatibles together for
life, flees England with The Other Girl and
his unmarried friends, hot-foot for a Dakota
divorce. The book is a plea for making the
dissolution of the marriage contract as easily
attainable as the ease with which the contract
is made. As literature Amazement is negli-
gable.—N2.
Both Blytli and Wales are apparently in
earnest over the marriage question ; and
I these novels, merely because they depict im-
morality, are not immoral, nor because they
attack the institution of marriage are they
likely to subvert the foundations of the State.
These books exemplify the toleration given
nowadays to the criticism of our civilisation,
and the slowly changing attitude of the race
towards morality, and even towards marriage.
Both authors may be acquitted of a charge
of deliberate nudity; but their publisher
in his advertisement cannot be pardoned
his deliberate suggestion of the naughty.
BERNARD I'SHAW
I George Bernard Pshaw is probably the most
earnest man in the world ; and the spectacle
of a man taking his ideals seriously is
usually matter for laughter. It is only after
twelve years' of strenuous fighting that the
public has awakened to a suspicion that he
was armed with anything more dangerous
than a paradox. The bruises of the
dramatists, however, are beginning to show.
Shaw is accepted as a dramatist, and his
ideas are even invading the stage —that last
refuge of convention. It is as a militant
critic, rather than as the dramatist he has
proved himself to be, that we have to con-
sider Shaw in the two volumes of Dramatic
Opinions and Essays (Constable, per Lockley
Library) ; and the reprint of these weekly
contributions to the Saturday Remew of a
dozen years ago contain some remarkably able
journalism. It was a pity that Shaw did not
compress the two big volumes into one by
deleting his criticisms of things that really
did not matter. Still, from these volumes,
three outstanding facts reveal themselves—
Shaw’s persistent purpose, his sanity and his
modernity. In his criticisms he invariably
kept his ideal standard in view ; he laid on
his ridicule fiercely to kill the kind of play
that he considered wrong; he fought as
strenuously for the sort of drama he wanted.
And, after four years’ swash-buckling, de-
spairing of getting others to do as he told
them, he turned his sword into a spade and
set to work to write plays after the Sha} ian
model. And he was successful. ,
His sanity is just as apparent as bis
purpose. A medical authority has testified
that Shaw’s eyesight is perfectly normal, but
—normal eyesight is possessed only by about
ten per cent, of humanity. Thus, his intel-
lect, though perfectly normal, had to contend
with the ninety per cent, of brains that
are always abnormal. Shaw was one of the
first to what we all recognise now
—the disturbing portent of Ibsen upon the
stage of the world’s dramatists. He saw in
Ibsen—and at a time when The Doll’s House
was a thing to mock at— the doom of many a
cherished British stage-convention ; and
though in England the fortress has taken
time to fall, upon the Continent a new edifice
has already risen upon its ruins. Of
course, Shaw’s Irish enthusiasms carried him
away, and his Irish vindictiveness led him
occasionally into contradictions ; but his
judgment is, oil the whole, our judgment
—after a dozen years of controversy. His
prevision is indeed remarkable. His decade-
old opinions are now only beginning to be
our opinions ; that normal brain of his was
many years before his time ; this reprinted
book is just commencing to be up-to-date.
Shaw’s method is frequently irritating;
but there was deliberation in it.
In this world if you do not say a thing in an
irritating way, you may just as well not say it at
all, since nobody will trouble themselves shout
anything that does not trouble them. The atten-
tion given to criticism is in direct proportion to
its indigestibility.
d*
Shaw is best shown by quotation. Hear
him upon “ the wild error ” t hat people go to
the theatre with the object of being amused
and pleased :
As a matter of fact, they want nothing of the
sort. They want to be excited, and upset, and
made miserable, to have their flesh set creeping,
to gloat and quake over scenes of misfortune,
injustice, violence, and cruelty, wdth the discom-
forture and punishment of somebody to make the
end “ happy.” The only sort of horror they ds-
like is the horror that they cannot fasten on some
individual whom they can hate,, dread, and finally
I torture after revelling in his crimes. . . . What
the public likes is a villain to - torment and perse-
cute the heroine, and a hero to thrash and bailie
the. villain. Not that it matters much, since
what the public likes is entirely beside the ques-
tion of what it can get. . . . Even if the public
rea'lly knew what it likes and what it dislikes,
the true inaster-dramatist would still give it, not
what it likes, but what is good for it.
Shaw has a bitter contempt for Bernhardt,
and a whole-souled admiration of Duse.
Madame Bernhardt has elected to go round the
world pretending to kill people wdth hatchets and
hairpins, and making, I presume, heaps of money.
I wish Her every success; but I shall certainly
not treat her as a dramatic artist of the first rank
unless she pays me well for it. ... She paints her
ears crimson, and allows them to peep enchant-
ingly through a few loose braids of her auburn
hair. Every dimple has its dab of pink ; and her
finger-tips are so delicately incarnardined that
you fancy they are transparent like her ears. Her
lipsarelikeanewly painted pillar-box; her cheeks,
right up to the languid lashes, have the bloom and
surface of a peach; she is beautiful with the
b,eauty of her school, and entirely inhuman and
incredible.
While of Duse, in Magda , he remarks :
Then a terrible thing happened to her. She
began to blush ; and in another moment she was
conscious of it, and the blush was slowly spread-
ing and deepening until, after a few vain efforts
to avert her face, or to obstruct his view of it
without seeming to do so, she gave it up, and hid
the blush in her hands. After that feat of acting,
I did not need to be told why Duse does not paint
an inch thick. I could detect no trick in it: it
seemed to me a perfectly genuine effect of the
dramatic imagination. In the third act of La
Lame aux Camellias, where she produces a
touching effect by throwing herself down, and
presently rises with her face changed and flushed
with weeping, the flush is secured by the pre-
liminary plunge to a stooping attitude, imagina-
tion or no imagination ; but Magda’s blush did
not admit of that explanation ; and I must confess
to an intense professional curiosity as to whether
it always comes spontaneously.
Sometimes it is with regret that we recall
that Shaw did not live in the Elizabethian
age. He seems to know his Elizabethans
so intimately. And what a criticism he
could have written of the first performance
of Lear!
Shakespeare wrote for the theatre, because,
with extraordinary artistic powers, he understood
nothing, and believed nothing. thirty-six big
plays in five blank verse acts, and not a single
hero ! Only one man in them all who believes in
life, enjoys life, thinks life worth living, and has
a sincere, unrhetorical tear dropped over his
deathbed, and that man—Falstaff ! A hat a
crew they are. .. self-seekers of all kinds, keenly
observed and masterfully drawn from the
romantic-commercial pointof view.. . . But search
for statesmanship, or even citizenship, or any
sense of the commonwealth, material or spiritual,
and you will not find the making of a decent
vestryman or curate in the whole horde. As to
faith, hope, courage, conviction, or any of the
true heroic qualities, you find nothing but death
made sensational, despaii made stage-sublime,
sex made romantic, and barrenness covered up by
sentimentality and the mechanical lilt of blank
verse Against such a man [as Bun y an !] what
chance had our immortal William with his
••little Latin,” his heathen mythology, his
Plutarch, his Bocaccio, his Hohnshed, his
circle of London literary wits, soddemng
their minds with books, and their nerves
with alcohol (quite like us) ? . . . Let us applaud
him, in due measure, in that he came out of it no
blackguard Iv Bohemian, but a thoroughly respect-
able snob; raised the desperation and thecymcism
of its outlook to something like sublimity in his
tragedies; dramatised its morbid, self-centred
passions and its feeble and shallow speculations
with all the force that was in them ; disinfected it
by copious doses Of romantic poetry, tun, and
common-sense ; and gave to its perpetual sex-
obsession the relief of individual character and
feminine winsomeness. . . .
Unfortunately, bnakespeare dropped into the
middle of these ruffianly pedants (Marlowe, etc.);
and since there was no other shop than theirs to
serve his apprenticeship in, he had perforce to
become an Elizabethian, too. In such a-school of
falsehood, bloody-mindedness, bombast and intel-
lectual cheapness, liis natural standard was in-
evitably dragged down, as we know to our cost;
but the degree to which he dragged their standard
up has saved them from oblivion. It makes one
giddy to conqjare the execrable rottenness of The
Jew of Malta with the humanity and poetry of
The Merchant of Venice. . . . ihe main pretension
in Much Ado is that Benedick and Beatrice are
exquisitelv witty and amusing persons. They
are, of course, nothing of the sort. Benedick s
pleasantries might pass at a sing-song in a public-
house parlor ... he is not a wit, but a blackguard.
He is not Shakespeare’s only failure in that geni e.
It took the Bard a long time to grow out of the
provincial conceit that made him so fond of ex-
hibiting his accomplishments as a master of gallant
badinage. . . Even Hamlets airy compliments
to Ophelia before the court would make a cabman
blush. .. . There are plenty of quite second-rate
writers who are abler thinkers than William,
though they are unable to weave his magic into
the expression of their thoughts.
But 1 am bound to add that I pity the man who
cannot enjoy Shakespeare. Tie has outlasted thou-
sands of abler thinkers, and will outlast a thousand
more. His gift of ceding a story (provided someone
else told it to him first); his enormous power over
language, as conspicuous in his senseless and siliy
abuse of it as m his miracles of expression; his
humor; his sense of idiosyncratic character ; and
his prodigious fund of that vital energy which is,
it seems, the true differentiating property behind
the facilities, good, bad, or indifferent, of the
man of genius, enable him to entertain us so effect-
ively that the imaginary scenes and people he
has created become more, real to us than our
actual life—at least, until our knowledge and
grip of actual life begins to deepen and glow
bevond the common.
Finally, let us hear Shaw upon an indi-
vidual that he knew even more intimately
than Shakespeare—the Irishman. Here we
see that analysis of the stage, or romantic,
Irishman that Shaw used so effectively in
his John Bull's Other Island.
The occupation of the Irish peasant is mainly
agricu t.urai ; and I advise the render to make it
a hxeil rule never to allbw himself to believe in
the alleged Arcadian virtues of the half-starved
uru iges who are sacrificed to the degrading,
hr rita using, arid, as fur as I can ascertain, the
entirely unnecessary pursuit of unscientitic farm-
ling. The virtues of the Irish peasant are the
intense melancholy, the surliness of manner, the
incapacity for happiness and self-respect that are
the tokens ot his natural unfitness for a life of
wretchedness. His vices are the arts by which
he accommodates himself to his slavery the
flattery on ins lips which hides the curse in his
hear t- ; his pleasant readiness to settle disputes by
“ leaving it ail to your honor,” in order to make
something out of vour generosity in addition to
exacting the utmost, ot his legal due from yon ;
IIIA instinctive perception that, by pleasing you,
he cm make you serve him ; his mendacity and
mendicity ; his love of a stolen advantage ; Ins
superstitious fear of his priest and h.s (Jhurch,
I which does not prevent him from trying to cheat
both in the temporal transactions between them ,
and the parasitism which makes him, in domestic
service, that occasionally convenient but on the
whole demoralising human barnacle, the irremov-
able old retainer of the family.
Of all the tricks which the Irish nation have
played on the slow-witted Saxon, the most out-
rageous is the palming-off on him of the imaginary
Irishman of romance. . . . Ireland, always fore-
most in the drama, may claim the credit of having
invented the Irishman out of nothing—invented
him without the stimulus of empire, national
independence, knowledge of her own histpry,
united population, common religion, or two
penn’orth of prestige of any sort, her very
rebellions having only attained eminence by
giving her national genius for treachery an oppor-
tunity for surpassing all recorded achievements in
that important department of revolutionary
politics. . . . There are signs that Ireland, never
very tolerant of the stage Irishman within her
own coasts, is disaffected to him even in the litera-
ture by which her scribes habitually impose on
England and America. ... I showed .my own appre-
ciation of my nativte land in the usual Irish way
by getting out of it as soon as I possibly could,
and I cannot say that I have the smallest
intention of settling there again as long
as the superior attractions of St. Helena
(not to mention London) are equally avail-
able; but since I cannot disguise from my-
self the helpless dependence of the British Em-
pire on us for vital elements of talent and charac-
ter (without us the English race would simply die ••
of respectability within two generations), 1 am
quite ready to help the saving work of reducing
the sham Ireland of romance to a heap of un-
sightly ruins. When this is done, my countrymen
can consider the relative merits' of building some-
thing real in the old country, or, taking a hint
from that other clever people, the Jews, and
abandoning their Palestine to put on all the rest ot
the world as a shepherd putteth on his garment,
beginning with English journalism or American
politics as a convenient intermediary stage to
soften the transition from their present habits.
• ♦
The N.B.W. Government Entomologist, Walter
W. Froggatt, in his Australian Insects (\\ m.
Brooks, 12s. fid.) has produced what deserves to be
the standard work upon Australian insect-life. Iho
book is, even to the unscientific reader, full ot
interest; end the numerous admirable illustrative
plates and photographs add materially to the
value of the work. The only fault in the
work observed by us, in an alleged comprehensive
description of the insects of Australia, was the *
unaccountable omission from the index of the
the name of J. Carruthers. A plate of diis
curious little being, with a description of its
habits, political and otherwise, would be ac-
ceptable even to the unscientific reader. Ihjs is
all the more important since it is probable that, by
the time a second edition is called for, this species
will be extinct. \
I Some correspondents‘seem puzzled over the
statement made in the article, Ihc Poetry Q
Matter , that the speed of thought is very much
slower than the speed of light. “ Anxious and
“Interested” ask how the speqd of thought is
measurable compared with light ? I I}® an *
swer is by measuring it. Of course, if you
think of 'Julius Caesar, and then calculate the
time it takes you to do it and divide that by two
thousand years plus some 1(5,000 miles, you’ll get an
inaccurate answer. But thoughtisrneasured simply
by timing its transference over a limited nerve-
length—say its round-trip from a six-foot man s
big toe to his brain, and back again to his big toe.
This journey is taken every time you stub your toe.
“ ‘ Quick as thought ’ does not mean much,” says
C. Snyder in his New Conceptions in Science.
“*Even slow-going sound, so slow that you can
observe the flash of a gun long befbre the report
comes, does a thousand feet a second. The nerve-
wave makes only about a hundred feet a second.
If you count very fast you can count ten in a
second,, and it takes about a tenth of a second aor
a grown man to find out that some one is jabbing
bis toe with a pin and get an order back to pull
his toe away.” C. W. Saleeby, however, puts the
speed of the thought-wave along the nerve as
“more than sixty yards a second.” “ Anxious
need not take these speeds as authoritative, or
even as the record. Why not get “ Interested
to jab your toe, and count ?
Of the two Pictures of the Year publications,
that of the Pall Mull Magazine {per G-. Robertson,
Sydney) is undoubtedly the more interesting.
The Pall Mall pays less attention to the title R.A.
I and more to the artistic value of the pictures
chosen for reproduction. Of Australian artists,
two, Lambert and Spence, are represented.
The spring number of The Studio is an admir-
ably produced book upon the Royal Scottish
Academy, containing forty illustrations m color,
reproduced with the artistic effect that marks the
whole of The Studio productions.
The rose-grower will find in J. G. Lockley’s
Rose Growing Made Easy (The Locklev Library,
Sydney) an invaluable book of instructions and
advice, specially adapted to local conditions.
Numerous photographs illustrate the well-written
text.


THE PENNY
POSTAGE O
QUESTION I
Lassetter’s will
Solve it.
IF YOU AM
HMTEIESTEP
EMP YOU! MAME
AMP appi:
TO
F. LAvSSETTER <& CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
IN THE HEART OF SYDNEY.
We will send you a Booklet discussing tkat vital question and enabling
you to compete in tke £lO in Cask Referendum Competition.
Our General Catalogue—Tke Buyer’s Encyclopedia—lOOO Illustrated Pages—
sent free on request.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1907.


E
BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
SKINS
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., The Successful Salesmen, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S Y ID IST E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Cm TAILOR-MADE QO
# U CORSETS. V U
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas,
s
m
m
m
ÜBfClWovi
'4l
'^Jk'
1
3f ihMm
*
4
o
o
33
(0
00
\M»*
o
fSn*?*A
V
5S
!$£
<9
■m.
y
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
-•*>
Light as air, yet'guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Obtainable in all styles from all
Progressive stores in Australasia-
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to :■
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney. Melbourne.
J. Bunting, Hobson Street, Auckland.
o
CD
m
m
21
2L
2:
nILLIAKDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monaeoh of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
FROM
ill .5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
FROM
§.11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AicoctuC" 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALES STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Ccy . Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL: A. E. DURNO, 184 Piti Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEiF-Y COMPETITION.
TT\T The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Andrade
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
. full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
I
/
%
:8s
■ ■■
*
y;
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game.
For Sale Everywhere.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &G.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hali or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are makinsr
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you- nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
WeeK
Given
Away
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENQ’S 'FRUIT •ALT;’ Without It you hart a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prapartd only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. &c„ everywhere.
mid
•BHTIM Jg|] &SSA®©
SH3IDV
Fob TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
Fob BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
a nd woman should know that Liver Disorders
Every m plex j o n, induce Pimples and Sallow Sinn.
N ure by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
Remove bve a ii things, fistht Constipation. Begin at
PILLS, .nh CARTER’S LITTLE OVER PILLS. Liver
once uu , er ] ia ve and never can resist the wonderful
Si tS pUls -
The Public art cautioned to observe that jjenuln#
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature ol


While thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should use
Jtair Vigor
pyror
4
SaaSS^* <:
SS&^ass*^
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in.
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, MaBB.,U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, lOd.
THE EVIDENCE AND REASON WHY
A LIFE
SAVED
The Evidence
from
11l
23 Burton St., Catnperdo wn, N.S. W.,
July 13th, 1906. —“ At the age of four
my son Sidney was operated upon
for rupture. He then contracted
wasting disease, and was only
skin and bone; we thought he
was dying. Almost broken-
hearted, I sent for a bottle of
Scott’s Emulsion, and before it was
half finished the dysentery stopped;
the boy was much easier and slept
well, and now, after only three
bottles, he is just as far off death
as he once was near it. He is so
fat that he can hardly walk. I
consider that Scott’s Emulsion
saved my child’s life.”
(Mrs.) A. ALLERTON
°<?2>
The Reason Why
Life was Saved
The purity, vigour and
digestibility. of Scott’s place
it far ahead of all other
emulsions in healing and
nourishing power. ■No ex-
pense is spared to make it
the best of its kind, and
this is why results like the
above are achieved each
year.
It is easy to
make sure of get-
ting Scott’s: see
“the fishman
with fish ” on the
package, and
know that you
will obtain just as
gratifying results.*
TRADE MARK
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
DEALERS IN MEDICINES
IRISH
\€>
ft©
MOSS
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Mote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us your name and address and vou will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Photo
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; it describes every detail of the u anufacture of a high-
grad ■ Bicycle with all the latest improvementsit shows you the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle .manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten year?,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we can sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices ; how wo
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days apd give it every tr al and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make larcre profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
3VIEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
3
(Regd.)
,
Y.
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY and
NIGHT
WEAK.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading
Diapers.
The Queen says: —"You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Warkan
Purveyors to
His Majesty tub
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND CENUINE.
JOHN MOIK AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre~
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Vlade by F, C.Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
' The name >
Plasmon
distinguishes our
preparations of
milß=albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed wjth
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beneath the Moon.
Here, in these lilies near the orchard-hill,
Let you and me, my pretty love, all night
Play quip on quip with Eros till the still
Deep moon lays down her bowl of silver light.
Before this blue-lit eve my thirsty heart
Had never fallen to your wond’rous face ;
But, ere another morrow’s sun may start,
We go from each as strangers in this place.
Yea, and the yellow dawn shall only find
The long bent lilies and the sweet-eyed grass,
Where Dian saw a one-night’s bride reclined,
And waxed more white to see the kisses pass.
The meadow spider shall unloose his tent
Here in the hollow which your shining head
Hath consecrated with its curls, and lent
The slumb’rous odor of their fragrant red.
Our love is truer, that no slip-shod oath
Will lock with lies the progress of our sin ;
The cold, hard legend of a plighted troth
Too often breaks the heart ’tis graven in.
But we, with cap and bells, shall mock all night
The mannikin of Venus till the still
Deep moon lay down her bowl of silver light
Below these lilies near the orchard hill.
n.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.
Perchance.
She sinned, but sinned for love, ’tis said,
And I felt as she stood in the gaslight thin
With poor, weak lips, no longer red—
That God would somehow forgive her sin.
I knew this thing—l had read and learnt
And met the truth of it everywhere—
The moth that falls with frail wings burnt
May no more rise in the lustrous air.
To-morrow the maid will come and sing,
And open the room to the light of day,
And sweep the moth with its poor maimed wing
And all the dust of the night away.
’Tis well, in spite of the golden hours
That chorus always of love and mirth—•
In spite of beauty and stars and flowers,
That God made Death when He made the Earth.
For there, in the gaslight, stands the proof—
A guest who came to the banquet-board
And pressed to the front, nor held aloof,
And called for the gifts that the Fates afford,
Chose this and that in her utter trust—
Took wine, perchance, and found it gall;
Took fruit, and found it dry as dust,
And now would turn from the banquet-hall;
And yearns for a sudden door thrown wide,
Set staring eyes and a visage stark,
Not caring much for the night outside,
Nor whether it be star-sown or dark.
For one last hope on her soul is writ—
One promise waiting on death’s release, —
That, whether the night be dark or lit,
Or warm, or cold, it will yield her peace.
Shall any say that her hope is vain—
That, here or after, she shall not win
Sweet hours of peace ? That a life of pain
Shall purge and punish her life of sin ?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Quits.
She lived long years ago,
Long, long ere you were born,
In the sweet seventies, so
Were ladies’ ringlets worn.
You think the bonnet quaint,
In which she took the road.
The seventies would faint
To see the present mode.
That filmy scarf she wore
Across her shoulders, so,
Is coming to the fore
With you young people now.
Her miniature with pearls
So exquisitely set,
Is copied by you girls ;
Her gathered gown, and net.
Only her modest ways
You’d scorn to imitate ;
Her sampler sewing days,
Her tea and bed at eight.
She’d hate your cigarettes,
Your Bridge and mannish airs,
So you are quits, coquettes,
Modern and old-time dears !
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCARE.
The Unknown.
Like frightened children in the skirts we hide
Of the Unknown to whom we feebly call,
And scarcely knowing wherefore we have cried ;
Only the worlds are great, and we are small.
Our knowledge is a little lamp which shows
The vast of blackness that around is cast;
A dismal twinkle in the murk it glows
On vague imagined phantoms trooping past.
Yet what of that ? Though all around is gloom,
It will be lighted when our souls explore;
Here on the earth we have a lighted room,
Why should we fear the things beyond the door ?
We fill the darkness with the shades of I ear
(There is no terror in the things well known) —
A little light will make the blackness clear,
But gaining that we lose what now we own.
Soon shall we know, what Fate does life intend
Now take the joys earth proffers, howso’ small;
Fret not to find the reason and the end—
Perchance there is no reason, after all!
N.s.vv.
HAMER.


fortnAz
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable,
it is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
for all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
of the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
Satisfaction in Smoking !
SMOKERS will find FLAVOR, COOLNESS, and QUALITY in
EDGEWORTH TOBACCO
DC - GUARANTEED NOT TO BURN THE TONGUE. No Connection with any Trust or Combine.
EDGEWORTH TOBACCO is manufactured in Richmond,
Virginia, U.S.A., by
LARUS AND BRO. CO.
SOLD IN 2oi;. and TINS.
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 Loftus Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
Visitors To The Old Country
Gloucester Road ,South Kev\sir\gtor\ , Londorv, S.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
pa!>
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL CUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
Should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
;
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky
CHS'.
m
:
/>
7>.
%
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
The King,
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c.»
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” GOLD UVAJIKI, (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOIISI EV AMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOIiIIS” BATH TUB EIVAMEI,. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ** FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
iil
I!
U;
m
ft
/
Red
Ruberoid
Floor clotb
• .... I ■ |
For Churches !
No higher tribute could be paid to RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH
than that it has been chosen above all other floorcloths for covering the
aisles of some of the finest and most important of the world’s sacred edifices.
The deep red color not only gives the aisle a carpeted effect, but harmonises
with the high architectural design of the interior. The durability of the
material also adds to its excellence.
RED RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH may be
obtained from all Store Keepers.
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH AND CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 28.—N0. 1429.
THURSDAY, JULY 4, 1907.
Pbiob 6d.
CRIME AND THE POLICE IN AUSTRLA .-(A Not-too-Allegorical Picture.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
/or the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Milsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tire Bulletin posted
regularly to you every roeek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
H oie to A ildvess Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Hotice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The light to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor toill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tire Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inal/ars in 111 note and White.
Anyone supplying to Tire Bulletin original humorous
or other 'e pical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interest ing photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
ta ini)ig a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulle tin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x l/*in.,
will be forivarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7j&>"sXxlZd&7l.
THURSDAY. JULY 4, 1907.
A GAME OF MARBLES AND THE DAY
OF JUDGMENT.
One obvious advantage to be gained by the unifi-
cation of Australia —the abolition of State names,
boundaries, legislatures and governors ; the trans-
fer bodily of everything to the Australian Parlia-
ment ; and the subdivision, later on, of the country
into local government districts for purely local
purposes—would be that it would abolish the
school in which the narrow local politician is
trained. The noisome old building would go
down, roof and walls and chimney, and even the
floor and cellar would be obliterated, and the
memory of it would pass away. These thoughts
naturally arise through consideration of the present
position of affairs as regards the Northern Terri-
tory. The recent congress of State Premiers
voted against the acceptance by the Common-
wealth of the Territory unless it could be taken
over without any cost—unless, in fact, bricks
could be made without straw. The matter was
one which in no way concerned these State
Premiers, and there was something monumental
about the effrontery of certain small men, em-
ployed in a local way by certain parts of
Australia to attend to purely local affairs —to
sweep up, as it were, and shift the ashes from the
back gate —when they thus professed to dictate
to the whole people of Australia how they should
spend their own money, and what they should do
with their own continent. But there was no
general outbreak of indignation over the matter
as there should have been. Australia is begin-
ning to take large views and to think in conti-
nents, but it is only beginning. And it is much
too tolerant of individuals who don’t think in
continents—who think in barely enough earth to
fill a flower pot.
* « * *
It is much too frequent a custom to talk of the
Northern Territory as an incubus, a burden, and
a white elephant. Financially it may be all
these things, but when an incubus is one’s own
head it can’t be dispensed with except by
suicide, and when a burden is oneself it can’t
be cast aside without burial. If the North-
ern Territory was ten times less promising
than it is—if it was Sahara itself or worse—
it is still US, and we can’t get rid of ourselves or
throw ourselves away. The gods have already
been very good to us in this matter, and it is not
wise to try our luck too far. It is only by amazing
good fortune that the Territory, through State self-
ishness, dissension and folly, is not already another
India or another China, run on Crown Colony
lines, or bossed by a Chartered Co., and swarming
with Mongols, Hindus, Malays, and the like, who
would slop over bv hundreds of thousands into
the adjacent lands; and it is only by extra-
ordinary accident, when we consider the risks we
have run, that a Commonwealth, or a White
Australia, or a Labor party, or a Democracy, or a
trades-union movement, or anything we are or
hope to be, is possible. It is by a mere chance—
or by the kindness of that Providence that
watches over the infant and the drunk—that
Responsible Government is possible in Australia,
all by reason of this neglected northern posses-
sion. And the danger is not yet over. There-
fore, the folly of these little men who babbled on
the edge of a precipice as to what they were
willing to do or were not willing to do, is curiously
suggestive of a mob of infants quarrelling over a
handful of marbles in the back-yard of the Day
of Judgment.
* * * *
Many years ago the Northern Territory was
part of N.S.W. When Queensland separated,
the Territory became an isolated possession ; and
the predecessors of the Premier who now calls out
that he is being robbed when he is asked for 900
square miles in which to build a Federal capital,
threw it away. They never even seriously in-
spected the property before throwing it—they
just sent 523,000 square miles of country to the
dogs, or the dust-heap, or the devil. The new
State of Queensland didn’t want it either, and
Westralia hardly existed then. Britain was left
with the property on its hands, and what was
to become of it nobody knew, and apparently,
just then, no one cared. It might have
been made an appanage of Bengal, and
governed by a deputy—possibly an edu-
cated Babu—sent from Calcutta; or it might
have been hitched on to Singapore ; or it might
have been sub-let to a Chartered Co. But for the
goodness of Providence it might now be almost a
thickly-peopled land, with 20 Asiatics to the
square mile, which would make 10,000,000 Asiatics
in all, and so many million more Asiatics might
have slopped over into the other States that White
Australia would never have even been dreamed of,
any more than men would dream of a dry ocean.
But just at this crisis South Australia, with a
mere handful of people and a Treasury like a
beggar’s wallet, offered to undertake the adminis-
tration of the derelict. In doing so it probably
saved Australia from Asia just as much as the
men of Marathon, Salainis and Thermopylae saved
Europe from Asia in their day; but those obscure,
bygone, Crow-eater men aren’t even mentioned for
their heroism and their services by the people who
write rolling periods about “ Bleeds that Won the
Empire.” They only saved the last chance that
the world is ever likely to see for the making of a
new white nation in a new land, and what, after
all, was that ? Incidentally, too, they may have
saved Fitchett. But for them a Mohammedan
might have his job, and Heaven knows
what the Rev. Fitchett might be doing. He
might be working for a living.
* * * *
But the Territory was never really transferred
to South Australia. It was administered by that
State, but it remained purely British property.
It was never politically a part of Australia, and
it is not to this day. It is a portion of the Com-
monwealth only in name. Even now, as at any
period in the last .half-century, it is competent
for the British Government, without even the
consent of the British Parliament, to revoke
the present arrangement at a moment’s notice,
and make the Territory a dependency of India
or Hongkong. There was an understanding, the
date of which is very hard to locate, that
when certain conditions were complied with—one
being the completion of the transcontinental rail-
way from Adelaide to Port Darwin—the derelict
province would be handed over in a definite
sense; but these conditions remain unfulfilled, so
the danger remains. South Australia made
heroic efforts to carry out a contract that was
much beyond its size, "it built, before its finances
utterly broke down, about 145 miles of railway at
the north end of the line —that is to say, in the
Territory itself—and about 850 miles from the other
end—in South Australia. Both speculations in-
volved hideous losses. A complete transcontinental
line might have paid, but two bits that ended
nowhere couldn’t. In the same way, a tramline
from Circular Quay, Sydney, to the Central Rail-
way Station pays handsomely, but a dozen
yards of isolated line at either end would
yield nothing but rust. The loss on the
145 miles of line in the Territory has
accumulated, and is part of the £3,000,000 or so
of debt which goes with the property if the Com-
monwealth takes it over. The greater loss on
the 800 odd miles of transcontinental line at the
other end S.A. has carried itself, and a staggering
burden it has been. S.A. is willing to write off
this loss—part of the burden it incurred in saving
Australia—as its own bad debt. But it asks that
the Commonwealth should buy its 800 odd miles
of line and complete the work. The only thing
that ean make the line profitable is to complete
it, S.A. bore the great, inevitable loss when the
work was incomplete ; it is quite willing that the
profits of the finished work should go to Aus-
tralia in general. But it objects, and with some
reason, to any proposal whereby the line from
Port Darwin is to be diverted into Queensland or
N.S.W., and S.A. be left with 800 miles of
railway that would then be a permanent bad
debt, seeing that it would lead to no place save a
dry spot —the spot where the finances broke down
—towards the middle of the continent.
* * * *
Of course, it is easy to say that S.A. took up
the “burden,” and the “incubus,” and the
“ white elephant,” and all the rest, from mer-
cenary motives, and out of unreasoning vainglory.
That may be, but what difference does it make ?
If no good and great deed that wasn’t partly
inspired by ambition and vainglory is to
count, what will there be left for historians
to write about ? It would be just as
correct to perpetually recall the fact that
Wellington fought the battle of Waterloo
for his salary—and a very handsome salary,
too. saying nothing of the gorgeous grants
and rewards he received over and above his
salary. As likely as not, Wellington would
never have gone anywhere near Waterloo if his
salary had been stopped. And the same might
be said of Nelson, who never fought a battle
without being paid for it. Even the State politi-
cians who take up a lofty attitude of scoff about
the mercenary conduct of S.A. get paid for doing
it, and the newspaper men who write about
it don’t write for nothing. And it must be
remembered that S. A. hung on to the Territory,
and thereby made the Commonwealth possible arid
a White Australia possible—in fact, it made Aus-
tralia itself possible—long after the glamor had
departed, and the old hopes and ambitions were
mere ashes, and long after the State found that it
hadn’t, and was not likely to have for generations,
money enough to open up the North to the point
at which it would become a paying asset. And
the sour little State politicians who accuse S.A.
of “trying to pass its bad debt on to the Common-
wealth ” should remember that it is really Britain’s
bad debt. Even at this late hour Britain might
be willing, if approached, to take back the Terri-
tory, and pay the bili, and make the place an ap-
panage of its Asiatic possessions. Meanwhile, it is
always worth remembering that, though it is fairly
well understood that Britain is willing to surrender
the Crown Colony of the Northern Territory to
Australia when the Commonwealth is prepared to
take over the responsibility of it, there is no
news as yet of any such definite surrender.
There isn’t likely to be any till the Common-
wealth has fully arranged to take the property
and the attached responsibilities. And while we
wait things may happen. It may dawn upon
Japan that there is one huge section of Australia
to which the British Government can lawfully,
by a few words written on a sheet of paper, admit
as many million immigrants from the land of its
“beloved brown ally ” as care to come. And the
British Government, which recently prohibited
the production of the “Mikado” lest it should
annoy a little, sawn-off Jap potentate, is very
anxious to placate its “beloved brown ally”
nowadays. These things are improbable,
but the improbable happens about as often
as anything else. When the Territory comes
into the hands of the Commonwealth there
are great and costly problems of settlement,
defence, and railway communication to be dealt
with; but the first thing is to get the Territory.
Till then Australia is incomplete, and the White
Australia policy, Democracy, the Labor party,
trades unionism, the minimum wage, Labor-leader
McGowen, and even Tom Mann, blathering
disastrously on a candle-box to a Saturday night
crowd in the streets of Prahran and being run in
for “obstruction” —all these only exist on suffer-
ance.
* * * *
As a matter of course, there is a clawing on the
part of State politicians for the plunder. The
bear isn’t captured, but there is an enthusiastic
reaching out for the skin. If the uncaptured
bear had three skins they would hardly go
round. Queensland would have none of the
Territory in the days when to assume it
would have also meant to meet the bill
single-handed. Now, when it is proposed that
Australia in general should pay the bill, and
should build a railway to connect the Terri-
tery with the other States, sundry Queensland
politicians—notably Senators Sayers, Chataway,
and Sledger —suddenly find that that railway,
built at the cost of all Australia, ought to be
diverted into Queensland, for their State’s benefit
and profit. N.S.W. threw away the Territory in
other days, but now some of its politicians are
suddenly convinced that the Territory railway
—paid for by all Australia—should diverge into
N.S.W., and connect with Sydney, via Bourke.
These schemes all mean that S.A., which carried
the burden for half a century, should, as its
reward, have left on its hands 800 miles of railway
which would then lead to nowhere save a gum-
tree and a bad debt, and should pay its share of the
cost of a railway to divert the trade of the Ter-
ritory into Queensland or N.S.W. It is a poor idea
of gratitude to the little State which, in all human
probability, saved Australia —though Mr. Fitchett
may have been too busy writing about “ How
Britain saved Europe” to notice the mere saving
of Australia. Finally, being unable to all get the
skin, even in theory, the Conference of State
Premiers decided by a majority that the matter
should be let slide, the mere removal of the
danger that one-sixth of our country may yet be
utterly lost to us being a thing that could
naturally stand. And Joseph Carruthers held
that the matter of safeguarding ourselves against
a danger which, if neglected, may mean our utter
and complete ruin and, obliteration as a white
nation, should be attended to if it doesn’t cost
anything, but not otherwise. Joseph is the sort
of man who, if he were in England, would prob-
ably hold that Britain should have a navy, pro-
vided it didn’t cost anything. The suggestion of
a group of soured kids, quarrelling over a game of
marbles in the backyard of the Day of Judgment,
is almost too merciful a comparison in such a case
as this.
THE PAINT THAT ISN’T DRY.
One of the airy jests of last week was the appear-
ance in print of old Julian Salomons, barrister,
of Sydney, with some quaint remarks on Federa-
tion. The ancient gentleman talked in a tone of
modest triumph. He pointed out that he was
one of the band of parochial-minded false
prophets who foretold disaster in advance—
though he didn’t put it exactly that way. He
said he was no secessionist, and that he believed
in making the best of a bad job ; also he wasn’t
so narrow-minded as to be glad that his prophecies
of disaster had come true—and he spoke as if he
really thought they had come true, instead of
having proved themselves mere nightmares. And
he added, among many other things :
I will not pretend that I have been able to find a way
to refute the startling figures or displace the unfair
financial position as affecting New South Wales set forth
in the able letters of several correspondents, especially
Mr. J. L. Adams, in the columns of the Daily Telegraph
and other newspapers. Neither have I met with anyone
w'ho can indicate how we are to effectually remove or
countervail the prospective burthens, nor can I truth-
fully deny the unwelcome truths publicly and privately
pointed out to me by many others.
In other words, Mr. Salomons admits that he is
unable to get away from a realisation of his
own accuracy, and that a knowledge of
his own brilliant foresight is thrust upon
him, partly by himself, and partly by his
Sal Adams. Thus do the little knot of anti-
'ederal grievance-mongers scratch each other’s
backs in public, even as Marius may have
scratched his own back amid the ruins of
Carthage. And they are such a pitiable lot! Mr.
Adams has to write about 24 letters to the papers
all by himself to keep the semblance of an agita-
tion alive, and all he can prove, by a stupendous
garbling of figures, is that, if the Australian
people, in their Federal capacity, should shame-
fully tyrannise over themselves in their State
capacity, it will be a very sad thing; and that the
Australian Constitution, by a dreadful oversight,
has given them such alarming powers to tax them-
selves that they may ruin themselves by their
own taxation. The rest of the crowd of anti-
Federal agitators can be just about counted on the
fingers, and they are a sorry mob, full of wholly
imaginary grievances. Now and then one of them
drops off, as the wrecked sailors wash, one at a
time, off the raft. Johnson, M.H.R., for
instance, was going strong in tremendous letters to
the press, each letter about a column long, till a
tired Federalist wrote to tell him that his griev-
ances were bosh, and his alleged breaches of the
Constitution were sheer inventions, and offered
him a fairly large sum of money if he would point
out the alleged clauses in the Constitution on
which his assertions rested. Johnson declined
the challenge, dropped out of the controversy, and
fled to the Northern Territory, where he sat down
on an alleged crocodile. One Hodges, of Marrick-
ville, went very strong for a while in the daily
paper correspondence about the breakage of some
imaginary clause which decreed that the Federal
capital must be fixed during the life of the first
Parliament. He seems to have been killed dead
by The Bulletin’s request that he should pro-
duce his imaginary clause, and he retired amid a
shriek of ridicule. Even an offer of £l5O didn’t
drag from Senator Gould details about some
alleged clause which, he said, made the proposed
Federal land-tax an illegal proceeding and a
Federal grievance. The most prominent paro-
ehialists among the N.S.W. members of the House
of Reps, were thrown out with contempt and dis-
gust at last election. And when, now and then,
the Secessionists, the Anti-Federalists, the State
Frights, and the grievance-mongers hold a meeting
to arrange for setting up a great agitation about
State wrongs, the gathering is just about enough
to go under one fair-sized umbrella.
* * * *
Yet a few Anti-Federalists seem to really fancy,
in their pathetic blindness, that their cause is
vindicating itself, just as the last forlorn Jacobite
still tries to believe that his cause isn’t dead, and
prattles about a possible restoration, and the
establishment of Mary 111. on the British throne.
Those of them who are not absolute and wilful
liars and slanderers rest their case on the
melancholy query : “ What have we gained by
Federation ?” To them, it can only be said that,
apart from and in addition to many solid material
benefits, we have gained, or are in the process
of gaining, something which is worth all the
material benefits a thousand times over, and
something which is quite beyond their com-
prehension—a national spirit. It was what the
English gained when they destroyed theHeptarchy
and became England, and what they gained in
a larger sense when Scotland and Wales came into
the partnership and created Great Britain. It was
what the French gained when Austrasia, Neustria,
Burgundy, Arles, Brittany, Bearn—all the welter
of feeble, clamorous, warring, perpetually appear-
ing and perpetually vanishing little States became
France. It is the thing that the human has been
trying to evolve since he came down from his
tree-top, and began to develop from the separatist
and disordered monkey into organised man. Of
course there is, as yet, in Australia no national
capital, and no adequate national land and sea
defence system, but these things will come. It
was 400 years after the union of England before
it finally fixed upon its present capital. And it
was more than 200 years after its union before it
realised that its protection should be the armed
force of unanimous England, and that it wasn’t
good policy for the north to defend itself from its
own invader, with a certain amount of reluctant
help from the south, and for the south to scramble
with its invader while the north lay back and re-
marked that the disturbance was off its beat. Aus-
tralia, thanks to Federation, is learning the value
that lies in the possession of a national Australian
spirit and a national Australian existence. But
it doesn’t expect the hopeless old remnants of the
parish-minded period ever to learn the lesson. It
only expects them to die out. If they had any
gift of imagination these relics would go away to
England, and write to the papers there, urgingthe
re-establishment of the old kingdoms of Mercia,
Northumbria, Wessex arid the rest, and asking if
there is any evidence that wages have been made
higher, or taxes lower, or beer cheaper through
these weird little States being merged into Eng-
land. But unhappily they haven’t enough im-
agination for that. They can’t carry their minds
back 1000 years; and realise that they are just the
reincarnation of the disorderly old Saxons who
reckoned the kingdom of Kent was good enough
for any man, and couldn’t see what anybody
wanted with England. It was the union of Eng-
land which made the British navy and the British
traditions and the British Empire possible, which
created Marlborough, Wellington, Nelson
and their kind, and which made the whole world
different from what it would otherwise have been.
Egbert put on the first coat of paint, and it be-
came fairly dry in the days of Elizabeth, and
really dry, except for a few spots, about the time of
George 111. Australia put on its first coat of
paint in 1901, and in 1907 Julian Salomons
arises to say it isn’t dry yet, and that he knew it
wouldn’t be.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Coal Chaos.
Though the N.S.W. Government is able to give
the Commonwealth a whole lot of valuable and
supercilious points about how to run a Federal
mail contract, it appears to be making a wild,
hilarious, comic-opera mess of its own little State
job at Newcastle. Here are the principal aspects
of the case up to last week :
(1) Newcastle has of late become so notorious for the
crimping of sailors that certain British authorities
were moved to remonstrate with Premier Carruthers in
the interests of British ships, and to ask him to attend
better to his business, j
(2) Some feeble effort being made in the matter, the
crimps signified their displeasure by practically cutting
off the supply of sailors, except on absurdly high terms.
The Carruthers Government fell into a state of paralysis
and did nothing.
(3) Newcastle harbor became full of loaded coal ships,
which couldn’t get away for want of sailors, and every
available buoy had a ship and a distracted captain moored
to it. r
(4) Vessels as they loaded couldn’t get away from the
wharves for two reasons: (a) they couldn’t go to sea for
want of men ; (6) they couldn’t hitch on to a buoy while
waiting for men because the buoys were all occupied by
other vessels also waiting for men.
(5) The port authorities took heroic measures, and
decreed that if a captain didn’t shift his ship from the
wharf when loaded—even if he couldn’t shift it for the
reasons already given—He should be subject to a penalty
which, the shipmasters allege, will run, in some cases, to
£lB/ a day.
(6) The distracted shipmasters held a meeting, and
decided that it would be better not to load at all till they
knew where they were.
G) Premier Carruthers explained some time ago to
the local Mayor that it is all his fault. If he (the Mayor)
would only apply for and obtain certain powers under
the new Local Government Act, he would then be in a
position to deal with the crimps who have bailed up New-
castle bodily.
(8) The Mayor responded that he did apply for these
powers that he applied months ago to Carruthers’ own
Government, and couldn’t even get a reply.
I hat was the situation at time of writing, though
it in ay sort itself out a bit while this paper is
going through the press. And the only visible
reason for it all is that the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment has been so busy interfering with the Com-
monwealth s business that it didn’t have time to
even remember that it had any business of its
own up Newcastle way.
«.
The Garrison at the Back Door.
“ They do these things better in France.” Instead!
of saying that the Tropics are unhealthy, and
then quitting them under all circumstances, the
French Government has established a Sanitary
Service, whose Inspector-General co-operates
with the Minister of the Colonies “to render the
colonies healthy, and to attract colonists who


have always been discouraged from emigrating by
the bad repute which our colonial possessions
have held.” Inquiring some time ago into the
Health Administration in New Caledonia, Dr.
Ramsay Smith, President of the Board of Health
in S. Australia, came across the French “ Official
Instructions to the Colonial Medical Service,”
and, on his recommendation, the S. Australian
Government has had portions of them translated
and published, with certain notes made by Dr.
Smith. In existing circumstances, since malaria
is one weapon which is being used to keep the
Commonwealth out of the Northern Territory, the
observations regarding that disease are of by far
the most practical importance. And the French
knowledge on that subject is particularly inti-
mate; for it happens that the French colonies—
Reunion, Madagascar, Senegal, French Guiana
and others —are almost all in the malaria belt.
As to our Northern Territory, the question is
whether Australia shall develop it with white
people or with a colored horde. There is another
possibility—that it shall be neglected until
the Monkey takes possession of it on his
own account; but that is not to be
thought of seriously. Now, the Australian who
says that the North is “ no place for a white
man ” can have only one legitimate excuse for
proposing to put the yellow or brown man in the
white man’s place; that is, that the yellow or
the brown man is not liable to the diseases which,
he says, make it “no place for the white.” But
the French experience is that the colored races
suffer as much as the whites, and that in-
troduced colored races apparently suffer more.
Ramsay Smith, in one of his notes to the French
pamphlet, says : “ In India about 5,000,000 people
die annually from fever, which commonly means
malaria.” In the French island of Reunion
malaria kills one-third of the natives. So the
pretext for using colored people—that they don’t
get these diseases—is a fraud. The real reason is
that they are numerous and cheap, and it
doesn’t matter whether they die or not. That is
the situation stated without hypocrisy. And it
is simply because they are so plentiful and cheap,
and it doesn’t matter much whether they die or
not, that, once they are introduced, it becomes
almost impossible to get rid of malaria. The
thing could be got rid of, but it is usually cheaper
to get another nigger. Even, however, if yellow
or nigger labor is used, there must be a certain
proportion of whites. Apart from supervisors,
the North must be garrisoned, and the yellow
man and the nigger won’t garrison it. Now,
malaria is almost wholly, if not wholly, a disease
that is passed on from victim to victim. To
quote:—
For the occurrence of this disease three conditions
must necessarily co-exist:
(1) People suffering from malaria ;
(2) Anopheles [mosquitoes] which become infected by
sucking their blood, and which will then bite
healthy individuals ;
(3) Ponds or marshes, where the anopheles can deposit
their eggs.
Though the white man will take necessary pre-
cautions, the colored- person will not. “An
excellent means of rendering a country healthy,”
say the French “Official Instructions,” “is to
compel the natives to build their huts far from
European dwelling-houses, because they constitute
a permanent danger to Europeans.” For the
“ pond or marsh ” referred to maybe misunder-
stood ; an English authority says “ a puddle of
water under a bedroom window may be infinitely
more dangerous than a square mile of swamp or
ricefields a mile away.” The conclusion of the
matter, then, is this: Australia must have a
considerable white population in the Territory, if
only to garrison this back door. Malaria exists
there in a mild form. But, so long as yellow or
brown races are not employed, it is wholly,
or almost wholly, preventible. With those
races employed, it is practically impossible
to prevent it. From this point of view
alone the defence and security of Australia
says, therefore, that the yellow and the brown
must be kept out. There are enough lessons,
surely, on this point. In Ceylon every white
soldier sent to a native-infested station contracted
malaria, and 205 died out of 254. Again, after
the capture of Santiago, in Cuba (1897), “one-
half of the American army was unfit for duty by
reason of malaria. The officers made an appeal
to the War Department, saying, ‘This army
must be moved or perish.’” The white Austra-
lian can’t move out of the Territory except to let
a foreign Bower in. Therefore, if he is not to
perish there, he must be protected. Malaria—
the preventible disease—must be fought scientifi-
cally ; and a part of the prevention is, to keep the
colored races out.
The High Commissioner.
One good result of Prime Minister Deakin’s visit
to London seems to be that he recognises now the
necessity of the appointment, at once, of a
Commonwealth High Commissioner. The Bul-
letin has urged that appointment for more than
five years now, and didn’t have to go to London
to come to the conclusion that a nation which is in
some respects dependent on a suzerain Power,
and hasn’t an ambassador at the capital city of
that Power, is bound to find its interests preju-
diced. The six years during which Australia
has lacked representation in London have probably
cost it as many millions as thousands were saved
in salaries. That in material interests alone. (Let
the sentimental considerations of nationalism he
ignored for a while.) Every month added to the
delay adds to the loss. So it is satisfactory to
know that at last the Prime Minister recognises
the position, and it is to be sincerely hoped that
courage will not be lacking to give that recogni-
tion full effect. In truth, the delay in filling this
post is the most sordid incident of Federal his-
tory, with the sole exception of the intrigue by
which G. Reid obtained a brief and inglorious
term of office as A-Prime Minister. At the very
inauguration of the Federation there was
one man distinctly marked out as suitable for
the post and willing to take it, B. R. Wise. But
his fidelity to Federation cut him away from
the Foreign-traders, in whose camp his early
youthful inexperience had placed him. They
marked him down as their special prey, and the
Nationalists made no real effort to help him. He
alone of the makers of the Federation was ex-
cluded from the Federation’s Parliament, and
because he was out of that Parliament his fitness
for a special post went for nothing. The “.spoils ”
were for the victors only. Still the sentiment
was so strong that he was the most fitting man, that
other good men did not think of candidature, and
the pretensions of unsuitable though influential
persons were only able to secure delay. Of the men
fit for the special post, in The Bulletin’s opinion,
Wise was the most fit. There were, of course,
many others with higher capacities in some regards,
though perhaps lacking some of his particular
qualifications, and certainly lacking willingness
to accept. Deakin, Watson, Kingston, R. E.
O’Connor, Isaacs —any one of these would have
fitted the post, but none of them was a candidate.
The most influential applicant was John Forrest,
and it is probably his candidature which has
caused all the delay, for Forrest has had enough
influence to stop anyone else getting the post, but
no Ministry has had enough influence to force
such an utterly unsuitable appointment through
Parliament. The present announcement of Mr.
Deakin that he intends to push the High Com-
missioner appointment through is, presumably,
also an intimation that Mr. Forrest has at last
abandoned his claims, for there is no indication
that Parliament has at all changed its opinion in
regard to his utter unsuitableness. Mr. Forrest
would make an excellent representative of the
imperial Government in Australia ; he would be
the worst possible of Australian representatives
in London. If State Governors are to be con-
tinued, The Bulletin could imagine no man more
suitable than he for a State Governorship. If the
Federal territory is to have a Governor, John
Forrest would be an ideal Governor. His
abilities. and his services to Australia deserve
recognition. His special disqualifications would
make it a criminal act to send him to London
to misrepresent Australian national sentiment
from the standpoint of an Imperial pensioner, a
“ Crown Colony ” man, and a leading light of the
Anti-Sosh foolishness.
A Lunatic Proceeding.
The Mattson case, in which judgment has just
been reserved by the Privy Council, is another
illustration of the insane glee with which the>
State of N.S.W. fiercely sues itself in the Law
Courts, with huge benefit to Costs and no possible >
benefit to anybody else. Mattson died in
Callan Parle asylum, and his property went to the
Curator of Intestate Estates. The said property
wasn’t much ; it consisted of a life assurance
policy for £2OO. The Master in Lunacy then
claimed £OB from the Curator of Intestate Estates
for maintenance of the patient while in the
asylum. The Curator appealed to the Crown
Solicitor against this demand, basing his claim on
the Insurance Act of 1902, which provides that
life policies
shall be exempt from any law now or hereafter in force
relating to insolvency or bankruptcy, or from being
assessed or levied upon by or under the process of any
Court whatever.
But the Master in Lunacy also appealed to the
Crown Solicitor, with the result that the State
Attorney-General applied for an order for the
money from the Judge in Probate. The Judge
upheld the Curator of Intestate Estates, as did
the Full Court, and the obstinate Attorney-
General, on behalf of the Boss in Lunacy, appealed
to the Privy Council. As the plaintiff and de-
fendant are both State Departments, the costs
and the loss will all fall on the people of N.S.W.,
however it all ends. The £(18 involved was
spent almost on the first day of the case, and if
the costs come out of the estate the poor little life
policy of £2OO has been swallowed up very long
ago. The only possible excuse for the fool pro-
ceeding would be that the State was fighting for
a principle, but it isn’t. If it wins, and thereby
proves, at great‘public loss, that the Act of 1902
has failed in its purpose of protecting life insur-
ance policies, Parliament will get to work to
repair the hole thus created, for almost every
member is solid on the need for securing life
policies against seizure, and the Government
must needs join in the work. But meanwhile
it is struggling hard, at an expense of pro-
bably £5OO, tor the right to take £6B out of one
pocket and put it in the other. And the Privy
Council has sat down to decide, by a good big
think, whether that shall be done, or whether the
money shall remain in the same pocket. The
money doesn’t care; it is the pockets that are
making all the row.
♦
The Curses of Federation.
Federal Minister Ewing points to some of the
curses of Federation, culling examples from the
department of his colleague, Austin Chapman,
in the Mother of Wails State: —
In N.S. W. the trouble in connection with the telephones
is the defective “Earth Return” system. For this
Federation is not responsible, it having been the State
system prior to union. Now the Federation is remedy-
ing that. The number of telephones in use has doubled
under Federation.
The toll system, against which there was so much
reviling, is simply a business arrangement, as the Post*
master-General has demonstrated in the plainest manner,,
under which people pay for the telephone in proportion
to their use of it. A subscriber using it once a day is not
called upon to pay the same amount as a subscriber who
uses it a hundred times a day. When I was Acting-Post-
master-General, men called to protest against the toll
system—men who were costing the Department £2O and
£3O per annum, for which they paid some £8 a year.
Clearly either the general public or the other subscribers
were paying for them. No business man would, in his
ordinary operations, have tolerated such a system, but
many business men did not hesitate to rave about the
injustice inflicted in this direction by “ Federation.” I
venture to prophesy that, in after years, there will be no
system but that of payment for services rendered, and
then people will be astonished that they, ever approved of
any other.
As to the Anti-Australian papers and the ruin, as
portrayed by them, inflicted by the Postal Department.
Have any of these downtrodden journals ever made clear
to their readers (taking New South Wales for an example ;
other States could be chosen to mark the case more
clearly, but the Mother State will be sufficient) the facts
of the matter? Within the State of New South Wales,
prior to union, the press paid 6d. for telegraphing 10
words. Now the charge is 6d. for 25 words. An inter-
state press wire to Victoria and Queensland of 25 words
cost 3s. Since union the charge for the same service is
Is. An inter-State press wire of 16 to 100 words, to VVes-
tralia, cost 4s. 6d. Since union the charge is Is. to 3s.
To Tasmania any press wire up to 100 words cost ss. Now
the charge is Is. to 3s. To Westralia before union 10
words cost 3s. Now 25 words cost Is.
Ordinary telegrams have been reduced, for example:
Except in a few cases 12 words cost Is. 2d. before
Federation. Since union, allowing four words for address,
etc., 12 words cost 9d.
Twelve words to Victoria and Queensland prior to
Federation cost Is. 4d. Now, allowing four words for
address, etc., they cost, Is.
Taking same basis, viz,, 12 words, to South Australia,
the cost was orginally 2s. 4d. Now it is Is.
To Westralia it Was 3s. 6d., and is now Is.
To Tasmania it cost 3s. Now it costs Is.
The agony caused by these reductions to the press and
the public ffiust indeed be harrowing. Could not a small
space for an obscure paragraph be found for the facts of
the case ? The sympathetic public will certainly drop a
tear in silent contemplation of the trials of the business
community, who are the great users of the telegraph
service, and, maybe, ask a question of the grumbling sec-
tion of the press.
♦
The Unemployable.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council seems to have
decided to throw itself in the path of the move-
ment to add to the Australian population by fos-
tering immigration. Thereby it will get into a
position where it is liable to be trampled upon.
All serious thought in Australia to-day is agreed
that, to be held, the Commonwealth must be
peopled ; that White Australia, free government,
and decent labor conditions alike depend on a
stronger garrison being recruited for this outpost
of the white races in Asiatic waters; and
that, consequently, there is no labor ques-
tion, no political question, no national
question more important than that of get-
ting suitable population. It may be that the
Sydney Trades and Labor Council really sees
that too, and is not really opposed to immigration.
But its attitude must be judged by its actions,
and all these bespeak a hostility to immigrants
“so long as there are any men unemployed in
Australia.” That, of course, means an eternal
hostility to immigration, for in this community,
as in every other under present conditions, there
will always be a certain amount of “unemploy-
ment,” because there will always be a certain pro-
portion of the population “unemployable.” There
•are the people who won’t work at any price, and
the sheeplike people who will work if work is found
for them, and if the work is then hobbled and tied up
to them so that it can’t stray and get lost. These
make the “unemployable,” and if they are to
block the immigration of people who can work,
•and who will hustle for work, there will never be
any immigration. The cure for the “ unemploy-
able ” is not in the restriction of population. It
is in more advanced social legislation such as might
be copied from the Germans. For the rogue who
won’t work there should be gaol—sensible gaol,
where he will have to work for his maintenance ;
for the shiftless folk who haven’t the energy to
look out for jobs, there should be labor farms and
industrial homes to teach them habits of settled in-
dustry. But on the immigration question there can
be only one valid argument against recruiting
population from desirable sources, and that is that
the possibilities of the continent in the way of
supporting mankind ha vebeen exploited to the full.
No one ventures to state such an absurdity. It may
be argued that Australia’s possibilities are re-
stricted by the importing evil, by land monopoly,
and so on. That is true; but it is also true that
the remedy is with the people. They can insist
on effective Protection, and they can tax every
land-monopolist dog out of the manger. They
can and should do these things. Meanwhile our
garrison must be strengthened.
The N.S.W. Public Service Board.
The cheerful body which holds the destiny of the
Cornstalk public servant in the hollow of its hand
has lately been running through the quinquennial
appeals with the rapidity of a police court when it
deals with drunks and disorderly persons. After
waiting five years for the regrading of his salary,
the anxious father of a family is summoned to the
office of the Board. There he finds 20 or 30
fellow sufferers sitting in mental and physical
discomfort on a form in a draughty
passage. Possibly in an hour’s time his
name is called, and he finds himself before
the Board—-the mighty and tremendous Board,
His appeal is read by the clerk, and it sounds to
him more like an indictment than anything else.
The Board continues a pleasant personal conversa-
tion, and appears to take no interest in the case
until the reading is finished, when ex-P.M.
Belohery asks: “Have you anything to
say?” Then the civil servant, feeling more
like a criminal than ever, and having said all he
can say in his appeal, naturally explains that he has
nothing to add to the document, which was care-
fully prepared so long ago that he has almost
forgotten what he did say in support of the claim.
Then a voice says; “Consideration deferred;
next case. ” This is a literal description of the
usual proceedings. A qualified professional or
clerical man, after many years’ conscientious
service, often at half the salary his work would
command outside, is curtly dismissed after a five-
minutes’ interview once in five years with a Board
composed of
One ex-Police Magistrate.
One Draftsman.
One ex-Comptroller of Prisons.
The service meanwhile drifts disheartened further
down to absolute despair. The officer who suffers
most from this state of affairs is the middle-aged
man of long service—the backbone of the depart-
mental administration. The junior gets his auto-
matic increase at given dates whether he is worth
it or not, and the political pet flourishes like a
green bay tree.
An Indignant Importer.
A Melbourne importer boiled over in the Customs
Minister’s private court in Melbourne on June 20th.
The reason of the boil was a little matter of some
bracelets and chains. This “ jewellery ” came
from Birmingham—where the heathen gods are
made—and was displayed in cardboard boxes
marked “18ct. Peruba. Guaranteed 10 years.”
The bracelet pads also bore the words, “ Boyal
patent, 18ct. Peruba,” and tabs marked, “Gold-
filled Peruba, registered.” These pretty articles
arrested the attention of the Customs officers, who
invited the Government Analyst to test them.
He did so, and reported that one sample boasted
OTB per cent, and the other OT7 per cent, of gold ;
that is to say, in one case there was one part gold
to 588 parts base metal; and in the other case
there was one part gold and 555 parts of iron or
other metal. All the gold about them was a filmy
coating, added by mechanical means. There was
obviously no defence to a case of this sort, and the
matter was passed on to the Minister, who will
inflict whatever fine he may think fit. There is,
perhaps, nothing very unusual about all these
circumstances; the interesting portion of the
event was the indignation of the importer. He
admitted he had written to the Brummagem man
for “rolled-gold jewellery ”; that this was marked
“ gold filled,” whereas it was merely gold washed ;
in fact, there was so little gold about it as to be
not worth mentioning—one might as well say
Government House was a brass building if
there was a brass plate on the door. Yet, when
this was pointed out, this virtuous importer pro-
tested —“It seems to me that, as far as this
country is concerned, a man can be hanged. The
days of the Inquisition aren’t ended yet.” The Cus-
toms Collector cheerfully observed that there was
no question of hanging as yet. “ Well,” chipped
in the importer, “ these goods can be bought by
the ton in Melbourne. I don’t see why I
should be executed for it.” The Collector
assured him he was obliged for the infor-
mation, but it was only a question of
a fine so far. “ I’m sure,” he replied,
“I don’t know what the Birmingham man will
think. He must fancy he’s got a nice lot of
savages to deal with here. ... I would suggest that
the goods be returned to him.” Here the Col-
lector grew tired, and remarked that future cases
of that sort might be matters for prosecution in
the police court —the place where the man who
sells base metal as gold is liable to a term of hard
labor. It was a significant little comedy. This
virtuous importer knew perfectly well that
“ 18ct.” on an article of jewellery gold-washed or
filled or cased means “18-carat gold ” to the average
buyer ; he knew by the price he was paying that
there could be next to no gold in or about them ;
yet because the administrators of the Commerce
Act objected to his selling the fraud as “ 18-carat
gold-filled Peruba” he was insulted, indignant,
outraged in his tenderest feelings. Heaven only
knows what “Peruba” means, or where it is, or
what sort of a dish it may be; but it looks sus-
piciously like a mere designation stuck on to
mislead purchasers, and give the seller a hole
through which to escape gaol. That the Customs
officers saw the bluff Was unfortunate; but that
they should presume to intervene between him
and his customers, should try to protect the retail
purchaser against deceit —tins was unparalleled,
outrageous. “He might as well be hanged.”
The purchaser of these “ 18ct.” bracelets may be
inclined to agree that even that severe remedy
would have its advantages.
— -»
A Tory Paper’s Defence of Wren.
Jack Wren can thank the May number of The
Lone Hand for a comparatively complimentary
‘ ‘ appreciation ” of him which appeared in the
June number of Liberty and Progress, a Mel-
bourne traders’journal, issued to subscribers only.
The writer in this case tempers the truth about
WreN’s career with a number of remarks upon
Wren’s character, gathered from his own per-
sonal statement of it. The subject of the article
couldn’t have been more heroically presented by
his boss advertising artist, Barney Reynolds.
He looks a positively noble law-breaker in the
Liberty and Progress picture, rather than a hole-
and-corner schemer, who tampered with police-
court witnesses, and dealt in intimidation. Be-
hold the “appreciation ” of John Wren, by the
Anti-BuLLETiN, Anti-Sosh journal that is issued
to subscribers only :
At the earliest possible moment he dropped boot-
making-, and started out upon his notorious and prosper-
ous career in the tote industry. Many other persons
have engaged in this line, but, after a few incidental
appearances at the police court, disappeared from the...
The Great Crusade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You can help Australia hv clamoring constantly for the
abolition of State Parliaments and for the man to lead the
great crusade. If I were a man I’d fight for that, and
for a tax on unimproved land values, even if it took
years and years and years to get the people with me.—
Miss Vida Goldstein.
Far away in distant time
Rose a man with faith sublime—
Rose a Preacher called the Hermit—an ungainly
dwarf was he.
From the land of France he came.
Heart ablaze with zealot flame,
And he preached his way through Europe in those
misty years A.D. !
Through the far Teutonic lands,
Crucifix within his hands.
Bare of foot the Hermit wandered, rousing men
with blazing zeal;
Stirring princes, waking kings—
Far and wide his message rings—
Hear the castle-yards a-clanging with the ham-
mers on the steel !
From the south and west and north,
Did the princes speed them forth—
Clad in hardware newly fashioned, see the tall
Crusaders ride.
“ Sharpen axe and spear and sword,
Save the land of Christ our Lord ”
See the armies rolling forward in an endless
battle-tide !
Hildebrand and Gregory—
Thpy had whooped resultlessly,
But the voice of zealous Peter raised the legions
stout and strong;
So the Truce of God was made,
And the feudal wars were stayed
While the Christians smote Mahomet with a
smite that echoed long !
Father Urban sooled them on
In those years long dead and gone—
O the Church could curse and yakker in the old 1 .
Crusading days !
But the Church that maunders now
Emulates the peaceful cow —
And it rides behind the army in the Commissariat
drays!
Wide the Papal banners flew
O’er a warlike monkish crew
When Jerusalem was battered by old Godfrey of
Lorraine.
And the ghost of Adhemar
Led the squadrons fast and far—
Spectral horse and spectral rider drifting ’cross;
the Syrian plain.
How the Christians shed their blood,
How Letold of Tournay stood
On the City’s wall at sunset may be learnt in
ancient lore.
When St. Stephen’s gate was stormed,
And the gay Provencals swarmed
O’er Jerusalem’s red ramparts, and the Crescent
waved no more—
When Mahomet’s banner fell,
Lo, the old historians tell
How the blood-besplashed Crusaders knelt at
Hermit Peter’s feet;
He it was who led them on
Till the Holy Land was won—
And we need a second Peter our fair country’s
drum to beat !
Know ye, this is holy land —
Holier far than Asia’s sand,
Where the old Crusaders perished in the dim,
forgotten years ?
Know ye not that we must toil ?
We must kiss the sacred soil
As the grim Crusaders kissed it—all their eyes
suffused with tears !
Let a Truce of God be made,
Let our quarrellings be stayed—
There’s a land to save from ruin, there’s a task:
for men to do !
Ere the alien in the north
Pours his yellow cohorts forth,
Let us wrest our sacred country from the talons
of the Jew !
Send a man with faith sublime,
God in heaven, ere the time
Of distress and woe that for thi§ careless land:
doth lie in wait;
Breathe Thy spirit into clay—
Shall a woman lead the way
When the Bailiff and the Ape are jointly pound-
ing on the gate ?
For a leader true we need—
Not a Myth or broken Reid,
Not a somersaulting cypher or a blatant renegade..
Send, O God, a Fighting Man
Who shall fitly lead the van—
Send a patriot and hero who shall preach a new
Crusade !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


It is the Adelaide Advertiser that gets
the half-crown this time :
TF PEOPLE do not leave off SLANDERING my
character by saying I am a married man, which is
totally untrue, I intend to prosecute them.
R. 0. BUGG,
Eton-street, Redfern, Clarence Park.
It looks as though Mr. Bugg had hopes of induc-
ing someone to share his sweet name ; whereupon
malevolent slander interposed with a mythical
Mrs. Bugg. So Mr. Bugg has this paper’s sym-
pathy. He would have its sympathy in any case.
Dear Bulletin,—Father has been busy Tar-
ring Pavements in the presence of the City Surveyor,
the Railway Engineer, and other Gentlemen in Sydney.
Father demonstrated that a Boy with one small" hand-
machine, with one nozzle, would spread Tar at the rate of
12 yards per minute. With a large machine on a cart,
Father spreads Tar at the rate of 32 yards per minute on
any ordinary road. The Tyree Spray works at 100
to 150 lb. pressure; therefore, the tar is driven
into the path or road, and the job is completed in
fine style. Father says that, owing to the orders rolling
in so fast, they can only be executed in priority. The
Tyree Sprayers are now used by the Union S.S.
Co., the Orient S.S. Co. and all the principal Ship-
ping Companies, by all the leading Hospitals, Lunatic
Asylums, Municipalities, Hotels, Brewers, Pastoralists,
Soap Cos., Sugar Cos., Newspaper Offices, Govern-
ment Departments, and all the principal firms in
Sydney (see printed list). The prices range from 21s. to
±l5O. They can be obtained at Tyree Ltd., 314 George-
street, Sydney. Tyree Automatic Power Sprayer Agency,
Block Place, Melbourne ; Tyree Automatic Power Sprayer
Agency, Adelaide-street, Brisbane; Tyree Automatic
Power Sprayer Agency, Weymouth-street, Adelaide;
Tyree Automatic Power Sprayer Agency, New Zealand
not yet appointed; Tyree Automatic Power Sprayer
Agency, Western Australia not yet appointed.—Yours,
etc., Bill Williams.*
The Showman’s Moneymaker.— The Edi-
son Cinematograph— write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
public ken. It is noticeable, even in legitimate under-
takings, how many men will come along and score an
unmitigated failure. Then the right man arrives, and
achieves an almost magical success. So with Wren and
the tote. Previously it had been the last refuge of the
broken bookie. No one saw much money in it. It was
simply a temporary breathing spot, whereon to gather a
few pounds before the law came down with its heavy fine
or three months’ gaol. They usually accepted the latter
alternative with thankful grace. But w'hen Wren
came upon the scene he changed the whole situa-
tion. Instead of the police hunting him, if their own
statements are to be believed, it was he rather who
hunted them. For about 13 years he successfully defied
law and order, and rolled in wealth. But his success in
other respects is no accident. He has undoubtedly
swayed circumstances and controlled conditions. He is
a man of great brain power. Fortunately for himself, he
is uneducated and illiterate. Ignorance is his bliss. The
moral tone of a community is Greek to him. He cannot
understand that his methods of money-making, involving
ruin to many households, and placing in the forefront
the low’est and most ignoble form of human passion, are
repudiated with horror by the community as a whole. In
common with the class amongst whom he moves, he puts
down the agitation against him to the efforts of those
parson fellows. He believes he is perfectly honest, open,
and straightforward in all he does ; he knows his hirelings
entertain the highest opinion and warmest affection for
him, and, not unnaturally, thinks that the public would
be of the same mind if not misled by the objur-
gated persons above referred to. An honest and
straightforward man does everything by the light
of day. So when Wren wishes to confer with
his most friendly detective, he does so in the
middle of the street, so that everyone may see him. In
the same way he walks down the street with a leading
official, dines publicly with very great personages indeed,
and walks boldly into Parliament House when he wishes
to influence the course of legislation antagonistic to his
interest. He caps all this by making public speeches in
which he inveighs against all and sundry who endeavor
to suppress the gambling evil. He does all this because
he thinks that the public are on his side, and that they
believe he is the very good fellow which he has reason-
able grounds for considering himself to be. This is not
mental aberration. It is the intense, earnest seriousness
of the man. In respect to the agitation which swept his
gambling dens out of existence, it did him a great deal of
harm. The public mistook his seriousness for effrontery,
became annoyed by it, and put the whole weight of their
influence against the gambling fraternity. But, in the
long run, the serious man usually wins. Sooner or later
the community generally takes him at his own valua-
tion. That is why Wren in the future may prove a much
greater public danger than in the past.
If Wren’s “appreciator” was merely suffering
from the want of better knowledge when he com-
mitted the above pen and ink sketch, it is only
fair to tell him that the law-breaker did not con-
fer with his most friendly detective in the middle
of the street, or dine publicly with great (?) person-
ages, any time during the years when he was open
to prosecution. It was a hard thing to catch him
in the company of a “friendly detective” (at a
late hour in a quiet thoroughfare) until after he had
formally “surrendered ” his pestilent betting
stronghold. And then, although the “surren-
der ” was never officially accepted, he had the
foolish effrontery to pose as a whitewashed citizen
and to yarn in public with at least one friendly
’tec, notwithstanding that he had only lately
been pretending to treat the Law’s myrmidons
as his natural enemies. Wren is neither brainy
nor honest in intention. He’s an accident —a
shocking accident resulting from the carelessness
of the respectable section of the public.
♦
The Bridge.
The Premier of N.S. W. was interviewed last week
about that fine, old, worrisome ghost, the Sydney-
North Shore bridge, and explained with energy
that he was the sort of person who did things
instead of merely talking about them :
Immediately the election is over I will have the matter
put in train, so that action may be expedited, PROVIDED,
OF COURSE, THE GOVERNMENT IS RETURNED TO
OFFICE. It will be for a proper tribunal to say whether
a bridge or a tunnel will be built. . .. The question will
also have to be considered as to whether the work should
be done by the Government or private enterprise.
Well, how much further forward are things than
they have been for the last quarter century ? Con-
sider the various steps to be taken :
(1) Joseph won’t move till after the election.
(2) Then, if he comes back politically alive, he will
appoint some kind of a tribunal to decide whether it is to
be a bridge or a tunnel. The tribunal will, presumably,
be a Commission, which will take 1200 pages of evidence,
and report any time between 1908 and the lost bones of
Leichhardt.
(3) If it decides in favor of a tunnel, the site thereof
will have to be decided, and levels, soundings, borings,
and other portable property taken.
(4) If it decides in favor of a bridge, there will be the
question whether to have a straight business-like bridge
to North Shore, or whether to build, at about double the
cost, Joseph’s proposed triangular bridge connecting with
Goat Island and Balmain, and finishing right away from
population in the bush about Ball’s Head.
(5) This will open up two new questions : The advisa-
bility of a bridge to Balmain, and an endless row with the
Australian Government over the ownership of Goat
Island.
(6) Having decided whether it is to be a bridge or a
tunnel, and where either of them is to be, Carruthers
will start thinking over the question of State or private
enterprise. If the latter is decided upon, negotiations
will presumably be opened up with a syndicate. Perhaps
the syndicate which did a deep 10 years’ think over the
Tasmanian-Great Western railway may be available. If
State enterprise is decided upon, there will doubtless be a
loan—good old loan.
Carruthers is really further behind than Parkes
was 25 years ago. Parkes had then decided (1)
that it was to be a bridge, and not a tunnel, and
(2) that the work was to be a State enterprise,
and Carruthers hasn’t got half that distance yet.
And just here The Bulletin begs to suggest that
the thing is all wrong from the beginning. What
is really wanted is a Federal capital on Goat
Island, and a tunnel from Yass to Dalgety, and
a bridge over Lindon Biddulph’s backyard in the
vicinity of Lyndhurst. Then with a colossal
harbor-side statue of Owe’Sullivan facing the
pawn, things should be about right.
Australia is fast developing a fine, elaborate
mythology, which future savants will compare
learnedly with the Hellenic and Teutonic legends.
The latest moral bunyip is the Eagle Crag myth,
which will probably be declared 1000 years hence
to be simply one of the incidents of the Argonauts’
voyage in search of the golden fleece. The Eagle
Crag put into Melbourne, where one of its boats
was stolen. Thereupon the brutal Common-
wealth was reported to have demanded payment of
duty. This incident was trumpeted all over Aus-
tralia as something novel in legislation—an inno-
vation devised by the demon Deakin —name sup-
posed' to be a corruption of Sheitan or Satan.
Yet the practice of exacting duty on stolen articles
is as old as the imposition of duties itself. With-
outsuch liability any pot-hatted N.S. W. smuggler,
in the days when Reid practised his peculiar sample
of Freetrade in Sydney, could have fixed up huge
faked robberiesof cigars and spiritsfrom his bonded
stores, and enjoyed the blessings of real Freetrade,
while his less enterprising competitors had to
pay their just dues. Long before Federation
came along to blight Australia with big surpluses,
a gang of burglars raided a bonded store and stole
£2OOO worth of tobacco. The proprietors of the
store were called upon to make good the amount
of the duty, as a matter of course. According to
all precedent the Commonwealth, in not charging
duty on the Eagle Crag’s lost boat—for the humor
of the thing was that there was no duty charged
after all—was guilty of an unusually generous act..
The Customs are now inquiring into the matter
ot dressed up” rice that has been found
on sale in Victoria. Dr. A. H. Jackson
recently analysed some allegedly inferior rice
which had been treated with an almost invisible,
but very shiny, coating, which he found to be
stearine-talc.” Rice so titivated up looks better
than the best; yet all the time the merchant may
be selling rubbish as the pick of the market. The
Victorian Foods Standard Committee has not yet
fixed a standard for rice—it looked too cheap and
6 i em f l ? t - ary to subject to any trade tricks—but
fcb o d°king-up of rice with a mixture of French
chalk and grease is contrary to the Commerce
Act and the Vic. Pure Foods Act and the Health
Act, so the law will probably get at the glazed
rice fraud somehow. And, as the next thing,
this paper would urge it to have a look at the
imported clotlies-peg, and see if it is adulterated.
After the rice episode, it plainly isn’t safe to
assume that anything is so cheap that the im-
porter won’t find something cheaper to adulterate
it with. The adulterated boot-sole is a common-
place of commerce, and the Afghan trader in our
midst is even reputed to adulterate his camel
when he wants to sell the creature.
‘O.K. ” theorises :
The Convent Laundry question seems to have cropped
up in England, as in Australia, with the difference that,
whereas the Australian Labor party is in favor of exempt-
ing convents from the operation of the Factory Act, the
British Laborites are jibbing at the exemption clause.
In both countries there is the same worldly objection to
the same religious principle, but the principle must hold
good until it is fully proved to be otherwise. If a convent
can’t be trusted to deal humanely with its washerwomen,
it is time that professional Christianity were fully con-
victed on a charge of obtaining money by false pretences.
In all English-speaking countries the Church of England
and the Roman Catholic Church are officially re-
cognised by the State as Christian powers. They
have special permits to do business on the Sabbath.
Their dignitaries are accorded high places of precedence
at State functions on the strength of their spiritual
superiority to laymen. And as long as the Government
continues to bow to the churches, it cannot logically
bring their industrial institutions within the jurisdiction
of a Factory Act. In short, if a church has no right to
run all its business “ on its own,” it has no right to exist
any longer as a holy-going concern, under Government
approval. It should be dismissed from official notice as
an unholy-going concern, and all officers of the State,
from the King downwards, should be required to get
married at a registry office, and get buried by somebody
who is out of “ holy orders.”
The Illustrated Mail (London) tells how John
Bull is beginning to meet with his nigger :
NEGRO TERROR AT CARDIFF.
The negro colony at Cardiff is becoming a menace to the
community. The colony numbers about two hundred
blacks, and persons of mixed descent, and is known
locally as Tiger Bay.
Riotous scenes often occur, and the negroes do not hesi-
tate to use lethal weapons. As the result of a recent
fight, several negroes were arrested and sent to gaol.
Cardiff has a population about one-third that of
Queensland, and 200 colored people have made a
“terror” there, and have become a “menace to
the community.” Queensland had, not 600, but
23,000 colored people before it decided that
the nigger had become such a serious menace
to the community that the influx must be stopped.
And then the J. Bull Government professed
itself so utterly unable to understand what there
could be to object to that it was with difficulty
that Australia got the Royal assent to a very
inadequate Restriction Act. If there were 7001)
niggers instead of 200 at “Tiger Bay,” Cardiff,
and the J. Bull Government were sent to live in
Cardiff, it might begin to understand.
♦
Vic. Chief-Sec. Peacock’s alleged attempt to
grapple with the registry-office evil is typical of
that compromising politician. After listening to
both sides—office-keepers and employees—he has
decided to lower the scale of fees which a licensed
agent may charge, and leave things at that. But
a vast deal more than that is needed. There are
honest labor agents, no doubt; but the great
majority see that their fees are their living, and
that the more employees they can get to pay fees,
and the oftener they can send employees on to
complaisant employers, the bigger their income;
consequently they don’t worry over-much about
the sort of employee they send, or the sort
of billet they send a man or a woman to.
The ideal system would consist of one central
labor agency in the city, with branches in the
suburbs and country towns; and mostly the
branch could be run by the local clerk of petty
sessions, who already is generally registrar of
marriages and other things. Most of the work
could be done by letter, as now ; and, instead of
a few hundred office-keepers, including some
scores of harpies, making a living by charging
extortionately for sending the round applicant to
the square job, the fees would come down to bed-
rock for better service. Certainly, the State
registry-office hasn’t caught on to any extent
worth mentioning in N.S. Wales; but that is
probably because the other registry-offices are
allowed to push their business, and make all sorts
of ridiculous pretensions; also, the employing
class is mostly stupidly Anti-Sosh, and the
State registry-office is Sosh. But a Sosh
that can carry a newspaper round the Common-
wealth for less than a penny, and can successfully
chase a man up and down the Darling to hand
him a letter, and only charge twopence at most
for the job, could surely be trusted to make a
better fist of this other business than the present
harpies do.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Spring Chicken."
Palace Empire Pictures Co.
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Criterion “The Squatter’s Daughter."
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Blue Moon.”
Her Majesty’s “ Tom Moore.”
Theatre Royal “ The Breaking of the Drought,”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athbnjeum Hall West’s Pictures and the Brescians.
Town Hall Carreno (July 6th)
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
- +
For the last week ‘ ‘ Faust ” has held pride
of place at Sydney Royal, in spite of the fact that
it cannot be in any way compared with the other
recent productions of the weird old German in-
decency which Charles Felix Gounod, the French-
man, set to such exquisite melody. As played by
the former Musgrove opera co., when Berthold’s
exquisite tenor was heard in the name part
and the majestic Lempriere Pringle made
Mephistopheles as splendid as Milton’s Satan, or as
produced by the sweet-voiced Italian co. that
Williamson brought out, the opera had a grandeur
and beauty abouu it that robbed the crude Ger-
man romance of all its grossness. During the week
Sydney has had the benefit of two singers in the
name part, and of these Richard Oeser was the
better actor, and Massimi the better singer.
And, sad to say, both of them were far
from satisfying. Oeser was unduly depressed
by the fact that he was damned, and
Massimi was altogether too cheerful. He pawed
Marguerite as a coal-lumper who has won a sweep
might be expected to paw a threepenny barmaid.
The get-up of both was deplorable, and Mephis-
topheles had failed to keep that part of the
bargain in which he promised to make
them young and beautiful. They were neither,
and no doubt that fact had a lot to do with Oeser’s
depression. He had been got at, taken down, or
whatever is the correct operatic expression for
“done in.” Massimi was even more so, but he
didn’t seem to mind, and when he wasn’t
pawing Marguerite he pawed the devil him-
self. On the other hand, this writer pre-
fers the Marguerite of Miss Mia Barckow
to that of any other artiste he has seen in the
part. She is a capable actress, and has a voice of
singular purity, which she controls admirably.
She was the redeeming feature of the production,
In this company the music is made quite subser-
vient to the acting. It is necessary ! Among the
male voices that of Fritz Rupp, in the part of
Valentine, is by far the best. He is. or makes up,
as a typical German, and not only sings well, but
looks his part. As for Greder’s representation of
Mephistopheles, it is good; but that energetic
devil is handicapped by lack of richness in his
voice. It is a strong, a mighty bass. When he
throws his wine cup on the floor, the flames
flare up through a visible hole, which stays
open and threatens to prove the means
of breaking someone’s leg. But the drawing of
the wine from the balcony is done in dumb show,
and the falling of the liquor left to imagination.
No delivery of liquor should be left to the imagi-
nation—it is unforgivable. A feature of the
present opera is the revival of the almost forgotten
Brocken scene. About thirty young ladies are
dressed to give the impression of lying around mit
nodings on. They are supposed to revel, but they
don’t revel worth a sixpence, and the only attract-
ive feature of the Brocken scene is a magnificent
female chorus.
** * *
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn’s latest impor-
tation, Miss Maud Hildyard, an English melo-
dramatic artiste, arrived in Sydney on Thursday.
She opens at the Royal on the 20th July in “A
Beautiful Fiend,” which is a cheerful sort of
title to come from England to play under. Miss
Hildyard has a reputation as a dramatic actress
of note, and she also writes melodramas. Most
of the pieces to be produced here are from the
lady’s own pen. So if the horror is extra prime,
no one will have a claim to divide the credit.
Meynell and Gunn are launching out as managers,
and are forming a comic opera company during
the year. Perhaps it was to choose the ballet
that a certain baronet recently went abroad.
** * *
“ The Spring Chicken” pursues its mode-
rately giddy way at Her Majesty’s (Sydney);
and meantime, as the bird can now get out of its
shell in the dark from force of habit, the co. is
preparing to blossom forth into “The Dairy
Maids.” On that subject this country will be
able to offer something like an expert opinion;
for probably the Ma State’s daughters can
“milk their thirty” before breakfast as well as
any other daughters in the world. How many
J. C. Williamson’s dairymaids can “do” hasn’t
yet transpired ; but there will be a rush of offers
of marriage from the North Coast if the chorus
comes up to expectations. Still, the new Cow
piece is some distance off presentation point yet.
* * * *-
Serene, imperturbable, “ The Squatter’s
Daughter” pursues her career at Sydney Criterion.
Stark, tall men, with burrs in their whiskers, now
storm the early doors, and the property sheep are
shorn in ultra-skilful fashion accordingly, the
operators being ever haunted with the knowledge
that the eyes of experts are on them. For it is
sheep week in Sydney.
* * *
Leslie Harris re-appeared on Monday night
last, at Sydney Town Hall, to a big crowd of
admirers. He has a definite following. The
earnest young woman, who deems the red-nosed
outrage of the variety stage ungentlemanly
(aye, even “common”), and her equally earnest
young friend of the male variety who sees the spiri-
tual damnation of his immortal soul reflected as in
a glass darkly, so to speak, upon the bumpy calves
of the female serio-comic, watch the monologuist
without a tremor, even at times with a certain
genteel hilarity. The monologue show is light
and bright; it calls for no effort at consecutive
thought; and still it appeals to a higher intel-
lectual class than does the mere ’All. To
enjoy, for example, Leslie Harris’ render-
ing of “ Bom-bom-bay ” as (1) Handel, (2)
Chopin, (3) Paderewski, and (4) Mendelssohn
would have written it, needs Culture, or, at the
least, a deftness of affectation in that regard
which the humble appreciator of the Beer joke and
the jest about the Lodger of infamous habit cannot
plausibly aspire to. The Town Hall show is
indeed astonishingly clever. Lacking the huge
bulk, w’hich was so effective in the late Corney
Grain, and the bird-like sprightliness of George
Grossmith, that other genius in this line, Leslie
Harris “ gets there ” as surely as they ever did,
along lines necessarily somewhat hackneyed.
Marshall Crosby is a baritone with a useful voice,
and the entertainment is eked out with some good
biograph pictures.
West’s Pictures at Sydney Lyceum con-
tinue bright and interesting. Latest films show
life scenes from Japan and Rhodesia. The
“ Teddy Bears” are interesting, and a still more
screaming farce is a local production of the
Druids’ procession passing Sydney Town Hall.
** * *
At Sydney Palace, on Monday night, Mr.
Edwin Geacn “ presented ” the Empire Pictures
Co. Scotland and Ireland held the screens in
great splendor. The public gazed upon Glasgow
and its brown and sluggish Clyde, that leisurely
stream which starts its importance at the
Brooiuielaw, and then meanders on to Govan and
Partick, and Renfrew (where, or whereabouts, it
is joined by the Cart, which for its size ought to
be called the Perambulator), and Dumbarton, and
Bowling where the leper king died, and other
places; and though it isn’t much of a stream the
audience said things were fairly good. Also
there was Edinburgh and its Castle, and
Princes-street, which Mr. William Lyne, just
returned from Scotland and other parts,
says was the finest he saw in all his jour-
neyings. The compliment is enough to make
Princes-street rear up on end and become a ver-
tical roadway. The Tour of Ireland was also
accomplished without the audience leaving its
seat. Patches of the wild and almost inaccessible
scenery about Macgillicuddy’s Reeks and such
places suggested illicit whisky still distilling
there in comfort and safety. The orchestra
deserves medals on its chest for its playing of the
national airs of both countries.
* sfc & *
The one change of any consequence at
Sydney Tivoli is the setting of that “ first part,”
which “the circle ” professes that it doesn’t like,
but which the primitive music-hall methodists in
the gallery won’t do without. But the despised
“first part” has its uses, anyhow. There the
management can try any new turn that any
unknown local person can offer without commit-
ting itself to large, excited capital letters on the
subject; so it is, in a manner of speaking, the
stepping-stone to the solo parts in the second half
of the show. The present new first-part setting
represents “ The Bathers,” and shows some good
brush-work in the back-ground by Alfred Clint,
and some good open-work in the middle distance
by other artists.
*# * &
Tittell Brune and co. achieved Broken
Hill’s record in the Way of box-office scramble.
Mostly Tittell, but partly Vivian Edwards was
responsible—he who played the King in “Par-
sifal,” and got into all the trouble for love of
Tittell. Edwards, a son of the Barrier’s shiniest
Six-and-eightpence, is reckoned a Broken Hill
product.
The faults and redeeming qualities of
Bland Holt’s “ Drought ” drama came into evi-
dence again at Melbourne Royal last Saturday
night, and doubtless the tame emu, specially en-
gaged for this revival, will hover around Dad’s
homestead for some weeks to come. There are
opportunities for some good, rational acting in
this Australianised production. The characters,
considered apart from the plot, are interesting at
times, and now that a previous exponent of
maternal affection has been ■ replaced by Miss
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s an honest, aitchless squatter, somewhat garrulous
and stout,
With a station in the Way Back, who gets Broken by the
Drought.
His sheep and cattle perish on the arid pasture land
To a tune of desolation, softly uttered by the band ;
There’s a threat of coming woe
In the music soft and slow,
Ere a long-expected bush-fire burns the bearded squatter
out.
Now, the squatter has two children : one, a daughter
sweet and pure,
Begs forgiveness for the son who forges Father’s signature.
The Daughter clings to Father, whilst the Mother, plump
and grey,
Loves her Son—he’s just a waster, by a villain led astray ;
Not so very, very bad,
Is the slim unstable lad :
But the villain— as a Villain—is a boshter, to be sure.
We find the crowd at Sydney, Dad and Mother in dis-
tress,
And the fondly loving daughter in a black, becoming
dress.
The trio sigh for tucker to assuage their daily grief,
When Bland Holt—Heaven bless him I —brings ’em beer,
and ham, and beef.
O, the gallery’s wild cheers
Ring in sympathetic ears,
When Holt, the comic angel, strikes a note of happiness.
In addition to the tucker he brings billets for them all ;
He fixes up poor Mother in a cake and coffee stall,
And there, one fateful evening, she beholds her long-lost
Son
With a lot of lurid lvdies who have bid him buy a bun ;
Then a passing horse and cart
Help to break poor mother’s heart,
And the Father’s bitter curses on his erring offspring fall.
Well, the lurid leading Lydy and the Villain are in co. ;
By the way, the minx was married to the Hero long ago ;
And the Hero (in the horse trade} loves the other girl, of
course,
But has not enough of horse-sense to apply for a divorce ;
• So the Lurid one must die,
There is ample reason why
She must shortly lose her life—and give the other girl a
show.
The Villain wants her jewels; with his end in view he
creeps
To the Lydy’s scented boudoir, seeking plunder while she
sleeps.
But she suddenly awakens, with a horrid sense of dread,
And the thieving Villain grabs her by the neck till she is
dead.
The police arrive in time,
And they hang him for the crime.
As a villain sows (in drama) he inevitably reaps.
Poor Mother’s golden wedding ring, which erst was “up
the spout,”
Gleams gaily on her finger, for her husband took it out.
Their innocent young daughter, who had gammoned to
get “tight,”
Canoodles with the Hero-man, and all is calm and bright;
For the Son who went the pace
Is forgiven his disgrace,
And the tears of his repentance are “ The Breaking of
the Drought.”
VIC.
O.K.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*2j< INSURANCE SOCIETY,
V PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
Maggie Xnight—a capital artist—the perform-
ance is stronger than before in its most human
ps.rfc.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the success of
The Blue Moon ” seems a thoroughly aocom-
tplished fact. The spectacle is beautiful, the new
1 people are growing in favor as they get* used to
'their work, and the majestic Indian Princely
appearance of Pat Bathurst (who is not new, but
renovated) promises to create a feminine taste for
colored persons which, for White Australian
sentimental reasons, is painful to think about.
Three stately figures strike the eye in “ The Blue
Moon ” show, and only one of them—Miss Ghiloni
—has ah unimpeachable complexion. The third
is Miss Jessica Deane, as Oma, a brown girl of
doubtful pedigree. Oma’s sole business in stage
life is to make one or other white girl jealous
by ogling (her best boy. She does it so effectively
'that the audience feels sorry to hear that her
employer, a Burmese juggler from London, has
broke* his contract, and refused to pay her 10
■ftnntt?. for her blandishments.
#* * *
A deplorable American melodrama, en-
titled “The Little Mother,” failed to draw a
satisfactory attendance to the New Bijou on
Saturday. The thousands who stopped away had
much to be thankful for. Ordinary language, fit
for publication, is unequal to a whole-hearted
critieisim of the story now being staged at Mel-
bourne’s gaudiest and unluckiest theatre. The
(plot is seemingly restricted to an all-round struggle
ifor >the possession of two “kiddies,” who
•are ‘eternally talked about, or carried about,
’by their various natural guardians or pur-
Howiers. At one awful period of the contest
ifor kiddies, four adult persons, male and female,
produce revolvers from their individual pockets,
and hold one another at bay whilst the kiddies
grin at their foolishness. Somebody has been re-
marking that the mirrors and other decorations of
the Bijou auditorium tend to distract one’s atten-
tion from the stage and its happenings. The pre-
sent writer, speaking from his shocking exped-
ience •©{ “ The Little Mother,” would say that he
Sound it the most distracting thing on the pre-
mises.
* -* * *
I At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), the chilly
•‘season of “ The Squaw Man ” company is ter-
'minating in a revival of “The Christian.” Miss
Humphrey and Charles Waldron are a more prac-
tised John and Glory than they were last year,
'wfcen the lady confused archness with frivolous-
totess in her method of teasing the hot gospeller.
With a little more repose on Glory’s part and a
little more ginger in John’s jealousy (which he
mistakes for godliness), the present revival of
“ The Christian ” would have some very interest-
ing moments. But its hours are numbered in any
case. Andrew Mack and his tricky tenor voice,
and a reorganised company, are due on Saturday
ia-a TOvival of “ Tom Moore.”
* * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum Hall, the whirr
'of the biograph machine is heard once again.
This time the Pictures are West’s, and the
British Naval Display that lately had the honor
of appearing before Prime Minister Deakin is re-
produced on the sheet with less noise than it made
ora the bounding waste of waters near Ports-
mouth. The one long pause in the succession of
West’s Pictures is filled by the Brescians, with a
inew programme of songs and concerted music.
** * *
On Saturday afternoon Carreno will give
'one last and positively farewell recital, at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, prior to her departure for
Tasmania and Maoriland. The reputation of the
‘charming pianiste has preserved its vitality in
Melbourne during her absence, and she may
‘expect * loud welcome when she comes along to
perform the concerto in B flat minor of the Polish
■composer whose family name presents the appear-
ance of a sneeze.
** * *
A new, unnecessary juggler, named
JErnesti, is. the latest stranger at the Opera
House. The second part begins with a pair of
jugglers—Jarvis and Campbell—whose “ turn ” is
humorous as well as clever, therefore the new
comer, not being a mattqr for amazement, makes
no impression to speak of. Twenty girls in festive
costume, headed by Graham and Dent, and sup-
ported by some scenic effect, are appearing in
“My Yokohama Queen.” This inexplicable
“scena,” new to Melbourne, gets a rather enthusi-
astic reception, although Fred Graham, as a love-
lorn ballad-singer, leaves something of a voice to
be desired. Miss Bijou Russell and numerous
other items are concerned in the sum total of a
bill that does the name of Rickards proud.
* ft * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
For an entertainment calculated to cool the spectator’s
fevered brow, I warn nothing better than the recent
Poster Carnival at Melbourne Glaciarium. It reminded
me of a ditty that Maud Hobson sang in “ The Shop
Girl ” years ago, with the refrain of “ O goodness ! it was
cold.” An audience of 2000, more or less, sufficed to
mitigate the severity of the ordeal, and if the Carnival
gathering on the vast Slab of ice had been crowded up to
expectations, one might have been fairly well contented
for an hour. But the spectacle of a few dozen
citizens in masks or fancy costumes skating joylessly
around a wilderness of frozen water soon had the effect
•of lowering one’s spirits to the level of the temperature.
Nobody, or hardly anybody, had the kindness to fali
heavily and raise a laugh. The one exception was a
young woman disguised as Britannia, who threatened
to do some damage with her trident what time she was
recovering her balance. Unfortunately, nothing humor-
ous came of Britannia’s mishap. She continued to
take exercise without sticking her fork into any
part of the Carnival. Needless to say, the prize for
the best advertisement “team” was awarded to
four or five girls whose costume showed the maxi-
mum (comparatively) of orthodox prettiness and the
minimum of practical advertisement. The ad. remained
a mystery to most people until it W'as announced in the
newspaper next morning. “ O goodness ! it was cold.”
And tame. A few anxious-looking skaters, unseasonably
clad, displaying themselves amidst the haze of an ice-
field for the “ amusement” of a chilly multitude. None
of the actual skaters were half as effective as two men
who walked around the enclosure. One was a faithful
representation of Harry Furniss’s picture of the tramp
who wrote the testimonial to Pears’ Soap. The other
limped around with the aid of a crutch. He was an
advt. of Somebody’s Rheumatism Cure, and because he
leaned on a stick, and had his head bandaged, and was a
picture of misery, this lone wanderer appealed to the
common-sense of all beholders. He suggested the pro-
bable result of remaining too long in the refrigerative
Glaciarium, and reminded us that avoidance of rheuma-
tism is better than Somebody’s Cure.
u Mother Goose ” has been doing some-
thing like record business at Adelaide Royal,
with eight performances a week. The incidental
effects are excellent; in fact, the whole show
seems more remarkable for what there is in it
than for who there is in it. Quite the
funniest person in Adelaide this week is Lyman
B. Sperry, who is lecturing to Men Only. He
promises that, under Y.M.C. A. rules, the girls of
the future shall have “ husbands who are worthy
of them ” ! The Tivoli and the Hippodrome con-
tinue, with changes that leave them much where
they were before, and the “ All Black ” family is
making a round of the suburban town halls. The
Real Ice Rink has thawed itself, to the deep
regret of the insufficient number who patronised it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A little incident happened in connection with the alarm
of fire at Melbourne Bijou on a recent Saturday night. A
building in the vicinity of the theatre was burning, and
the reflection of the flames alarmed the Bijou audience,
and caused a run on the doors. In the midst of the
excitement a thoughtful young man in the stalls took up
a lady’s steel bag, containing her purse and other valu-
ables, and was making good time for the night air, when
the proprietress overtook him, and hung on to his coat,
clamoring for her belongings. “ Oh, here you are, mum,”
snorted the youth, returning the reticule. “ You needn’t
make such a row about it. I reckoned it would be no
use to you when you was burned to death.”
James Oarew (real name Usselmann), who was Ellen
Terry’s leading man in America, and who has married
her, is reported to be a very excellent actor. He says his
wife will never grow old —she is only 59 now'—and that,
he can only think of her as a young and charming woman.
Lili Sharpe, who, after Amy Castles had scored her
first Australian boom, disguised herself as an ingenui,
and made a seventeenth debut on the concert platform
with considerable banging of the drum, has been inter-
viewed in England by the British Australasian. She
unfolds a wonderful tale. She has become a great singer,
she says. Her one aim in life is to play lead in grand
opera. She is married to Monsieur Rafalewski, and has
Monsieur Ajulf Hjovard writing operas for her. “ Aida”
is her favorite opera, and she has engagements ahead for
two years. In fact Lili, according to her own statement,
is just the glassy “ It.” Doth she purpose an Australian
tour, with Messrs. Monsieur Rafalewski and Monsieur
Ajulf Hjovard as companion stars of the constellation ?
The husband of Lili Sharpe, w'ho has been making con-
fidences to the British Australasian, lived once in
Bendigo—but that, of course, is necessarily the case with
all famous musicians. In Bendigo he w’as an organist
and choir-master, who suddenly began to break forth and
blossom into the Grand Musician. His progress is shown
by the evolution of his name. Here it is :
For many years as a little-known organist and choir-
master.—Charlie King.
The composer of some little-known songs and “ pieces.”
—Mr. O. King.
An organist with aspirations.—Mr. Oh. King.
An eccentric person who started to let his hair grow
and cultivated a very white face. —Mr. Charles H. King.
More eccentricity ; longer hair and whiter face.—Mr. C.
Horatio King.
Hair like Absolom’s. A rapt, sesthetic pose ; the daw'n
of the great musician.—Mr. Horatio King.
Same hair ; rapter pose : Lili Sharpe as wife ; the great
musician in full glory.— Monsieur Rafalewski.
[“Ew'ski,” when translated, apparently means “long-
haired.”]
As if the interdiction of the “ Mikado ” w'as not suffi-
cient comic opera business to last for some time, Her-
bert Gladstone, son of the G.O.M. and present British
Home Secretary, has issued instructions to chief con-
stables throughout the United Kingdom, “ to draw the
attention of managers of theatres, music-halls, and
circuses to the undesirability of permitting on the stage
anything calculated to cast ridicule on the wearers of
His Majesty’s uniform, or w'hich may have a tendency to
interefere with recruiting.” Perhaps he will taboo the
sobriquet “ Tommy Atkins,” though the War Office itself
is responsi' le for that nickname. Gladstone, junior,
suggests that where a manager disregards this solemn
warning, the police should bring the matter be-
fore the local licensing bench when the Thespian
ruffian comes up for the renewal of his license. It
may be mentioned that “His Majesty’s uniform”
is not permitted to be worn on the stage. In “ The
Sorcerer,” the tenor, Alexis, wears a Guards uniform. A
few days before its first production in London, in 1877,
an official from the War Office went to the theatre, with
his dignity wrapped round him like a toga, to inspect said
uniform. Finding it correct in every particular, he was
much shocked, and almost died on the .spot. Being re-
vived with stimulants, he said the clothes would have to
be altered—a button would do, he explained. Accord-
ingly', one of the sacred buttons was removed, and
another, bearing a different device, was substituted. So
the empire was saved, and it exists to this day.
Dungog (N.S.W.) had its own comic opera during Show
time. A local enthusiast wrote the libretto and several
of the lyrics, besides composing some of the music. He
played two parts himself, took a hand at painting scenery,
arranged ballets, and made tin illuminators for footlights.
The 60 performers in the cast were local lads and lasses,
and the author, who was stage-manager as well, ruled
them with a rod of iron. Before the show started, by
means of a little deft sarcasm, he encouraged some local
people to quit reserved chairs for which they hadn’t
paid, and then went off to play a piccolo in the orchestra.
He was also seen several times at the rear of the hall
loudly applauding the local prima donna’s solos. Withal
he gave Dungogites a musical treat, and the inhabitants
have been whistling bits of his melodies ever since.
“F.” : Apropos Florence Ballara, nie Towl (B. 27/6/’O7).
In Grenfell (N.B. W.), a quarter of a century or so ago,
there dwelt and pottered at his trade a chemist named
Towle. His wife was a singer who sang as “Madame
Scaasi ’’—which being reversed will be found to be plain
Isaacs, that, I believe, being the lady’s maiden name.
Was there any relationship?
Melodrama demands more than average physical quali-
fications to stand the racket, especially as regards ’ero
parts. The hard work has found out a weak spot in
players such as Willard, Norman, and Walter Baker, While
Laurence Dunbar is “crook,’’and even the powerful George
Cross was very off-color a while back. The girls get their
share of the trouble too. Their share is mostly rheumatism ;
the tearing draught that whirls through the barhlike
stages strike® their graceful limbs ahd fills them with
aches. But, to return to the men—take the “ Village
Blacksmith,” where the hero tears through five acts
making horseshoes, struggling -with “ tugs,’.’ ahd finally
’rastles three falls with the villain in the catch-hold
style. Put the average muscleless actor in such a part,
and he’d leave the earth for certain ; but in Cross, with
his g-reat physical advantages, Andersoh has a “ lead ”
worth hanging to. Cross can give points to many
amateur strong men, and is an apt pupil of Clarence
Weber, on the mat. He once won the admiration of the
pug fraternity at Melbourne Bijou by punching a much
padded super'clean through a door- just a little right
swing-. 4'he amateur athletic world missed a valuable
asset When Cross took to the boards, hut Anderson gained
Some 12st. of muscle that he’d find it hard to replace.
“S.S.”: “ The Blue Moon,”now at Melbourne Princess’s,
invites attention to the astonishing similarity of the up-
to-date so-called comic opera. We snort at the latter-
day melodrama for its woeful “ sameness,” but the latter-
day comic opera bears even stronger evidence of having
been built out of a box of properties. When a music-hall
song hits home, a score of writers get right down to
business and write a score of songs as close to the “ hit ”
in words and music as copyright laws Will allow. It is
the same with comic opera, A success is made With a
certain type of comic opera, and there follows a bunch of
operas as like it as a pint of peas is like another pint of the
same vegetable. The Asiatic opera has had a run of late,
Consider “The Geisha,” “Florodora,” “The Chinese
Honeymoon,” “San Toy,” “The Cingalee,” and various
others up to “The Blue Moon.” They are distressingly
alike in all their details. The sentimental heroine, the
comic Asiatic, the splendid British officer Johnnie, the
impudent lady’s maid, and the magnificent Asiatic poten-
tate come and go with damnable iteration. There are
still bright minds in England capable of many inventions,
but they have discovered that the crowd loves the thing
it’s used to, and society hates the trouble of learning new
jokes, In fact, there is something of a set against jokes
that are not old and recognised—they are not “in our
set,” as it were.
MORE INSULTS,
The King’s Birthday honors have been announced. No
mention of Mr. Oarruthers.
JOSEPH (the waiter): “Pardon me, me liege,
you’ve forgotten suthin ?”
“ J.A.C.”: I went to hear Musgrove’s grand polyglot
combination. The opera was “Romeo and Juliet” —
music by C. Gounod, book by W. Shakspeare. I thought
the first act, for a company with any pretensions to vocal
ability, about the worst thing I had ever heard. There
did not seem to be one fairly decent voice in the crowd.
At the conclusion of the act I made to go, but finding the
rain coming down in heaps, I returned to my perch in
Olympus. I was glad I did so, for matters improved as
they went on. The performance never got beyond medi-
ocrity, but, after the first act, one v'as thankful for small
mercies. I was puzzled as to what language they were
singing. It sounded like some sort of Volapuk run wild,
but I do not know Volapuk, and some of the phrases
sounded strangely familiar—reminiscent of something
heard in a nightmare. It certainly was not German—
what was it? A neighbor volunteered the information
that it was English—he said the man at the door had told
him so. Then I felt aggrieved. I had ardently desired to
hear Juliet say, “ Ach Romeo, ich liebe dich !” or
words to that effect, and Romeo to reply, “Ich
auch,” as in the hook by W. Shakspeare. My
hopes were shattered, and I considered I had
been unfairly dealt with. Among a ruck of very
ordinary voices, some of them positively bad, three were
comparatively good. There was nothing really
remarkable about them—they were merely relatively
good. They belonged to Richard Oeser, Hans
Mohwinkel, who was Friar Lawrence, and Miss
Mary Stoller. I must concede that they gave
a very fine account of themselves in the first
scene of act third, the cell of Friar Lawrence. It hath
not entered into the heart of man to conceive the wild
hash that holy man made of his English. And he was in
dead earnest, and enunciated distinctly—that was the
worst of it. It may have been his heroic efforts which
provoked the mis-timed hilarity of Romeo and Juliet.
If they could have heard their own English
possibly they would not have been so amused,
I do not mean to say that, as German companies go, this
is a bad one. I have suffered from opera in Germany,
and I consider it a fairly representative one. A good
many years ago I heard “Aida” at the Berlin Imperial
Opera House. The big guns of the German operatic stage
wereinthe cast—Malinger (soprano), Lehmann (contralto),
Niemann (tenor), and Betz (I think, baritone). The result
was a performance which would not have been tolerated
in a second-rate Italian theatre. Some glorious voices
and some splendid artists have come from Germany, but
these were trained in the Italian school.
The young mummer, Otto Heggie, a South Australian,
who one time made a hit in “The Message from
Mars,” is now doing very solid work in New York in
big parts with Ellen Terry.
The Granville Barker management at the Court Theatre,
London (G. B. lately married Miss Lillah McCarthy), has
found a good place for Edmund Gwenn, whom Australia
knew as Touchstone, as the Cockney burglar in “Sherlock
Holmes,” and as Old Lively in “ Sunday.” Gwenn, whose
wife is one of the Terry family, said when returning to
England that he was in no hurry for an engagement, but
would wait for something good—and he seems to
have got it. The Court crowd mostly plays
Bernard Shavv’s pieces, and always the new and
unconventional. The Referee says that soon “to
have acted at the Court will be, as it were, to
have taken an academical degree in acting.” Also, it
says that Gwenn as a go od-humored, hard-hitting Labor
leader in the new political play, “Votes for Women,”
“ plays superbly.” And in the' Saturday Review, Max
Beerbohm, the superior, the scornful, the man with the
elevated literary nose, actually calls Gwenn “ perfect.”
The actor, by the way, is a master of make-up, and ad-
mitted when here that he always took an hour over the
painting and upholstering of himself, and in parts like
Lively, two hours.
The representative of the British Government in Maori-
land gets little attention and scant courtesy when he
ventures out of his domicile. Governor Plunket, a few
nights back, graced the dress-circle at one of Julius Legs’
performances. He strolled in with monoeied eye. At the
end of the show he started to make his way out. So did
everybody else, and through the same door, and down
the same stairway. Naturally, Plunket got hustled.
He was hustled out of the circle door, hustled down the
stairs, and with the crowd moving along the footway, and
the theatre people rushing to hoard the trams, he got an
extra hustle into his coach. Then, as the carriag'e moved
off, the dreadful small boy appeared on the scene, and
said “Good night, Plnnky !”
There is nothing wrong with The Lone
Hand. And when taken in moderate doses in
conjunction with a soul-warming allowance of
D.C.L. Whisky, appreciation of the joys of life
pulsates at its most delightful throb. In other
words, the L.H. is the magazine for every reader
whose mental lubricant is the Whisky of the Wise.*
“ Z.Q. ! The musical state of things in Victoria is
pretty low. The imported person reigns supreme.
When the order went out that all music teachers
had to register before a certain date, or, failing
that, had to pass an exam, of competency, the
stream of humans that rolled up seemed endless.
Second day of registering noticed a musician of large
dimensions platlking down the registering fee. Now, this
man, as far as ability goes, could knock the imported
articles into a barrel organ, but, being Australian born,
he has never yet had a show. My gaze was next startled
by ah individual Who handed in his money with the
grimiest-looking hands ever seen outside of a coahhole.
The big musician ventured mildly to ask what instrument
he taught. “What instrument I teach?” roared the
grimy one. “Me? Why, I teach nothin’—l’m a black-
smith, hut, with this bloomin’ Government, yer never
know what yer might come to. Yer see, I sing a bit,
and ” But the listener had fled.
A Melbourne girl in London writes of “La Boheme,”at
Covent Garden Theatre: “What a wait for the 2s. 6d.
part of the house—from 20 past 5 until 8 o’clock! The
crowd had to file in by twos. There were hundreds who
could not get admission. My impression of the great
Melba is—well, her voice is magnificent, but she failed to
thrill me. Her acting was very poor, at least to my
judgment. You remember the Italian woman, Mrs.
Bassich, who played the part of Miml in Melbourne. Her
realistic death scene lives in my memory. Melba’s I’ve
forgotten, My only recollection of her is her voice.
Caruso is great, without a doubt; he acts Well, and his
singing is glorious. He is just getting fat —the pity of it!
If he would forbear from garlic and oil, and take a little
exercise, he might regain his youthful contour. But self-
denial is not an Italian virtue, Seemingly. They take it
for granted that they have a license to’fatten on their
fame.’*
In May Cassell’s Magazine, singer Elizabeth Parkina
states, amongst other things: “ Australians are the most
trulv musical people on the earth. There is no town or
settlement, however out-of-the-way or rough, where the
community does not do its best to encourage and develop
local musical talent. The most ill-educated Australians
living can be honestly and intelligently critical where
music is concerned, and their applause, when earned, is
unstinted and reliable. Indeed, their appreciation may
be taken as an absolute proof of the praise one’s worth.”
Frederic Beard, from Birmingham, who is at least
commendably energetic in his endeavor to make himself
a Melbourne musical personage, has issued the prospectus
of a Festival Choral Society, which—if it comes to
will have a choir of 300 voices, and an inevitable ambition
to extingush the Melbourne Philharmonic Society. Beard,
being pleased to approve “the wonderful natural timbre
of the Australian voices,*’ thinks it Would be possible to
produce a local choir “ second to none in the world,” and
on this point the irrepressible young man is safe from
contradiction. He likes to be called a young man. Also,
he pines to be addressed as “ Freddie ” by the deah girls.
“ Melb.” .‘ A thousand people expected to be locked up
for daring to go to the opening of the New Bijou, in
defiance of the Health Board, which is going for pro-
prietor Wilson (but I hear the place is owned by some
Woman in England) on 60 counts. Maybe all can be
summed Up in the folly of keeping the theatre entirely
upstairs. But the Board of Health is quite devoid of con-
sistency, It passed the Princess’s and Her Majesty's, but
later on made both Musgrove and Williamson iay out
thousands more after the Chicago Iroquois horror. For
example, the Board first enforced stone staircases at the
Princess’s, and then ordered them to be replaced with
hardwood. The Bijou now is decidedly the prettiest
theatre, which may not be saying much: Bijou 1, Royal 2,
Princess’s 3, Opera House 4, Her Majesty’s a bad last.
“ Blister ”: Lyman Pierce, the Yankee bustler im-
ported by Melbourne Y.M.C.A., in introducing Lyman
Sperry to a Victorian goldfields audience, rather gave the
show away when he urged the godly to throw into the
collection plate the £4O odd which had been incurred in
“ inducing ” Lyman number two to give a series of six
lectures to the young men. Just previously Lyman had
been held up as a model for all to follow, inasmuch as he
neglected the dollars in order to devote himself to the
work of the Loard. Sperry’s lectures are nearly all on
old Amurnkan lines, and the significance of sex seemed
to be dwelt upon considerably. One of Sperry’s stories
was about a college youth who smoked so many cigarettes
that he wasn’t fit to be a married man. It might be a
pretty good story in America, but it is a trifle sudden.
A young Australienne, seeking fortune, and (as a pre-
liminary thereto) a theatrical engagement in London, ex-
plains how it is done. “No approaching the managers.
You go and see agents, and leave your name, and hold
forth about what you can do, and sing for them (and they
dot down notes which you are dying to see, but can’t).
But after all that you must not sit at home and twiddle
your thumbs unless you are a very well-known person.
You run round about once a week to see if anything is
going, and if any manager has sent for anyone in your
line. In that case, you get a letter from the agent, and
are sent down to the manager’s office, where you find
swarms of others waiting with letters from other agents.
If you are very lucky, you are the accepted one. I have
not come to the ‘ second act ’ yet, where you are sent
down to the manager, but am living in hopes and on my
grandmo her’s legacy. lam on the books of four agents
so far, and expect to gather in another two during the
week. It is simple madness for a girl to come over here
seeking an engagement if she has not friends and money
to tide her over a very considerable period of waiting.”
“ P.N.” writes : When Martin Simonsen wandered
down a Maoriland wharf to meet one of his opera com-
panies in the days gone by, was he received with jubila-
tion and the glad hand ? He was not. He found his
troupe of songsters scattered far and wide, in couples, all
over the steamer, each pair attending to its own particu-
lar dovecot, outside of which speaking terms did not pre-
vail. The same condition of affairs is threatened in
connection with the polyglot combination of George
Musgrove. It is reported that at present the company is
distraught with contending emotions. They say that at
least two ladies actively assist in the work of manage-
ment ; and that spells woe.
“Hogg”: First we had the “Cinematograph,” varied by
curates to “ Kinematograph.” Then a shrewd hustler
revived a flagging public interest, and showed a “ Bio-
scope.” We also had the “ Biograph.” The mill ground
on, but it did not grind exceeding small, for we were
treated to the “Biorama” and the “ Rotophotoscope.”
A born inventor rushed in with the “ Inventoscope.” The
“ Picturescope ” came next. Then there was no more
scope left, so to-day we are invited to witness moving-
picture displays, which might be called flickeramas, but
ain’t. And all these are made in the same mould. Verily,
there is no merit in calling a spade a spade when you
might call it a shovelgraph.
The famous Garcia family of vocalists threatens
to provide a second centenarian. Though in her 86th
year, Pauline Viardot Garcia (sister of the recently-
deceased centenarian, Manuel Garcia, and of Maria Mali-
bran) keeps as sprightly as e.ver, and continues to turn
out a goodly assortment of pupils in Paris. The length
of her career is emphasised when one remembers that she
served to a great extent as model for the prima-donna
heroine of George Sands’ “ Oonsuelo.” Nowadays
George Sands seems about as far back as the Battle of
Waterloo.
Manager Beerbohm Tree has been telling the people of
London that they do not prepare themselves properly for
theatrical performances. Their dinners are all wrong, it
seems, and seldom or never adapted to the performance-
they are about to witness. He explains suitable dinners,
for tragedy, comedy, light opera, etc., and states that a.
man who is going to see a tragedy should take a little
whisky after dinner. If Mr. Tree would explain for what
kind of play a man should take a deuce of a lot of whisky
after dinner, and then put on that kind of play, he would 1
do business.
“Blister”: William Anderson’s is a name to conjure
with in theatrical circles nowadays. Anderson’s rise has-
been rapid. About 10 years ago he and Frank Reis, left
over in Bendigo when the Holloway co. drifted out of
that city, scraped together a few pounds and produced a
startler, entitled, “In the Coils of the Serpent.” It was
only moderately successful from the treasury point of
view, but was' remarkable for the vitality of the
alleged serpent in hair-raising situations. Said serpent
was caged in a box as big as a travelling trunk, and
every time the hero whacked the lid with a stick it reared
itself up to an awful height and threatened to embrace
the whole company. Guy Boothby was said to have in-
spired the thrill.
TO ADA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Can an actress be a Christian? Can a bullock-driver be
A bright and shining light, and clothed in spotless
sanctity?
Theology’s a science, but the parsons overlook
This question which arises : Can an actor be a cook ?
Can an actress be a Christian? P’r’aps she could if she
would try.
Can a bishop skin a bullock, and why can’t a parson fly ?
And I ask our casual nation (O dull land of sloth and
sleep !)
To aw r ake and give me answer : Can a lawyer be a sweep ?
Can a sawyer be a Christian ? Can a blacksmith iron a
shirt ?
Can Judkins face the footlights in a brief and spangled
skirt?
(To the pure all things are holy.) Can a pirate drive a
’bus ?
Can a cannibal be pious? If he can’t, why make a fuss?
Can a bagman be a heathen ? As a rule he seems to be
A most unchristian person. Can a Baptist climb a tree,
And sport among its branches as did early, frisky Man?
Can a grocer be a serpent ? And what matter if he can?
Can anyone be anything? What does it signify?
If no one can be nothing, he’ll be something by-and-bye
(This grammar is erratic), for when all is done and said
There’s one job for which we’re fitted—we can all of us
be Dead.
N.S.W.
PHIL RANDOM.


DEAFNESS and NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics, No matter of how long 1 standing or
whatever the cause may lie, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes: “ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
’ “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Tired in the morning? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Painful corns or bunions speedily cured
with . Handy .Corn Cure, cleanly, easy to use.
Every box guaranteed, 9d. or three boxes, 2s.
If unable to buy locally, send stamps to Sunset
Drug Co., 612 Harris Street, Sydney.*
His eyes were red, his nose was blue,
He couldn’t speak, he’d just say “Tehoo ! ”
And everybody round they knew
And pitied him, he had the “ floo,”
At last he gasped “ What shall I do ? ”
And swiftly came the answer, too,
For each one cried “ Oh fool! procure
A bottle of Woods’Great Peppermint Cure.”*
SOCIETY
Though feminine “ straddle-legs ” riding
is comparatively new in Melbourne streets* it has
been common in the suburbs, especially where the
Very Best People mostly congregate, for the past
couple of years. At the last gathering of the
Kooyong Polo Club, beamed upon by the State
Governor, the programme included a ladies’ race,
at which a dozen of the daughters of the squatto-
cracy turned out in bifurcated garb to battle for a
bracelet. Not only did they, copy the garments,
but they copied also the methods of the male jock.
Each beauteous vision followed the attitude of Tod
Sloan, and rode far over the neck of her mount,
with the hinged portion of her anatomy highest in
the air. The impassioned individual who once
wrote that woman always looks her best on horse-
back should have been at Kooyong that day.
* * *
“ Hexham ” : Be “ Squidge ” and the in-
tense Africanness of the Victorian swaddies
during late manoeuvres (B. 30/5/’O7). British
Tommy Atkins, when he goes back from
an Indian station to the Cold Country,
can't say “water,” or look at anything,
or ask for gravy at dinner. He wants a
drink of “pawnee,” takes a “dekko,”
and wants “gypo” with his meat,
French soldiers from Algeria are just
as bad with the bits of Arabic they
have picked up. Some years ago
the returned Tonkinese expedi-
tioners made the language of Ton-
kin all the rage. Then came Mala-
gasy, which bowled it clean out.
The Captain Bobadils of the time
of Elizabeth and James 1., who
called themselves “soldados,” and
swore “Voto a Dios,” exhibited
the like trait. In talking about
“kloofs” and “kopjes,” the Vic-
torian swaddy is therefore only
following the strict and inane pre-
cedent of the profession in all times
and countries. Ten to one that
Nebuchadnezzar’s soldiers swore in
Hebrew as they swaggered round
the pubs of Babylon after their
return from the siege of Jerusalem.
From a Dunedin (M.L.) paper
■V OUNG GENTLEMAN wishes to correspond with
A young lady, of 19 to 22, used to cows. Address
“ N.,” General P. 0., Dunedin.
1 irst there was the Age of Chivalry: then came
the Age of Cow.
Sydney s City Coroner last week finished
the inquest on the body of the woman suffocated
by the gas which leaked out of a pipe in a house
at Paddington. Hamlet, the Government
Analyst, had cursed the Sydney Private Enters
prise gas supply because of its large percentage
of water gas—deadly stuff, and horribly danger-
ous because it has no warning smell. But after
listening to the Gas Cd. as it told its tale, the
Coroner said it was accidental death, and added
It could not be said that there, was an undue propor-
tion of poisonous substance in the gas supplied in Syd-
ney, in view of the fact that it had been escaping in the
house for some days, and the smell was so strong that
persons residing in the adjoining house noticed it.
" Undue proportion of poisonous substance in the
gas ! ” Certainly not. Why, it merely killed the
woman. True, she might have smelt it; but,
then, according to the Gas Co.’s oWn engineer.
Coal gas when mixed with Water gas is no less
pungent than pure coal gas j so you can’t tell
from the smell of it that it is charged with the
deadly monoxide. You think it is just a gas
leak ; and you wake up in Heaven to find that it
wasn’t. Also, you wake up to hear the Citv
Coroner telling your corpse that there Was “ no
undue proportion of poison in the gas.’’
“ J.A.1.” writes:—
The late Sydney gas tragedy recalls an anxious experi-
ence of my own dear dead past; Was struggling fof
existence at the time ih a smoky suburb of mireful
Liverpool (England). Every night for abodt three weeks
I went to bed with a headache and got up in the morning
with another, or perhaps it may have been the same one
only worse. I rashly put it down to beer, and took to
whisky, later to gin, ultimately to rum, but still there
was no improvement in the pain in my thinking imple-
ment. Then 1 changed my quarters, drank everything I
could get, and had no headaches. Two days after I left
I heard that my late landlady had given up the ghost in
her sleep. I ascribed the tragedy- to grief at liiy-
departure. A week later the five remaining inmates.of
the house passed in their checks during a single night.
I had no idea that I had been so popular. But. the police
grew suspicious, and investigated. It was discoverer
that all my admirers had died from inhaling the fumes of
water gas—a non-smellful substance which didn’t proclaim
its leakage. The local gas company- continued to manu-
facture the cheap mixture until it had reduced the
population of that suburb by 16 within the comparatively-
short space of 28 days. People then took to candles and
kerosene in such a wholesale manner that the gas co.
became honest.
• » » *
The Norfolk Islanders were greatly per-
turbed lately on hearing that a barrister was
coming to them from Sydney. They took him for
another Barrister—a murderous animal that once
arrived from the same quarter. When Beauchamp
was Governor, that potentate concluded, from
information received, that the one special need of
the islanders was a thoroughbred bull, and he
sent them a ferocious, pedigreed brute called
Barrister. At the same time he sent copious
directions as to the management of the
animal, and appointed a Bull Board. But
the beast was too much for the Board, and
one morning Michael Macnamara, an old Crimean
veteran and servant of the Police Magistrate,
was found trampled to death, and the bull
challenging all and sundry to come on. Most of
the islanders took ill with fright. They recog-
nised that the bellowing creature was an adver-
sary beyond their size, and instead of going out
and tackling it, they hid in their houses and peti-
tioned Beauchamp to remove the devouring mon-
ster from their premises. When they suspected
that it was coming back, they almost resolved to
abandon the island and leave the bull in posses-
sion.
* * * *
A serious accident occurred, on June 26,
on the Aberdare (N.S.W.) private railway line.
Avan next the engine jumped the rails some
iOOyds, away from a bridge. The driver didn’t
notice anything amiss, so he kept on, and the
derailed car humped across the bridge, threaten-
ing every moment to capsize the train into the
gully below. It was afterwards found that
exactly 6in. had separated the 30 passengers from
almost certain death. After staggering across the
bridge the derailed van dragged each successive
carriage off the track, and things ended in a
general smash on level land, in which many were
injured, but none killed. • It now transpires that
on this Private Enterprise railway there is no pro-
vision for communicating with the guard, as on
the State-owned trains. It would be interesting
to learn what other deficiencies there are.
A QUESTION OF PRECEDENCE.
INFUIATED LOVER : “ Woman, you have trifled
with me long enough. I have resolved to
shoot you and then kill myself.”
THE WOMAN : “ Oh, George, why not deal with
yourself first ?”
The forthcoming N.S.W. Exhibition of
Women’s Work covers almost every known in-
dustry from wood-chopping to painting in water
colors; yet the most important section of all has
been forgotten. A Women’s Work Exhibition
without a baby show is like Hamlet with every-
body left out except the second grave digger.
KINDLY PUT .
CONSUMPTIVE : “ Are my lungs very bad, doctor?"
DOCTOR: "Well, they are pretty bad. But I daresay they'll last your lifetime."
The hopeless Victorian honorarium made
a further exhibition of his sympathy with bruta-
lity at Cheltenham, on June 19th, when three of
him fined a woman 10s. for walloping an un-
controllable baby, aged 22 months. On Hempire
Day, it seems, a tramway gripman observed a
man deposit three small children in a street at
St. Hilda, then mount his bike and ride away.
The gripman investigated, and, finding the
youngest of the three—the aforementioned baby—
in a bruised and damaged condition and over-
loaded with dirt, he mentioned the matter to a
constable. It was then learnt that the kiddies’
father was separated from his wife, and with
three of his children was living with a housekeeper
at Cheltenham; but, wearying of his contract, he
had planted the offspring outside his wife’s abode
and departed swiftly. A doctor who inspected the
baby of 22 months found both arms bruised, a
scar over the right eye, and the legs and thighs
bruised. “The injuries could not have been
caused by a fall. In his opinion the child had
been held by the arms and beaten with a
.strap or stick.” The other two children—the
baby’s sisters, age six and seven—-corroborated
this, and said that the “housekeeper,” Rose
Hazelwood, had beaten the infant with a
ti-tree stick. Then the three Solomons put
on the wise aspect of the unboiled owl or of
Bartoline Saddletree in Scott’s “Heart of Mid-
lothian,” and opined that the infant “ had been
treated more unkindly than necessary ”—evi-
dently they held that unkindness was necessary
up to a certain point—and fined the dreadful
female 10s. The two things that Victoria re-
quires most are a heavy graduated land-tax and a
vigorous Society for the Obliteration and Secret
Burial of J’s.P.
♦ * *
That disgraceful Cheltenham (Vic.) bench
of honorariums which fined a woman a whole
10s. for thrashing a 22-months-old infant—
she is alleged to have held it out and ham-
mered it with a ti-tree stick, and the injuries
looked like that —had another case to try
lately. In this other case the Chelten-
ham Solons had to deal with a woman
■who had gathered a basket of mushrooms for a
sick relation without first getting the authority of
Propputy to go into his paddock. The woman,
when Propputy told her of her crime, had promptly
offered to hand over the mushrooms and let the
sick relation do without; but that wasn’t enough;
She had to be dragged to court; and this same
Cheltenham bench fined her 10s. too—just the
same as it fined the horror who battered and
bruised the 22-months-old infant.
Three Victorian honorariums accurately
indicated their opinion of the relative heinousness
of offences, the other day, when dealing with an
ill-regulated South Melbourne pushite. He was
charged with three offences : (ly throwing a
dipperful of tar in a man’s face, whereby
the victim suffered much pain and had to be
treated at the hospital; (2) wilfully damaging
a door by tarring it; (3) stealing three
pigeons. The first offence- the honorary
or -slop-made justices reckoned worth 40s. or
one- month ; the second, £5 or three months ;
the third £lO or six months. Property, pro-
perty ; always property !
District Court Judge Murray, of Sydney,
lost his head” last week over a verdict of ac-
quittal, and said something that was partly silly
find wholly unjustifiable. The accused was a
traveller and debt collector on a microscopic
wage. He Fad received instructions from his em-
ployer that if certain notoriously bad debts re-
mained uncollected ho would lose his job right
away. The unfortunate collector could not get
the impossible people to pay, so in order to
gain time he credited amounts collected from
some good customers to the bad ones. Smith,
who had paid, appeared as not having paid,
while Jones’s old and quite hopeless ac-
count appeared as paid when it wasn’t. It
was freely admitted that the employer hadn’t
been robbed of a copper, yet the State prosecuted
just as enthusiastically as if there had been a
massive embezzlement and a huge falsification of
the accounts. And when the jury refused to
convict, the Judge made a remark about the dis-
regard of clear and indubitable evidence that
might have been justified if the acquitted person
had been found going around with a dead body
under his left arm and a bloodstained axe in his
right hand.
Sydney Telegraph last week spoke seri-
ously to Premier Clemenceau, of France, for his
weakness in not arresting Albert, the leader of the
riotous and setni-insurrectionary movement in
the South, who, while badly wanted by the police>
called on him in Paris. The fact that the
Premier didn’t cause the prompt arrest of
Albert, when that notorious offender had the
effrontery to visit his office, was set down
by the ’Graph to the fact that Clemenceau
had weakened his position by coquetting with
Socialism. It was poor old Sosh again. But
after-results seem to show that the wily French-
man knew his business better than the Telegraph
could teach him it. If he had caused the arrest
of the noisy little revolutionist, he would have
made him a martyr, and his very name would
have strengthened his party. So Clemenceau just
sent him back to riot and revolushe some more,
and lent him £4 to return with. The fact leaked out,
of course, and that four “quid” blighted Albert.
His name became Mud. He sank into the posi-
tion of a man who had been bought at a comic-
opera price. He got hoarse with explaining his
position, and became a ridiculous encumbrance
to the absurd little revolution —which turns
on some question about wine; and his posi-
tion probably set the malcontents wondering
whether their other leaders had been bought
for two “ quid.” Of course, Albert may re-
cover his influence to some extent, but allowing
for that, the politician who can even temporarily
divide his enemies into two hostile camDS, and
reduce their most violent agitator to a mere jest,
at a cost of £4—which, by the way, he afterwards
recovered —doesn’t require much advice from
outside.
TAKING NO RISK .
GRABBUM: “ Good, kind lady, could you spare
a poor old man er pair er old boots?”
G.K.L.: “ What size do you take, my good man?"
GRABBUM: “ Fives, sixes, sevens, eights, and
over, good lady.”
“Kati Kati ” on flies :—
Flies remind you of your bald head with their feet.
They have their ideas about our heads ; we have ours
about their feet. Too many of them is one of them.
Why should flies have six feet while Bent has to be con-
tent with putting his foot down on anything. Flies like
many articles of diet, but bald heads are their principal
delicacy. This gives them an interest in the Upper
House.
Flies seem joyous, careless creatures of the sunshine,
but their lives also have their tragedies. They have their
unhappy marriages, their unsuccessful courtships, and
their premature deaths. But, on the other hand, they
appear to escape our politicians, as politicians, and
merely look upon G. Reid as a counter-lunch.
Flies are not much as game birds, but they do improve
a room with their vacant places. They were, no doubt,
treated more with an eye to their own comfort than ours,
and seemingly consider it first. Unfortunately, they can
only be killed once.
THE ALBUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They brought it from its hiding shelf, and placed it in my
The cranky room of phantasy I dream in night and day.
They brought it in among my flowers, and on it laid my
pen,
And all the blossoms turned their sunn v heads and shrank
away.
They placed my pen upon this Thing, Its edges, gilt ill
gold, s
Recalled the gleaming trappings of a coffin in a tomb.
For 1 knew it in my boyhood, and the pictures it did hold,
And I knew it had Uor kith nor kin in niv bewildered
room !
Blit they picked the scattered matches from the table and
the floor;
And clicked the clasp, and opened It, and, ere they walked
to bed,
They bade me write some verse in it; then soft they
closed the door.
And crept away in stillness . . . and they left me with
the dead.
The night hung sullen as a pall; the thunder clouds
massed deep ;
The close air gripped the spreading dark ; the blind bats
napped o’er nigh.
The heavens opened to the earth, the stars began to
weep,
The lightning smote, the thunder rolled, the rain began
to cry !
A ghost wind shuddered to my brain and left me tense
with fear;
The room that held me closed its walls ; the darkness
opened wide ;
The door moaned at its hinges. Then I felt that death
was near,
And strove to rise and fight it, but the shadows held me
tied.
Pshaw ! What am I that I should fear for any graveyard
foe?
See l here are two linked arm-in-arm as on the marriage
morn—
Old, queer, fantastic photographs, in modes of years ago !
And here’s a baby naked as the day that she was born 1
And here is one with shining eyes, of whom I fain w'ould
sing.
Of what avail? No song may fill her body with new
breath ;
And here is Something glossy closely wrapped about a
ring. ...
Ah l Ugh the black hair from the head of her who
sleeps in death.
TAB.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


:_wk n by
mrnji Teach Post
warn
money-getting
SUBJECTS—
Shorthand, Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical Engineering, Penmanship,
Architecture, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Surveying, Sketching, &c.
Ten thousand people have improved
their mental, financial and social stand-
in«f by our svstems of Education. Write
now for ‘'HOME STUDY,” post free.
STOTT and HOARE’S
BUSIN ESS COLLEGE
Moore St.. Sydney.
No one who takes Angier’s Emulsion will
ever complain of the taste. It looks and tastes
like cream, and is certainly the most palatable of
all emulsions. There is nothing equal to it for
coughs, bronchitis, and all lung affections. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
TtlEjoflE ff AND
No need to take up space this week to repeat a
monotonous story of “ Sold Out.” The July num-
ber of The Lone Hand has followed those of May
and June, and now all the talk is of the August
special “ art edition.”
But, since it is too early to announce its features
yet—Are The Bulletin contributors (artists and
writers) aware of all the prizes offered by
The Lone Hand? There is £5 5s, for the
best cover design in three colors, £25 for
the best short story, prizes ranging from £1
Is. to £7 7s. for paragraphs, verses, articles,
photographs, drawings. Beg or borrow, if you
cannot buy, a copy of The Lone Hand, and see
the details.
In addition, The Lone Hand pays fines, each
issue, to those first discovering printer’s errors ;
£15 was paid away in fines for the first number.
The subscription to The Lone Hand is 12s. per
year, post free to any address. Send the money
in to the office or the nearest newsagent.
The I»ne Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
Maoriland grave-diggers ought to raise a
monument to chloroform. Chloroform doesn’t
care whom it extinguishes in those islands, and
the tenth person to flicker out during 1907, while
desiring only to lose a few teeth, is nn Invercar-
gill boy. For the tenth time, too, the jury found
that “ no blame was attachable to anybody.”
Likewise, for the tenth time, the doctors said the
patient was as healthy as possible, and they
“couldn’t account for it.” The skipper who runs
his boat on a rock and drowns somebody doesn’t,
as a rule, go skippering any more; nor does the
engine-driver, who “can’t understand” why his
engine bolts, get many chances of repeating his
mistake. And when ten ships run on one rock in
six months the Law at least sends somebody to
look at the rock.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
SUIT
OF .
High-Class Pyjamas, 6/6.
saw
111
XJIGH-CLASS in every particular.
We make them ourselves and
know how good the material is—how
well the Pyjamas are made up, and
what splendid workmanship goes
into them. Every attention has been
given to make them both comfort-
able and warm for present wear.
MADE OF FINE FLANNELETTE.
COLLAR HAS ROUNDED CORNERS
(As Illustration).
Price, 6/6
POSTAGE
6d. EXTRA.
PEAPES AND CO. LTD., Men's Outfitters.
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Age’s “special commissioner” with
Governor-General Northcote in the Territory
reports that many members of the Maranunga
tribe on Daly River have a strongly-marked
Hebraic cast of countenance. But people who
•write this sort of stuff forget that there is no
Hebraic countenance, any more than there is a
Parramatta countenance. The first Hebrew was
simply a Chaldean, who struck out for himself,
and the Hebrew is just a Semite, like any
Arab or, Assyrian of them all. The grand
old Nose is common to all manner of people
from the Indus to the West Coast of Africa,
and it was probably some wrecked Cartha-
ginian who was cast ashore in Australia, and
who married Binghi’s daughter in the long, dim
ago. Hannibal had just the same nose as Moss
Isaacs, and Hamilcar Barca couldn’t be told
from Levi Diamondstein, so their folk would
leave Hebrew traces j ust as -well as the Hebrew
himself. And the old Jew was never much of a
wanderer till he was pushed, while the Arab
howled by land all the way from India to Spain
out of pure devilment, and the Phoenician
plodded over all the seas from England to
the Cape of Good Hope and beyond, and
fetched away the monish—the good old
Phoenician monish from' all the known
world of that time. And when the sun went
down on his glorious Tyre and Sidon, the last
seen of him was that he was still sailing into the
unknown, with his nose in front smelling for
monish, and his god Melkarth on the main deck,
and his shoddy and his notions in the hold, and
his sword in his hand in case of disagreement
about the invoice. Since then frantic people
have found traces of him in all manner of places,
and have yelled wildly that the Lost Tribes had
at last turned up, just as if Hebrewdom possessed
the only Nose on earth, and as if the lost Ten
Tribes weren’t sitting about Gerizim to this day,
and explaining to everybody that they aren’t lost
and never were.
* * * *
“ Amal ” : One of our local J’s.P., seeking
to instil patriotic ideas into the pupils of the
school with the bark roof, begins by asking a few
questions. Here followeth the dialogue :
J.P.: What glorious day is this, children ?
Kids : Empire Day.
J.P. (to one cow-ridden-kid) : What is Empire Day, my
boy?
Cow-Haunted Kid : A feller what helps in a football
match !
Disrespectful Boy: The old Queen’s birthday.
J.P.: Yes, the birthday of Her Most Glorious and Sub-
lime Majesty, the late good and noble Queen Victoria.
Her we have to thank for the grand position we hold
to-day among the nations and as British citizens.
Inquisitive Bov (interrupting): Please, sir, what good
did she do ? Teacher doesn’t know.
J.P. (with great enthusiasm) : What good did she do,
my lad ? What good did she do ? Why, my dear hoy, by
her wise laws she made England great and prosperous
and happy.
Inquisitive Boy : Please, what wise laws did she make ?
Teacher says our kings and queens don’t make no laws.
J.P.: Well—er—of course she didn’t exactly make
laws, but—er
Precocious Boy : Please, why didn’t she stop the Opium
War with China ? Teacher says it was unjust and cruel.
J.P. (very red and excited, turning to the teacher) :
I’m afraid, sir, you’ve been putting bad notions into the
heads of these children.
Cow-Staggered Kid (waking up): Please, sir, who was
Queen Victoria ?
TRUE, IN FACT.
SHE (back from Europe): “And from there we
went on to the Malthusian Monastery ,
and ”
HE: “Excuse me. You mean Carthusian.'"
S HE: “ Well, it's all the same."
Acting Victorian Governor John Madden,
in his recent flying glimpse of America, was
astounded to notice how great cities did without
private fences. He comes forward as an Anti-
Fence apostle. He considers that Toorak and
Potts Point would be .enormously improved by
knocking down every fence. The Anti-Fence
movement promises to flourish. Melbourne City
Council has begun to down its fences round re-
®ei'v,es ' A good while ago the fences in Richmond
Park (Melb.) were all taken down ; fences vanish
shortly from the Melbourne Treasury Gardens •
and Sydney makes a small beginning by de-
fencing Wynyard Square.
A PAINFUL SUBJECT.
JIMMY (to friend, who has invested in a brilliant tattoo): “My oaf! Did it hurt much? ”
B ILLEE: “Not till me farver seen it."
Woman is endowed with a great incapacity
for loving more than one man at a time, but she
easily discontents herself by thinking him the
wrong one.
* * * *
“ Oby ” : Mormon proselytism is a suave,
well-mannered thing compared witß the
Judkins brand of religious propagandism.
The Latter Day Saint of Australia meets
you many times, and exhausts common-
place topics before he opens out on the
glorious revelation of the Apostle Smith
and his arch-priest Brigham Young. I
know of several recent Mormon conver-
sions, and have listened to a very plausible
prophetic assurance that Mormonism will
yet dominate the land. Judkinism is too
sudden and its mouth too frothy for the
time of day. A Saint listened to brother
Juddy for lialf-an-hour one night lately,
and remarked, “He talks to dogs, not men.
My Faith would not give him a permit to
speak.”
* m * 9
A reminder of the unpleasant old
times turned up in Melbourne the other
day, when some workmen, digging out the
foundations of the old Williamstown lock-
up—a blue-stone, convict-built erection—
turned up half-a-dozen “ Hanoverian
sovereigns,” brummy coins of the color
and appearance of gold, with the head
of her late Gracious and the date, 1849, on
one side, and on the reverse a figure of a
hussar and the words, “To Hanover.”
The swell mobsmen of that date used these
just as to-day’s spieler flashes a roll of false
—or sometimes Federal Bank-notes. One
of John Price’s friends probably planted
them where they were found, and most
likely he went to see the hangman and
didn’t come back, consequently he hadn’t a
chance to reclaim them.
* » * •
An attempt made to snub a full
Erivate of Australia’s much-discussed
•efence Force in the • bar of a Sydney
pub, during the week, did not come off hap-
pily. A haughty Cockney, who had seen
Tommy Atkins fired from the pub bars in
Pimlico and Southend, as an unclean sort of out-
cast, thought the Australian swaddy deserved the
same fate, and, after a couple of words to make
cause, the war began. It was the man from the
Motherland, however, who was fired, afnidst the
enthusiastic applause of all present.
* * • *
Plague killed 5,250,000 natives in India
during the last 10 years—at the rate of more than
half-a-million a year. Recently the disease has
spread to Persia, where the towns, for insanitary
horrors, will beat the worst Hindu villages, and
an epidemic is feared there. A Persian town has
mostly all the streets roofed in ; only the rich
houses have windows; all the houses treasure
garbage in pits under the living rooms for years;
and the famous Persian carpets make fine shelters
for bacilli.
* * * *
A person described as slightly under the
influence of liquor called at a Melb. suburban
watch-house, the other day, and hic-splained that
his wife was missing. He described her as ginger-
haired, blue-eyed, fierce, and gone over on one
ankle. The police took note of the description,
and promised to return the lady if they came
across her. “No, no,” said the grass widower,
“that’s not what I come t’ ask you. What I
want you to do for me is this : If you come across
her straying about, let her stray.”” Then the poor
man was locked up for drunkenness.
SHYLOCK OUTDONE.
[For The Bulletin.]
It seems that the motive which prompted this singular
act was an outburst of spiteful hatred, very similar in
kind and degree to that which obsessed Shyloek when
clamoring for his “ pound of flesh ” from the quivering
body of poor Antonio. —Daily paper’s comment on the
man who hit his sweetheart.
Old Shyloek, hungry, grasping Jew,
Yea, even thou whom Shakspeare drew,
And held up for our mocking ;
At last your Crime has been outdone,
We can record another one
That’s more than twice as shocking !
From off the victim in your mesh
Your hate required a pound of flesh —
No less than that—to glut it.
But dear, oh dear, how commonplace
Your methods were ! You had the face
To bring a knife to cut it!
A knife, such as the butchers use
For slicing meat for household stews—
On this you were dependent 1
Yea, with this vulgar instrument
You sought to wreak your fell intent
Upon the wan defendant.
Now, though I am no dramatist,
Methinks a novel scene you missed,
With horror’s fires to light it.
You might have starved yourself a bit,
And then, at last, when you felt fit,
Have volunteered to bite it!
m.l. Sinc. S. Clark.
* » * «
If the suspicions of the Melbourne police
as to the murderer of Bernard Bauer are verified,
and the offender is ultimately captured, the case
will be a dreadful warning to the mean criminal
who doesn’t buy a directory. The supposed
offender wanted Bauer’s address, and went
wandering round inquiring for it on economical
principles. In the course of his cheap inquiries
he gave at least one man a good chance to take
stock of him and furnish his description. The
directory—the humble, fat, silent, red-covered
volume—has almost everybody’s address, and
gives a description of nobody who consults it.
Absolutely the only clue worth mentioning arose
through the base economy of the person who
didn’t buy a directory. And he could have been
just as mean, and a good deal less of a fool, if he
had borrowed one.
There are no points about being a police-
man in Melbourne at present. The breakdown of
the “vag.” laws has attracted most of the well-
known criminals of Australia. The blame for
this lies chiefly with Premier Bent and the
Fat Landlords. Thomas made his Amending
Police Offences Act last session so needlessly
drastic that the Fats laid it aside —it gave them a
fine chance to pose as a House of Review—and
the breakdown of the former Acts left the police
almost powerless. Now, instead of pressing for
further power, they have resorted to the plan of
suppressing reports of robberies, thus deluding
citizens into a sense of security that is not justi-
fied. Crime is not suppressed ; merely the reports
of crime.
♦ * * *
Journalist Gr, V. Allen has command of
the campaign for raising £10,000 by shilling sub-
scriptions for the Melbourne Women’s Hospital
in three months. Allen is a tireless battler ; he
has already battled the use of offices and type-
writers for nothing ; secured the Glaciarium free,
and Princes Court free; and now he is after the
Exhibition free also, for a military tattoo. A fea-
ture of the street procession is to be an old-time
Cobb coach, alleged to be a gold escort, and sur-
rounded by 250 marching policemen. A sense of
proportion would suggest the Mint safe on the
top of the coach, with three bars of gold on the
top of the safe.
* y < *
A case that happened in Melbourne a few
days back illustrates over again that, in spite of
her experience, a widow may be a bad judge of
husbands. According to this lady’s narrative—
her third name was Scott —the second husband
was so bad a pick that, after suing him for the
maintenance of his children, and rescuing him
from sundry strange women, she finally abandoned
all hope of reforming him, and bundled him out
of her house. She dwelt awhile placidly, rearing
her youngsters and sundry ducks, turkeys, etc.,
till one day a constable Came along and seized the
poultry under a judgment summons. Then the
trodden worm turned, and took the case to
law. It thereupon appeared that Scott, 1 being
ejected from his' wife’s home, had promptly
set out to capture the affections of a de-
sirable damsel wi th a trifle of property; that
he had borrowed, and failed to repay, several
pounds from her, and that, as he had represented
his wife’s live stock and house as his, the girl had
sued him for the money lent, and got a verdict.
Mrs. Scott assured the Bench that she had several
small children, and only a hundred or two of
poultry for them to live on ; and, though she felt
sorry for the deceived damsel, she couldn’t think
of paying Scott’s debts out of her ducks. So she
gained the day. As the defrauded damsel found
herself “out” a further guinea in Costs, she also
has a sizeable bone to pluck with Scott, when he
happens her way—if ever he does.
The Bulletin receives a gruesome story
from Yictoria about a funeral at which somebody
called for “ three cheers for the corpse.”


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
ROBEY’S
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc. 1
Brunton’a Sootch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nloholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description. ,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
As far as can yet be reckoned up, N.S. Wales
will call its surplus for this year, ending June 30,
£1,493,271, of which, however, about £1,000,000 will be
the proceeds of land sales. The borrowings for the same
period amounted to £1,334,363. In other words, N.S.
Wales borrowed £1,334,363, and sold about £1,000,000 of
its assets—total, £2,334,363 —and it had a “ surplus” of
£1,493,271; so that it failed to pay its way out of actual
revenue by £841,092. Queensland has a surplus of
£396,115, while the loan expenditure has crept up to
about £620,000. But as Queensland is honest enough not
to reckon land-sales money as revenue, the position is a
good deal less unsatisfactory than it is in N.S. Wales.
Westralia will announce a deficit of £llO,OOO
and a heavy loan expenditure. How much loan money
it has spent is not yet disclosed, but the actual borrow-
ings this past year amounted to £1,900,000, of which
£900,000 was raised in Australia. But with regard to
Westralia it has to be remembered that its expenditure
includes now about £280,000 a year for sinking fund. S.
Australia, whose figures are not issued, announces, how-
ever, that it will have a surplus of £300,000, which will
be used to reduce the public debt. But while it is thus
drawing from the barrel at the spigot, by continuous
heavy local borrowings it is filling the vessel up again at
the bung. There will certainly be no net reduction of
the debt for the year ; it is more likely to be added to by
about £300,000. The Victorian expenditure figures still
remain a Treasury secret, but as the revenue has ex-
ceeded the estimate by £753,769, and as there have been
savings in some ways, a surplus of about £BOO,OOO is
looked, for. This will include probably about £230,000
from land sales—last year’s figures were £211,982.
» * • *
Victorian Statist Drake, in a just-issued part of
that State’s Statistical Register, gives this interesting
summary of what has been done with the recent
surpluses:—
Spent on Spent on
Revenue Loan To Reduce Unex-
Works. Works. Deficit, pended. Total.
1904 .. £182,526 £172,208 £150,000 £92,316 £597,050
1905 .. 231,349 18,777 147,000 135,931 533,057
1906.. 500,000 175,571 675,571
“Revenue works” are those which would in ordinary
circumstances be eventually paid for out of revenue;
“loan works” are those ordinarily paid out of loans.
The interest on the public debt has been reduced from
£1,918,629 in 1902 to £1,876,726 in 1906 ; meantime, how-
ever, by the transfer of debt from London to Melbourne,
the interest payable at the latter, place has increased
from £175,803 to £212,868. This shows the movement in
more detail;—
Paid in Paid in
London. Melbourne. Total.
1902 .. £1,742,826 £175,803 £1,918,629
1903 .. 1,691,607 198,823 1,890,430
1904 .. 1,722,367 200,093 1,922,460
1905 .. 1,662,196 206,715 1,868,911
1906 .. 1,663,858 212,868 1,876,726
The “ Municipal Statistics ” part of the Victorian Year
Book, also just issued, shows that, though Victoria as a
State has lately borrowed hardly anything except for
conversion purposes, the municipalities have deve-
loped the old disease. For the four years 1901-5 the
municipal borrowings were about £166,000 ; for last year
alone, £270,279—0f which certainly only £84,081 was
spent during the year. The total municipal debt of
Victoria is £4,375,116, of which the State has lent £235,699.
»** ’ *
In investment stocks there has not been any
pronounced general, movement during the past six
months. Those banks that have increased their divi-
dends, directly or indirectly, have put on something;
the others are mostly a shade weaker than they were six
months ago. Insurance shares have scarcely moved ;
the big demands made upon most English and one Aus-
tralasian co. during the past two years have made invest-
ors rather shy of these shares, and they have not had
the rise that almost all other stocks have had. Brewery
shares, though still in comparatively little favor, have
nearly all firmed; Toohey’s, which" sold at 10s. last
December, sold at Us. 6d. in June. Goal shares, after
being a long while neglected, have come along again ; but
the movement has been very irregular—like the results.
Gas shares are a trifle weaker; they are much the same as
banks—where there has been no increase of dividend they
have lost ground a little. North Shore (Sydney), which
sold up to 41s. 6d. in December, sold down to 395. 6d. in
June. So also Funded Stock quotations are generally a
shade easier. All of which means that money is a shade
tighter, and wants a fraction higher interest than it did.
In speculative stocks the movement which
began just before the end of the last half of 1906 has been
serious. The public evidently woke up to the fact that it
had been taking a great deal of boom talk much too
seriously. Here are some results so far as silver stocks
go:—
Dec., ’O5. Nov., ’O6. June, ’O7.
B.H. Prop £2 19 6 £5 6 0 £4 4 3
Block 14 (ordinary) 176 1 16 0 176
B.H. South (paid) 3 11 9 8186 7 18 0
White Leads .. Nil 0 5 0 0 0 11
South Blocks .. 0 5 4 2 15 0 1 15 6
B.H. North.. .. 276 506 3 16 6
Junction North .. 0 14 10 1 17 0 1 13 6
Zinc Corporation shares, worth 355. towards the end of
last year, are now quoted at 7s. 9d. (middle). Very
serious falls have occurred in copper stocks, especially
those of Cloncurry (Q.) ; operators at last begin to see
that the boom came too soon. There is less confidence
also, apparently, in the market being able to maintain its
phenomenal metal values. But in a few cases, where
energetic production is going on, and advantage is
being taken of the phenomenal metal prices, the share
market quotations have moved steadily onwards—Wal-
laroo and Moonta and Mungana, for instance ; but these
cases are few. Generally speaking, it has been a cold,
shivery half-year for those who were attracted by the
boom which was in full swing last year, and who decided
to “ have a flutter.”
* * * *
The knell of the iniquitous royalty system
really seems to have sounded at last at Ballarat. Isaiah
and James Pearce, two quiet Oornishmen who hold a big
slice of the City of Statues, have for many years sucked up
the returns from the N ew Normanby, North VVoah Hawp,
and other cos. operating on the ground the Pearces took
up on lease in a long-ago time of depression and sub-let
when there came the revival which they foresaw was
bound to arrive. From the Normanby cos. the Pearces,
without turning a drill, have drawn over £40,000 in
royalty, the New Normanby account alone standing at
£17,422 odd. To date. North Woah Hawp has con-
tributed £21,406 odd in royalty, and nearly £70,000
in crushing charges ; for the company is bound to crush
at Pearce’s mill. During the past six months this co.
paid a dividend of £l2OO odd, while £634 went to the
royalty-suckers.
■* * *
*
Disregarding one' or two very small concerns
which do a mixed insurance and sick-benefit business,
there are now eleven Australasian offices in the life-
insurance field. Their financial year in all but one or
two cases ends on Dec. 31; and, the last of the December
reports being now out, it is possible to run over the
general results of the year’s work. Here, to start with,
are the aggregate figures :
Summary of Year’s Insurance Business.
Added
Ex- to
Income. Claims, penses. Funds.
£> & £ £
A.M.P. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 990,746
National Mutual .. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
M.L. Government .. 507,070 270,220 -67,828 169,022
Colonial Mutual .. 466,126 335,946 104,564 25,616
Mutual Life Assoc. .. 332,672 164,199 60,069 106,608
Citizens’(ordinary) .. 278,713 62,267 34,867 181,184
Citizens’(industrial).. 205,910 46,757 75,251 83,053
Widows’Fund.. .. 259,370 162,618 53,939 42,813
Temp. & Gen. (indus.) 118,434 16,444 58,833 43,157
Temp. & Gen. (ord.).. 98,666 38,925 21,026 38,715
City Mutual .. .. 76,874 31,955 18,666 24,247
Standard (industrial) 26,278 8,388 15,393 2,497
Standard (ordinary).. 11,238 1,788 6,285 3,165
Australian Metrop. .. 21,048 5,767 12,801 2,480
Deficit.
A. M.P. (industrial) .. 18,570 669 23,572 5,671
After some tedious arithmetic, these totals are arrived
at: —
Paid in claims and surrenders .. £3,187,357
Expenses (including dividends) .. 958,699
Amounts written off 41,605
Added to Funds (net) .. .. .. 1,990,687
Total Income .. £6,178,348
The amounts written of were distributed as follows
City Mutual £2,006
Citizens’(ordinary) .. .. 395
Citizens’ (industrial) .. .. 849
Mutual Life Association .. 1,796
A.M.P. 36,559
Total .. £41,605
Of the A.M.P.’s £36,559 an amount of £6741 was applied
to aid the so far non-paying Industrial Department.
The population of Australasia at the beginning
of 1906 was 4,944,631. Therefore, for every man, woman
and child in the Commonwealth and Maoriland, £1 4s.
lid. was paid into insurance offices by way of premiums,
or was received by the offices as interest on previous
payments. The amount paid into foreign offices (chiefly
American), and not included in the foregoing, probably
about counterbalances the amount of foreign business
done by the Australian offices.
The table above does not, however, show the
progress that the offices are making; it does not
necessarily distinguish between those that are suffering
from dry-rot and the progressive ones. The following
table isn’t conclusive on the point either, but it gives
some idea (the figures after the name of the office shows
when it was established): —
Proportion of New Premiums to Total Premiums.
Proportion
New Renewal of New
Premiums. Premiums. Premiums.
A.M.P. (1849) .. ..£164,250 £1,716,721 8.7 p.c.
National Mutual (1869) 101,840 478,517 17‘5 „
M.L.Government(lB7o) 22,718 297,058 7'l „
Colonial Mutual (1873) 48,314 299,752 13‘9 ~
Mutual Life (1873) .. 28,336 209,964 11'9 ~
Citizens’(lBB6).. .. 33,322 192,962 14'6 ~
Widows’Fund (1871) .. 21,948 162,273 11 -9 ~
Temp. & General (1876) 18,468 61,731 23'0 ~
City Mutual (1879) .. 13,020 46,568 21 - 8
Standard (1899) .. 3,448 7,259 32’2 „
In the Industrial offices and branches the new cannot be
distinguished from the old business, so they are not
included in this list. Generally speaking, it is very
much easier for a young office to show a larger proportion
of new business than the old office —for the first few
years, at any rate. With that reservation, however, the
list seems instructive. The first surprising feature of the
table is the National Mutual’s high percentage of new
business. But a good deal of this (and the same thing
applies to the Colonial Mutual) is not Australian busi-
ness : these offices are pursuing the S’African vigorously
—with what ultimate results remains to be seen. On the
other hand, in this matter of rapid extension the Maori-
land Government office is handicapped by being confined
exclusively to its own country.
Still, to be confined like this is not neces-
sarily a handicap. Rapid extension may cost too
much: fast growing figures may mean, too, that
lives are being accepted without careful selection,
which will tell on bonuses by-and-bye. Growth
of business has, therefore, to be considered, in
the first place, in conjunction with the expense
rate ; and on that subject there are the figures that
follow. The third column represents an attempt to show
what the new business is actually costing. The renewal
(or old) business is first charged with 7 per cent, of pre-
mium receipts to cover management expenses; 3 per
cent, is allowed for getting annuity business ; and the
balance is reckoned as the cost of the new business—the
cost per cent, of the new premiums :
Ordinary.
Expense
Interest p.c. Expenses p.c. of new
of Funds. of Income, business.
Citizens’ .. ..£4 6 6 £l2 10 2 *63 p.c.
A.M.P 4 9 7 8 17 2 84 „
Temp, and General ..4 9 1 21 6 3 87 ~
National Mutual .. 412 8 17 13 9 115
City Mutual .. .. 5 1 1 24 5 6 118 ~
M.L.A. .. .. ..4 7 5 18 1 1 159 ~
Standard .. ..374 55 18 6 167
Colonial Mutual .. 318 1 22 8 8 2i4
Widows’Fund.. .. 4 6 1 20 15 11 1„3 „
Maoriland Govt. .. 48 5 13 7 6 214 ~
Industrial and Mixed.
Citizens’ .. ..£4 6 6 £36 1 10
Temp, and General ..4 9 1 49 13 7
Standard .. .. 3 7 4 58 11 6
Aus. Metrop 62 6 4
A.M.P -- 126 18 6
*But if the proportion of profit which goes to the
shareholders is counted in, the Citizens’ expense rate
goes up to £l6 os. lOd. per cent, of income, and the cost
of the new business goes up to 93 per cent. Of the
actuarial surplus (that is, the amount in hand over and
above what is estimated to be necessary to provide for
policy liabilities) one-fifth goes to the shareholders ; last
year, as far as can be ascertained, this one-fifth amounted
to £9860,
The fine position of the Temperance and General in the
list is probably due to the fact that it now energetically
carries on an Industrial business ; and that business feeds
the other. The Citizens’ no doubtgains in the same way ;
and the A.M.P. hopes to, though up to now it is the
A.M.P.’s Ordinary business that feeds the Industrial.
The unsatisfactory position of the Maoriland Government
Life office in the list is, to a small extent, explained by
the size of Maoriland taxation, on land especially. But
it is chiefly due to the fact that, the proportion of new
business coming in is small, without any diminution of
expenses.
• * # *
The Norwich Union Life Insurance Co.—
which isn’t the Norwich Union Fire Insurance Co.—has
appointed an attorney in Maoriland, and is going into
active business there. Maoriland, having its own Gov-
ernment Life Department, is really better served already
than the Commonwealth, for it has the latter’s offices in
addition. Still, with the help of a flood of literature
which may not be properly understood at the outset,
the foreigner may get some business. Some of its litera-
ture, for instance, shows that as the result of the last
quinquennial investigation, each new-series parti-
cipating policy was allotted a reversionary bonus
equal to 33 per cent, of the premiums paid ; and
that looks very fine and large. But note that the
bonus is reversionary, not cash. And there is a vast
difference between the two. Thus, while last year’s
A.M.P. cash bonus was £664,693, the reversionary bonus
was £1,200,000. Yet the cash bonus of the A.M.P. is
better than the reversionary bonus of the Norwich Union.
The latter’s reversionary bonus for the past five years
averaged 33 per cent, of premiums paid ; the A.M.P.’s
cash bonus averaged 35 - 7 per cent, for the past three
years, and 34-8 per cent, for the three years before that.
Or take the Maoriland Government Insurance Depart-
ment. On premiums of £925,607 the reversionary bonuses
amounted to £302,910, or 32*7 per cent., which is less
than one-third per cent, under the Norwich Union’s rate.
But, then, consider this comparative table of premiums:—
Premiums Payable (at Age 30 on Entry) Per £lOO of
Insurance.
Whole Endowment.
Life. 65. 60.
M. Government .. £2 4 3 £3 11 10 £2 19 10
National Mutual .. 268 3 15 11 336
Colonial Mutual .. 274 3 13 11 328
A.M.P 282 3 14 5 336
Citizens’ .. .. 289 3 16 8 344
Norwich Union .. 211 9 317 5 367
The Norwich Union rates are taken from the Insurance
Blue Book. So, for a whole life policy for £5OO, a man
entering at 30 would pay the Norwich Union £l2 18s. 9d.
a year, as against the £ll Is. 3d. which he would pay
the Maoriland Government Insurance Department. And,
in spite of that remarkable difference, the reversionary
bonuses are practically the same—in other words, they
each amount to 33 per cent, of the premiums. It is true
that a lower rate of interest earnings is assumed by the
English office ; but, then, the English interest earnings
actually are lower. Taking the reversionary bonus
as a full set-off against premium, then the Maori-
land Government Insurance Department offers for
£7 7s. 6d., the same insurance for which the foreign office
requires £8 12s. 6d. What sort of a footing the English
office expects to get under those circumstances it is hard
to see. It may certainly push its annuity business ; for
admittedly its annuity rates are below the Australian.
But if a septuagenarian annuitant has to go to Norwich
to collect the annual payments—the experiences of John
Darling’s heirs, in S. Australia, in connection with the
English Eagle office are to be remembered—well, the
septuagenarian may find it a bother.
* * * *
“Shylock” : To what extent, and in what in-
stances, if any, have amounts been written off mort-
gagors’ indebtedness to Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd!,
in recent years? If the directors would tell that, it
would disclose whether the pastoralists whohad to struggle
on against the double strain of several consecutive
drought years and compound interest at high rates, have
been granted concessions by the co. at all commensurate
with the enormous writings-off of debenture debt con-
ceded the co. itself in its own time of distress.
Everybody knows that several mortgagors have “ left ”
their holdings during the l ast few years. Have they
been forced to do so by being called upon to pay their
mortgage indebtedness in full, or have they been given a
reasonable chance of redemption by amounts being
written off such debts, to correspond with the writings
down of the relative accounts in the internal records of
the co. after each of its three reconstruction arrange-
ments? If such mortgagors have been called upon to
yield up their pound of flesh, then the directorate can
hardly be said to have displayed that quality of mercy
which might reasonably have been expected from them
in view of the marvellously generous treatment accorded
the concern under their control by the debenture-holders.
Given three factors —(1) Enormous writings-off of deben-
ture indebtedness in 1893 and subsequent years ; (2)
Abnormally favorable seasons and prices during the past
three or four years ; (3) Exaction of the full amount of
mortgagor’s indebtedness, and compound interest thereon,
incurred over a series of drought years unparalleled for
severity in pastoral experience—and the present “ unas-
sailable ” position of the co. is sufficiently accounted for,
wholly irrespective of any transcendental business capacity
in the directorate.
* ■* * *
The accounts of the North Coast Co-operative
00. (N.S.W.), which owns the Byron Bay butter factory—
generally understood to be easily the largest in Australia
—give an interesting look into the finances of the great
Oow industry. Take the past half-year first. During
that time this one co. made no less than 2486 ton.s of
butter —about sJlb. for every man, woman, and child in
N. Wales. The suppliers got 8.55 d. per lb.—the butter,
of course, being contained in the milk, which is tested
for butter-fat, and paid for on that basis. The price
realised was 9’76d. per lb.; so that l’2ld. per lb. (less
than a penny farthing) paid all costs of manufacture and
marketing, and provided profits. Certainly there is what
is technically called the “over-run”—-the butter got out of
the milk in excess of the quantity shown by the tests. The
value of this is profit to the co. But where the co. is co-
operative this doesn’t matter, because the surplus goes
back to the co-operators as either dividend or bonus. The
half-year’s gross profits were £9054 ; but £2750 was writ-
ten off (this includes additions to buildings made out of
profits), and £2862 represents insurance, etc., on ship-
ments. The net profit was £3442 plus anything that
can be saved out of the insurance, etc. The co. has a
paid capital of £10,704 ; its reserves (including insurance
reserve and undivided balances) amount to £16,652 ; and
it pays a very modest 5 per cent, by way of dividend.
This co. started some time in 1895. In its first full
year (1896), it had a turnover of £37,341. In the past
half-year it had a turnover of £255,176. The pig now
helps the cow ;or the cow helps the pig. Anyway,
the co. now kills close up to 20,000 pigs a year. For
about 12 years these are the total figures :
Paid for butter .. .. £1,643,884
Paid for pigs .. .. 201,484
The co., as mentioned just now, has a capital of £10,703.
But its plant has cost £56,942 ; this, however, has been
steadily written down out of profits, and the whole con-
cern stands in the books to-day at £36,319. This hard
writing-down of works out of profits is a very fine feature
of almost all these butter cos.’ accounts.
Itemising costs in the butter-making business,
it seems that for 1001 b. of butter, factory wages
would amount to about Is. 7d.; cases Is. 6d.; salt, pre-
servatives, paper, acid, and other trade expenses, Is. sd. ;
and freight, Is. lid. Commission (net) amounts with
this co. to about 2£ per cent, net of the price realised (that
is, after return of bonuses). The average pig, by way of
postscript, costs 9s. to kill, cure, and put upon the
market; this is independent of the original cost of the
beast. Anything, in short, over 9s. for ihe average
swine is revenue to the man who grows him.
* * * •
The butter-manufacturing co.’s profits are cut'
pretty fine nowadays. The Ulladulla Co. (Milton,
N.S.W.) made 170 tons last half-year, and, after writing
off 5 per cent, for depreciation, the profit was £361, or a
small fraction over £2 per ton. The capital is, of course,
small (£2553); on that a dividend at the rate of 5 per
cent, per annum is paid. After providing for this divi-
dend the co. had reserves of £ll2B.
• * • *
Judging by present appearances, the Elmore
vacuum process of zinc extraction has come to stay in
Broken Hill. The Gillies Ore Concentration Co. will pro-
bably take it on ; for this co. the Potter process no
longer possesses any charm. The Gillies plant has been
drawing the teeth of the zinc problem, as applied to a
couple of Block 10 tailings dumps, and as long as suitable
material could be fed into the flotation pans, satisfactory
results were obtained. But part of the Block 10 tailings
purchased by the Gillies co. turned out to be half slimes,
and slimes the Potter process won’t look at. It likes a
calcite gangue, such as is found abundantly in the South
mine dumps, and to a less extent in the residues of
the North mine. But, then, the Gillies people
didn’t buy South or North mine dumps. Hence,
another reconstruction of the plant is loom-
ing. One of the essentials in zinc extraction
from tailings is to have the residues reground to the
proper fineness, and the Gillies plant has no suitable
grinding equipment. Of course, in the event of the
vacuum process being finally adopted, either a tube mill
or grinding pans will have to be installed. Litigation,
which is pending between the Elmore and the Cattermole
people (the processes are both oil-acid), may prove
awkward, but both the Gillies Co. and the “ Sink ”
Corporation appear willing to chance that. With the
help of the Potter process, the Gillies plant has been
turning out a marketable zinc concentrate, averaging
about 44 per cent, zinc and 11 per cent, lead, but its resi-
dues (used to ballast a Block 10 tram line) go 8 and 9 per
cent, of metal.
* * * *
It has been difficult for Block 14, Broken Hill,
to keep its works going since the cupboard was found so
bare at the 600 ft. level. Now there is another unpleasant
truth to face. The length of the ore body, which was
about 40ft. on the 600 ft. level, is rapidly lessening as it
goes down towards the 700 ft. That, at any rate, is the
doleful tale told by two winzes being put down from the
600 ft. at the centre and northern ends of the body. The
Former, in passing out of the ore into schist at 13ft.,
showed that below the 600 ft. level the lode continues to
recede at an acute angle on the southward, thus leaving
a rapidly increasing extent of the lease apparently barren
as depth is reached. On the north end, nearer the British
boundary, the ore shoot went down better, only a few
degrees from the vertical, until reaching the 600 ft. Then
however, as proved in No. 2 winze, the angle becomes
suddenly more acute, and unless the angle changes again
the wedge of ore will cut out at about the 700 ft. level.
Of course, there is a chance that the ore body is only
having a little game of its own, and that presently it will
suddenly yawn and stretch itself again. Such things do
happen—mostly in print.
* * * •
Hopes of Broken Hill Junction management
regarding the ore bodies from Browne’s section continu-
ing across to King’s, have received a check by the petering
out of the lode in the 600 ft. south drive from Browne
shaft. To balance this, good ore is being opened up on
the 550 ft. level. Still, as, years ago, the eyes were picked
out of the mine, so far as it had been developed, not
enough good ore is now' available to raise the dismally
low grade of the crudes that are going through the mill.
• * * *
The British Broken Hill is corroborating the
evidence gained by other mines along the line of lode in
respect to the eastern vein. It is consistently narrow,
and of poor average grade. The 800 ft. crosscut east
showed 15ft. of good ore, and then 10ft. of quartz splashed
w'ith galena and bunches of copper pyrites. The drive
which is now being put in northwards on the course of
the lode will soon show whether things improve that way.
Broken Hill has revived a proposal to build a
light line of railway between that place and the Darling
at Menindie, about 60 miles. The line would serve three
purposes : (1) It would give town and mines a firewood
supply ; (2) it would give a lift to irrigation settlements
along the river ; (3) in case of the never-improbable
failure of the water supply, it would at least be possible
to keep the place alive by training up water from the
river. Out there in the drought country there was never
much timber, and gradually the town and mines have
stripped the country, until now the supply has to be
drawn from far down in S. Australia at a cost of about
30s. a ton. The line would bring Broken Hill in touch
with the box timber of the Darling flats. It was from
there, by the way, that the first timber used underground
in the Broken Hill Prop. was drawn 20 years ago. Henry
Copeland, when he was Minister for Lands, had an idea
that the big and ready-money market at Broken Hill
ought to make an irrigation settlement somewhere near
Menindie a success ; and he reserved a large area there-
abouts for the purpose. Also the usual railway syndicate
arrived, and got a Bill through ; but it only made a pre-
tence of starting work—as usual, its business was to
hawk the concessions, and make a profit that way ; and
when the public wouldn’t bite, the whole thing fizzled out.
* * * *
The ancient conflict between the opal gouger
and the opal buyer, whose name is mostly Jacoboffsky,
broke out afresh the other day at Gemville, a section of
White Cliffs (N.S.W.) ; and the whole population turned
up at night to hang the principal Abrahamstein’s effigy
to the top of his own flagpole. The trouble is that there
is no standard for valuing opal; and so every stone is
“ too plue ” when the gouger comes to sell it. Generally,
being hard-up when he starts gouging, he has in the end
to take whatever price is offered.
* * * *
Another labor-saving device, the Araluen
(N.S.W.) steam shovel, is not done with the breakages;
and the loss of time and expense incidental thereto leave
a lot of room for conjecture as to what the profits will be.
It is all very well to reckon lOd. or Is. a yard got by
the men who have been fossicking the valley for years ;
these people have been working with the ordinary
implements of toil, and cut out the handiest bit of
stony wash ; but a steam shovel, with a big co. to work
for, requires feeding. Moreover, in comparatively flat
country it is much harder to get a mullock tip than it is
to get a market tip in Pitt-street, Sydney.
* • * *
At the True Blue, Wyalong (N.S.W.), the
Brilliant shaft is now down 1142 ft. on high-grade mineral
ore. This is the greatest depth at which gold-bearing
stone has been worked on the field. Homeward Bound
is coming to the front as a gold producer. The mostly-
Sydney co. is energetically erecting up-to-date machinery,
including air compressors. Latest crushings at Cockle
Creek are 120 tons for 3oz. gold per ton, and 15 tons for
14oz. per ton. About the same quantity is now under-
going treatment. This is a very healthy state of affairs.
The co. is driving north at 300 ft. on a rich shoot dipping
from the old Gipsy Queen. The same co. owns the Called
Back, two miles north of the township ; but develop-
ments are not too promising.
• • * *
It was on account mainly of the failure so far
to locate anything at the south end of the property,
that the recent negotiations for the sale of Queen Bee,
Cobar district (N.S.W.), fell through. The ore develop-
ment is lenticular ; and so far the only make of ore found
has been at the north end, where it is reckoned that
there may be about 80,000 tons above the 470 ft. ; and
there is ore underfoot. The quality is, however, very
irregular.
*.* * *
Reasonable backers of the parent Budgery
(N.S.W.) have nothing to complain of in the apparent
size of the ore body ; but the quality is not proving any-
thing sensational, and the plungers who reckoned up the
mine on the basis of the zone of secondary enrichment,
nearly always met with in copper mines, are feeling sorry
for themselves. The principal work at present is at the
266 ft., where recent driving has been in ore averaging a
little over 5 per cent. The lens at this level has been
proved 102 ft. long. The pot is kept boiling by dis-
patches of about 40 tons a fortnight to Lithgow.
* * ■** *
Value of Westralian gold production for 1907
will probably be fully half-a-million less than that for
1906. Since the shrinkage in the return set in, monthly
output figures have not been made public in London;
and the Agent-General’s office is now being twitted
about it. In the end this policy of silence will probably
prove expensive.
« * * *
It is time Ivanhoe Junction gave up. The first
clean-up from the co.’s own ramshackle mill only gave a
wretched ldwt., or thereabouts, per ton, and the
management has been upset ever since. In a letter of
justification to the directors, the late metallurgist throws
the whole blame of the fiasco on another officer. He
states that ore was never systematically sampled, and
that when he asked for samples to be taken from trucks
going to the mill he was snubbed for being too revolu-
tionary. The cyanide plant is described as a collection
of worse-than-useless leaky vessels, and the system of
treatment as primitive and slovenly. Meanwhile the mill
is running, the vats are leaking, and the farce of treating
unpayable ore is going on. As the co. has spent all its
cash and is dependent on calls to pay its debts, the
shareholders will probably be stirred up before long.
* * * *
Westralian mining men don’t know what to
make of Ralph Nichols’ appointment as manager of the
Zinc Corporation at Broken Hill. When the Boulder
Perseverance was transferred to Bewick, Moreing and
Co.’s stable, three years ago, Ralph Nichols, who was in
London at the time, was retained as manager at £6OOO a
year. He, however, got into conflict with the firm, and
the upshot was that the directors were induced to give
him independent control. At that time, if he had any
love for Bewick, Moreing and Co., he concealed it wonder-
fully. A few months later he went to London, and there
was talk of a law fight between him and the firm, but it
came to nothing. Subsequently he went to Mexico to
take charge of the Avino silver-lead mines. Now he is
going to the Barrier to work for people he was reputed
to love as Dill-Macky loves the Cardinal. After which
the West won’t be surprised to find Judkins running a
pub with Wren as bar-keeper.
* ■* * *
One advantage claimed for Ridgeway’s vacuum
filters, now in operation at the Great Boulder (W.A.), is
that the washing of slimes is done much more perfectly
than by filter-pressing. Some critics allege, though,
that this superiority is discounted by a larger percentage
of moisture being retained after treatment iir the resi-
due cake ; and water for gold-extraction purposes at
Kalgoorlie costs money. Still, the Boulder management
is quite satisfied that the process is the cheapest and
best on the field, and that recommendation means a good
deal.
* • * •
Lake View Consols (W.A.) west lode is payable
for a length of about 700 ft. at the 14th and 16th levels.
It bulges in places to 25ft. ; but the average is much less
than that, while the average value is just enough to pay
and leave a trifle over. The downward continuation of the
shoot has been cut and driven on for some distance at
the 18th level, and is now being sought for at 1900 ft.;
and it is anticipated that at no great depth below 2000 ft.


Strength and.
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager,
2, 4 & G SPRING ST.,
SYDNEY.
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining cos., because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost, which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. These machines have
been supplied to leading mines everywhere by the makers,
Messrs. Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have ap-
pointed W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, the
sole Australian agents. The machine has the distinction
of being a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied- J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
One set of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, is at present being constructed for the Berry United
Gold Mines, to the order of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
Company. The set will consist of 3 lifts, each of 200 ft.,
the total lift being 600 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in
diameter and 10ft. stroke, and the discharge 2,500,000
gallons per day. The valve boxes are made in separate
pieces, instead of forming part of one H piece, and the
valves are of the compound fla p type. The total weight
is 110 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
this work in hand. This Company has constructed and
erected most of the big volume, deep alluvial plants now’
working* in Victoria.
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman (Liverpool) in its
issue of Ist September, wrote “ Quietly, unobtrusively,
but none the less surely The Colonial Mutual Life Office
is becoming a most important factor in the Insurance
World. To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000 in 32
years is in itself a performance unique in the history of
British ordinary life offices, and this achievement is but
one among many of the accomplishments of the Society.’
* * * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* ♦ * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation. *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * » ■ *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberbkro and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
„ • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras.”*
•* * *
Golden Bendigo. —The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* -* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* # * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * #
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
further extensions of the shoots worked in the adjoining
Boulder Perseverance lease will be met. In view ot cnis,
more attention is to be paid to the north end of the
property. , * *
Another instance of how Australian share-
holders are frozen out of their rights is furnished in the
case of the North Boulder (W.A.) reconstruction. Be-
cently a notice appeared in the Government .Gazette
about this reconstruction, but it contained no informa-
tion as to when application was to be made for shares in
the new co. And the agents and solicitors couldn t tell.
Since then the shareholders in the oldco. have got official
circulars, intimating that all applications were to bem
the secretary’s office in London by the 24th May. this
means that much old scrip held in this country is now so
much waste paper. Certainly it has been practically
valueless for some time past; but that doesn’t affect the
principle—or the utter lack of principle.
* * * *
Both main shafts are now down close to 2200 ft.
in the Great Boulder, and some information about values
at this depth should be forthcoming sooi'. The lode is
poor as far as opened up at 2050 ft., and r..,thing like the
size it is at the 19th level. It may, how.- ver, make again,
and assay better at 2200 ft. So far the snoot at 1900 ft.
has been proved for a length of 1150 ft. It is wide in this
level, bulging in one place (opposite Edwards’shaft) to
;52ft. Assays average about 12i!wt. per ton. There is
also a fine body of ore showing .n the 1750 ft. workings,
but the 1900 ft. is the best level yet opened up below No.
12. In Hamilton’s workings at the north end of the pro-
perty, where the extension of the Ivan hoe east lode is
being worked, a body of payable ore some 300 ft. in length
has been developed between the Bth and 12th levels. The
same body has since been proved at the 13th, and is now
being crosscut for at the 15th level.
Oroya-Brown Hill Co. should have had over
£250,010 on hand after payment of the 4s. dividend
on the 27th ult. Exception is taken in some quarters to
the directors keeping such a large liquid balance, and it
is suggested that a shilling bonus be paid with the quar-
terly dividend of 2s. 6d. until the amount is exhausted.
This would mean an additional £22,500 a quarter for
three vears. Chairman Doolette and colleagues, however,
prefer to hold on to the surplus until a suitable oppor-
tunity presents itself for acquiring more mines to take
the place of those now being slowly but surely worked
out.
* * * *
The bottom level (1519 ft.) in the Ivanhoe
(W.A.) is looking well, and winzes, sunk in ore averaging
from 40s. to 50s. per ton, have proved the main lodes for
another 50ft. to 100 ft. in depth. This gives the lie to the
disappointing results obtained from the horizontal bore-
hole put from the 10th level of the Great Boulder across
the Ivanhoe lease. The explanation given at the time for
the failure of the drill to strike good values was that the
lodes were passed through on a slide, and that therefore
it would be quite easv for a small inch hore to miss pay-
able ore. No doubt that is what really happened. Work
recently done at and below the 1519 ft. level proves that
the mine’s main source of ore supplies—the east lode—
has taken a welcome turn to the west. An easterly break
carried this body to within 50ft. of the Boulder boundary
at the 1370 ft. level, but two westerly slides have since
pushed it 39ft. back again. This has caused manager
Nicolson to breathe more freely. On June 30, when an
estimate was made, reserves showed little alteration from
those of six months ago, when the net profit worked out
at a shade over £7 per share, or nearly 100 per cent, of
present market valuation. This puts the stock high up
as an investment.
* * * *
The Westralian Full Court decided the other
day that boring for coal and other minerals from a pon-
toon in Albany harbor was mining within the meaning
of the Workers’ Compensation Act. Something broke
away whilst Ernest Peters was attending to the drill, and
in going after it he was drowned. Deceased’s widow
sought compensation for the loss of her husband, and
the Lower Court told the defendant co. to pay £5OO
damages. This decision was appealed against. The
question was whether the deceased was or was not work-
ing on a, mine at the time of his death. The Higher
Court decided that he was, remarking that the registered
mining area where boring was being carried on was none
the less a mine because it happened to be covered with
water.
• * * *
Great Ophir mill, at Davyhurst (W. A.), is now
tipped to be running about*the end of September.
* * * *
Golden Ridge Co. (W.A.) has definitely decided
to pay an eighteenpenny dividend in September next;
and another of the same, or more, will probably come
before the end of the year. Ore reserves above 300 ft.
level are now reckoned to be equivalent to two years’
supplies.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia( W. A. ) is showing improved pros-
pects throughout, and as a result the gold output is to be
slightly increased this month. The drive on the under-
lay of theGwalia South shoot at No. 9 level is furnishing
ore of more than ounce value, while a winze 300 ft. south
of the shaft at No. 14 level is going down in good stuff.
In B. 6/6/’O7, it was remarked that the occurrence of pay-
able values was very irregular in the bottom workings ;
it ought to be added that the drive has not yet been
extended far enough south to reach the best part of the
main shoot.
* * * *
For months past all sorts of dodges, creditable
and otherwise, have been resorted to in order to make
Whitford Reward Co.’s Callion leases find favor with the
speculative public. Gaudy pars have been scattered
about the great wealth exposed underground, and par-
ticularly as regards the high values showing in the winze
below 200 ft.; and the game is still going on. This boom-
ing in itself is su picious ; and the £tock had best be left
alone until some independent expert, whose opinion is
worth having, makes an inspection of the property.
* * * *
Who says mining isn’t an exact science in
Victoria? A Board of directors up Wood’s Point way
lately met at a hotel near the mine to settle on some
work in which its own and a neighboring show were
interested ; practically the two shows have the same
Board. They had the two managers in, and one urged
one thing and the other urged another, until the Board
was tied in a knot and the two managers got to angry
words. At that point the whole crowd adjourned; the
two managei ■ stripped, two directors acted as seconds,
and the legal m,eager (up from Melbourne) was referee.
Two hard rounds saw the younger manager knocked
out; whereupon the Board meeting was resumed, and
the victor’s recommendations were adopted.
* * * «
The “first robbers” who swarmed over Bal-
larat Cemetery on gold being disclosed in a miner’s grave
are asking boom prices for wooden pegs; £2OO and 2000
shares paid up to ss. were blandly demanded in connec-
tion with the float of the Chambers Gold-Mining Co.,
which has 30 acres north of and adjoining the graveyard,
including 1400 ft. on the line of reef. The promoters
wanted more at first, but slid down on being scolded by
the brokers. In all 28,000 shares were offered to the
public at £4 per 100.
* * * *
The biggest thing in dredging cos. in Victoria
is on the stocks—a co. to take over the present Tewks-
bury, Tewksbury Freehold, Eurobin, and Freeburgh cos.,
all of them at present in managing director P. H.
Tewksbury’s “stable.”
* * * *
A hand full of aDproval has to be extended to
Minister McLeod, of Victoria, for straightening up the
Junction Deep Leads crowd. Their claim adjoins the
Charlotte Plains, at Moolort, and departmental officers
had decided that the co. was going too slow in the mat-
ter of pumping. So the co. was told to fork up £6O per
week to help Charlotte Plains’ costs. Thus a
valuable principle was established : that a deep-lead
co. may not loaf on a neighbor, and wait for the
latter to drain the lead. The London lot, who hold
the Junction Deep, didn’t like McLeod’s decision
any more than it ever liked going to work. Hot tears
have consequently been poured out by their local men ;
but McLeod said ‘ “ Ante up, or you don’t get any sus-
pension to help on any further reconstruction.” To stop
the royaltv grab, and then to bring idlers up to scratch,
is a good record in the Mines Department, where there
has never been much energy shown to help on the
workers and to kick out the drones.
* * * *
South Florence, or Florence South, Daylesford
(Vic.), is like Guppy—she can’t abear a fuss. So
the coy thing has arranged her skirts, shut the
door, and gone to rest “ until things become
more ■ settled.” This is after announcing that the
prospects “warrant recommencing work ” directly the
settling down is completed. Perhaps the real reason is
that she has only £lOO, and that other Daylesford calls
are heavy. But that is not a valid reason for shutting up.
Either the South Florence mine is able to go on its own
or it is not. If it is, the claim should be worked. If it
isn’t, there has been a great deal of misrepresentation.
There have been puffs about the mineral struck in the
mine, and w'ith such indications the claim should not be
shut up like a concertina when the first call is in view.
* * * *
George Lansell’s Bendigo executors don’t pro-
pose to take things easy and let the estate suffer from
dry rot. On the contrary, they have decided to start a
foundry, primarily to do the work of the Lansell mines
and those in which the estate is largely interested. For
a beginning the new works are going to specialise in
rock-drill plant.
* * * •
Bewick, Moreing and Co. have had nothing but
pin-pricks since they put up their tent in Melbourne.
They have lately been threatened with a writ over the
Langi Logan; now it is said that the Prentice and
Southern—one of their deep lead shows—has been
“jumped.” This is rubbing it in with a vengeance, not
only to the firm, but also to a good call-paying lot of
shareholders whom 8., M. and Co. took over with the
mine. The young fellow, who evidently knew a good
deal about the leases when he whipped in the pegs, may,
or may not, get the claim, But this pegging won’t popu-
larise deep leads with J. Bull.
* * • *
The two ends of the gamble. A Ballarat tribu-
tor, sued for debt, swore that his earnings for 18 months
had not averaged 15s. weekly, and he had to find shelter
and food for a family of four persons. During the past
10 months two of the tributors working in the North
Woah Hawp, same district, have lifted £l5OO each.
* * * *
Portuguese Flat Dredging Co., Ores wick (Vic.),
keeps posting good yields. The July call is expected to
pay off the debit balance, and dividends should not be
far away.
* •* * *
Alleged of the Working Miners Co.’s claim at
Kevington (Vic.), that Bs. per ton covers mining, truck-
ing (three-quarters of a mile), and milling. The milling
is done by waterpower ; the plucky little co., which has
had its hand in its pockets for years, has a call
on the Goulburn River. The manager, Alex. Jamieson,
is a son of that W. G. Jamieson who managed the New
Loch Fyne in its glittering days.
* * * *
Peter’s Gully, Heathcote (Vic.), is the only
live mine in the most interesting geological section of
Victoria. Heathcote not only has given its name to the
rare Heathcotian series of rocks, but it contains nearly
every known mineral. In the old days, in the Mclvor
rush in 1857—the richest of all Victoria’s rushes—the
Peter’s Gully mine was the Beyer and Holtermann of
Victoria. The claim persistently yielded ljoz. to the ton
from the grass roots to 175 ft., and the reef channel is
50ft. wide, nearly all quartz. The next best claim was
worked bv Dr. H. L. Atkinson, the Bendigo millionaire,
who made his first “rise” out of the Alabama and
Butler’s. After losing the old shaft by a collapse, the
Peter’s Gully Co. has just struck gold in its new shaft,
and some good yields should be soon heard of. It is
good, too, to find that the old yarn about the picks and
gads being left on the bottom level opposite a face
jielding 2oz. dirt has really been proved true for once !
* * * *
“Blister,” from thereabouts: The fantastic
notion that the Ajax directors were morally bound to
predict a fall in values, when they so little expected a
fall that they were themselves holding for a rise, is dying •
a hard death on Ballarat ’Change. The truth is that the
atoms in the Buchanan crowd are thorough believers in
the mine, which, as I said some time ago, is a good pro-
position, and will be dividend-paying for a long time to
come, with careful management. It was not to be ex-
pected that the shares would keep flying skyward, or
that the rich store in the bottom level would last all
through. As it stands to-day, the Ajax is a good thing
for the scripper who will keep ice on his head. The
trouble was caused by the expectation that the golden
shoot would go up and down as in the Birthday.
The North Mt. Farrell (Tas.), in the wilds of
the West Coast, wears a different face since the metal
markets took their turn. Like this :
Written Re-
Profits. Divs. &Tax. off. serves.
April, ’O5 .. £4,009
Oct., ’O5 .. £471 nil. 4,480
April, ’O6 .. 3210 £894 6,796
Oct., ’O6 .. 5890 1804 £6ll 10,271
April, ’O7 .. 7468 4558 321 12,860
In the first half-year the ore averaged 18s. 9Jd. per ton
in value ; in the past half-year, £1 Bs. 71>d. per ton ; and
the difference in value, due to the rise in metal prices,
accounts for nearly all the profit. There certainly has
been a small reduction in costs—from 17s. 7d. to 16s. sd.
per ton. The metal recovered has kept pretty constant
—6’39oz. silver and 6T5 per cent, lead in 1905 ; 6‘330z.
silver and 6-54 per cent, lead in 1907. The expenditure
on capital account has lately been pretty heavy, but
there was still a surplus of £4247 of liquid assets over
liabilities at the end of last half-year. The new plant
will no doubt bring costs a trifle lower ; but it is clear
that profits depend almost wholly on lead keeping above
£l2 10s. and silver above 2s. 6d. (fine)—the prices ruling
at October, 1905.
It would be too cruel to recall the things that
were said when the Long Tunnel people decided to have a
flutter in dredging, and picked upon the Gladstone (Tas.)
Nothing after the style of the old dredging plant would
do ; they must have something new and big to match
the property. Of course, the concern having turned out
so badly, the dredge has been blamed, and Grayson’s
reputation has probably suffered in some minds ; yet
Tewksbury, of the Bright District (Vic.), the most suc-
cessful of the practical Gippsland dredgers, told the
directors at the end of last year that “ the dredge is not
a bad one, and with no very considerable expenditure
can be made thoroughly efficient.” Tewksbury’s idea
was that it had hitherto been badly handled. Well, six
months have passed since his visit, and since some of the
changes which he recommended were made, and no im-
provement is in sight. The co. has been formed three
years', and for the two years since it got to regular work
the results have been as follows :
Loss. Deficit.
Nov., 1905 .. £609 £2308
Profit.
May, 1900 .. 19 2289
Loss.
Nov., 1900 .. 19 2308
May, 1907 .. 822 3130
The co. hoped to get through at first on £12,500; but
£16,250 has had to be got in. That has kept affairs pretty
straight financially; the liabilities are now about £950
ahead of the liquid assets. This past half-year the dredge
has struck heavy clay; but, of course, better things are
expected. The trouble is that they always have been.
Six months ago, some shareholders will remember, the
directors’ report ran this way :—“ The bores show that
there is little extent of this pug, and the latest advice
from the mine confirms that the face is improving.” It
ought to be practically impossible to make such mistakes
about the character of the stuff ahead of the machine.
* * * *
The silence concerning the Gladstone isominous;
even Tewksbury’s wrinkled smile is not able to evoke a
cheer. Grayson still believes that the hopeful has not
kicked off the swaddling clothes ; but Dalrymple twirls his
moustache to a sharper angle when he is asked how the
infant is doing. Of course, there are the Dorset and
that laggard, the Ringarooma, to be remembered
as well. They must be considered together. As
matters stand, the Gladstone owes about £lOOO, and
has some £250 worth of tin in hand. The half-yearly
reports tell one or two truths. First, the story about
there being no clay in the Ringarooma flats was rubbish.
Second, the cost of running a dredge in Tassy is 25 per
cent, more than in N.S. Wales. Third, the difficulty of
saving the tin with heavily-laden boxes has never been
properly appreciated. The Ringarooma, too, has estab-
lished another fact—that the river flats carry logs. There-
fore, the idea that it was all plain sailing for the dredges
has to be modified. Also at the end remains the eternal
problem of how to save the tin. Still every day brings
experience. The Ringarooma has ground ahead that has
v red well ; the Dorset has ditto and a grand plant; and
the Gladstone is reported now to be out of the clay and
on to decent wash. The next six months, therefore, may
make or mar the dredging industry of Tasmania.
* * * *
Hercules (Tas.) is being as much fought over as
was the departed hero’s mantle. The battle ground has
been Launceston, where one lot of retired directors took
up the tender sent in by the German smelters at Zeehan
for 200,000 tons, and wanted to slam it down the throats
of the Board. As it is, the co. has a contract with the
said Germans, but it gives a loophole forescape, should
metal prices be good, after 30,000 tons put of a
total of 130,000 tons have been delivered. The
new tender was a fast, blood-and-iron contract,
which was rejected, despite the heavy whip-up.
Reasons were that the German smelters didn’t make out
a good case why they should be practically handed the
mine ; that shareholders were not prepared to lose twice
£31,000 profit for the benefit of having a fixed tender ;
that it was unwise to debar the Board from dealing with
other buyers ; and that the clause allowing the smelters
under certain circumstances to work the mine until the
whole of the 200,000 tons had been taken out could not
be tolerated by any self-respecting directors. Share-
holders might ask themselves whether the Hercules
isn’t worth a little more enterprise put forward by its
own management.
This Mt. Cleveland, about which such remark-
ably diverse opinions are held, is 10 miles from Mt.
Bischoff, in the rough country on the Whyte River.
It claims to have three parallel lodes, but practically the
only work done has been on the eastern lode, and not
much has been done even there. What, however, is
claimed to be the one lode has been exposed at various
points about 1400 ft. apart—in some places by tunnels, in
others by surface openings. In one of the tunnels the
lode-body is said to be 34ft. wide, and to be worth
7 p.c. ; at another point it is said to be 16ft. wide, and to
be worth from 4 per cent, to 26 per cent. No bulk
sample has, however, been treated. The co. is at present
preparing to put in about two miles of a tram track from
the mine to the Waratah-Corinna road; and it looks as
though nothing will be done in the way of providing a
batterv until the tram has been completed.
* * * *
Chillagoe (Q.) report, noted last week, presents
some arithmetic for shareholders to puzzle over ; deben-
ture holders have a good deal less need to puzzle. lor
the fact that the railway produced the big end of the
year’s profit, the high traffic rates and fares are largely
responsible. Profits from the smelting works were very
moderate. All costs (mining or purchasing ore, trans-
port, freight, realisation, etc.), also any profits, have to
come out of 34,469 tons of ore that, together with 9851
tons of low-grade fluxing ore, gave an average recovery
valued at less than £7, or £236,887 altogether. Chillagoe
smelting charges are nominally low, and the profit
is small; but the man who sells ore has to deduct
so much for weighing and smelting losses and
for transport, that the expense is really very high.
The nominal profit (£23,296) is less than 10 per cent, of
the value of the output of copper-lead and copper
(£236,887); such a profit, even if it were free from all
deductions and charges, would be absurdly inadequate to
cover the risk and depreciation. The railway profit
redeems the situation, for the debenture-holders at
any rate. The railway will depend less on the Chillagoe
mines every year ; branch lines and the Etheridge exten-
sion are of great importance to the traffic—more important
than the freight on ore from Mungana or the Chillagoe
mines.
• * * *
Melbourne Akgus says Mungana (Q.) shares
have been buoyed up by London quotations, but the
“ home market” was not so favorable to speculative
stocks. But if Munganas are not speculative, what are ?
There are half-a-million shares, quoted now' at about
11s.; total share valuation, £275,000. The latest official
estimate of ore reserves is 250,000 tons ’• so the co. needs
to make £1 2s. per ton of ore to return the market
valuation. Its ore gives a furnace recovery of from £6
to £7 at present prices. Say £4 for smelting and
marketing, etc. ; and from £2 to £3 is left, to pay mining,
freight, and all other charges. How £1 2s. profit can be
got out of that is a mystery. All depends, therefore, on
future developments, and they must be big to counter-
balance an almost certain fall in metal values. Mun-
ganas may be worth much more than 11s.; but it is all
speculation.
Stannary Hills (Q-), which made a profit of
£23,783 for its mostly S. Australian owners in the past
half-year, will have to do a good deal better than that,
or the shareholders won’t have any right to feel com-
fortable'; for out of this depreciation has to come, and
depreciation up in North Queensland is a heavy item.
Also the tin market, though its immediate prospects are
good, can’t be expected to stay up where it is. For all
last year it averaged £lBO 17s. 6d., and for the first three
months of this year (this co.’s half-year ended March 31)
it averaged £l9O 10s. Id. For the half-year to March 31
it averaged £193 ss. Id. Now, for 30 years past,
including last year, the market in 19 years averaged
under £lOO, and in eight years it averaged under
£BO. During the co.’s half-year, 19,825 tons ore
were crushed for 441'49 tons tin concentrates, averaging
68'9 per cent. tin. These tin cos.’ reports need careful
reading. Thus the Stannary Hills general manager
says “ The mill has run fairly satisfactorily; 19,825
tons have been crushed for a yield of 441‘49 tons of tin,
at an average cost of 6/4'6per ton of ore.” The directors’
report, however, show's that the general manager’s
“ tin ”is very nearly one-third mullock. The tin actually
works down to 304 tons, even if it could all be got out.
The gross profit, then, without deduction for wear and
tear, was at the rate of £7B per ton of tin ; so that the
cost of production was at the rate of about £ll5 per ton
with the profit from the tramway traffic thrown in.
(This is profit to the shareholders. The interest on the
debentures has been charged among the expenses.) And,
as shown above, in two years out of three, for the past
30 years, tin has been actually worth less than £lOO per
ton.
• • * *
“8.P.” : Re West Mutooroo (B. 13/6/’O7). The
show is 1| miles from the Mutooroo (S. Aus.); the lode
consists of arsenical pyrites carrying traces of erubescite,
bornite, and chalcopyrite. The development work con-
sists of one shaft 160 ft. deep, put down by the co. that
held the lease in the boom days of ’BB. All that the pre-
sent crowd had to do was to unwater the shaft and com-
mence on the face. Yet the mine has simply lived on
calls, which fact, I think, clearly proves that it is too
poor to pay. The co. has no assured market for its
product, the smelting co. which took about 15 tons
weekly having closed down. The ore is now being sent
to the Blinman, in the far north of S. Australia,
but only in small weekly consignments. Re the
samples taken from the truck at Cockburn, on which
the report scoffed at in B. 13/6/’O7 was based.
I was present when they were taken.. The “speci-
mens ” were simply three or four picked stones from
the truck load, and put together would not be more
than 51b. weight. The truck load which gave a result of
26.6 percent, sulphur was that from which the “speci-
mens ” were taken. The method of concentration to
bring the ore up to 40 per qent. sulphur, is the old-
fashioned hand-jigging process, which is extremely slow
and costly. After the concentrating, the product has to
be carted by waggon 14 miles to the railway, at a cost of
10s. per ton, thence by train about 300 miles. Add to
this the cost of mining, about 12s. per ton, and there is
nothing left for the producers.
Investor : There is no rule; and there isn’t any
recognised standard of what proportion a bank s capital
should bear to its deposits. For every £1 of shareholders
money the Royal of Queensland had, last balance, £2 of
deposits, the Bank of Victoria had £3 Bs., the Bank of
Australasia had £5 95., and the Commercial of S}uney
had £6 13s. But at that point the Commercial of aney
decided to get in more capital....P.S.: No prospect of
early divs.
* * * *
“Blister” : Most of the big Victorian mining
accidents are the outcome of the plain foolishness of the
past. The recent disaster at the Adelaide, Eganstown,
could have been averted if records of old workings had
been kept under the eyes of the management or mining
inspector. The tragedy at the Cardigan, about five years
ago, was also contributed to by ignorance of old work-
ings ; and the Australasian mine flooding, 25 years ago,
was caused by men picking through the wall that
separated an old drive from the newer workings. At the
Australasian 22 men lost their lives. If the Victorian Mines
Department were not tape-bound it might have followed
earlier on the lines of the Tasmanian Mining Act, which
requires a progress report every six months, accom-
panied by plans, from each mining manager or mining
company, for reference purposes. The Victorian Act of
1904 provides that copies of all plans of mines now work-
ing shall be lodged with the department, but there are
few charts of old workings in existence, and mining
managers mostly rely on the memory of the Oldest
Inhabitant. Hence these murders.
* * * *
Sydney Evening News last Monday
found a new Federal grievance; it spoke quite
severely to Deakin, Lyne and co. for proposing to
change our Commonwealth into a “Dominion.”
Of course they don’t propose to do anything of
the sort, but the News couldn’t be expected to
know that. Sometimes one is inclined to wonder
if the N bws can be expeoted to know anything-.


WATSON’S WHISK Y.
Resells Limited, Agents.
David vStorer (Q, sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(&. BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
CD; STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING
OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
fW"
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
FOR SELF-DEFENCE.
“ Hullo , Jim, going bushranging, or what?”
“No. Just going far a trip to Melbourne .”
“Tibooburra”: Re “ G.S.K.” (B. 13/6/’O7)
ami the number of gates between Broken Hill
and Worn pah (Queensland border fence), distance
240 miles. He says there are only four gates in
the whole distance. Why, from Milparinka to
Wompah, only 50 miles, there are seven (or more).
“Backblox” may never have been beyond
Argent-street, Broken Hill, but for all that he
knows more about the track than “ G.S.K.” does.
* * * *
“Con.”: In B. 13/6/’O7, “G.S.K.”
almost calls “Backblox” a liar re outback coach
travelling. Along the road on which “G.S.K.”
reckons there is no half-crown pub (viz., Mil-
parinka to Broken Hill), I not only paid half-a-
crown for a meal of bread and meat, but also had
to pay five shillings for Sib. of chaff. Also re
camels having a pad of their own on the trip I
speak of, I met three different teams in one day,
and they were right fair in the middle of the
coach road.
* * * ■*
When coughs and colds disturb the house,
When sick kids worry mater,
And sneezing through the night annoys
The tired and weary pater,
You’ll hear him toss and say to ma,
“ To-morrow you procure
The stuff to cure those sneezing kids,
That’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
“Milky White” (from Gippsland, Vic.):
What’s wrong with a Bulletin weather guide ?
Close study of a few Australian birds has bred
the belief in me that careful observation of the
habits of native walking, creeping, and flving
things, simply chronicled and methodically tabu-
lated, would provide us with a general weather
key for approaching seasons. Let me illustrate:
During the early summer many pars, dealing with
the belligerent attitude of magpies with voung
appeared in “ Aboriginalities.” Now, the Lach-
lan River blacks hold, as do the natives of the
West Coast, that when magpies are very fierce at
breeding season a drought will follow. Are we
on the threshold of a drought? Here, in Gipps-
land, during the late autumn, dozens and dozens
of flocks of galahs have been seen. This is
unusual, and old identities say that such
visits are always followed by severe inland
drought. Again, the flight of black swans inland,
usually great at this time of the year, is markedly
small; this also is held, by the gentlemen who
spend most of their time talking of the good old
days, to mean that dry weather is ahead. Here are
three bird-tips, one on the say-so of natives, and
two on the asseveration of old identities. Time will
prove them right or wrong. Meanwhile if any
weather prophet feels inclined to heap dirt on rav
little records, let him accept the biblical injunc-
tion and go to the ant. It may not foretell
droughts, but it certainly proclaims flood times
months and months ahead.
“ Nym ” (from Rochester' country, Abe.):
Can any Bulletin diviners tell why jackasses
(the feathered bipeds, I mean) are so scarce along
the waterways this season ? Last year Jack and
Ins missus haunted the chimney stacks around
Codville. This familiarity on the part of the
cheery chirp presaged floods—so declared Boozy
Bill and his kind, and the wisdom they uttered
while in beer proved good wisdom. This autumn,
so far, Jackass and Co. are conspicuous by their
absence. Likewise frogs—their tucker—and
yabbies have burrowed deep ! Is there a drought
about? [These two letters from places about 1(»0
miles apart came to hand the same day. Are
there any more drought prophets about ?]
* * * *
Brad ” : A few remarks anent the jackass,
for the edification of ‘Manor” (B. 6/6/’U7), who
appears to possess merely a molecular knowledge
of that hilarious creature. ‘Manor” asserts that
allowing snakes to descend with suddenness from
elevated places is not the forte of the Dacclo yiyas,
alias great brown kingfisher, alias laughing
jackass. It is. I have had the jovial party
under observation now for close oil 20 years,
not viewing him from a hansom cab either, but
calling on him in his native fastnesses among the
eucalypt bowers of the backbloeks. I have seen
the merry bird scores of times pick up a live
snake from the ground, fly heavenward with it,
then let it fall, sometimes catching it again before
the ground bumped it. He appears to like play-
ing with the reptile in much the same wav as a
cat likes playing with a mouse. Several times I
have seen him let the snake fall from on high
across a fence, thus breaking the creeper’s
back. The bird likes a mixed diet, such as
snakes, crabs, insects and lizards, which are
reduced to a pulp and then swallowed whole.
The kookaburra in captivity exhibits a great
weakness for living things, as well as kitchen tit-
bits. I once gave a large bandicoot to a tame
jackass, and the bird occupied fully an hour
making a hash of it, and a whole day was taken
up in devouring it. Lizards and such-like deli-
cacies are readily partaken of, which proves that
the johnny smiler is no epicure. ‘Manor” is
entirely out of it when he says the bird leaves his
meal to be continued in our next. He always
stows t'ne whole cargo into his hold at one sitting.
Would “Janor” recognise a Dacelo giyas if he
saw one? Doubtless he often sees snakes, but
that isn’t quite the same thing.
* * *
“ Scipio ” explains :
Re aboriginal stones mentioned by “ Jimmie Pannikin ”
(B. 30/5/’O7). I happen to know a little about these curiosi-
ties, and I have four of them beside me now. These were
picked up on the banks of Cooper’s Creek (S.A.). They
are about 15in. long', and have the same peculiarities as
mentioned by “ Jimmie Pannikin,” and are covered with
a lot of irregular marks that look just like shorthand.
From what I have gathered myself, and through the
medium of old station hands, I have come to the conclu-
sion that the stones are the symbols of the Masonic
societies that are knowm to exist' among the blacks. At
any rate, the blacks place great store on them, and no
amount of questioning will elicit much information con-
cerning them. “Jimmie Pannikin” is wrong when he
states that they have never been found on the graves of
aborigines. The tribes that have these stones always
place them on a fresh grave, but they come after two or
three days and take them away again. The stones have
evidently to do with the blacks’superstitions
—or religious convictions, if they have any. Also they
are found much further out than immediately west of the
Darling, some having been picked up by an expedition
that was looking - for opal, north-east of Alice Spring's.
Whatever district they are found in, they do not differ
much, except in the markings.
* * * *
Though Tommy Tanna has gone, and the
industry is therefore cursed, they still grow pretty
weighty sugar-cane in Queensland. A stool of
the appropriately-named Elephant variety, ex-
hibited at the Childers show the other day, con-
tained 08 stalks, and weighed nearly half a ton.
Queensland sugar-men claim that it is the
champion stool of the world. But you should
have seen it as it would have been if it had been
helped on by black labor !
During a discussion which followed the
reading of a paper on “The Initiation Ceremonies
of the Murawarri and other Aboriginal Tribes of
Queensland,” at a meeting of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society of Queensland, the Rev. L. L.
Wirt, a Californian-born Brisbane Congregational
clergyman, stated that he had been brought into
contact with a race of people in Alaska (North
America) whose customs and ceremonies were
almost identical with those of the Queensland
aborigines. He advanced the theory that the pro-
genitors of this race were Australian aborigines,
who had been carried there by the ocean current,
which, setting out from the north of Australia'
coasts along the east of Asia, and finally reaches
the north-western part of North America. But
one requires quite a clerical degree of faith to
believe that.
* * * *
One great advantage Angier’s Emulsion
has over any other lung remedy is its soothing
lubricating effect upon the stomach and bowels’.
It not only cures coughs and heals the lungs, but
it keeps the digestive organs healthy and benefits
the entire system. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
A LIBERAL REWARD.
SQUATTER : "I've lost a little bay mare. Have you seen it anywhere? ”
JIMMY THE LIFTER : “ Anything hanyin.' to it?”
SQUATTER : “ Yes. Six months.”
“ Janor ” : I have tried many cures on the
jibbing horse, including the “ two-dozenth ” (B.
23/5/’O7), and the only one I’ve found effective is to
turn the petrified crock over to the Zoo. The
carnivora will shift him, sure. There’s nothing
like the Asiatic or the nigger driver to develop
jibs. F’rinstance, there’s always plenty of them
about a sugar plantation. Up the Pioneer River
(Q.) way I have often seen the gentle Kanaka,
when employed cane-carting (in contravention of
the Polynesian Act), light fires of trash under the
immovable moke. Sometimes this policy had the
desired result, but more frequently the equine
dreamer would sadly side-step the blaze and con-
tinue lost in thought.
* * * *
“Tom Sydney” : Have just returned from
a visit to the Richmond River. While there I
made enquiries re the aboriginal freak mentioned
by “Philo” (B. 14/3/’O7). As a result, am now
prepared to brand “Philo” as the long-sought
missing link between Ananias of old and the
Stinking Fisherman of to-day. The freak he
speaks of is still there. Furthermore, no white
man has ever seen it. The aborigines believe that
if a white man, or tiny uninitiated stranger, ever
sets eyes on it, they (the aborigines) will instantly
be turned into freaks or missing links themselves.
Their superstition impels them to guard said
freak most carefully, and they resolutely refuse to
describe it to anyone.
* * •* *
“Backwash”: “ Benbee ” (B. 6/6/’ 07)
states that the crocodile takes its food in various
ways. That the man-eating crocodile takes his
tucker in his claws is, I think, certain. In the
Norman, Albert, Staaten, and rivers thereabouts
the croc, seems to have little idea of belting with
his tail; certainly I have never seen or heard of
any instance of a creature being knocked into any
of these rivers, as is said to be done by the croco-
diles of the Johnstone, Herbert, etc. Picnickers
on the banks of the Gulf rivers never think of
such things. But horses and cattle without noses,
or minus the biggest part of the rump—the result
of crocodile bites—are common, and they all
carry the marks of the claws.
* * * *
“ G. Hard” (Vic.) : As one result of the
A.N.A. competitions, the conversation of the
common bloke hereabouts is becoming epigram-
matic, also poetical. Recently heard a controversy
between two apparent blokes (they may have
been coves) on the subject of town v. country life.
Townie remarked that existence in a oxB tent
involved the compression of the blanky human
menage into a glorified dog kennel. " Bushie
admitted there was not too blanky much blanky
room inside, but, he added forcefully, “you
forget all the blanky room outside. When we
crawl out of our bit o’ calico we crawl on to the
great bosom of spacious Nature, my blanky son ;
not on to a grate cf one o’ your stinking blanky
sewers.” The remainder of the discussion is a
great blanky in my memory.
“Hamer”: The unsettling influence of
the midnight air on the keyhole is well known ;
but what is it that causes one to forget where the
house that owns the keyhole happens to be link-
ing ? Had been to a temperance meeting—or
something—t’other night, and came away full of
enthusiasm. One of my friends said he was going
home, and reminded me that I lived in his direc-
tion ; so I went with him. We rushed in haste,
and caught the wrong tram. When we got out at
Redfern Station and were unable to identify the
building we explained matters heatedly to a
policeman, and my friend said that he intended
to write a letter to the papers about the conduct
of the tram. When I heard this 1 was good-
naturedly afraid that he might get the tram into
trouble, so I explained to the officer that it was
possible a recent cyclone had twisted the
suburbs round a bit, and that that had
caused the mistake, and accordingly begged him
to forget the incident. Then we discovered that
the policeman was a letter-box, and took the next
tram back to town. It carried us to Botany, but we
clung to our car in the hope of getting somewhere
else. We confided our troubles to the guard, who
collected our fares a section at a time, and forgot
our change, and after a while put us in an eastern
suburban tram. At Paddington I remembered
that I didn’t live in that part of the world any
more—l have moved a lot—and my friend said he
would see me home to Darlinghurst. I mislaid
him on the way, and when I got to Darlinghurst
I began to have my doubts as to whether I lived
there; but I tried a house that seemed familiar.
A woman in a pink garment appeared. She said
that I didn’t live there ; but I maintained sturdily
that she couldn’t prove that I lived anywhere else,
and that the onus of proof in the matter lay on
her. She cut short my argument by throw-
ing water oyer me. Then I remembered
that I had lived there once, but had moved
some months previously to another part of
Darlinghurst. This time, however, I was resolved
to be cunning, so I went to the house that I
thought was mine and asked if I was at home;
and thus learned that I had moved to Woolloo-
mooloo. The people weren’t at all nice about
giving the information either; they said nasty
tilings about being disturbed in the middle of the
night. This upset me ; and when I got to Wool-
loomooloo and found that the house I lived in had
moved to the next street, and then, on finding
the house, discovered that I didn’t live there, and
the place was “to let,” I felt absolutely sick.
Still I crossed over to North Shore, and then back
to Circular Quay, and had begun a round of
calls in Balmain when I suddenly recollected that
1 had only just returned from the country when I
had met my friends, and had made no arrange-
ments at all, and did not, as a matter of fact, live
anywhere. So I laid down in a handy gutter and
cried myself to sleep.
THE BALLOT AT BUMBEROO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you listen, I will truthfully a tale unfold to you,
How we engineered the ballot in the town of Bumberoo.
We are simple folk and honest when we deal in wool or
wheat,
But in workin’ an election you will find us hard to beat.
There were Spicer, Jackson, Briggs and Brown, all men of
good repute,
Were retiring as directors from our local Institute.
There was lawyer Grey, and Judkins, Green and me,
unanimous
That the time had come when these good men must stand
aside for us.
Some folks argued that, because they steered so ably in
the past—
’Cause they’d brought us through the breakers tiil we
floated safe at last—
They ought all to keep on steering—that ’twas only
common-sense
That the men wlio’d earned our gratitude should keep our
confidence.
Now we didn’t take the trouble these same statements to
refute,
For the only thing we wanted was to. boss the Institute.
We didn’t want their confidence, so didn’t make a fuss ;
But we meant to have their billets, which was good
enough for us.
Every member had one paper, to enable him to vote,
Which bore the Institution’s seal, intended to denote
That the paper was quite genuine ; and then, from two
till four.
They dropped their papers in a box that stood inside the
door.
There were ninety-seven members, each entitled to a
vote,
So at two we met, just opposite, where Judkins runs the
tote.
And, to count the members goin’ in, we each took turns
to peep ;
And we checked them with a tally like they use to count
the sheep.
The poll would close at four o’clock ; at ten to four we
knew
There were forty votes recorded, and allowin’ for a few
That might come in in the interim, we felt we needn’t wait;
So we sailed across, and voted for our little syndicate.
When the ballot-box was opened, the surprise was most
intense,
But we had the votes, and didn’t care who had the con-
fidence.
And, among the men of Bumberoo, the story still is told
How, from ninety-seven members, there were ninety-six
that polled.
You ask me where we got the papers? That I’ll never tell
You must ask the printer’s devil, Judkins’ nephew,
Jimmy Bell.
And the seal? Well, it was Judkins once remarked to me,
I think,
That he used it while the secretary went to have a drink.
It doesn’t really matter. It’s a fact beyond dispute,
That we humped the old directors, and we run the
Institute ;
And we still are fairly honest, when we deal in wool or
wheat,
But in stuffin’ ballot boxes we are pretty hard to beat.
N.S.W.
THOS. E. SPENSER.


o°* C>'3
A SIMULANT
H. imparts lasting exhilaration
WOLFES SCHNAPPS
Gent.’s "Watchi.
Heavy 18ct. Cold Hunting Case
J-plate Lever, 15 Jewels, Ex-
pansion Balance, 15 Years'
Guarantee.
PROFOUNDLY ACCURATE.
RARELY STRONG.
The “ Fx & R” Levers
are Uneclipsed.
Speoia! Presentation Discount.
/
s
N=?
Gent.’s 18ct. Gold
Hunting Lever,
Fully Jewelled,
£l2 12s.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest, Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
* * * *
“Kati Kati ” : North Auckland, “the
poor North” of the Southern press, has its good
points. The poorest swamp land when deeply
trenched yields enough kauri gum to prove very
profitable to all concerned, and the newly-turned
soil grows a crop of Maoriland flax, that promises
to pay as well as grass at the very worst. Any
of the poor clays are very good for fruit. In fact,
it is beginning to be recognised that poor land is
merely land that is, as Thomas Bracken would
put it, “Not understood.”
“J.G.”: Noticed a stack of bottles of
different sizes and shapes heaped against a bush
pub ’tother day. They looked different from any
grog bottles I had ever seen, and four or five large
treacle casks near by increased the uncanny air of
mystery. Examined closer, and found that the
bottles were branded “ Pain Killer ” or “ Embro-
cation.” Enquired of the publican, who was sun-
ning himself in an amiably half-sprung state on
the verandah, whether he ran a hospital as well
as a pub ? Whereupon he became communicative.
Sometimes, he explained, the blastiferous brew-
ery waggon failed to get across the encarmined
crick, and his blanked grog supply ran out. Then it
was his custom to make a special brand of his
own. By mixing a few barrels of dam water with
a barrel of treacle, and spilling into this two
bottles of Pain Killer and all the stale beer about
the premises, a very tasty beverage was pro-
vided. Some fancied stronger stuff, and for their
benefit he was wont to ready up a concoction of
Row’s Embrocation, treacle and water, with a few
plugs of tobacco added for coloring purposes and
to give additional “bite.” Just possible that it
was stuff of this kind that knocked over “ Stony ”
(B. 6/6/’07); should not be surprised to find, in
fact, that something of the kind was the real
cause of the death of “Percole’s” horse (B. 6/6/’O7).
A BULL OF BASHING.
TERRY: " He shtarted it, constable. He hit me, so he did!”
BARTY: “ It’s a lie. I didn’t hit him till he hit me back.”
‘ ‘ Thurla Be offensive vegetables. Have
.not yet seen any mention of the “ Castlereagli
rose.” This weed attains a height of about two
inches when full-grown, ano the flower-head
somewhat resembles the mignonette. It grows
luxuriantly along the Castlereagh River (N.S.W.),
and is quite tame and inoffensive, till trodden on
or otherwise ill-used, when it loads the atmo-
sphere with a stench, which causes the unwary
trespasser to conclude that some of the foul
wrongs of the Ma State are about.
OUR DEMORALISED BLACK BROTHER.
POLICE TROOPER: “ Well, Jacky! What have you been up to this time ?”
JACKY: “Not much , boss. Only swearing like a plurry trooper.”
“State Frights”: Be “Mangrove’s”
assertion (B. 30/5/’O7) that Kimberley nigs, have a
monopoly of glass spear-heads. Just hold the prize
pending enquiry. I have in my possession several
glass-headed spears, which I got in the N. Terri-
tory in 1896, and have seen them in possession of
both Victoria and Alligator nigs.
“ Polstan ’ : The ourang-outang at the
Melbourne Zoo is a cigarette fiend. When a
relation outside the bars slips him a lighted weed
the animal gets to it like any pushite. He flicks
the ash off, does the “ drawback, and expectorates
most deftly. When the cig. is finished, he wets
a small twig witli his lips, and presses it on
the light to put it out. In the joyful aptitude
with which he takes to smoking, drinking and
such-like diversions, the civilised onrang bears an
interesting resemblance to the converted niggen
“Hamer”: G. Morton (B. 6/6/’O7) writ-
ing from Poverty Bay in defence of the Maori
character, evidently writes only of the Maori as
he finds him in the Poverty Bay district. There
Brown Brother has been sheltered by a prudent
Council from the ills that have fallen upon him in
other parts of the island. The Maori councillors
of Poverty Bay are half-castes, whose white
f ithers married native princesses and found it to
their interests to deal righteously by their tan
brother-in-law. But in other parts of Mhoriland
rum has the same destroying influence on Jack
Maori as on all other colored people, and the con-
dition of the native is deplorable. In many dis-
tricts—the Wairarapa, for instance—he is a
debased creature and a shiftless wreck, and the
truth is not in him, neither is much of anything
else in him except sin and liquor, and there isn’t
much on him.
* * * *
“ Mangrove ” : Ha “ F.H.R.’s ” dis-
courteous treatment of bull (B. 2/5/’O7). Some years
ago I was at the Burketown (N.Q.) meatworks
when the Tonner brothers were yarding a mob of
cattle. One of the bullocks announced, with
much snorting and bellowing, that a killing-pen
was no place for a self-respecting bovine ; and
adopted an aggressive course of action. Both
riders, however, were well mounted, and the beast
did no more than remove large fragments of scenery
with his horns. Finally, one of the horsemen
raced up, and caught him by the tail, result being
that the earth bumped the bovine with much
suddenness. The rider dismounted in an instant,
and, pulling the beast s tail between the hind legs
and kneeling on his flank, held him down for
some time, the proprietor of the tail all the while
struggling to get free. The man, finding himself
getting pumped, called out to his brother to bring
his horse. One of the slaughtermen, loaded to
Plimsoll mark with liquor, had been enjoying
the sport from the safe side of the fence,
but seeing the beast, as he thought, overpowered,
he clambered over to have a better view. The
stockman called out to him that he would release
the beast as soon as his horse was brought, but
the inebriate was obdurate. As soon as the horse
arrived, the stockman let the bullock go, and
sprang into the saddle. Then 12cwt. of infuri-
ated beef rose sullenly, and shook itself to see if it
was all there. The drunk at once “lit out’' for
the fence, describing a nicely-formed “S” as he
travelled. When within a few feet of his destina-
tion the beast spotted him, and the world’s
bullock record for 70yds. was instantly shattered.
The man reached the boundary first, and
attempted to scramble over, but slipped grace-
fully to earth, and rolled under the bottom rail.
That saved him. Half a second later a large,
swift animal hit the spot where he had been, with.
such force that the place hasn’t been seen since.
The shock sobered the slaughterman in about fiv,e
minutes, and then he was anxious to know how
you overturned bullocks like that. But the'qrowd
couldn’t explain, an)’ more than they could tell
him how to write xooetry.
PACK-MULES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some day, when I am dead, I may forget
The lean mules plunging up the rocky tracks,
Their wild bells calling me to strive and sweat,
And juggle with their bloated fodder packs.
Sad mules they are, and sore beneath their loads,
Cross, cuss6d brutes, in dusty misery,
Splashed grey with all the dirty, dreadful roads
Upon the roof of hell’s great canopy.
Odd times, I “ pole ” an hour within the shade
(What time my careless bosses yap and grin
Behind long- beers with Murphy’s frowsy maid)—
To start up when the mules come clattering in !
They climb, hot-hoofed, out of the scorching- dust,
With grain-bags banging on their grimy sides,
Urged on with lash and fretful handle-thrust
As, frantic, in the rear the Chow-boss rides.
Yet I (thank God !) shall die some day, and know
No more their cracked bells tinkling- down the wind,
But drowse eternally, stone deaf—although
Sad mules come clang-ing- in, Sin Fat behind.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
/Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address m ast appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, ivhether
sent by post or handed in and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
E. : “ Regina Noctis ” is miles below the other
verses you sent us recently. When a writer makes a hit
with some lines about a policeman he straightway goes
and writes about a blossom or a sunset... .’Pol. J. : Apart
from the pun there isn’t much in it Picalla: “ Yarran-
dool Match” rather labored humor J.Y. : Thirty-six
lines, of which 16 are “St. Mary’s, Star of the Sea”!
Where is St. Polly’s? “ Fair Country” better, but not
better enough... .The Bandicoot: -Not much in “A
Memory.”.... F.G.B. : “Phantom Revellers ” a very
purposeless gathering of ghosts. Fancy coming back
from the grave, as George Harrell put it, to play skittles
with one "skittle Mouse: Stories dealing with Peter
and the gates of heaven should be interesting to make up
for their irreverence. Yours is rather dull, and your St.
Peter is an irritable he-fishfag Remo : None of them
up to the mark, and cost 4d. for insufficient postage. As
a side issue, why the quaint idea of putting names
between inverted commas?... .J.S. : “Tomahawk Reef”
nearly got in. Good idea, but metre rather rocky.
Jeaeh : Flea poem retained for private circulation
Sea-Weed : It isn’t very much to make a poem about, and
it is rather a mechanical poem, anyhow The Eager :
True, but a trifle dull Wongarra : The story of
Kiernan who went to Heaven is old, ancient, venerable,
toothless, mossgrown, and decrepit. Also it is in the
senile ward of tne Benevolent Asylum—if it isn’t buried.
Aimee : Artificial pathos. The aged person who dies
by iiis camp-fire after much thinking about the years
that have fled is mostly artificial 0. Thorne: Has
some beautiful lines, but on the whole it isn’t up to
sample Mouse : “ Beginning” is one more of the items
that are nearly good enougn Yeoman: Hardly good
enough, but promising. Try again. Don’t know the
meaning of that poem. Don't think it has any meaning.
Also we never recommend books that teach you how to
write. If Heaven meant you to write, just fill your-
self up with knowledge and let her go, and she ivillgo....
O.T. Vv r .: Inadequately dealt with, and belated in any
case Omrah : But you don’t give any address Jim
VV, : Correct, but cold and uninspiring T.O’B. : You
have some force, but no idea of form... .H.B.T. : Spoilt
by such a fiat finish. “ Great is the art of beginning, but
greater the art of ending.” Single B. : A curious pro-
duction, but quite out of our line R. Frost: Too much
straining after effect. Study simplicity of statement, and
tne effect will take care of itself Ida: But you can’t
get away from conventions. Your hero merely exchanges
one set of them for another Meanderer : “ Peddy ” is
well written, and has a climax, but hardly a big enough
climax Phil Random: Verses pretty good. Address
quite insufficient to send a remittance to Sj'd C. : One
of the pair got through, so it may be said that your muse
paid 10s. in the £ St. Jimmy: The idea is good,
but the metre is all over the caboose C. : Too
monotonous. When 12 lines out of 27 are the same line
you sometimes get a little tired of the same line
I. : Verses re death of your friend, Sardine Jack, through
trying to stop mad Andy Mack’s engine, ingenious in
places, but too rough. Try again Bils (or Bits or Bito
or Bilo): Poor little jest Kalka : Little frivolity about
the trades-union nigger wouldn’t illustrate well....Sibi
(Westralia): Considering whether your item re frogs is
worth the 4d. it cost us for short postage. Also, you’ve
borrowed another man’s pen-name P.M. : “ Tassy’s
Little John ” is too late, and it wasn’t good enough when
it was early enough... .Bird : “ Violet,” etc., is only easy
album verse Olane A. : Too scrappy and inconsecu-
tive C.B. ? Hasn’t point enough Nym : “Violet”
is the best, but we don’t care for any of them 5.8.1. :
Rather good, but too technical for the general reader
F. (East Melbourne) and others : Cut out any of your
pars used and send them to Bulletin accountant. Re-
mittance will follow Naso: The point at issue is
whether the disciplined soldier who is a moderate shot ,
or the undisciplined civilian who is a crack shot, is of
more worth in wartime. Those who should know' hold
that the mere crack in the presence of an on-coming foe
well, he just cracks. The disciplined man does not do
that.. W.B.A. : Unequal and unsatisfactory Aus-
tralian : Unmitigated bosh The Drudge : These Voices
of the Bush have called so often, and the remark they
pour into the great receptive basin of your ear is the
same old remark John P. : You miss, the point. (1)
The Bulletin didn’t say a word about Maoriland’s tele-
graph rates. (2) Australia accepts, without surcharge,
Maoriland’s letters bearing a penny stamp, if they are
not overweight, but the Maorilander begins to have a
loose and general idea that his penny stamp will carry
any weight. (3) Your assurance that “ Universal post-
age” implies that Maoriland is willing to send a letter for
Id. to any part of the earth has no bearing on the case ;
“universal” implies that it is prepared to send its
penny stamp to Neptune. (4) As for the proposal of that
M.L. postal official to send letters all over the earth free
—Maoriland had better be honest before it begins to be
lavish. A place with a faked surplus, a stolen sinking
fund, and a debt of nearly £7O per head, and which spent
last year almost as much loan money as all Australia and
Tasmania put together, can’t afford free postage frills...
Herbert G. R. : Your usual mixture of good and bad...
F.G.M. : The puns range from lamentable to atrocious
’. .Nil: Some good lines, but the rest is your pen-name.
By the way, drop that pen-name. It belongs to a better
writer than you Ti-Tree : You have poetic feeling, but.
your execution is not jet artistic enough... .Guiy: A
mere futility. .. Index : A horse-swindle yarn would have
to be a lot more interesting than yours Sarah M. :
Bristles with grammatical blunders.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.E.G. : Neither of them amounts to anything
Snift: Not a promising subject Arthur M.: An old
and unsavory jest brought up to date. Picture no blessed
j,- o od C.K.i Humor mildly obscure Said : The two
nien in your picture are assuredly drunk, and if the sole
end and aim of a picture was to be drunk, then the
drunkenness of your picture would be sufficient to make
it all that a picture ought to be.... VV.J.S. : Sketch too
crude, and your theory that beer and the White Aus-
tralia policy go together doesn’t appeal to us.
“Cict ”: While cycling, the other week,
I struck a snag in the shape of that useless, but
generally harmless, quadruped, the echidna—
“porcupine” for short, and “porky” for
shortest. Said pincushion was never known to
burrow on sane principles, but from sheer cussed-
ness or stupidity loves to choose a sandy place in
a roughly-metalled road, the middle of a potato-
qaateh, or the side of a miner’s tail or flood-race,
and as he religiously neglects to All in, his dug-
out is in consequence a mild sort of nuisance.
His spiny nibs had burrowed into the softest part
of a bush road, and over him I pedalled, the re-
sult being prodigious punctures, lurid language,
a weary walk, and an embittered porcupine.


THE ENVIOUS “LOWER ORDERS.”
The public intelligence has become aware that the moving force behind the Socialistic schemes is envy.—Argus.
FAT MAN: “WHAT’S THAT? YOU WANT TO GET UP? PREPOSTEROUS! THIS IS PURE ENVY.”


die (Bill LjtjeJ r7«*t'*tb H K^t!rs i)^AKiH
in [or?<lon only w'all between !
Cabled Tom Bent - adfendef
^ n (7
by -rtje King af bis f
v -
A
%
Ey/
6,11 (if rough — h(ow tffen, you'two^
go 4o bed Ponf forged" "to ffui~ 'itfe Cat“
Ouh | ” ,i ,
"Ibe si?e
of 'ltfe rno^tjf
'ficKed'" »S i •■
inCt'ey ) in® .
f*b r L*gg
His Nit«,.— Wh\fs fellow ?
Ihw> - " Boo 1 -goo'- it's' on, /j>"^ e h
SigVf - of nierv) Things — "Hrey nje So home SicK\
u |
fo be. faf|le«l .
38a2:
ftuycdj Coni^e^tionS^^jgM
J u„ r \WW2Z^
, k"* ,# r ‘**-w^feiriCj!-
m^? y cu wSi e a ,,S4S'°iSx :t „,rtJ"y^lrSS'S ya ’ ft-
JJWillfJ
S'
Minnie lubr* sf Wilier oo S-teW.
- "fye vis if"
A f fer for
1
I+" I S -time we ir«|.t *,// rft
hromy we r^; S? MKV»IC
idea, our own n^hV^s.
of (\0v r fyner\l *
I don't - sfif/or I a^nd
I I/O IJ
-ftfe of I*7 y own
bfoberfy! "
7
VICTORIAN SUNDRIES.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/=, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers —
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The reason why Frank Gardner allowed
the £BOO,OOO or £900,0 )0 verdict to go against him
by default in an English court seems to be that
Frank isn’t on visiting terms just at present with
England.
BERT BAILEY.
The rumor of Bent’s forthcoming marriage
is reiterated with a confident statement that he
will be knighted before the joyful event.
The toiler in the vineyard has to take a
good many chances about his salary, It is now
reported that the congregation of St. Mathias
(Sydney) owed its late minister, Mr. Gillett, who
was killed by a villainous Melbourne motor-car,
over £3OO of belated stipend.
Just died at Goulburn (N.S.W.) Peter
Collinson Close, well-remembered as a witness in
the recent land troubles. He hadn’t the physical
stamina for the stormy life of a land agent, and
the worry of the business killed him.
William Hilson Pigott, aged 69, retires
from N.S.W. Upper House, after 20 years’ con-
tinuance. He was appointed by Parkes, and
represented what was left of the Parkes tradi-
tions, so he was only about half a generation
behind the age. Many of his colleagues were
further behind than that.
There will be a vacancy soon for a Railway
Commissioner in Westralia. W. J. George, who
ran a Perth engineering business—and incident-
ally was chairman of Westralia’s Anti-Federation
league—got the job of Commissioner five years
ago, mainly because he was in the local Assembly
and talked more about railways than anybody
else. Now the Government has got tired of the
amateur boss, and has decided to get a man
“ trained in railway management.”
From Everybody’s Magazine
Phil May was once down on his luck in a backblocks
Australian township, and driven to act as waiter at a
bush hotel. An English friend recognised him there,
and, with a start of horror—
iv 't‘p an eye on the “ start of horror ”
exclaimed, “ What! Have you come to this ? ” “Oh ! ”
rep.ied May, “ I haven’t come so low as to have to eat
here.”
Probably that episode never happened to any-
body, but it was regarded as a rather fair joke once,
and it has been hitched on to the waggon of many
celebrities. Still, a concern like Everybody’s
shouldn’t drag such jests from their graves. It
seems almost like body-snatching.
The Bulletin has been informed, by a
man who should be in a position to know, that he
was a picturesque perverter who wrote to Sydney
Labor Council, saying that he had been offered a
place as gardener on the premises of Premier
Carruthers, provided he worked seven days a
week, though, as a redeeming feature, he was
assured that the Premier would help him shove
the lawn mower on Sundays. The yarn was so
humorous, with its addendum about the Premier
harnessing himself as an extra horse to the lawn-
mower on Sunday, that this paper didn’t expect
it to be taken seriously, but as it seems to have
been taken seriously, The Bulletin is willing to
affirm that it doesn’t for a moment suspect Mr.
Carruthers of sweating his gardener—in fact, that
he doesn’t do so—and that he doesn’t act as a spare
or extra motive power or beast of burden behind
the lawn-mower on the day when most people,
bar pressmen, rest.
From The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabi-
tant :—-
Apropos the brot hers Bauer (B. 27/6/’O7). Twenty years
ago they lived in I’hillip-street, Sydney, in a hash-tower
kept by Mrs. Brady, who refused lady boarders. One
of his old fellow-boarders describes Bernard: “ Whiskers
and beard light, partly grey; light hair, partly grey ;
weight, about lOst. : age, about 52; born in Poland or
near there. When young, his parents died. Educated
in London. Always called himself a Britisher. Did not
like Russians. Was a Jew. Had only one brother,
Julian—no sisters. The brothers were very much
attached to each other. Never shaved, as he disliked the
razor. Did not believe in firearms of any kind. Would
not resist a burglar ; would allow him (or them) to take
what he (or they) wanted. Believed in life, and always
enjoyed it. Was fond of musical company. Very kind
to and fond of dumb animals. Very temperate; never
was known to be the worse for liquor. Always had a
smile ready. Never too fond of money. Never married.
On one occasion Nellie Stewart proposed to reside at Mrs.
Brady’s. The brother Bauer said that if any woman came
to the house they would leave.” Wanted, now, an accu-
rate description of the murderer.
Recently dead at Horarata (Maoriland),
ex-Premier John Hall, aged 83. He was born at
Hull (England), and began life in the British
postal service. He was one of the best of the
Tory Premiers who headed Maoriland’s disrepu-
table Continuous Ministry, which was boosted out
by Ballance in 1891. He sat in the first Parlia-
ment that met in Wellington, in 1855, and became
Minister under Stafford in 1866, and
Premier in 1879, after defeating Hori
Grey on a no-confidence motion. He dropped
the reins after two years and a half, owing to ill-
health, and Frederick Whitaker took on the
job. Hall was associated with the Woman’s
Franchise movement, and was a M.L. delegate to
the Federal Conference in 1890. He degenerated
to be Mayor of Christchurch in 1906. Hall was
an intensely honest man with a narrow outlook.
One of his theories was that every woman was a
Tory at heart, and when female suffrage, instead
of bringing his crowd back to power, started his
opponents on a series of huge majorities, he was
the most surprised inhabitant in the two islands.
Senator Simian Phraser, who has been
denouncing Australian Nationalism in Melbourne
again, was once bowled out in the Senate by
Higgs, the brilliant Queensland Senator, who
lost his seat at the last election through the
splitting of the vote by rejected Laborite Dawson.
Phraser was talking at large, and finished a burst
of pom-pom oratory with the intimation that he
would string up everybody who was against the
British flag. “Do I understand the Honorable
Senator to say that he would string up anybody
who would fight against the Government of Eng-
land ? ” inquired Higgs. “ That I would,” yelled
the Phraser, “string them up —string them up
mast high.” “Then,” observed Higgs quietly,
“it’s a good thing he did not live in the days
when William of Orange invaded England and
fought against the King of the day, or he would
have strung up that potentate.” Phraser, who is,
in private life, the head and forequarters of the
Yellow Pup in Victoria, wriggled uneasily in his
seat trying to find a suitable retort. He didn’t
find it—it takes Phraser three weeks to find an
impromptu remark—and he went home crushed
in a cab.
NOT SUCH A SURLY BRUTE , AFTER ALL.
A communication wassent by Mr. John Forrest to Mr.
Carruthers, intimating that he would leave for Lithgow
on Thursday (telegraphs our Melbourne correspondent).
Mr. Carruthers replied that he had given directions that
railway arrangements should be made and everything
done to ensure a pleasant trip. “It was a very kindly
action of Mr. Carruthers,” said Mr. Forrest, “ and I much
appreciate it.”
BIGIOHN: “ Good dog !”
Like N.S.W., Queensland has its Bush
Brotherhood, a wandering religious body which
administers to the spiritual wants of the sparsely-
populated districts of South-western Queensland.
A general supervision is exercised over the
Brotherhood by the Archdeacon of Charleville,
who rejoices in the fitting name of Bush Trotter,
M.A.
Australians are known the world over for
their love of sport, and their determination to
excel in all out-of-door games. Angier’s Emulsion
is known the world over for its power to cure
coughs, heal the lungs, and build up strength. It
is the most palatable of all emulsions, and a great
aid to digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
FROM AN ENGLISH TRAVEL-BOOK.
The announcement that gold-bearing’ stone, 19 inches
wide, had been struck in a g-rave at the old cemetery at
Ballarat North, has caused a great stir. When it was
reported during the afternoon that a crushing of SJcwt.
quartz had been put through the battery at the School of
Mines for a yield of 6dwt. of coarse gold, or an average
of ljoz. per ton, there was a wild rush to the cemetery.
Five large areas were pegged out before noon.
The Australians are nothing if not racy of the
soil. Even in the cemeteries there are monumental
poppet-heads ; and the most grandiloquent tomb-
inscription hardly ever has been known to exceed
the simple phrase, “Pegged out."
Felix Randle, the Sydney sharebroker
who recently committed suicide, was the son of
the earliest N.S.W. railway contractor, William
Randle, who had the first section of the railway
from Sydney to Parramatta. He also built the
first bit of Government railway in Victoria—that
from Spencer-street to Williamstown, around
Batman’s Swamp.
Died on 20bh June, at Randwick (N.S.W.),
Mrs. Susannah Devlin, aged 98. She was born
at Ryde (N.S.W.), and her mother (the late Mrs.
Hughes) died at the reasonable age of 94. Mrs.
Devlin’s father was the first school teacher em-
ployed by the State. In 1834 she married James
Devlin, who was one of the first land-seekers to
take the inland track. He took up country on
the Murrumbidgee, and reconnoitred inwards as
far as Yanco, near Narrandera, but was repulsed
by blacks. Later he had interests in Germain
and Kolkibitoo stations ; and in a cattle station
on the Northern Rivers, whence he shipped a lot
of the timber used in building early Sydney. He
died in 1875.
Another king is dead—George, this time,
of the Poolamacca tribe. Poolamacca is a station
in far-western N.S. Wales, and probably really
never had a tribe or a king. But J. W.
Broughman, who is the real monarch thereabouts,
has a softer heart than most for
his black brother Bill, and so a
miscellaneous lot of tribal
derelicts drifted to Poola-
maeca from many parts;
and George, being the big-
gest man of the bunch, was
pointed out as “king.”
{Whether he .ever had any
better rights is doubtful—
though, after all, that was
as good a right as any. Once
squatter Brougham, hoping to
make the miserable derelicts a
bit more comfortable, built for
them a big circular iron shed, in
which they might camp. They all
went in ; but one by one George and his sub-
jects sneaked out, and got back to their bag and
bough mia-mias, and their dogs, and their dirt,
and their fleas.
Parson J. B. Ronald, ex-Labor M.P. for
South Melbourne in the House of Reps., is look-
ing anxiously about Victoria for an ecclesiastical
billet. He has some rather plain things to say of
the Victorian Laborists. The word “gratitude,”
he reckons, has been lost out of their dictionary.
“ I gave up a flourishing city church to serve
them,” he told a provincial pressman a few days
ago, “and after six years’ faithful work and
endless sacrifices, they suddenly threw me over-
board without so much as a reason.”
Patrick Lyons, almost the oldest of the
Ma State’s public servants, retires on long leave.
He was a police officer in the bushranging days,
and, many years ago, was attached to the Chief
Secretary’s office as confidential inquiry officer.
Many a Minister owed Lyons a debt of gratitude
for the people he staved off, the assistance lie
gave, and the secrets he kept. But his specialty
was the tackling of those innumerable applicants
who, 25 years ago, used to swarm on the Governor
of the day. These were the times when the well-
connected derelict with a letter to the Governor
came out in such numbers that he was used as bal-
last. The Ex. of the hour was forced to set aside an
annual sum to be spent in stalling off aristocratic
and other ne’er-do-wells; and it was Paddy’s
duty to make this sum go as far as possible in the
best direction. In later years, he has been an
inspector of State waifs and strays, in the
Charities Department.
Writes “ Thomas Clodd ” :
Lionel Terry, the gigantic aristocrat from England who
shuffled off the mortal coil of a small lame Chinaman,
with a cheap revolver, in front of No. 13 Haining-street,
Wellington (M.L.), was last year conceded to he a lunatic,
lie was sent to a Mental Diseases Hospital in Christ-
church. He had no use for Mental Diseases Hospitals,
and wrote sanely about being forced to consort with
“ gibbering idiots.” He left their company per strips of
bedclothes on two occasions, and rejoiced hugely in a
fair slogging match arranged between himself and several
policemen, who eventually arrested him and took him
back to the Mental Hospital. The immense size and tre-
mendous hitting power of this military young person got
on the nerves of a warder whom Terry not long ago in-
vited to come outside and be murdered ; and Terry was
removed to gaol. The law' that said he was a lunatic, and
therefore irresponsible, has now re-discovered that he is
still a lunatic, and he is once more in the Mental Hospital.
Terry w r rites specially sane letters to people he knew
before his grey matt r got bent, and lately he told of the
lack of fruit in one of the Mind Hospitals. Some friends,
therefore, sent him a small amount of money to buy vege-
tables with, which money he returned with great vigor.
Terry still satirises the “ asinine law 1 ” that found him
guilty of slaying a man and refuses to hang him. He
claims that his protest against the admission of Asiatics
would have given the object-lesson he was out to teach if
he had been hanged, and he is still very angry because no
one will hang him.
Help the weak if you are strong,
Respect the old if you are young,
Own your faults when you are wrong,
And when you’re angry hold your tongue.
Pay your debts before you bet,
Back not a bill for rich or poor,
And when a cough or chill you get,
Take some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
The Age prints this ns the presumably
sane utterance of the Echuca Farmers’ Conven-
tion :
Mr. M‘ Donald (Maffra) urged that every encouragement
be given to Dr. Danysz to continue his experiments in
rabbit destruction. He did not fear Dr. Danysz’s
microbe. For years he had eaten pleuro beef by the
cwt. (Laughter.) He had eaten fluky mutton and all
sorts of diseased stock, knowing them to be diseased, for
at the time he could get nothing else. This was 40 or 00
years ago, and still he was alive.
And because M‘Donald is evidently a man who
couldn’t be killed with an axe, and who is proud
of his decayed food, Danysz is to be encouraged
to sow Australia with haemorrhagic septicaemia !
An old-age pensioner, located “in a mia-
mia of saplings, boughs and old iron,” a few' miles
from Oakleigh (Vic.), has been found guilty of
devoting his Government allowance to the sup-
port of eleven of the dog breed—one of which
defiantly added seven pups to the family about
the time the police reported on the case. The
man is 70 years old, and has no prejudices in
favor of any particular type of dawg. Big or
little —collie or small terrier—they are all equally
welcomed to board and lodging at his mia-mia,
and all are loyally prepared to bite the police
if they come to cut off their master’s pension at
the meter.
A persistent seeker after trouble passed
out recently in New York in the person of Major-
General Henry Ronald Douglas Maclver, a
modern representative of the ancient condottiere,
free-lance, mercenary or soldier of fortune.
Whenever Mac heard rumors of war he packed
up his bag and his arsenal, and formed himself
into a contingent of one, bound for the scene
of friction. It was a mighty bad cause
that was too bad to be able to hire the
services of Mclver if it had the money, as the
dead warrior’s autobiography, “ Under Fourteen
Flags,” indicates. Between the publication of
the book and his death he managed to raise the
number of flags to 18, and it seems possible that
his aged memory missed a banner or two towards
the last (or perhaps added some). Anyway, he took
part in pretty well every campaign of importance
during the past half-century. In one of his leisure
periods Henry Ronald Douglas, etc., formed a
project for seizing the whole of New Guinea. He
came to Australia, and lectured on the notion
without arousing any great enthusiasm. He also
had a battle in the correspondence columns of
London Times with statesmen w'ho denounced
the scheme as a filibustering expedition. Maclver
afterwards made a peaceful visit to New Guinea,
for prospecting purposes, with more or less Aus-
tralian novelist Hume Nisbet. Latterly he spent
most of his time among the South and Central
American republics, but they didn’t revolushe
often enough to keep the battered ancient em-
ployed, and he felt a bit lonely in his old days.
The S.A. Labor Government is utilising
its surplus of £300,000 for the payment of a part
of the public debt. All future credit balances
are to he automatically devoted, under Act of
Parliament, to the same purpose. The Premier
and Treasurer are manfully resisting temptations
to be extravagant because of their prosperity, and
sit heavily on the lid of the Treasury chest.
A POSSIBLE EXPLANATION.
I did not see much of Paris.—BILL LYNE.
Many people find their view of Paris blocked by
this sort of thing.
Is N.S.W. going to be the Ulster of Aus-
tralia ?
The Carruthers Government, which has a
marvellous capacity for passing things on to
others, so that it can have plenty of time to buzz
and snarl itself, has now appointed a Forestry
Commission. Alex. Kethel, W. M. Felion, and
Win. Freeman are the members—three venerable
gentlemen who can count up about 220 years
among them. Apparently the object of the
Commission is to tell the present generation that
somebody opened the stable door, and that the
forests have gone; and presumably the three
venerable gentlemen have been chosen because
they belong to the generation which committed
the foolishness.
Sandfords, Limited, of Lithgow (N.S.W.),
is apparently not quite satisfied with the way the
iron business pans out. This is what, according
to S.M. Herald, the head of the concern says
about it:—
The quantity of iron produced per ton of ore is, how-
ever, under our estimate, and the cost of getting it and
delivering it at the works is beyond what we were led to
expect. However, the yield from the ore is the nearest
approach to the estimate. Limestone, which is used for
flux, costs considerably more than the estimate, and so
does coke. But the quantity of coke'which it was esti-
mated would be used is not exceeded. . . . Labor, how-
ever, costs double what our expert advisers estimated.
Just so. Sandford imported his “expert ad-
visers,” and they, knowing little of local condi-
tions, gave the best advice they could according
to their lights. They didn’t even know that very
good fire-bricks can be, and are, made in Aus-
tralia, and so they put the co. to the expense of
importing those wanted for the blast furnace.
The imported expert is always liable to fall in like
that.
THE EAR OF PURPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prince Frederick Henry has heretofore been considered
the most pious member of his family. The Kaiser, after
degrading’ him, soundly boxed his ears. Prince Frederick
Henry burst into tears, and quitted the Imperial palace
without saying a word. He is now in a remote part of
Egypt. Prince Frederick Henry will be 33 on 15th July
next.— Cablegram.
Kaiser of Folly and of Ridicule,
And Prince who weepeth for his clouted ear !
King who is but a made-up tailor’s fool;
Queen of a house long bred on pork and beer !
Come ! look upon yourselves ! Prince Frederick, he
Wept bitterly ! His age is thirty-three !
Come out and look upon your blessed selves !
Wasters who never lived a useful hour,
While superstition in the hind who delves
Keeps you in fatted sloth and empty power.
The world moves on ; men starve ; Prince Frederick, he
Snuffles and weeps —his age is thirty-three !
But comes the sane and knowledgable time,
When all this Right Divine burns up in laughter;
When every such Hereditary Crime,
Will have to go to work or hunger after ;
Kaiser and King and Queen no more to be,
Nor clouted princely ear at thirty-three !
vie.
MARTIN LITUER.


ANTHONY HORDERNS*
FAMOUS LOW PRICES for HABERDASHERY.
TO SHOW WHAT AN IMPORTANI THING HABERDASHERY is, the Haberdashers of the City
of London are incorporated, and the body is known as THE MASTER and FOUR WARDENS of
THE FRATERNITY of THE ART of MYSTERY of Haberdashers in the CITY OF LONDON*
Formerly a HABERDASHER was not necessarily a DRAPER* A HABERDASHER was a seller of
NEEDLES, PAPES, BUTTONS, &c., and TRUMPERY THINGS of small value, while a DRAPER was
one who dealt in DRAPERY and CLOTH.
NICE DISTINCTIONS were made in those days—" THE MERCHANT'S WIFE made a better appear-
ance than the DRAPER'S, the Draper's than the CHEESEMONGER'S, and the Cheesemonger's beyond the
HANDICRAFT TRADESMAN'S*"
Nowadays, they are ALL MIXED UP, the Merchant is A DRAPER, and the DRAPER is a HABER-
DASHER, while the CHEESEMONGER JOINS HANDS with VARIOUS OTHER TRADES, and you have
the UNIVERSAL PROVIDER. And there is ONLY one of this sort in Australia, viz.—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS. —=
■ / )
)
M
P
««*WP
v MO, '
'*f
28W
No. 39.
THE COMPLETE NEEDLE BOOK, Leather covered, containing' 170
Gold-eyed Needles, Scissors, Crochet Hook, etc. (No. 39), 2/8.
THE COUNT THE COST NEEDLE CASE, Leatherette covered,
containing an assortment of 273 best Gold-eyed Needles,
various kinds, and 10 Calyx-eyed Needles (No. 33), 2/6.
PLUSH
plated
No. 48.
THIMBLE CASE, containing 1 Silver-
Thimble, with Finger Shield (No. 48),
10id. .
No. 42.
LEATHERETTE HABERDASHERY BOX, containing
Scissors, Sewing Silk, Needles, Cotton, Thimble,
etc. (No. 42), 1/11.
No. 43.
BACHELOR S ROLL OF HABERDASHERY, containing an assort-
ment of Pins, Needles, Buttons, Thread, &c., thus forming a
useful addition to a bachelor’s outfit, American Cloth, similar to
illustration (No. 43), 1/3, 2/3.
No. 34.
THE UNIVERSAL NEEDLE CASE, containing: Scissors, 2 Bodkins, Crochet Hook
and useful assortment of Needles (No. 34), 1/6.
LEATHERETTE
Scissors, Cotton,
No. 40.
HABERDASHERY BOX,
Sewing Silk, Needles and
etc. (No. 40), 2/9.
containing
Thimbles,
at
No. 41.
LEATHERETTE HABERDASHERY BOX,
containing Scissors, Sewing Silk, Cotton,
Needles, Thimbles, &c. (No. 41), 1/4J.
No. 32.
THE LONDON NEEDLE CASE, containing 1(32 Needles of
various kinds (No. 32), 9Jd.
No. 49.
LEATHERETTE THIMBLE CASE, containing
Silver-plated Thimble (No. 49), 104 d.
Anthony Hordern (£1
Only Universal
Providers!.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Charles Heidsieck
SEIMS
EXTRA DRV
☆ t/>
FINEST EXTRA Q*
The Bulletin notes with regret that its
old friend Gentleman One lias been going it
again in N.S.W. And, judging by the amazing-
candor of his explanations about how the trust
money went, he has been going it this time.
Those unpatriotic people who would sell
Australia, body and soul, to the Chow and
Monkey, for the sake of “trade,” might pause
and think whether, after all, the price is good
enough. At all events, Levien, one of Victoria’s
commercial agents in North China, doesn’t seem
too sure:—
The price of flour in this district is about 75 per cent,
cheaper than the market price in Victoria, apd there is
no doubt that, when the projected railway systems are
completed, Siberian and North Manchurian wheat will
supply a large proportion of the requirements of North
China.
Also, Levien tells how he exhibited several
samples of Victorian produce, upon which the
Chow gazed blandly ; but, when told they came
from Australia, he flicked his pigtail disdainfully,
and ambled off. The Chow has no use for Aus-
tralia, and what use has Australia for a country
which wants its goods at one-quarter of the Austra-
lian price ?
: me Minister Deakin, at Melbourne :
We or our children may have to meet no ordinary
foe. It may mean peril to all that we hold most dear
our family life, our industrial life, and perhaps the nation
that we cherish. If the warning comes home to any
people, it comes home to us, and therefore it becomes
us, surely, to recollect the time is now our own to
take advantage of the opportunity of making neces-
sary preparations to supplement the strength of the
Empire within these seas, so far as it is proportionately
incumbent upon us, and not to be content to see out-
work done for us. Until this duty is discharged we are
only tenants in this continent. We cannot retain it.
We cannot deserve it.
The Bulletin trusts that this foreshadows com-
pulsory military service, an Australian navy,
Australian arms and ammunition factories, and a
top-storey Protective policy that will make these
things possible. The eyes of Australia are now-
on Prime Minister Deakin—and for Heaven’s sake
let him not be Affable at this crisis.
The will of a good Australian, who objected
to absenteeism, set Victorian Chief Justice
Madden a nice problem the other day. By his
final testament, Samuel Thomas Staughton,
M.L.A., who died in 1902, left his widow, among
other properties, an annuity of £3OO per annum,
on condition that she didn’t absent herself from
Australia for more than one year in every five.
The lady wished to trip to Europe for one year
and nine months, and asked Mr. Madden to
please tell her how she could trip without dropping
her annuity. So Mr. Madden got out his arith-
metic book, and his slate and pencil, and his mul-
tiplication table, and sent for a logarithm or two,
and started work in real earnest. In the end he
gave judgment that the lady could go off the
chain for one year, eight months, and 28 days.
She has been a widow five years, and has only been
absent from Australia three months and two days.
Therefore she has eight months and 28 days’
leave due to her on account of the five years just
ended, and she can also take 12 months on account
of the five years just commenced. But she is to
be back sharp to time, and after she returns she
must walk the chalk line of residence with rigid
exactitude till 1912.
A resident of Stawell (Vic.) erected a fairly
respectable four-roomed cottage, constructed of
kerosene-tins and other bric-a-brac, and, up to the
last gasp (so to speak), materials and labor (he sup-
plied the labor himself) cost him absolutely nothing
in current coin. Then just as he was on the eve
of completing an economical record he ran out
of nails, and was obliged to spend 4d. to
obtain them. The luck of a person who can
acquire almost a whole four-roomed cottage for
nothing, and then has the record knocked out by
a miserable 4d. worth of nails, is too awful for
words. As with the St. Arnaud mechanic who
spent two years building a motor bike, and
then sold it for about £27, time was “ thrown in.”
Of course, if time was charged for, it would prob-
ably be a very expensive four-roomed house. Old
kerosene-tins sometimes take a lot of seeking.
Beauty• —There is no topic interests women more
and no possession they prize more highly than beauty. It
has been so through all the ages, and while human nature
remains unaltered will still be so. Hence the Valaze
Institute established by Mile. Helena Rubinstein here in
Sydney caters to a distinct want —and caters thoroughly.
All the advances in beauty culture made by the great
Complexion Salons of Paris and Vienna are practised at
the Institute, and there is scarce a blemish that mars the
human face divine but Mile. Rubinstein has a treatment
to successfully remedy it. Red noses, double chins,
superfluous hairs, flabbiness, wrinkles, crowsfeet, are but
a few of the unlovelinesses that are permanently removed,
and even the eradication of birth marks and such like
serious blemishes are successfully treated. Ladies should
call into the Valazelnstitute when in town—even a sitting
of face massage had there will result in benefit to one’s
looks. The address is 158 Pitt Street, on the second floor.
Ask to see Mile. Rubinstein herself.*
FACILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
“Black & White” Whisky
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The King,
and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
Dress fv\Bßies
Are Stocked by the
, Leading Drapers. .9
VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Judy 2, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
“Have you seen Sandow?” was the question
that everyone asked everybody at the Civil
Ambulance Juvenile Ball last week. Making an
afternoon instead of a night frisk of the charity
was an inspiration. The youngster —he hasn’t yet
completed three years—is the infant of Dr.
Binney. He looked a microscopic Sandow, from
his sandals up to his fair, closely curling head.
He was considerably undressed in a leopard-skin
and a tiny fair moustache. One of Miss G.
Griffith’s sets was “The Old Guard.” Small boys
carried out the dressing of Napoleon’s famous
campaigners to a detail, and looked fit to charge
and overthrow an army of tin soldiers. A girl
covered with elaborate spider webs in silver, with
black spiders on guard in the webs, was an
elaborate invitation to flies. A fetching youngster,
toddling about in a Dutch outfit of rose velvet vest
and blue silk trousers, was a son of the Alec Hays.
A little Kaffir girl, dressed with absolute correct-
ness as to material and necklaces and armlets of
beads and teeth, was one of the successes of the
afternoon. The baby of Williamson’s ballet,
Vera Huggett, did wonders with her infantile per-
formance of “ Waiting at the Church.” His Ex-
cellency and Lady came and looked joyfully at
the march past of the 400 children. Mrs. E. P.
Simpson, Mrs. L. Beaton, Mrs. Burdekin, and
other progenitors were at the revel in smart after-
noon trappings.
Stacks of lily of the valley were forced (at
Botany) solely for the Kelso King-Waring wed-
ding. The flowers were in Jean’s window for a
day or so, and it was quite usual for the innocent
at large to float inside, put down a shilling, and
ask for a bunch of the lily. When she found that
one spray was a shilling’s worth she nearly died in
aromatic pain. One of the guests at the wedding,
Mrs. Charles Waldron, wife of the actor,’ wore
her wedding garment, with pale blue and mauve
hydrangeas in her corsage, and a wreath and
cascade of the same flowers with blue and mauve
wheat in her hair. The two brides, Waldron and
Waring, who were King girls but in no wise
related, will leave for America next Monday.
A cable to bridegroom Waring on or about his
wedding day told of his father’s death. Dress-
makers and milliners who were putting in final
stitches and late grapes and pink peaches into
his bride’s frocks and hats are now hurrying up
with frocks and hats of woeful hue.
One of the daughters of the late Richard
Seddon, of M.L., is to be married to-morrow
(Wednesday) in Wellington to Mr. Knox Gilmer.
Talking of Maorilanders, Mrs. A. G. Rhodes, of
Christchurch, with her two children, have been
staying with the Fawkeses, at Admiralty
House. They were at the house with the wide
water frontage at the same time as the J. G.
Wards. Mrs. Rhodes is one of the Moorhouse
family. Her sister, Mrs. Laing-Meason, is also
in Sydney, with the strictly honorable intention
of settling here. The six-feet youngster, Magnus
Laing-Meason, with the flame-colored poll, who
is studying piano-smiting in Berlin, is this lady’s
son.
Managing director of Paling’s, Marich, and his
Mrs., ourled the tail of Mrs. Carreiio’s visit to this
State with a jolly launch and lunch party on
Friday. The launch Premier glode (or should it
be glid or glidded?) up the Parramatta right to
the mud flats. It was a poetic afternoon, and if
Mrs. Carreno hadn’t already seen every beauty
spot of note on the planet she might have enthused
more over our entrancing stream. The Schereks
and Mr. George Allen, all the people actively
interested in the Carreno season, wore on board,
except Mr. Charlie Norman, who has gone to
Maorilandtotell the Maorilanders of what’scoming
to them. The Star’s mate, Mr. Tagliapietra,
proved to be a strawberry blonde, moustached
and bearded, and with red-brown eyes. His
camera didn’t miss much, from a dipping sea-gull
to the Walker Memorial Hospital.
A Reception to Carreno.
Time, 11.30 a.m. Place, a small room in the
Women’s Patriotic Club, O’Connell-street. Per-
sons : The Great Pianist, about 200 members of
the club, a few visitors, one man, and a boy of
eight. No dogs. • Disposition of forces: The
Starhasalow seat, withher back totheunfired fire-
place. Hemming her in is a semi-circle of women
standing. Remainder of floor is glutted with
women standing, or seated on small, low chairs.
There is no aisle leading to the Star’s low squat-
tage. Every few minutes one of the hostesses,
with a presentation victim clutched by the sleeve,
butts a way through the throng. Everyone is
talking. Nearly everyone is badly dressed. The
hostesses are excited. The Star is invisible save
to the crescent of women.
Enter a club member with a blue bustard in her
bonnet.
First Hostess (leaping to meet her): “ I thought you
were never coming 1 Let me present you —she’s such a
Dear.” Takes newcomer by the amusing bone and begins
to butt.
Club-Member (beaming): “ Oh, just wait till I tell you
how I found this place ”
Hostess (pausing coldly): “ * Found this place 1 ’ But
you are a member.”
Club-Member: “Yes, I know—but I didn’t know
where it was. I didn’t know if it was at Redfern or near
the Cathedral, because I’d lost my invitation, and did
you ever know such luck as I’ve always got? Just as I
turned round by Hunter-street intending to ask a police-
man, I saw Mrs. Hugh Dixson’s motor go by, and I knew
she was coming here. My cabman kept the motor in
sight, and here I am. Yet men say women are no good
:in a crisis.”
Hostess restarts the butting procession.
Club Member (excitedly): “O, there’s Mrs. Joss.”
ifßreaks from Hostess’s hold and joins Mrs. Joss, a lady
with an intellectual forehead and a rather smart gown.
Hostess is seized by a small, determined woman. They
rgo t > the Star’s chair.)
Hostess: “Madame, this is Miss Non Troppo, one of
your most sincere admirers.” (Departs.)
Small Determined Woman : “’M so pleased to meet
you, Madame ; I’ve not yet had an opportunity of hearing
you, but I’m going to your last concert with great
pleasure. That’s to-morrow night, isn’t it ? I represent
the Blue-Bottle Express, one of our most influential
country papers. Is it true you speak six languages,
Madame ? Would you mind telling me, for the benefit of
the Blue-Bottle readers, what is the most difficult piece
of music ever written, and what is the best age for young
Australians to b gin learning music ? You are also, I
learn from the Women’s Columns in the dailies, as good
at coffee-making as you are at Bach and Beethoven. A
full tablespoon of coffee for every person. And it must
not boil. Also would you mind repeating to me your way
of making macaroni ? Your husband is a Moscow mer-
chant ? And he is as fair as you are dark ? How delighted
he must be to get away from the bomb-throwing and
other orders of the Czar! Do you like Sydney ?
Better than Melbourne? You’ve had frightful weather,
haven’t you ? Who is your favorite composer ? What do
you think of Paderewski?”
Semicircular bodyguard deprecates the question with
an expostulatory buzz.
Small Fiercely-Resolved Woman : “He said that the
Parramatta River reminded him of Norway. Do you
think so?”
Thin High Voice (about centre of the room): “But
you can make a 25-in. waist look 20 by having a round-
waist corset, and insisting' on a round-waist to your frock.
Low Drawling Voice (in reply): “ But if a woman has a
square or oval figure by nature ”
High Thin Voice (interrupting) : “ It doesn’t matter if
you have a triangular waist by nature. It’s a question
of your will, your corset, and your dressmaker against
nature. Why, I ”
Small Emphatic Woman (continuing examination re-
lentlessly): “Do you think an artiste ought to remain
unmarried, Madame?— l mean, do you believe that she
ought to be wedded to her art, and ”
Expostulatory buzzing.
One of the Hostesses brings up more presentees, and
the small, determined woman is determinedly set aside.
One of the Presented: “I was always devoted to
music, Madame Carroway, but after hearing you play
the Etudes Symphoniques of Schumann, I’m a reg’lar
melomaniac—he, he, hi, hi, hi!” (Giggles engagingly.)
Voice Squeaking from a Corner : “ Never before
realised what the Black Hole of Calcutta must have been
like. It was like this room—only not so densely in-
habited. Why can’t Madame sit in the fireplace, and
make more room ?”
A club member hums air, “ Mein lieber Schwan,” from
“ Lohengrin,” and yawns.
Another Club Member : “You remind me that there’s
a programme of music to come. I must be an original,
for I hate music and wine before sundown.”
Thin High Voice: “Yes, it’s a fact, in London and
Paris you can get a beautiful pair of eyelashes for ten-
and-six, and wear them ever so often. I don’t know
anything so dangerous to man as long, curling eyelashes.”
Languid Club Member : “ What’s Carreno wearing?”
Brisk Member: “Mole velvet, Irish crochet, and a
toque of violet velvet and feathers. Her ”
One of the Hostesses (speaking in a r used voice and
tinkling a little dinner-bell): “ Master Prodigy will play.”
The eight-year-old boy plays a Chopin waltz. Later,
two young ladies render pianoforte selections with skill.
Astonished Club Member : “ What is the object of this
musical programme? Is it to show one of the greatest
players of the age how much worse or how much better
than hers is our playing ? ”
Bored Visitor : “ It’s your committee’s sense of humor.
It knew Madame would enjoy a little good music after
seven of her own recitals, to say nothing of the music
she’s heard in Europe for the past 50 years.”
Astonished Club Member : “ Why couldn’t we give
her a novelty?”
Bored Visitor : “ Yes. Say a boxing kangaroo or a
singing dingo.”
Hostess (tinkling bell) : “ Miss Whitefoxfurs will recite
a scene from ‘ The Lady of Lyons.’ ”
Astonished Club Member : “ More novelty ! ‘ The
Lady of Lyons.’ Holy Frost ! What’s the matter with
‘ Saltbush Bill’s First Fight ? ’ ”
Bored Visitor : “ Your club committee ought to be
operated on for conventionitis.”
Miss Whitefoxfurs does her bit from “ The Lady of
Lyons,” but as the crowd still swarms round Carreno that
eminent personage can’t possibly see the reciter. It is a
voice coming out of a pit of women, like the voice of
Joseph telling his brethren that it wasn’t what he ex-
pected of them.
Late Comer (bustling uncheerfully): “ Well, what’s
going?”
Bored Visitor : “ I am.” (Goes).
Fascinating widowed women, like the lady who
was Mrs. Willie Mitchell, and later was Mrs.
(Colonel) Goodwin, are incorrigible wedders. The
one-time belle of Sydney has married for the third
time. Mrs. Goodwin is now Mrs. Captain or
Colonel Something Else. (She’s faithful to the
Service.) The bridegroom has a good billet in
Penang, and the marriage occurred in Bombay.
Miss Hilda Mulligan, the little Manly soprano
who some years ago, on Melba’s recommendation,
went to Italy to complete the training of an ex-
quisite voice on which Mrs. Christian had already
put considerable polish, has made her dbbut in
London. She is now with the Moody Manners
Company, at the Lyric Theatre, and when last
heard from by her family was taking the part of
Venus in “ Tannhauser.” This little Australian
singer has a future.
Miss Gertrude Mcßride, a pupil of Mr. Laur-
ance Phillip, will give a concert at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall, next Monday, July 8.
Lady Northcote got back from her visit to the
Brisbane Cheltnsfords in time to say au revoir to
her Governor-General, who left last night to open
the Australian Parliament in Melbourne. Our
own State Parliament opens to-day. It’s always
doing something foolish. The ceremony is, by
this time, about as exciting as the lighting of the
street lamps. Cannonading; a body of military,
swelling fore and aft; the Governor in his frantic
hat; the usual hurried ceremony in the dark
Chamber crammed with women ; the Speech;
then the flight of the Smarter sex to the tea-
rooms. The Government ought to offer prizes for
suggestions re new methods of opening Parlia-
ment. But I suppose there will be no real variety
in Parliamentary openings till his Excellency
arrives in an air-ship to do the ceremony, or till
an invader scatters our Legislature into the bush,
and the session is opened in the goods shed at
Nyngan by a Governor who has reached the spot
in a publican’s buggy.
Miss Rawson is still climbing up the mountain
of toil in connection with the Women’s Work
Exhibition. The Sports Programme Competition
is now published. Open to all women and girls
in N.S.W. who are bona fide amateurs. If
possible, winners will be sent to Melbourne
to represent this State at the Ex. there, in
October. Croquet Tournament trophies are
presented by Miss Eadith Walker. Lawn
Tennis Tournament trophies are presented
by Mrs. Chris. Bennett. There are to be saddle-
horse events, harness-horse competitions, and
motor-car driving. Entries for these close with
Captain Wilson, at “ Cranbrook, ” on August 1.
Captain Wilson gives prize trophies for these
competitions. So do Mrs. Walter Hall and Mrs.
J. O. Fairfax. In the golf division, Mrs. J. L.
Lane Mullins presents trophies. In fact, almost
everybody seems to present trophies.
A 60ft. frieze, showing views of Sydney harbor
and foreshores, will be painted by Miss Eirene
Mort for the Women’s Work Exhibition.
Mr. Derwent Wood’s plaster figure “ Atalanta,”
exhibited recently at the Royal Academy (Lon-
don), caused the art critics to write in wine (so
to speak) about the beauty of the work. What-
ever interest Australia takes in the sculptor is
due to his being Florence Schmidt’s husband.
Camille Clifford, now married to the heir of
Lord Aberdare (which sounds almost like poetry),
was once a Merely Camille in the household of a
Boston family. The story goes that she and
thirteen of her fellow Merelys were photographed
in a group, and that each Merely paid a dollar
for a copy of the picture. Since taking his son
and daughter-in-law to the breast which he
inherited from a hundred earls (I believe he i
only a baron, and the second of his line, but tha
is a detail), the old man has been trying to get
possession of the other thirteen copies of the pic-
ture in which Camille appeared capped and
aproned. American detectives have at last suc-
ceeded in securing all the copies and the negative,
and in the chase his lordship is said to have dis-
bursed £30,000. But he has suppressed the
record of his daughter-in-law’s guilty past —the
past in which she was guilty of washing-up.
The Child Study Association is putting on its
strongest shoes, and most serviceable bonnet, and
business-like walking skirt, preparatory to head-
ing out for the coin. A Sydney business man has
promised it £5O if it can get 19 others to give each
a like amount. That would mean £lOOO ! The
C.S.A. gets a catch in its breath just saying the
sum. It has so long been pinched for funds
that it is determined to learn what affluence is
like. Here’s a chance —19 chances for 19 men to
help a charity that helps poor children suffering
from mal-nutrition, defective development, and
other troubles.
On Saturday night the Wimmera took away
from these weeping shores that player of tender-
ness and charm, Miss Marie Hall. With her
went her chum and accompanist, Miss Lonie
Basche, whose whole first name turns out to be
Apollonia. It is even more wonderful a name
than that of the Diamantina who was a Governor’s
wife somewhere hereabouts in the backblox of our
history. Apollonia, who might be called Polly
for short, didn’t confide her name to any of the
women who cuddled up to her at the Mayoress’s
At Home, and it was only extracted from her with
difficulty, like a tooth. I would always take gas
if I were going to have a name like that extracted
from me. Lonie is much simpler, only the printer
mostly sets it up as Louie.
The S.M. Herald is sending Mr. Arthur
Mason, our City Organist, to the City of Black
and Yellow Fog, to push the pen instead of
battling with the pedals.
A musicianly departer is Miss Iris de Cairos
Rego, a young daughter of a Sydney music-maker
and writer. She’ll go to Berlin, and later the Car-
reno will take charge of the genius’ hand on the
piano.
Rev. Carr-Smith, beloved of St. James’ parish,
has returned to his sheep still a celibate. No
news of any prospective shepherdess looms on the
horizon.
Mrs. Brough and Miss Emma Temple, both in
inky black, were, with Dr. Burne, the judges at
the Civil Ambulance Ball. They seemed to take
the thankless work seriously. Every mother who
exhibited an infant with an antic disposition on
him thought her bantling ought to get a prize.
Twenty-three doctors are going to give a dance
at Baumann’s, and half girl-Sydney is incoherent
and pink in the face with excitement. The
dance-givers are the resident surgeons at the St.
Vincent’s, Sydney, and Prince Alfred hospitals.
Each obliterator of the appendix will ask three
girls and four men, so there will be twenty-three
men over, and no wallflower dado.
That clever kiddy, Lorna Pounds, aged sixteen,
has been engaged by Clarence Brune to play lead
in his next production at the Melbourne Bijou.
Dr. Emil Reich, the old-world prototype of our
own Mr. B. Smith, who talked platitudes to
duchesses all last London season concerning Love
and such-like delicate matters, had a word or two
more to say last month on his favorite theme —
albeit (since his vogue is past) to no more in-
spiring an audience than a mere ink-stained
Daily Mirror reporter. “The upper classes
everywhere,” observed the Doctor, acidly, “make
marriages of convenience. Love is a negligible
quantity with them ; and consequently their
offspring are stupid and ugly invariably.”
(This with a vicious side-glance at the
duchesses who deserted him so scurvily for
the Premiers during the 1907 season.) The
doctor’s case affords a lamentable example of the
fickleness of the well-fed, and their restiveness in
the presence of Terewth with its clothes off. Last
year he remarked, in a sudden burst of candor,
that American women were uncultured, over-
dressed, and utterly wanting in the home virtues.
Which bright thought fell like a cold clam
athwart an audience made up mostly of titled
female Yanks. Since then, Emil has been
socially a thing to mourn over. Mr. B. Smith
should mark the Austrian’s fate, and avoid tell-
ing the truth in his patriotic addresses at suburban
mothers’ meetings.
When the mail left London little Wanda Rad-
ford was staying with the (Melba.) Armstrongs at
Worthing. A Jewess who is artistic and a mil-
lionaire, one Mrs. Bischoffsheim, is taking such
an interest in the youngster that she proposes to
send Wanda to the Paris Conservatoire when the
girl is 14—the earliest age at which admission is
possible.
Good, opal-tinted letter paper bearing a whirly
device in blue, two golden stars, and the legend,
“Winfield Blake and Maud Amber, American
Frivolity Artists,” comes along from the statuesque
Maud. She and the other golden star (Mr. Blake)
are in London, and doing well.
Writes my Brisbane correspondent :■ —
Once again the clerk of the weather has got home on
the vice-regal household, and the long-looked-for garden
fete to meet Mr. and Mrs. Governor-General is postponed
until Thursday. Then it will be shorn of its G.-G. lights,
and will dazzle with a limited brilliance. Everything
combined to down the function. The Pyramus, in
which ship Lord Northcote was exploring the prawny
deep, struck a reef ; and the Tsinan, into which he was
hastily bundled, got weather-bound somewhere between
here and Rockhampton, and at the moment of writing
(1 p.m. Saturday) is not yet sighted at Cape Moreton.
The weather is still in a nasty hysterical state, and
history and the A.D.C. have not yet related whether the
group of noble dames will patronise the inter-State
football or no. As for our own weary Ex., who got home
at six this morning from his northern ramble, I expect
he’s in his little bed and will stay there.
Great was the success that attended the Perry coming-
of-age literary hop on Thursday evening. The host and
hostess received their heroes and heroines, attired re-
spectively as the Yellow Peril and Lavender and Old Lace.
The former get-up was about the most perfect among
the male frivollers, and the heathen land-grabber was re-
flected in all his native hideousness. A toilette of
lavender, satin and some delightful old point lace,
powdered hair, and old-world jewels became Mrs. Herbert
like a good dividend or a full hand. Mistress Winnie
Hicks, as Kitty Olive, in some wonderful Chinese brocade
and Mechlin lace, took the character cake. Misses Leslie
Harris, as Dolly Varden and Ida Chambers, were also
very successful. Male honors were easy between the
Hamlet of Dr. E. Molle and small George Webster as
Captain Kettle. There were two huge jokes, one of them
quite unintentional. The unintentional one will be
covered by the kindly veil of oblivion. The premeditated
effort was that of a smart girl who arrived as T psy, and
who did it so well that she was darkly suspected of being a
real nigger and an impudent intruder, until the matter
was cleared up quite late in the evening.
On Wednesday afternoon the vice-regal dames shed an
approving eye upon the Lamington Hospital for Women.
On the occasion of Lady Northcote’s visit it was to watch
her husband lay one flat rock on another beneath a
frizzling sun. Now there stands a hospital as up-to-date
as any in the Commonwealth, with well-paid nurses, and
with nurses’ quarters that for comfort and convenience
lick Australian creation—a hospital run by woman and
free of debt. (Hooray !)
Later.
The weather turned out fine after all, so the postpone-
ment of the Garden Fete was for naught. The Governor-
General has passed by, and Brisbane is done out of the
chief vice-regal smile. There wasn’t even a State Governor
at the football match, and our boys were defeated.
(Ichabod !)
Yours Affectionately, AKENEHI.


Bushman’s
Dunlop
nmp
Tyres
carried Francis Birtles from Perth to
Adelaide—over 3185 miles of country
infested with spinifex and prickly
jacks, across salt lakes and burning sand
—without tyre trouble or puncture.
COUNTRY
CYCLISTS
who desire immunity from tyre
troubles, and are willing to sacrifice
a little speed for Reliability and Hard
Wear—over the roughest of roads
and tracks—are recommended to use
these tyres, which are absolutely
proof against trouble. Obtainable
through any respectable Cycle Agent.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
All States and N.Z.
Move On i
YOU’LL LIND
NOTHIN!
1
LIKE
I>UKrivOP
Rubber heels
for Easy Walkir\£.
Obtainable all Shapes and Sizes from Leading Boot Store*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., ALL STATES ANO N-Z-
ts>
ft
ComETJ
ft
'©OrtETrtlNG- OVITE -NE.W-
“JTIILUMKL
-
WORLD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 1, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The return of ambassador Deakin and his
missus was a glad event for a vast number of
folks. The diffident dame, for once unbent and
was unrestrainedly gracious and charming to her
welcomers. Affable Alfred himself was just one
long beam of satisfaction at his home-coming and
his reception. No one could question the Deakins’
devotion to their ain countree, nor their pqpu-
larity, after this last arrival. Officials, news-
paper men, the man in the street, were as
enthusiastic as personal chums might be. And
the Deakins return to their battle-ground joy-
fully, without a single regret for the feltes and
successes they’ve lately enjoyed. Mrs. Deakin
looks even younger than when she left. Someone
asked where Mrs. Deakin had disappeared to. The
questioner took the slight, smartly tailored figure
for the youthful eldest Deakin daughter. But
the Prime Minister himself looks older and more
serious.
“Tryphena” (London) writes of the passing of
Alfred :
The Deakins were whirled off in a chariot of glory last
Monday from this grey city. Alfred cried a quivering,
emotional “Coo-ee” from the departing conveyance.
The press—looking aloof on the orator and resenting his
flashes of banquet eloquence in the first place—came
round to liking him, and dishing up his rounded periods
in late editions. The reason the press gave for letting so
many of his utterances go unreported at the start of the
junketings was that the Commonwealth Chief, billed
fourth or fifth on the toast list, came too late to be in-
cluded in the night’s reports. Subsequently the press
owls worked the point and gave the vigilant Alfred due
prominence, with the result that the nation, to quote the
monocled Powers, has been “ deeply impressed.” The
Chief himself told me, just before taking himself off in the
Calais boat, that he had only stolen three single, separate
half-hours, for personal, private and most particular
enjoyment, in six weeks. These, I believe, were spent in
the Galleries at Art worship. As he talked, letters fell
upon him like a hail-storm, telegrams blew in as so much
hurrying dust, and parcels (probably containing thorax
tabloids and voice ’jubes, and medals for long-speech
service and banquet survivals) were piled about his table.
Alfred looked from one accumulation to the other, looked
at his own disturbed Himalaya of correspondence on the
table, observed me with the blank air of a polite lunatic,
and drove his fingers fiercely through his thatch. After
several of these bewildered hair-combings he seemed
better, and was just returning to normal sanity again
when an urgent letter from King Ned was put into his
hand.
Before anything more could happen, Mrs. Deakin
rescued me, and we twain climbed the Pyreneean piles of
farewell packets, and fled into a boudoir, where only jars
of jam and other homely and ridiculous family comforts
blocked the way. “ Why the jam ? ” I asked the lengthy
Grace. She smiled and said : “ I don’t know, but isn’t it
touching ? ” I replied that it was sticky—but Mrs.
Deakin wasn’t going to joke. She said that everybody
had endeavored to be charming, and, in the cases of
simple natures and homely hearts, the jam was the
result. “There’s no frigidity,” declares she, “about
them.” Mrs. Deakin, by the way, poured out tea for the
King on one occasion.
Alfred the Affable had a big help-mate in his long, stately
wife. Her personality, whether she was perched beside
royalty at the banquet-board, or consorted with the
crowd at a lawn-trail, had a big, bright, telling effect.
And she went off finally in the chariot, sprinkling her
smiles with tears. The London gush and boom had at
last touched the spot, and the reserved, reticent dame
gave way into a parting and a truly moist sigh.
The extraordinary “Chats with Mrs. Deakin,” pub-
lished in various weeklies of the Smoky City, were so
much fake. Statements were put down to the dame that
were utterly foreign to her opinion and sentiment. It’s
quite an eye-opener. Up to this, most of the world put
down the Imaginary Heart to-Heart Talk with the shy
but important arrival as purely a Yank trick. But
the London journals—the demure, snobbish weeklies
—resort to the same trick, to the confusion of the sub-
ject of the bogus interview, and with less amusement to
the public.
Victorian Railway Commissioner Tait. and his cigar are
features of the Strand. The other morning the rain was
suspended that Tommy Bent and his giddy railway expert
might take a dry-footed airing in the neighborhood of
Westminster. I saw Tommy swinging the old, old brolly
and the old, old bingy to the rear of the dandy Tait.
Whenever a hoarding picture of Diana drinking bottled
stout, or Neptune dressed in soapsuds, or Little Cissie
crying for her brother’s pants, struck the Bent view, he
smote the Canadian in the thigh, or thereabouts, with
the old, o'd brolly, and pointed the stump-end of the
weapon at the poster.
The Rupert Clarkes are all united under the Park Lane
roof—that expensive roof the rental of which runs to
nearly 3000 golden pounds per annum. And it’s such a
doll’s-house—a mere slit in the wall among the mighty
mansions of the Hoggenheimers. Daughter Phyllis is
excited—actually excited—at the prospect of returning
to ’Rooland with Pa. She packs up her fountain-pen and
scribbling-block for the trip with eager hands.
Melba does not please the Big Smoke public. It has
many disparaging stories in circulation of her violent
jealousies, her volcanic outbreaks, and her caprices. The
night when Covent Garden prepared for its Caruso, with
all the trumpetings of press and public for days ahead,
Melba did not transpire for her Mimi rdle. She was in-
disposed. And the rude Fogtown public burst out with :
“I told you so.” Her jealousy, it said. The stout, jolly
tenor had the night to himself. It’s amazing how the
clannish public of the Johnbull hub decries its diva. I’ve
heard more deprecating, and very likely fabulous, stories
of Melba than of any other star on the whole stage
of Great Britain.
The uneasy Oats’ League is nursing a new
grievance. One of its members has been made a
warning of by an unsympathetic magistrate (pre-
sumably a Socialist) for infringing the Electoral
Act. The Warning is Mrs. Humbel, of Geelong,
whose enthusiasm kept her in a polling-booth all
election-day, and led her to advise one or two less
well-informed females how to vote. For this
effort she was fined £5, with costs exceeding that
amount. The League arches its back, talks about
injustice and the Labor party, and sends innu-
merable letters of condolence or congratulation to
the offender. But, so far, no mention is made of
reimbursing the indignant victim. The other
cats seem quite willing to let her be a feline
martyr. They haven’t even sent her a mouse
towards her expenses.
A frock-builder who has influenced the destinies
of many Melbourne women, unburdens herself
about their peccadilloes. She tells of clients
whose trousseaux she made, not so very long ago,
who now permit her a glimpse of their boredom
and its complement. She says it doesn’t take
them long to lose their interest in lingerie fin,
and they mostly replace it by a knowledge of
layettes, or a vain ambition to possess more
dresses than they can wear in one season. And
they dress for the prologue of divorce proceedings
under her very eye. Matrons, with ulterior
motives and bachelor friends rush in and
demand the use of a fitting-room that they may
disguise themselves in a gossamer veil and a new
cloak. Later on, they return and resume their
discarded wrappings. The other things she con-
fides further point the axiom: “Beware of your
pet costumiere, for in the end she biteth like a
serpent and stmgeth like an adder.”
At Trinity, East Melbourne, last week, Dean
Vance’s youngest daughter (the last of the girls to
be duly “got off”) followed the example of her
sisters, and married a parson’s son—Mr. Gason.
It took several members of the Cloth to tie the
knot (are these parson’s sons such slippery cus-
tomers ?), the Archbishop being “ assisted ” by
the Archdean of Melbourne and the Rev. S. B.
Gason (pa to the bridegroom), and one or two
other persons versed in sky-pilotage. The bride
had one grown-up maid to help her with gloves
and flowers, and three very small girls to pre-
vent the bridal party being outnumbered by the
clerics.
Melbourne is “ Blue-Moon’’-struck. Dancers
whirl to the waltz strains, while the corner bands
and the awful, whistling, suburban boy keep up a
continuous toot of “ Burmah girls ” and such-like
catchy songs. The big Brownlow baritone, who
is responsible for the Burmah outbreak, is one of
the least stagey beings Melbourne has seen in
musical comedy hero parts. He has a large, heavy,
mastiff way of walking the boards, and looks more
like a mining manager or a wholesale tank-sinker
than the typical patent-leathered mummer who
progresses like Agag walking softly lest the egg
should burst when he steps on it. The Maoriland
Murphy girl sings beautifully, but acts tamely, and
looks terribly frightened of herclingy, silky, tightly-
wound clothes. The pretty-Missish Maud Thorne
has a good figure and clothes right out of a band-
box. She suffers partial eclipse, however, by being
always with aunt Celia Ghiloni, who is more im-
pressively stately than ever. Carrie Moore made
the pace for “The Blue Moon” in London, and
this company gives us a girl—a lovely dancer—
who has been studying Carrie carefully.
The two very pretty Evans sisters (local pro-
ducts with a Green training and a Titian hair
scheme) give one of the most picturesque touches
in the whole show. A specially handsome sur-
Erise is Jessica Deane, the Girl in Red, who has a
mile and a Figure. The face is like a child’s,
with a significant slow smile which suggests an
early-Roman vestal playing Bacchante in a not-
quite-proper pastoral play of the period. Her
duties in this production are limited to looking
lovely, smiling occasionally, and saying ten words
or so from time to time. No one wants her to do
more. So many women can act, while so few can
just stand round and be a thing of beauty and a
houri borrowed out of Paradise.
The Icy Rink did itself proud on Wednesday
with a Poster Carnival. Only Posters (and good
skaters at that) %vere allowed on the field, and the
reserved seats (with your foot-soles on the hot
pipes) were occupied by a somewhat frilly crowd.
All the electrics —swinging in garlands high up
roof-ward—were softened by Japanese lanterns,
and the leery looked as if some of Melbourne’s
hoardings had taken life, and decided on a night
out. Even the Gazeeka arrived, in horrid spotted
skin and indiarubber face. (He caused some
quite warm blushes; heard one indignant
matron declare “he should have worn an
apron! ”) Anyhow, he gained a prize,
and turned hand-springs all over the field
in delight. Monkey Brand just missed a
prize ; four tall, neat, black-clad men, with panto-
mimic monkey faces and shining frying pans, were
driven by a smart housemaid. They chased four
pretty Bensdorp Cocoa girls, in full advertising
array, who glided along swiftly, scattering choco-
late and making the pace for two Turkish
maidens with a burning cigarette for driver. The
“team ” prize went to a party of wattle-decked
girls representing a local florist, the name being
stated on purple sashes of minor importance. The
prizes were quite valuable things.
Perhaps the daintiest prize-winner was a little
brunette, decked in scarlet kimono, riding in a
ricksha, with a quaint lantern at her head, and
much cherry blossom crowded in alongside. Her
ricksha-man skated well, and wore a correct
runner’s dress of dull blue, with brown legs rope-
strapped. Pretty Carmen Pinschof missed a prize
by being just too sweet for anything, let alone her
advertisement, which was “Bitter Ale.” She
made the quaintest little bottle, in green silk,
with straight-cut short skirt, and her hair pow-
dered and silver-decked, and a chemisette of
silver tissue to give proper head and neck to the
bottle. Sister Elizabeth represented the Herald,
in grateful acknowledgment of her father’s lucky
connection with Melbourne’s evening paper.
Government Architect Marsden’s big, handsome
wife is being farewelied comprehensively by
Tooralr, Brighton, and St. Kilda. She goes Fog-
ward with her medical son, who tripped out from
Bull’s own country to take her for the jaunt
Three big, bachelor boys, in all, do their best to
pet and spoil their youthful-looking mother.
Mrs. Marsden, by the way, made the Alexandra
Club the base of a very general good-bye on
Tuesday last week, with afternoon tea and a
musical programme to soften the regret. There
was a plentiful sprinkling of young, smart and
jolly girls, who swear by the brown eyes of their
some-time chaperone. And the eyes are bright as
well as brown.
The headquarters of the latest Bazaar was Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and the object of money-
getting was the School of the Deaf and Mute.
Premier Bent voted some £BOO to the buying of a
farm and out-door school, and energetic folk
(mostly Mayoresses) worked up a sale to help
things along. The general scheme of the sale was
methodical, and so business-like as to be curiously
un-bazaar-like. Each numerous Mayoress had
her own particular corner, devoted to just one
class of goods. The St. Kilda lady-in-chief did a
roaring trade in ironmongery, copper kettles, and
tinware. Next door, Mrs. Montgomery and Mrs.
Nunn (for Elsternwick) vended stationery. Rich-
mond’s charming Mayoress had a sweets’ shop,
and Toorak’s dame sold flowers, while Malvern
bartered the ready-to-eat chook and turkey. The
Upper Chamber of the Hall was turned into a
Village Fair.
The Dental College is a youthful thing but
growing lustily, and is putting on swagger, grown-
up airs since its affiliation with Melbourne Uni-
versity. The students blossomed out as quite
big entertainers on Friday last. They gave a ball.
which was organised with little fuss, and which
turned out to be quite the best of the season so far.
The wide, surrounding corridors and annex of
the favorite Prahran Town Hall lend themselves
to cosy drawing-room effects under good manage-
ment. Really pretty girls were quite in the
majority. So were very swagger frocks. The
president of the college (Captain Hall) is a mili-
tary man, so the dance was largely regimental,
and its male millinery was beautiful to look upon.
An official set had Captain Hall and his pretty
littlej black-gowned wife leading. (The black-
gowned girl hits the top sartorial notch in the
scarlet of a regimental ball.) The genial Chief
Justice sent regrets at the last moment; so did
General Hoad, but Mrs. Hoad came with her
young son—a newly-made lieutenant.
Walter Withers has been picture-showing.
Artists are all following Streeton’s lead in
taking for their view-room the “ upper chamber ’
in old Zion Temple, alias Hibernian Hall, now
freshly painted and styled the Guild Hall. But the
hall by any name would own just the same wonder-
ful “top-light” that it took Streeton to discover.
A huge canvas at the end of the room strikes
the eye at once with fine effect ; a wild, blue
“ west-wind ” sky and a tangle of bush and scrub,
with the bright burnt sienna of a felled giant
gum. It is weakly called “ The Axeman,’
whereas almost any Australian would walk
straight up to it and exclaim “ The Splitter ! ’
A suddenly-awakened public is scattering the
nice little crimson “ bought ” label on these paint-
ings also ; but the business-like way in which the
rain descended during the first days of the show
kept the big crowd from wading out at once to
choose its own particular color scheme. The man
in the street has no urgent hunger for art when
his boots are damp and his umbrella is dripping.
Mdlle. Ballara, otherwise Florence Towl, gives
a concert on Tuesday, the 9th, when she will
warble about fourteen of her best items. After
this performance she departs, she says, to an
operatic engagement in the land of Germany,
where she’ll proceed to sing Wagner. When one
is in Germany one must sing Wagner.
Things seem booming in agricultural circles.
One day last week there were nine weddings in
Warrnambool, farmers’ sons and daughters every
groom and bride of them.
A local cafe, with interesting associations and
Bohemian aspirations, is making valiant efforts to
establish itself as a G'af<s Procope, or something of
the sort. The poets and journalists with secret
literary ambitions, established rhymesters and
arrogant B’s.A., are all being invited to come
along on specific occasions and give their inner
selves a night out. MSS. that no one in the
newspaper line will look at is to be produced and
read aloud to the other mistaken young men and
women. The public is quite unnecessarily for-
bidden to intrude upon the process of soul-
stripping. Whether the dreamy composer who
can’t find a publisher will be admitted to the
sacred circle has not yet been decided. Visiting
editors are to be honored by admission, and local
ones are to be pursued with invitations. The
Parnassians protest that their coterie will be un-
influenced by any sordid considerations, but those
last provisions spell an ulterior motive.
It isn’t safe to mention an ingratiating elocu-
tionist to certain hostesses at present. One
chatelaine of a star Jonah establishment lately
gave a big party to introduce two young relatives.
All the guests had just outgrown the flapper
stage. Don’t know whether you’ve noticed it,
but the modern girl is miles “ properer ” than her
mother was. Well, the said chatelaine engaged
the said elocutionist to entertain her youthful
guests. The few mothers present mostly dissolved
into tears of mirth at his tale, but the girls waxed
properly indignant. It certainly was a remark-
able story about a lady who took so much of
herself to pieces before retiring that nobody
ever knew whether the real individual was
in bed or on the table. The point, of the
joke lies in the fact that the hostess is some-
what hard of hearing, so she smiled
blandly through all the yarn. It wasn’t till her
juvenile daughters upbraided her afterwards
hat she realised what she had approved.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide: —
Our standing (or rather leaning) army got out its
weapon, the other day, and went along to protect his
Ex. through the opening of Parliament and see there
were no stray cats under the Speaker’s chair. Lady Le
Hunte and Miss Clowes brought the new aide along to
show him to the members of Parliament, and rows of
nicely-clothed shes smiled upon him from the she-gallery.
A gun or two went off, but none of the tramcars were
killed ; his Ex. read a document; a few stray dogs
wandered up to bark at the leaning army, and the deed
was done.
Adelaide is pluming itself hugely on the fact that Irene
Dillon, about the jolliest and quite the prettiest damsel
of the “ Mother Goose ” contingent, is a daughter of its
own. This State can boast hosts of pretty girls, but few
who have adopted the mumming profession, and why Ada
Ward came here to tell us about the dreadfulness of a
sin we hardly ever commit I don’t know. So we take
quite a parental interest in the clever Irene. The peerage
of Adelaide and Glenelg, and all the dukes at the Sema-
phore, have passed a verdict that “ Mother Goose ”is
“ quaite retained,’’and it sends its be-starched offspring to
fill the circle o’ matinees, feeling confident that it will not
see or hear anything that will make it morally unfit to
inherit the family estates.
That clever girl artist, Miss Bessie Davidson, has had
one of her pictures, “ The Bag-mender,” purchased for
presentation to the Broken Hill Art Gallery. The work
was painted while she was in Paris, and its companion
picture was hung in the Salon. Another of our best
daubers, Will Ashton, goes off with a bundle of pictures
on his back, to tempt Melbourne into squandering some
of its shekels.
We’re thinking of getting up a deputation to have
Cambridge University moved bodily to Adelaide, recent
events having convinced us that the rest of the world has
no chance against our men. Young Wilton, who gathered
in a Fifth Wrangler-ship and a full sizar-ship, the other
week, has now added the Jetson scholarship (£5O a year)
to his collection. Young Chappie’s deeds were exploited
last week, and now Warren Swan, of these parts, has
chased a scholarship to its lair and captured the animal-
unarmed save with his gigantic intellect.
The Voice breathed in pleasant tones last week for Miss
Oudmore and Mr. Crawford, and the whole Four Hundred
were invited to the sacrifice. The bride is one of the
Cudmores of “ Paringa Hall,” Glenelg. (This is no
relation to the Town Hall or even the Trades Hall, but a
kind of second cousin of a moated grange.) It is a quaint,
roomy structure, with sheep and other rural beasts
wandering about its garden. The wedding was a very
ultra affair, and even Hymen carried the best brand of
torch for the occasion. Some of the wedding gifts were
particularly gorgeous.
Adelaide is becoming such a hilarious place that we
have had to go out and catch an extra aide to carry his
Ex.’s traps when he is called abroad to participate in
bazaar-openings, public meetings, etc. We have now two
aides and a whole private secretary of our owm TJie new
aide’s name is Lieutenant A. C. Boddam-Whethath, and
he is being exhibited to the public under her Ex.’skindly
wing before getting into his brass buttons.
This landscape is strewn with committee dan«es nowa-
nights, most of them, as usual, hostessed and entirely
manipulated by sweet maidens. There’s a Papillon dance
and an Almond Blossom dance, a Kooringa dance, and
about every otherkindof flower, bird, orbeastdance under
the moon. Bub the spree, at which no men need apply, so
popular of late, has at least done some good, and part of
our mere male community is doing its duty as a man and
a brother, and entertaining the she-element by way of
change. I hear of a “ Maritana ” dance, that is in mas-
culine hands ; also, that the School of Mines boys hope
to invite the young and frilly populace to tread a measure
in the Brookman Hall this month. And when the Him does
come down from his pedestal to entertain, he achieves
something worth while. (This remark isn’t true, but I
put it in to encourage him !)
Yours affectionately, JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
vZv
GrO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,!
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
Surgical Instrument
> Makers,
DENYER BROTHERS;
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Commission, or Board, or something,
with Justice Owen presiding, is inquiring into
the improvement leases which were oiled through
N.S.W. Lands Department, a while ago. One after
another the improvement lessees turn up to swear
that the land under discussion is utterly unfit for
close settlement, because rabbits over-run it.
The theory is that the more rabbits there are the
fewer settlers there should be to kill the rabbits.
So far, nothing further has been heard of
the crazy suggestion of Mr. Consett Stephen, the
respectable and middle-aged Sydney solicitor,
that the State of N.S.W. should start its own
mail service, and presumably seize the Federal
mails by insurrection, robbery, and bloodshed, so
as to put them on the State mail-boat. A man
who looked rather like Mr. Consett Stephen was
seen buying a gun the other night, but, on closer
inspection, the buyer proved to be a different per-
son. Probably the excited solicitor hasn’t bought
a gun yet to be ready for his own insurrection, and
hasn’t even realised the need of one. Most likely
he never even dreamed of firing off anything more
deadly than his lower jaw.
SAME EVERYWHERE.
Between 30 and 40 farmers arrived to-day from Vic-
toria in search of land. — N.S.W. News Item.
THE FARMERS : "Spare me days , there's the same
old bloke that ice thought we’d left behind us."
Good old Private Enterprise ! The S.A.
Government inspector has turned back at Port
Adelaide a consignment of apples for the London
market which was “simply a disgrace to the
grower ” —says the Conservative anti-State-control
Register. It “consisted of small, withered, and
unripe fruit,” was, “speaking figuratively, not fit
food for pigs, ” and would have been “the means
of giving the fruit industry of the State an
unwelcome set-back.” Thus does a Private Enter-
prise paper give three cheers for State interference.
The sfar section of
N.S.W. Liquor Act>is No.
31. It provides disquali-
fication of the premises if
four convictions have been
obtained in two years. That
works, or is liable to work,
thus: The owner fires out
licensee No. 1, who has
been convicted of a breach.
Licensee No. 2 claims
somewhat better terms, but
the owner is still boss. A
dissatisfied No. 2 falls, and
No. 3 comes in. No. 3
simply says, “You’ve only
two chances ahead ; make
it worth my while, or some-
thing may happen.” The
owner, with a slight halo of
boss-ship showing over his
hat, fires him out when the
threat realises. Then in
comes No. 4, and says,
“This is hot going. One
conviction more, and the premises lose the license.
How much is that worth to you?” The halo
disappears; the boss leans limply forward, and
the licensee says, “Well, on those terms, I’ll do
my best.”
Now, if Melbourne were doing what
Sydney is doing, Sydney would snarl that the
thing was really getting intolerable. For, in
order to fix the Naval Depdt more firmly in
Sydney, the Government lately agreed to give
£3OOO to extend the Naval House —the place
where Jack camps when he is ashore, and on his
good behavior. Sydney takes the grant as quite
a matter of course, and Melbourne doesn’t reckon
that it is any of its business ; yet if there were a
cantankerous Carruthers in Melbourne, what a
mouthful be could make of it; and what drops of
blood a Melbourne Daily Telegraph could sweat
under the headings, “Another Greedy Grab—
Sydney’s Bribe for the Naval Custom!” The
little-minded part of Sydney reckons that Mel-
bourne is all grab. It doesn’t see that it quite
innocently does the .same sort of things, which
might be twisted into grabs, too, if Melbourne
had a Grievance party, with the twisting habit as
badly developed.
State Premier Kidston has made his little
statement about the mail contract; “ Queensland
is on her own” are the words he used. But if
that signifies anything at all—if it means that
Queensland is going to actually do anything
about its mails without the sanction of, arid apart
from, the Australian Government —then Kidston
is on the short road to gaol. He may hire
as many steamers as he likes, but he can’t get a
single mail to put on them without taking forcible
possession of the Federal post-office, and that
would be plairi riot and insurrection. But how
absurdly worried these State Premiers profess to
be about the mail service ! The only trouble is
that one mail service out of several expires about
eight months hence. Some State Premiers
have a big loan fallingdue, on an average, every six
months for the next 20 years or so, and don’t
know any more than the dead where they will
get the money to meet even one of the loans
unless someone will lend it to them, and they
don’t even turn a hair over the matter. Yet
these Premiers profess to think the world is
coming to an end over a mail contract which has
still the best part of a year to run.
One of Victoria’s defaulting Waterworks
Trusts has temporarily come to a dead stop.
When George Turner, in June, 1899. took
over a lot of these trusts’ liabilities, he re-
lieved little Charlton of £BB7 of its £6887 of
capital, and £B4l of its £961 of accumulated
interest. And still Charlton won’t try to
pay its way. Awhile back it asked Swin-
burne, boss of the Water Supply depart-
ment, for the loan of a few thousands, but
that commercial-minded individual remarked
that as it could not balance its accounts as
things were, it certainly couldn’t pay more
interest unless it raised its rate from 2s. to
2s. 6d., and even then tilings would be none
too rosy. The landowners who boss the
Trust said they’d be damned first, and
this year struck the same old rate, in
the hope of piling up more accumulated
interest and then cadging something out of
Bent’s next surplus. But Swinburne noted
the move, and refused to ratify the 2s. rate.
So the blessed Trust can’t collect any rates
at present, and on June 15, there being no
money in the cash box, the engineer and
fireman were given a holiday, and the pumps
stopped working. There are 20,000 gals, of
water in reserve, but that won’t last long ;
and Charlton threatens to be a very dry and
unhealthy place presently. So far nobody
has suggested hanging a Trust Commis-
sioner. Charlton is apparently too tired or
too mean to supply itself with water, and is
quite willing to let the city worker do it;
but as Swinburne says he is willing to
take over the job if the Commissioners will
resign, those gentlemen may yet be dislodged
from their high and dirty position.
Though the S.M. Herald had a full and
early report pf the stranding of the warship
Pyramus, Admiral Fawkes, a day later, announced
that be could say nothing about it, as he had not
yet been officially notified of the mishap. The
apparent discrepancy is explained by the fact that
the Herald had a man on board the unfortunate
cruiser. When Williemotor Kelly and W. E.
Johnson, and other advocates of the hired tin
navy, start to think matters over, they may see
that it would be advisable in future for the
Admiralty to have somebody on board its vessels,
as well as the newspapers. Past experience indi-
cates that the navy that Australia rents is very
badly rent indeed.
Melbourne City Councillors have deter-
mined to decorate themselves with badges in order
that they may not be mistaken for ordinary per-
sons when they go abroad. The city fathers com-
plain that people on corporation jobs have, on
various occasions, failed to recognise them, and
haveneglected to do them proper reverence, and the
badge is to be put forward as a guarantee of their
magnificence. But, after all, it will only put the
alderman on a level with the tramway employee,
the cab-gentleman, the postman, and the bobby
who has no luck in finding the man who killed
Bernard Bauer. They all wear badges.
SYMPATHY.
Who is there that can feel aught but the deepest regret
as he reads of the struggle of men and women to live?
Argus.
“O, Piggy dear, ain't it sad t' see . all these
poor people strugglin' along this long, 'ard
road? ”
“ Hawful, Granny."
“ But no one can say ice aren't done our best t'
male 'em forget their sufferin’s, can they,
Piggy? ”
If some of those female politicians haven’t
a more correct notion of guarding the blessed
“ purity of the home ” than they have of political
morality, they are likely to find themselves on
the wrong side of the Divorce Court one day. A
Geelong vice-president of the Women’s National
League has just explained to a scoffing Bench
that though she entered a polling booth, and
showed a voter a handbill with the Anti-Sosh can-
didates’ names marked with a cross, and told her
that was the way to vote, she couldn’t see how
it could be called canvassing. The Bench
thought such monumental ignorance was cheap
at £5.
.The Bulletin has an idea for taking a
referendum as regards N.S.W. Local Premier
Carruthers. That individual proposes taking a
State referendum re Dalgety as a possible Federal
capital. Unless it gets a majority, Joseph pro-
poses to regard it as violently rejected by N.S.W.
Of course, all the advocates of all the other sites
will vote against it, just as they would against
any site, therefore unless Dalgety finds more sup-
porters than all the other sites put together,
Joseph will hold that it is despised and repu-
diated. Now, The Bulletin’s idea is that Joseph
should not get back into next Parliament unless
he gets more votes-than all the other candidates
put together. That would put him and Dalgety
on exactly the same basis, and it would give
Joseph some healthy exercise calculating his
chances. Likewise, it might give him an idea
what a very poor joke looks like when he is at the
muzzle of the joke instead of at the butt end.
The High Court stated the law straightly
when confirming the judgment of the Victorian
Courts in the case of the son of Loo Loon Hock.
Loon came to Victoria in 1895, and in 1906 sent
to China for his two sons (aged 17 and 15), but
only one arrived at Melbourne. He failed to pass
the education test, and Pan ton, P.M., ordered
his deportation as a prohibited immigrant. Loon
appealed on the ground that, he being domiciled
in Australia, his son, who had never seen the
place, was also domiciled here, and the appeal
travelled up tinmigh the Courts, which steadily
concurred with Panton. Finally, the High
Court put it mildly to Loon that his son couldn’t
arrive here by proxy; that he couldn’t be natural-
ised by deputy ; and that if permission given to
an alien to land here gave his relatives a right to
land, and their landing authorised their relatives
to claim entrance, it would seem that the admis-
sion of one carefully-selected Chow might
authorise most of China to come by degrees. And
that, the High Court put it gently to Loo Loon
Hock, was a matter on which this country wasn’t
taking any.
Before we can sympathise with others we
must have suffered ourselves. No one can realise
the suffering attendant on an attack of influenza,
unless he has had the actual experience. There is
probably no disease that causes so much physical
and mental agony, or which so successfully defies
medical aid. All danger from influenza, how-
ever, may be avoided by the prompt use of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. The pain in the
chest disappears, the fever subsides, and the
whole body becomes more comfortable. Many
persons find themselves affected with a persistent
cough after an attack of influenza. As this cough
can be promptly cured by the use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, it should not be allowed to run
on until it becomes troublesome; Among the tens
of thousands who have used this remedy, not one
ease has ever been reported that has resulted in
pneumonia, or that has not recovered.*
Thus N.S.W. Minister for Works Lee,
while laying a foundation stone the other day :
This country is growing rich very rapidly— so much,
indeed, that the State Government is now able to borrow
all the money it requires from its oivn people without
going to London. (CHEERS.)
There is nothing in Solemn Lee’s political creed
about a State growing so rich that it can do with-
out borrowing, or can begin to pay off its debts.
He only looks on wealth as a thing that makes
borrowing easier. The loan, in Lee’s view of
things, must always be there, no matter how rich
we are. It is a wretched, silly, shiftless doctrine,
but it is just like Lee.
In his policy speech, State Premier New-
ton Moore, of Westralia, is reported to have
“referred to the absence of a Federal spirit. At
Brisbane,” he added, “ the shibboleth was almost
universal, ‘ What is best for my State ?’ ” But
the fact that Newton Moore and some other State
Premiers had no Australian spirit about them
doesn’t show that the people have none. It only
shows that Federation—which has taken a lot of
power out of the hands of these men who have no
Australian spirit—is an exceedingly good thing.
Sydney Telegraph figures out that a
bridge from Dawes Point to the most populous
part of North Sydney would cost £1,940,000, and
a bridge from Miller’s Point to Balmain £900,000 ;
total £2,840,000. On the other hand, the State
Premier’s proposed bridge from out-of-the-way
Miller’s Point to Goat Island, and thence to the
lonesome bush of Ball’s Head, North Sydney,
where there is hardly any population, with a side
bridge from Goat Island to Balmain, is estimated
by the same authority to cost £3,500,000. The
difference—-£66o,ooo —and the inconvenience and
the extra length of bridge to be kept in repair
seem a good deal to pay for the mere joy of
making a row with the Australian Government
about the ownership of Goat Island.
Daily paper item :
When at Townsville recently the Acting-Prime Minister
remarked that “ to keep Australia for a white race was
an ideal worth striving for, but had he known he was
injuring any fellow-man by dispossessing him of the
kanakas he would not have been so anxious to carry it
out.”
Bigjohn Forrest went up North with his chest
sticking out something portentous. He at once
fell into the hands of the Tory planters, who fold
him all the old fish-yarns about a ruined industry,
and so on. And Bigjohn, back in his congenial
Tory atmosphere, seems to have swallowed all the
fish-yarns, and made not the slightest attempt to
learn whether there was another side to the story
or not. Rumor—which may be a liar—has it that
if the strongest of his colleagues hadn’t hung like
a bulldog to the Melbourne end of the wire, and
kept urging Bigjohn not to be more of a spectacle
than usual, the Acting-Premier might have
started a vigorous pro-nigger campaign on the spot.
A NEW VERSION.
"If at first you don't secede, cry , cry, cry again."
The Maoriland Premier proposes to get
rid of the official term “colony” and setup in
business as a Dominion. “Colony” is an ob-
noxious word in any case, and it is well to drop
it. But while he is about it, Premier Ward might
as well try his hand at changing the name of his
country. “New Zealand ” is worse than “colony.”
It is as bad as the “ New Holland ” that we have
got rid of, and the “New South Wales” that we
haven’t. It suggests that the country has no
identity of its own, is merely a poor copy or
poor relation of some obscure place in the Nether-
lands. It is reminiscent of the man who isn’t
Mr. Smith, but only Mrs. Smith’s husband. And
while Premier Ward is reforming, he might con-
sider whether the awful Maoriland public borrow-
ing habit is a decent thing to start a new career
with. A mere low-down “colony” might be a
blind beggar always holding out its frayed hat
for assistance, but a “ Dominion ” should have
some dignity about it.
For a doomed industry the Queensland
sugar business is putting up some remarkable
figures: —
Acres Tons Tons
Crushed. Cane. Sugar.
1902 .. 59,102 641,927 76,626
1903 .. 60,375 823,875 91,828
1904 .. 82,741 1,826,989 147,688
1905 .. 96,093 1,415,745 152,722
1906 .. 98,194 1,728,780 184,377
The old Philp, black-labor crowd says that,
since Queensland joined the White Labor
Commonwealth, the State has lost confidence
in the future of the sugar industry. Then,
to show its complete loss of confidence, the State
doubles the area under cultivation. A man
always doubles his deposit in a bank that he be-
lieves is going bung.
THE FOE WITHIN OUR GATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A prominent State politician denounces as “ disloyal ”
the proposal to equip Australia with a first-class navy of
its own.— News item.
There’s a foe outside,
Whose warships ride
In along-leashed file by the Northern ocean’s rim.
There’s a foe who hates—
Aye, a foe who waits
With his guns all primed and his ships in fighting trim.
But a foe have we,
And a traitor he—
Shall a cause betrayed go down to a ghastly fate ?
For we fear no blow
From a forthright foe,
But beware of the foe —the home-grown foe—the Foe
Within Our Gate !
Of our kith and kin
Is the foe within—
His hands are the hands that shall serve Australia ill.
While the ships of war,
In their leash afar,
Are straining- south, he schemes as a traitor will!
Could the land but see
All his perfidy—
All his plots and plans, ’twere well witii the hapless
State ;
For Australia's sons —
They can aim the guns,
But alas for the land—for the luckless land whose Foe is
Within its Gate !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
THE THRIFTY MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The essence of Socialism is a claim on behalf of the
shiftless and the shifty members of a community to share
equally in the profits of those who possess talent or
exercise thrift. — Argus, 15/6/’O7.
Now must we all g-o gently lest we lose the bit we’ve
saved;
We’ve bought our talent—sweating—cheap ; we’ve
sweated and enslaved
A crowd of hungering toilers, and we’ve exercised their
thrift
So well that now we just sit back and watch the guineas
drift
Within our reach. It’s nice to know we’ve done no
dreadful wrong—
Except where it was sure to help our bank accounts
along.
We never did a poor man harm, nor trafficked in his pain—
Except for cash, which Socialists would divvy up again !
And now they want to give no chance to follow up our
thrift;
The thriftless ones will come and snatch our household
goods, and lift
Our beauteous tailorings and all our gay, hand-painted
socks—
Our gorgeous socks that come to us with ribbons on the
box.
No naked back will go unclothed if Socialists can say
Their shiftless, shifty word, and have the laws all made
their way.
Our hard-won cash is perilled, and we men of thrift and
brain
Must tane a solid, righteous stand—or hand it back
again !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY


Ladies’ Glace
Kid Shoe,
1019
Or Post Paid any=
where in the
Commonwealth,
1116
Good Material
Is Necessary in Making
a Good Article.
FIT
IS A
Mighty
Power
OUR
STYLE
BOOK
POSTED
FREE.
BUT, in the case of Boots,
GOODNESS NEEDS FIT
To give it a Chance of Showing Itself.
We have said it over and over again,—and
We’ll KEEP ON saying that .. .
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS & SHOES
EXCEL IN FIT
as well as in the Goodness of the Leathers used. That’s why
we are always busy selling CALLAGHAN Boots and Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 george street, Sydney
A. <& F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Stotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
■MALTHOID
A ROOFING THAT NEVER FAILS.
“ If it is not seemly, do -it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
IT IS A WICKED THING to wake in the night and find the rain
dripping through the ceiling of your own or children’s bedroom, or TO
HAVE THE ROOF BLOWN OFF by a howling gale, when it can be
prevented by using MALTHOID, which neither rain nor storm can injure.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'Hmt
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. S. FRIEND & 00.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.
.lAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
WIN CH ESTER
Price,
57/6
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24 inches, Weight 8; lb.
James Martin and Co.,
161
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
Before
1
/Ifler
Bn One Jar of GAPILLARINE
In one Jar of the famous CAPILLARINE is
concentrated the essence of many years experi-
ence of an eminent hair specialist
CAPILLARINE will produce a full-grown
Moustache in wonderfully quick time.
Price 10/6 Post Free Anywhere under Sealed Cover.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
The Perfect Simplicity of Picture-
Making with the
Wellington “Watalu” Plates.
WATER ONLY !
THE SIMPLEST DEVELOPING
FORMULA IN EXISTENCE.
WELLINGTON “WATALU”
SELF-DEVELOPING PLATES.
THE SIMPLIFIED NEGATIVE MEDIUM.
No Messy Chemicals.
Just Plain Water.
MADE IN THE FOLLOWING GRADES
SPEEDY, ISO-SPEEDY, &. LANDSCAPE.
PRICES PER PACKET J-P. 5x4. }-P.
OF 1 DOZ 2s. 3s. 4d. 4s. 6d.
1 oz. WATER ONLY will develop a J-Plate.
2 oz. WATER ONLY will develop a 4-Plate.
Invaluable to Tourists
Sole Manufacturers WELLINGTON CsX WARD, HERTS.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN RIGHTS FOR A SPECIFIED PERIOD—
Baßer <&. Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
375 and 377 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
14 The Block,” 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane >


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE FrilT/SH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
WORMS:
Infallible Symptoms.
Intestinal worms afflict both young and old,
but are more frequently found in children than in
adults. They are generally the result of defective
digestion, depraved appetite, or unwholesome,
food. The long thread worm and the pin worm
are the most common, and their presence in the
bowels is accountable for the peevishness and
irritability of children. A child who is constantly
hungry is invariably suffering from worms, as the
worms cause a gnawing and distressing sensation
when the bowels are partly empty. A depraved
appetite and a disposition to pick the nose are
infallible symptoms of the complaint, which
should not be neglected. Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets are perfectly harmless to
the most delicate constitution, but are a safe and
sure remedy for the eradication of worms. Ob-
tainable at all chemists and stores, or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Price Is. 6d. per box (six boxes Bs.).*
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Definitely announced that Billiam Squires
meets Tommy Burns in the heavy-weight championship-
of-the-world scrap at San Francisco to-day (Thursday).
The fact that the extremely patriotic Amurkans have
made Squires a favorite at slight odds indicates that Bill
has more than Buckley’s chance. In fact, it suggests
that he has already got Burns beaten, and that he has even
a chance to beat the referee. In this case the referee is
James Jeffries, who is to receive 1000 dollars for the job.
It is the referee who beats the foreign fighters in the U.S.
» * • ♦
The much-talked-of return race between the all-
Australian motor boat Invincible and the Yankee half-
bred craft Fairbanks eventuated on Port Jackson on
Saturday last under ideal conditions. The distance was,
roughly, 11£ miles, as in the race for the Albert Cup.
Although the N.S.W. Motor Boat Club’s officials con-
trolled the contest, the starts were by mutual con-
sent. The race was run in three heats, with 15-
minute intervals, to make sure that the fastest boat
would win, despite any unlooked-for accident. The
starting-place was thronged with craft of all sorts, and
the Lady Manning and Manly steamers were crowded
with sightseers.
The first heat was by far the most thrilling.
The Fairbanks got. away with a slight advantage. The
Invincible usually starts with a huge jump, but did not
do so on this occasion. It moved slowly. As both boats
had their mufflers off, the noise was terrific. Then
with a roar and a bound the green boat soared up along-
side the Fairbanks, and they vanished in a swirl of foam
round the corner of Clark Island. When they reappeared
they were racing across the Heads, the Invincible leading
slightly, till Manly Cove swallowed them up. They next
appeared round Bradley’s Head, racing for the finishing
line. The Invincible still led, and the red prow of the
Fairbanks glided along in its wake, seeming to be right
against the stern. As they dashed across the fairway it
was seen that the Fairbanks was gaining slightly, and it
drew up with its prow level with the Invincible’s centre.
So they streaked to within 400yds. of home, where the
Invincible suddenly sprang away, leaving the Fairbanks
about 10ft. behind. Relph was said to have something
up his sleeve, and the way he left Davies behind at the
finish gave color to the theory. In less than 200 y ds. he
gained about 50ft., and got his first leg in, amidst tre-
mendous applause.
The second heat was a fiasco. Relph had
evidently discovered something wrong, and kept the
starter waiting nearly 10 minutes. As he came up, he
shouted something, but the red flag waved im-
patiently. After two false starts, Fairbanks again
went to the front and led round Clark Island. A
few minutes later, it was seen that the Invincible had
stopped o, posite Bradley ’s Head, and there was a rush of
craft to the spot. It was learned that a low-tension wire
had snapped. The Fairbanks flew on and won the heat.
Thinking the racing over and the Australian boat
defeated, the onlooking launches scattered, the one
writer was in making for the Heads. On the return
journey, something suddenly appeared amidst a swirl.
It was the Fairbanks racing the final heat. It rushed
past at over 20 miles an hour, and 80,vds. behind the In-
vincible tore through the oil-like water. They vanished
in the twilight. Back at the finishing line, nobody
believed the Invincible had the slightest chance ; that
awful gap seemed fatal. But, long before they were in
sight, the clatter of the Invincible’s four-cycle engine
seemed to be nearer and clearer than the burr of the
Fairbanks. Out of the purple twilight rushed the green
boat, looking more like the spirit that terrified Job than
anything else, and 200yds. behind came the imported
boat, hopelessly beaten. The Australian boat was again
champion of Australian waters.
Monday morning brought the usual storm of
altercation. Feeling ran high. Arthur Davies alleged
that Relph had jockeyed him at Manly buoy, and forced
him to lose five lengths to avoid a collision. He was also
stated to have said he would not lose way again, but cut
the Invincible down. The Invincible had a slight lead,
and Davies’s complaint Was that by turning quickly
round the buoy Relph jockeyed him out of the inside
running. It sounds all right, bnt it won’t stand investi-
gation. The Fairbanks, drawing only about Sin. at full
speed, cannot turn sharply, and must make a hig sweep.
To put the helm hard over means a capsize. The Invin-
cible, drawing deeper water, and lft.‘7in. wider, can turn
at full speed in its own length. Under such circum-
stances, Davies could not claim that he had a
clear run, and was, by every rule of racing, bound to
pass on the outside. As for running down the Australian
boat—the Invincible is strongly built of kauri, while the
Fairbanks is only a cedar shell, and in a crash like that
the cedar semi-hydroplane would crumple up. That
the Invincible would be badly damaged goes without
saying, but there would be no Fairbanks left at all.
This time the Invincible had the luck to get a fair show';
no hog put emery into its mechanism, as was done on a
previous occasion. Davies has issued another challenge,
and the boats will race again on July 27.
On an occasion like Saturday one could gauge
the vastness of the anti-Australian feeling among a
section of the wealthy Froetrade business men of Sydney.
Relph represents Mort’s Dock, a splendid Australian
industry with much Australian capital invested in it.
And the very existence of his boat, and the’ fact that his
victory might make a big demand at Mort’s Dock for
similar Australian-made boats and engines, to the detri-
ment of the importing industry, made many affluent
Sydney business men almost rave. They made no dis-
guise of their desire that the imported boat would win.
They were of opinion that Relph was no true sport —
reasons not given. They told amazing and reckless lies
about a wholly imaginary amount of Protection alleged
to be given to the Australian engine-building industry,
and implied that the Australian boat represented tyranny
and oppression, while the imported one was the emblem
of freedom. And when the Australian boat came in first
one Sydney Freetrader, usually a man of good manners
and bright belltopper, so far lost control of his feelings
that he alluded to Relph as a “ cow.”
« * * *
Though the flower of Sydney Rugby was away
battling with Queensland, the metropolitan First Grade
competition pursued the muddy tenor of its way.
Eastern Suburbs had the luck to draw the bye—on these
occasions the bye is a boon and a blessing. The im-
portant match of the afternoon was that between Sydney
District and University, at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Among the 9000 people looking on was Viking Rawson,
who is a Rugger enthusiast, in spite of the fact that
Association is the naval game. He watched a clumsy
though strenuous display, the centre being as slippery as
the floor of a porridge pot. With the heavier pack Syd-
ney assumed the offensive, and, in spite of a fine defence,
managed to cross the Uni line once in the first half, and
follow up with a penalty goal. Half-time found Sydney
with six to nil. Then University pulled itself together
and got away a series of charges, all of which, though
pulled down, kept Sydney in its own territory. Sydney
continued to hold the scrums, though ; but the blue and
gold fellow's broke up their rushes, and once followed up
a repulse with a try, which the kicker, however, failed to
convert. Sydney thus won by six to three. Uni was play-
ing without at le st three of its cracks. North Sydney, with
a large contingent in hospital, went down before Balmain,
the Ragged Suburb winning by 15 to six. It was a fear-
some exhibition, and provided a fine demonstration of
how the game should not be play'ed. Foul language,
threats to “bash yer eye,” rough play and despicable
tricks were its most prominent features. At the
University Oval the once formidable Glebe just
managed to beat Western Suburbs, for although the
figures were 16 to nine, five of those points were gained
by a very doubtful goal which the referee did not see
cfearly. In addition to which Glebe had all tbe luck.
Newtown, having sent three men of might to Queensland,
met St. George on somewhat more even terms. Right up
to the last quarter of an hour it was Newtowm’s game,
and then the Saints, by a bit of brilliant play followed by
a clever kick, scored a goal that gave them victory by
five to three. At Rushcutters Bay, South Sydney wal-
loped Manly by 19 to three, but the play was not nearly so
uneven as the score. Manly put up a rattling game, but
South Sydney' carried too much weight and combination.
If the Manly Club continues as it is going, next season it
will not be at the bottom of the list. It has any amount
of pluck, and after each defeat comes up smiling to take
whatever Fate may have in store, and sooner or later
that cheerful pegging away will bring its reward, even as
it did to the plucky Eastern Suburbs team.
The chief alteration in the state of the competi-
tion is that University has dropped back from the front
rank to fourth place with 11 points. South Sy'dney' and
Eastern Suburbs are now the leaders with 13 points each,
and Glebe comes third with 12. Sydney is fifth with
10. Newtown and Western Suburbs follow with nine
each ; then North Sydney and St. George with six each ;
and Balmain and Manly with five and two respectively.
* * * *
The inter-State Rugby match (N.S.W. v.
Queensland) in the northern city on Saturday went the
usual way, the Cornstalks winning by 18 points to three.
The ground was heavy with recent rain, and a shower
fell during tbe match. Playing with the wind behind
them the Queenslanders held their own during the first
spell, which ended three all. With the change of ends
disaster came quickly, and the Cornstalks lifted the score
to eight, 13, and finally 18. In addition to losing the
benefit of the wind, the Bananalanders also lost Fihelly,
who was taken off in the ambulance, and his removal was
the last straw.
Secretary Bashiville, of the Maoriland pro-
fessional Rugby team, contradicts the recent report that
some of the Australian backs were to be invited to join.
He states that his trouble is to pick his backs from the
overwhelming crowd offering in Maoriland. It was said
that an attempt would be made to secure Hedley, of the
Glebe, and Messenger and D’Alpuget, of the Eastern
Suburbs. Apparently, there was nothing in it.
■l t * * *
In the League competition (Austral rules)
Sydney leads the way with 28 points, Newtown coming
second with 20, and Y.M.C.A., liedfern, and East Sy'dney
runs a dead heat for third place with 16 points each.
After that, the less said the better.
In the struggle for the Rawson Cup under
British Association rules, the premier club (Pyrmont)
received a shock from Rozelle, which played such a good
defensive game that the champions were unable to
score a single goal, and the game reached the!un-
usual termination of a scoreless draw. Another sur-
prise was the defeat of the hard-running Balmain
crowd by the baby' club, Petersham. Petersham
is a very precocious infant, and sco:a ‘ two goals
to one. Playing a losing game ag&.nst Ultimo,
the Navy' showed a marvellous improvement. At
first Ultimo held its opponent very cheap, but a few
dangerous rushes brought home the seriousness of; the
position. The trouble with the Navy—in which each
man is now encouraged to develop his individuality—is
lack of combination. The sailors play a fine individual
game, and get soundly beaten every time. Individualism
is just as useless in football as it is in war, and the Navy
men are beginning to realise it. Bv a sudden rush
Ultimo got within striking distance, and in spite of a fine
save by the naval goal-keeper, the attacking force came
again with a sustained effort and won the only goal of the
game.
The single point gained by a drawn game
placed Pyrmont at the head of the competition with the
devil’s number of marks to its credit. Glebe and Ultimo
press close on its heels with 12 each, while Balmain is
next with 10. Rozelle, Petersham and the Navy are
eight, seven, and two respectively.
•* * 4 *
Saturday’s Vic. League football found the
players in a more playful frame of mind than hitherto,
and some good games resulted. Some 50,000 spectators
distributed themselves among the four matches, and
were supplied with either an exciting finish or a surprise
each time. The Saints, after winning their first six
matches, and then losing to South and Carlton, con-
tinued their downward career by going under to ’Wood
after a fine, strenuous struggle. The Magpies are getting
a reputation for putting up an almost invincible finish.
By unselfish play they scored 20 points before
Saints got going, but when the big men got
a move on, and tried co-operation, they steadily
overhauled their opponents till, in the last quarter, they
forged three points ahead. They' possessed one special
“chain,” which nearly always worked successfully—
centre-back Lever, an exceptionally good kicker-off, to
six-footer McNamara, to ditto Cumberland, or to clever
Barwick, thence through the goal-posts—but as soon as
’Wood saw the strength of this chain, the captain brought
back an extra man to break it. Then, in the last ten
minutes, while the crowd cheered and waved hats
and umbrellas, the Magpies put on three goals, and
the match was won by 15 points. The Fitzroy-
South argument was conducted more courteously than
usual, but the concerted play of’Roy was too good for
the weight of the Southerners, and, after leading
throughout, the former departed winners by eight points.
Like South, Carlton met a team at the other end of the
list—Geelong, to wit—and was walloped by seven
points, after playing second fiddle all through the
argument. Melbourne, on previous play, should have
had a soft thing in Essendon, but again the
unexpected happened, the “ same old ” scoring 43
points to 28. The defeat of Saints was foreseen, for they
were trained to the hour at the beginning of the season,
and are now' a trifle stale —though they will come again ;
but Carlton, South and Melbourne have no such excuse,
and somebody ought to explain how it is that Saints can
thrash Essendon, South thrash Saints, Melbourne beat
South, and then Essendon wallop Melbourne on consecu-
tive Saturdays. These surprises are too sudden. The
same remarks apply' to the Association, where Essendon
(A) beat Richmond easily; Richmond donkeydicked
Ports ; yet on Saturday Ports scored 47 points to E.’s 41.
Also, though, after beating Richmond, Essendon went
under to Footscray, the latter on Saturday had no hope
against Richmond —86 points to 48. Why this thusness?
One or tw'o men might feel out of sorts, but not the whole
IS. West administered a “dirty doing” to North —that
club’s eighth consecutively—and Brunswick, which has
captured an ex-Cullingwood star as coach and player, put
up a good fight against Prahran—so points to 60.
Memmott, the Australian billiard champion,
is trying his hand against Inman this week, at Alcoek’s
Hall, Melbourne, and when he is through with the Eng-
lishman, he will presently have to defend his title against
young' Lindrum. A match for the Commonwealth Cham-
pionship between veteran Memmott and 19-year-old
Lindrum, w'ho looks even younger than his age, will draw
a big crow'd if it is played at the Athenaeum Hall. Their
chances are considered to be pretty evenly balanced, and
the meeting has been talked of ever since the boy came
to light as a possible top-notcher of the future.
m * * *
The Stevenson who began his second Australian
tour at Melbourne Athenasum Hall last week is physically
and artistically stronger than the Stevenson of four years
ago. He has filled out, and looks in every way better
qualified to bear the nervous strain of a championship
match. A play'er of his present calibre -he is probably as
good as was Roberts at his best—leaves very little chance
for fortune to beat him in a prolonged game. In some
of his strokes he shows a wonderful combination of
“ strength ” and accuracy in putting a ball the double
length of the table before it rolls slowly into the right
position. And in his “nursery cannon” and general
top-of-the-table play he has just the same
delicacy of touch and manipulative skill that
Roberts had. It is as though he were controlling the
balls with strings. The most expert juggler is a rough
handicraftsman when judged by the skill of a Roberts or
a Stevenson. One naturally compares a champion
billiardist with a great pianist—the head and the hands
divide the honors of either performance. But the differ-
ence between pianists of the first and second rank is not
nearly so marked as the distinction between Stevenson
and Inman in their most difficult work when the three
balls are being kept together. W. Parker, of Sydney,
who received 5500 in 12,000 from Stevenson last week, made
several breaks of 100 and upwards, yet he was put com-
pletely into the shade by his masterful opponent.
The British Billiard Association, in its own
slow way, has decided to do something re the “ cradle
cannon,” “ anchor ” stroke, and the rest of that box
of tricks. When matches are advertised for half-a-
million up, and a player runs out with an unfinished
break of 125,000, it is time the British person did some-
thing drastic.
* •* * *
There is only one well-defined sporting notion
as to the cancelling of the Victorian Club (Melb.) Billiard
Tournament on account of a mistake made by' the handi-
capper. It was not fair, in a sporting sense of the word,
to i he unduly favored entrant, Mr. Von der Luft —but he,
for his part, deserves no sympathy. Having been “ let
in” on terms which practically made him certain to win,
he at once proceeded to advertise the fact by offering to
back himself for a lot of money at short odds. Moreover,
he burst forth as a candidate for the Vic. Amateur
Championship, and, in so doing, left himself without an
excuse for ranking as a very second-rate amateur before
the handicap was made. Not content with being a
“good thing,” he opeiiiy paraded the, fact, and went into
training for the championship, which was inconsistent
with his position on the 100 mark in a tournament of 250.
Seemingly, Von der Luft is quite up to championship
“ form.” Last week he played a test game with A. E.
Brooks, who won the Victorian Club Tournament last
year from 20 behind scratch, or 120 behind the mark on
which Luft had been placed in this year’s handicap.
These “ qualifying ” heats are 750 up. Von der Luft
beat Brooks by 180 points, and on this showing the Club
Tournament (cancelled) would have been a gift for him
starting from the 100 on mark.
Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees have executed
a neat backdown in the matter of the English XI.
charges. Having announced their intention of sticking
to their JO per cent, raid on the gross receipts, the
chances of an English team in Australia next season
began to look blue. Then Premier Carruthers came in
handy. At his instigation the Association offered 20 per
cent, of the net takings—an almighty different proposi-
tion, which, on the basis of last English Eleven’s receipts,
will reduce the Trustees’ share by' about £4OO. At the
same time, the Trustees got the straight griffin
that if the offer was refused the coming session
would see a Bill introduced in the Assembly to
wipe them out, lock, stock, and blow-hole. So,
making a virtue of necessity, the Trustees accepted the
offer and saved their collective countenance. Neverthe-
less, it is absolutely necessary that either the Association
should control cricket and the ground, or the Trustees
should do so. The present arrangement is quite anti-
quated. Judging by a statement to the press, Mr.
Teece regards the Trustees as ideal managers. Writer
doesn't think so. Why, they' only' keep one brand of
both bottled and draught whisky in the bar at the pavi-
lion, and that alone stamps them as utterly incompetent,
to say nothing of the fact that, from the date of the
visit of the last English XI. tilj this season, when they
climbed down tr, rhe Rugby' Union in the matter of price,
the Trustees ve their subscribers absolutely nothing
for their money. Management, ye gods ! And only one
brand of whisky 1
* * • *
Webb, the Maoriland sculler who is in Sydney
to row Charles Towns for the championship, was seen on
the Parramatta River last week. He has great shoulders,
good arms, and a back that indicates strength. His
physical defects are apparently in his legs, which are
small compared to the rest of him. Enthusiasts are not
impressed with his style, declaring it to be more graceful
than effective. It is said to be along swinging style,
while that of Towns is a science of jerks which give
momentum. However, there’s lots of time for Webb to
cultivate the art of pushing her along.
* * * *
The breaking of records on the new Brooklands
automobile track, near Weybridge, England, has com-
menced, dare-devil Edge having covered 1581 miles in 24
hours, a world’s record. When he started his object was
to maintain an average speed of one mile per minute, but
he broke it, and actually travelled over 65 miles an hour.
He drove a 60-h.p. six-cylinder Napier car, shod with the
reliable Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
Frank Birtles, the cyclist, who, on Wednesday
week, left Melbourne G.P.O. to break the record time to
Sydney, failed miserably. He was due at the Sydney
G.P.O. on Saturday night, at II p.m., and the officers of
the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen waited in that (after
dark) dubious neighborhood till the small hours, without
seeing any sign of Francis. He struck hideously cold
weather, and ice or something punctured his tyres near
Yass. He arrived in Sydney some time on Sunday.
* * * *
The Wallace Continental cycle road race, from
Bathurst to Sydney (133 J miles), is to take place on
August 17. Tlie prize list totals £2OO, and the first man
over the finishing line will receive a cheque for £5O from
the Wallace Continental Rubber Co. Besides that
cheque, there are a dozen other prizes for the less
fortunate wheelists. The pick of the road-racing
men are entering, and Tasmania is holding a Launceston
to Hobart race to decide who shall represent the Isle in
the Bathurst to Sydney run. The fees are low—2s. en-
trance and 2s. acceptance for N.S.W. riders, while inter-
state men come in absolutely free of charge. Cyclists
should remember that entries close at the Sydney depdt
on July 27. Riders in other States than N.S.W. can send
entries to the local branches of the company, but should
be careful to give the branches time to have them in Syd-
ney by the aforementioned date. The race will be under
the auspices of the League of N.S.W. Wheelmen.
Martini, famous throughout Austral lands as
the owner of the mighty buckjumper Bobs, went to the
Head Stable last Tuesday morning. Although he died
as he lived, by horses, he was not bucked into Abraham’s
bosom. It was a driving horse that bolted with him, and
getting him entangled in the reins, dragged him till he
sustained injuries that resulted in his death. One leg
was practically torn to pieces.
•* * * *
The incomprehensibleness of the racehorse.
Tareena ran absolutely last of three in Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) Handicap on 21st ult., and, last Saturday, won
Warwick Farm Handicap all the way from five others. In
Rosehill Flying Welter (June 22), Brazier was very much
out of the hunt; but at Warwick Farm, just a week
later, he gave none of 14 opposed to him a chance, and
landed a goodly heap of coin.'
* * * *
Despite that newspapers are rigorously debarred
from publishing the odds, Christian Moses is littering the
land with “ price lists,” issued through the post-office.
* * * *
Announcement that jockey R. Batty is to ride
Confusion in ’Chasers’ Flat Race, at Flemington coming
Saturday, recalls that he won Melbourne Cup on Wollomai
32 years ago, and, two years before, steered Stockbridge
home in Maribyrnong Plate ; also that Batty was pro-
minent at cross-country riding what time Tommy Corri-
gan, Martin Bourke, and present trainer Scobie were
building up fame in the same line, and won a couple each
of G.N. Hurdles and Steeples. It will be interesting to
note how this particular resurrection pans out. Others
haven’t resulted too profitably.
* * » »
In a Y.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase con-
nection, there is no better discussed nag than Player
(10.2), tipped specially good for the event, but whether
justifiably or not writer is unaware. Up to date Player
hasn’t (publicly) done anything of an electrifying nature.
Last season he ran once, and then very poorly, and pre-
vious displays were little better, excepting in V.R.O.
Steeple nearly 12 months ago, when he led over the final
obstacle, but failed to get a place. Player is advantaged
by being in particularly'good hands, and is a sound six-
year-old who hasn’t had too much racing.
* * * *
The Grand National meeting at Flemington
starts next Saturday, and the prevalence of tips for the
big Hurdle Race suggests that the punter who happens
to find the winner will be rewarded with not less than 6
to 1 for his trouble. Meanwhile the odds are not pub-
lished, and the early bird catches an unfairly short
price as a rule. On public “ form ” the Hurdle Race is
more open than rumor’s solemn whispers would make it
out to be. The Sydne.v whisper alleges that it is all over,
bar the shouting for Superstition ; but the present scribe,
with a doubt as to the jumping powers of the “ certainty”
aforesaid, will merely link its name with those of Red
Sea, Prestonpans, South Head and Lion Heart, giving
the preference to Lion Heart.
* * * *
Lately the Bent-less Cabinet of Victoria
accepted the regulations drawn up by' the V.R.O. for the
better management of its course at Flemington, thereby
creating the makings of several first-class fights. The
country racing club delegates meet in Melbourne in
July, and it is understood that they are out for a hand in
the management of Vic. racing in general, the assign-
ment of dates, etc. Two of the V.R.O. regulations step
heavily, in a manner of speaking, on certain persons’
corns. One is that raising Ikey' Mo’s fees to £75 in the
stand, £25 on the Hill, and £7 on the Flat. Another
regulation disqualifies horses that have raced at pre-
viously unregistered meetings—-pon.y meetings, to wit—
but as these are now just as much registered as the
V.R.O. itself, there seems to be an opening for the
lawyers to put matters straight. So far the pony-owners
are looking to Wren, who bosses the whole pony-racing
business, and Wren seems disinclined to go to law.
Instead, he promises to hold his meetings on alternate
Saturdays at Richmond and Ascot, with a meeting once
a fortnight at Fitzroy. As Wren, by giving good prizes,
is getting large fields, and as the average racegoer cares
little whether he watches a horse or a pony galloping,
and as the po y-owners will, presumably', be able to com-
pete with horses in the other States—especially at the
A. J.C. meetings—it looks as if the V.R.O. may presently
find itself feeling not too well. Possibly, when the
country clubs meet in July', something in the shape of a
Board of Control may be advocated.
• • * *
Claimed for theHeiron and Smith billiard table,
on which Stevenson is engaged to play his exhibition
matches in Australia, that the cushions are specially
“lively,” as the result of being more “loaded” in the
underneath part than the ordinary types of cushion.
After all, a shade of difference between the elasticity of
two makes of cushions is a matter of no real interest to
amateurs, whereasany’improvement in the method of light-
ing a table is at once remarked. Gas, with incandescent
burners, strikes one as being the least trying light for
billiard-players. Alcocks have it for the match table at
their hall. But when the electric light is laid on its
glare can seemingly be overcome by the addition of a
deep green silk fringe to the cardboard shades. Playing
every day under an insufficiently shaded electric light, a
good many amateur billiardists (and markers) are pre-
paring themselves for a purblind old age.
* * *
Thomas Longboat, a Canadian-Indian ped., put
up a great performance in the Marathon race at Boston,
’Murka, recently. The distance was exactly 25 miles on
the road, and some 114 peds. toed the line. Longboat
took the lead at about 10 miles, and was never headed,
running with f e long typical stride of Fenimore Cooper’s
heroes, and taking the hills without apparent effort. The
“redskin” got through his task in 2 hours 24J minutes,
3 minutes ahead of the second man—Bob Fowler—and
5 minutes inside of the previous record. A gathering of
some 150,000 enthusiastic Yanks got wet feet waiting in
the rain for a couple of hours to cheer the result. Long-
boat is 20 ,vears of age, sft. llin. in height, and 10st. 51b.
He is a full-blooded Onandaga red, from the Caledonia
reserve in the Niagara peninsula.
WILLIAM SQUIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Squires, in letters from the U.S., complains of
shoulder strain.... Jeffries and Burns tell ugly tales of
attempts to square them to let O’Brien win.... Further,
Bill Squires—Australia’s own Bill—tells of a Dane he
boxes with : “ The morel punch the Dane the better he
likes it.” —News item.
I like, above all other things,
To be run over by a train ;
And, when I’ve been fixed up in slings,
I seek the accident again ;
But he is granite who aspires
To stop a clout from William Squires.
I once was crushed beneath a horse 1
The joy of it will never fade,
Alcho’ I happier was, of course,
When knocked down by the fire brigade 1
But he’s descended straight from lyres,
Who likes the fists of William Squires.
When “ savaged ” by a camel cow
I felt a wild, exultant thrill;
For who’d not wear a haughty brow
When bitten by wild beasts that kill f
But Oates and Pepper were his sires
Who says he likes the blows of Squires.
Tell us not tales of any Dane
Who likes to stop your mighty fist;
Let us not hear of greed of gain
Causing y'our dirty left to twist;
Or you shall light the funeral pyres
Of our repute, sweet William Squires !
Vic.
MARTIN LUTHER.


KUGELMANN'S
V
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
wff FREE
'H SAMPLE
f lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
The most Fashion*
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Building's heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Coed Cuisine, and
Healthful - Amuse-
i ... .
ments. Motor Cars and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
/*
VOICE
ALBUM
a neither a fad nor foible. Thousands of homes use
them. The LIVING VOICES of LOVED ONES,
FRIENDS, and THE LITTLE TOTS, are recorded from
day to day, and PRESERVED FOR EVER, on mar-
vellous cylinder waxen leaves. How would you like to
listen TO-DAY to the VOICES you knew LONG AGO !
Run their names over in your mind, and ask yourself
the question if you would not enjoy hearing them
TALK TO YOU TO-NIGHT from a
Columbia GRAPH-o-phone?
LET US TELL YOU ALL ABOUT IT 1
If you just send us the name and number of your
machine, NO MATTER WHAT MAKE, we will send
you FREE, a costly little book which gives full in-
structions on MAKING RECORDS AT HOME. The
process is very simple and inexpensive.
Columbia 11 Voice Album” Records, 6 - per doz.
Fib all Cylinder Talk-
ing Machines. . .
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. G”’
Largest Talking Machine House in the Southern Hemisphere.
WHOLESALERS and RETAILERS.
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY .
a
The‘Weight* Question
In the weight of a bicycle there exists a
point where safety is assured.
Every ounce beyond that point is super-
fluous and means wasted energy.
Every ounce of that superfluous weight
cut off, means increased ease of propulsion.
In a cycle built of
EADIE FITTINGS
the point of safety is assured—not by a
clumsy addition of weight, but by the use
of the finest material procurable the
Knowledge of expert designers—and the
most scientific methods of production,
secured the three essentials—
STRENGTH—LIGHTNESS— RIGIDITY
Hrt Booklet on request. Dept. A
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
lUiUi.u.,
'*
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
J-. lsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
lano.
r VV
* -
i PSSIIJot;
- \\\N
P, *NOIA 0
PIANO i
X.
rM
“Never in my whole life have I received a present which gives
me so much pleasure.” From a Recant Letter to the Pianola Co.
Every time a Pianola Piano enters a home that instrument
can be counted upon to sell several others, in fact, we have
knowledge of some instances where a single enthusiastic
owner has persuaded as many as a dozen of his friends to
become purchasers. A member of the London Stock Exchange
created over one hundred sales by his personal enthusiasm.
Do not wait for the information about the Pianola Piano to
come to you accidentally, or through the agency of some
friend. Let us send you one of the most vitally interesting
booklets you ever saw. Ask for Catalogue Ft.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested
in hearing- the Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
HENRY M, BIRGE & CO., 357 george-st., Sydney.
185 Collins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-Sfc., Brisbane ; 38 King* William-St., Adelaide.
Death.
HABVY. —On June sth, at Belmont, W. A„
Thomas William, beloved husband of Sarah
Jane Harvy, late of Broken Hill, aged 76.
' You can cure dearness and head noises '
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps <
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write lor booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins St,, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
FREDERICK PARK, formerly residing
in Blandford, Dorset, England, is re-
quested to communicate with Mr. Traill, Bland-
ford, England.
FREE
Your name, initials, etc., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver and
Electro-plated Goods. We are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give us a call.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
aagiwriiiMlWTirtrti
|®PI
N
/
!
■r^f
*as
'SI
m.
iw
s?
V?
ope&a
Add
0 TC
TINV
I rxs>>o
TYRE'S
SQUARE
TREADS.
The Continental
Square Tread
Tyre has estab-
Hshed a world-
wide reputation
for durability.
And its popu-
larity is wide-
spread—in Eng-
land, the United
States, France,
Germany, here
at home in Aus-
tralia—in fact,
wherever Mo-
toring is in-
dulged in to any
extent, you will
find the Conti-
nental Square
Tread Tyres to
the front.
Sydney Depot:
Clarence Street
TYWtS
NON-
SKIDS.
There is no bet-
ter Tyre made
for use on wet
roads than these
Continental
Mon-Skids, and
every day wit-
nesses an In-
creased demand
for them by
Australian cm—
torfsts.
These Tyres
have distin-
guished them-
selves in nearly
all the big mo-
toring events of
the past season.
Ask to see these
CONTINENTAL
NON-SKIDS.
Melbourne Depot,
46 &48 Market Sf.


TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with, what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your ease. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 30s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
ss. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, set pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting' Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, • £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7s 6d.
*
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone ‘2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
Ladies’ High-grade Solid
Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£6 10s, £7 10s.
Silver
255, 30s,
£5 10s,
SOLID
GOLD
9
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
;iB-et. Gold Mar-
quese RING, set dia-
monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. - Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
■white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and. Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds,
£l2 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
These illustrations reveal some of the very
newest ideas in Engagement Rings. Ihey dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
rubies or sapphires,
£.B 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Hall-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds, £lO.
£2
4. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonus and
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
/
£2
£3
SAUNDERS.
IS-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or. Sapphires, £3.
.All Diamonds, £5. .
£5
£lO
SL.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre *
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
£B/10
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires £8 10s.
All Diamonds £l2 10s.
£l2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
, Sapphires, £1 l()s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s (id.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s Gd, 15s.
• A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, lOs-, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extra
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended.-' I All Guaranteed.
Keyless
Lever*,
20/-.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
- A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
MIIIIIIIIM!
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
513*
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure' double-cut diamonds
and rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s Gd.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
SOLID
SILVER,
=£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £2, £3 10s,
£4, £■). ,(i, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 (v . Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 I Os,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to £5O
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10s
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st„
&SSS JSK* SYDNEY, N.S.W.


>2ls>
m
;
g ri,:
.
-p-j v > 5
I * ♦:£&&
sij
t
Mm
'• »
/"
mL\ .
*L£/ - ~.
m
Sis-i’m
P
'- ■ ■ -
HSS
a
«
ssM
Y “t '
m
m
m
m
r ■'
BIS
r-.-v,-
M
P*:Hi
S 5«
m
m
1M
i
ISSS
m
sfiaii
*s
■
itl§ttlilliSlil
*
1
M«Mg
*r* *'
issisisisi
IH
sm
n
as
i®
t . >A«r*.
.' .' r fj
-
.. •
■‘ ' v /
■ .
.......... V
.'-... .i
iSSilll
Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious
summer by a CAMEO CIGARETTE.”
(Misquoted , but true. — Editor.)


u
d>
R#
PURE, WHOLESOME
INVIGORATING.
punch
J.DJXON&V?
A Girt a r • Cure
“ 0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
of a perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious —a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a winter
beverage.
WHOLSALE AGENTS :
Sydney:
Orme, Keigwin & Co.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Cray& Co.
Adelaide : Tolley & Co.
Fremantle : Tolley Ltd.
ON THE HOP!-300 of “Hop’s” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
cuaran^^ 5^
PIPES
to theTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Legal Notice.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
IN IRELAND.
KING’S BENCH DIVISION (PROBATE),
The Principal Registry, Dublin.
In the Goods of ROBERT S. KERNAHAN,
late of 10 Lower Crescent, in the City of
Belfast, Ireland, Accountant. Supposed
deceased.
To the said Robert S. Kernahan, if living, or if
dead to his wife, child, executors, administrators
or assigns.
TAKE NOTICE that Thomas Kernahan, of
10 Lower Crescent, aforesaid, father of the said
Robert S. Kernahan, has applied to the said
Division for Letters of Administration of the
Goods of the said Robert S. Kernahan, as of a
person who has died intestate, and unless you or
one of you communicate with Messrs. Carson and
McDowell, of 19 Eustace Street, in the City of
Dublin, the Solicitors for the said Thomas
Kernahan, within two months after the insertion
of this advertisemtnt, such Letters of Adminis-
tration may be issued.
JACOB T. GEOGHEGAN,
Assistant Registrar.
oarson & mcdowell,
19 Eustace Street, Dublin,
Solicitors for the said Thomas Kernahan.
Amusements.
IALAOE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY at 8.
Matinees Each WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
EDWIN GEAOH presents the
EMPIRE PICTURES CO.
First Production in Sydney of a Magnificent Sequence of
Animated Views, representing
BONNIE SCOTLAND AND DEAR OULD IRELAND.
PRICES—2s, Is and 6d. Plan at Elvy’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
the Latest London Gaiety Success,
entitled,
THE SPRING CHICKEN,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
' Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE-
Popular Prices—-35., 25., is. od., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
Amusements.
-p H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
livery Evening, at S. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
p I A N O AUDITION.
A PIANOFORTE RECITAL will be given by MISS
GERTRUDE McBRIDE (Pupil of Mr. Laurance Phillip),
assisted by the eminent Violinist, M. HY. STAELL, in
the Y.M.C.A. HALL, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, on
MONDAY NEXT, JULY Bth, at 8 o’clock.
MR. J. EDWARD SYKES will be the Accompanist.
“ TSCHAIKOWSKI’S CONCERTO.”
Cards of invitation may be obtained by personal applica-
tion at Mr. Laurance Phillip’s Rooms, Jersey Chambers.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager — Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Splendid Success of Mr. V. L. GRANVILLE.
CARLTON, Card King and Quaint Jester.
GRACEFUL GKACIE GRAHAME. WILL LOCHRANE
Splendid Success of FRANK HARTLEY, the Juvenile
Wonder. The Juggling Schoolboy.
IRVING SAYLES. LITTLE MARJORIE BRAY.
Miss EILEEN LYONS, Miss NELLIE TYE.
THE FOUR ROSEBUDS, LEONARD NELSON.
LES WHARTON. Miss FLORRIE RANGER.
O P ERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
JARVIS & CAMPBELL, Eccentric Jugglers.
JOSEPH DEWHURST, Boy Soprano.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
ERNESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, Artistic Sketching Specialty.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy,
MY YOKOHAMA QUEEN, Musical Scena by England’s
Clever Comedy Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. USS" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson. ,
THURSDAY, JULY 4, and FRIDAY, JULY 5, Last
Two Performances of THE CHRISTIAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 6,
Reappearance of the Popular Irish Comedian,
ANDREW MACK
IN TOM MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
NEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices —Bs., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
'1 HE BLUE MOON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. USUAL PRICES.
pEAL ICE SKATING.
THE GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
OPEN THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY ’ and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthly Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Australian Exhibition of Women’s WorK.
THE SYDNEY DISPLAY
On the Showground, from September 9th to 14th.
Entries Close August Ist.
Full particulars on application to the Secretary, Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PRIZES
value
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
DR-AWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Mm
a
fi
W\
e
mvmbim
THE PHONOGRAPH
Did you ever try making your
own Records on the
EDISON Phonograph ?
Possibly there are friends from whom you are separated whose voices
you would like to hear ?
With the help of the genuine Edison Phonograph it is quite a simple
matter to have a real talk from them and to send an answer in your own
voice.
Just think what a pleasure it would be to have records with the voices
of your distant friends or relatives on them.
You can make these records for yourself—right in your own home, and
they can be sent by mail anywhere.
We have a little booklet—ready now—entitled “Making Records at
Home with an Edison Phonograph,” which tells exactly how to make the
records.
Will you please fill in and mail this coupon—now—and we will send
you a copy—post free.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Kindly send me a copy of your boo’ilet “ Making Records at
Home with an Edison Phonograph.”
M :
Bulletin.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B,
340 Kent St., Sydney
The Bulletin Post Cards.
£.1500.
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing’ will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary,
Eijrht-Hour Committee.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.-
Packet of Twelve ... Is.
Packet of Ten lOd.
“Australia To-Dayl9o7.
£.50
is offered (in two prizes of £25 each)
by the Proprietors of the Patriotic
Annual, Australia To-Day, for (1)
THE BEST POEM ; (2) THE BEST
PROSE ESSAY. The subject of both Poem and Essay
to be
“AUSTRALIA’S DESTINY
IN THE EMPIRE.”
Maximum length of Poem, 1000 words, and of Essay, 7000
words. The accepted works to become the sole property
of the Proprietors of Australia To-Day. MS. to be signed
with nom-de-plume only, and to be accompanied by sealed
envelope containing fuil name and address. Unsuccessful
MS. can only be returned when necessary stamps have
been forwarded. MS., when at all convenient, should be
typewritten, and must be in the hands of the Proprietors
Australasian Traveller and Australia To-Day, 190
Flinders Street, Melbourne, on or before Ist August, 1907.
THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
7 16
'"PHIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.’*
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Oases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLING, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
7/6
Cure
Drunkards
Proof Positive!
MORE HOMES MADE HAPPY I
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE!
Further Conclusive Testimony as to
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
Sample free for Writing
Recollect that every Letter has been sent
quite Voluntarily and Without any Request
on our part. What it has done in these
Cases it will do in others.
EUCRASY
is doing- a great Humanising, Reclaiming,
and Reforming Work throughout Aus-
tralia. One.of its Most Valuable Features
Is that it is Tasteless and Odorless, and
can be administered with or (secretly)
without the knowledge of the sufferer.
It is imperative to note that —
EUCRASY DIPPERS PROM ALL
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/’O7.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating-, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing which has be-
fallen me. My was the patient to whom i gave the
powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one time
it seemed hopeless, being in the bar all day, as he was, in
the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in the bar with
him myself as much as possible, and did not let him stay
in it any more than I could possibly help, and I am now
thankful to see him constantly turn away from the spirit
bottles with a shudder. I have about a dozen powders
left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to anyone I know
troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours sincerely
grateful, (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE.
If you mention this paper, a Sample
of EUCRASY and BOOKLET of IN-
STRUCTIONS will be sent you sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine offer.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS—
THE EUGRASY GO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.


The list of dismal tragedies of the bush
was added to, the other day, by the self-murder of
an old digger at White Cliffs. Broken up by the
removal of his mate (dying) to the hospital, he
looked at the grey lights of the world, and, putting
a dynamite plug with a set fuse in his shirt,
awaited dissolution with the stoicism of a Red
Indian.
Ben Tillett has been lecturing Melbourne
on the question, “ Can a parson be a Christain ?”
and concludes he can’t. “ Economic pressure and
class bias would be too much for him,” says
Benjamin. The examination of people who can’t
be Christians promises to be interminable. The
whole dispute might be settled by an endeavor to
discover the person who is a Christian. Perhaps
it would simplify matters if he were advertised
for. Almost anybody can be a sort of a Christian;
it is the actual Christian who is still missing.
Some people suppose even a bishop could be a
Christian if he really tried.
The patient of a Sydney Chow medico was
a big-bodied, somewhat-bloated publican. He
seemed to be suffering from rheumatism, with
perhaps a dropsical complication, and by an in-
and-out process of reasoning he came to pin his
faith to Dr. Slant Eye. “Welly serious case, ”
remarked Slant Eye ; “welly big snake in there.”
He punched the publican on his largest protu-
berance. “You feel him?” he smilingly asked,
as the publican howled. “ Welly bad snake alto-
gether ; that fellow eat up inside. Then you die.
Ten pun.” “ Will you cure me for ten pound ?”
demanded the publican. “I’ve paid a fellow at
the hospital seventeen, and I’m worse than when
he began.” “Yes,” said Slant Eye ; “ten pun.”
He stripped the publican to the waist and drove
into his body three long needles, like hat-pins,
and twirled them round. “ That’s the snake,” he
remarked; “ I catchee on, he die little while.”
The large blood vessels were avoided, so the
howling of the patient was merely howl. Dr.
Slant Eye drew out the needles, and covered the
punctures with paste, “Ten pun.” _ After a
sleep the publican declared himself all right, and
maintains to this day that he is all right. Still,
sis it is only a week or two since the inward snake
was killed, he may relapse.
“ Flinclerino ” from Melbourne :
A lighterman’s life is an unenviable one. His hours of
work are unlimited and his pay very limited. His home
is usually a broken-backed, dilapidated hulk that needs
incessant pumping to keep it afloat, and even then he has
to get up in the middle of a cold, winter’s night to sound
the well. On a coal-lighter this pumping is not so bad,
because the lighterman has the use of a donkey-engine ;
but on the ordinary wool-barge the pumping must all be
done by hand.
The living quarters of a lighter mostly consist of a kennel-
like deckhouse of two compartments, or a small, dismal
dark cabin below the deck, somewhere near the rudder.
The cabins on these old “has-beens” are cut down to
about a quarter their original size, so as to increase the
cargo space of the hulk. On these floating palaces the
lightermen and their wives and families must manage as
best they can. The owner of the harge is too busy
attending to his lawn and fernery to bother about such a
petty matter as the comfort of his men afloat. True, the
man afloat does not live in a small weatherboard hovel in
a back street of a crowded suburb ; he sees the blue sky,
and enjoys the sea breezes. But he also sniffs the odorous
bottom of the Yarra, which passing steamers are always
churning to the top ; and he occasionally spends two or
thrbe days tied up alongside a Harbor Trust mud-dredge.
The lighter-folk often find it difficult to obtain the
necessary daily loaf of bread and pint of milk, because
their craft, is constantly on the move about the river or
bay. Sometimes they are in “Rotten Row,” or away
down “ Siberia,” and the nearest shop is two miles away.
For the same reason the youngsters have a poor show of
receiving a decent education. They leave the lighter in
the morning and walk a mile or so to school, taking their
lunches with them. After school the poor kiddies tramp
back to where their home was moored in the morning
sometimes to find that i t has been shifted a mile further
down on the other side of the river. Often a whole
week lapses without the youngsters having a chance to
attend school.
Yet, in spite of all adversities, the lighterman’s wife
manages to keep a cheerful face, and always has a smile
and a back-answer for the deck-hoy and fireman of the
passing tug-boat. By the constant use of the scrubbing-
brush and broom she somehow succeeds in making the
stuffy little cabin fairly habitable. A few plants in
painted kerosene-tins, and perhaps a caged rosella or
cockatoo adorn the poop and give the after-end of the
hulk a homely appearance. Everything looks gay on
washing-day, when the clothes-line is flying flags of all
nationalities, of all shapes of the rainbow, and every
color of the conipass.
The pay of a lighterman ranges from £7 to £8 10s. a
month. The man on the coal-lighter draws the best
pay, but he must be able to drive a donkey-engine and
work a winch. The £7 goes to the commander of the
wool-barge, who is usually a Dutchman. The considerate
owner supplies kerosene, and does not charge for the rent
of the cabin.
Lightermen are a tough lot, and are hard to kill. Their
favorite way of “crossing the bar” is to go along
Flinders-street on a dark night, call in at the Great
Britain or Antonio’s to wash down some coal-dust, then
go down to the wharf and trip over a ship’s line into the
river.
NTS
PAT
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all Countries.
483 CoHins St., MELBOURNE
Eagls Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4 ; 6
and 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
WHOLESALE AGENTS'.
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 Hijrh Street, Belfast Ireland.
DR. J. COWS BROWSE'S
("HLOROPYNE
Caution-—IGenuine 1 Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWH€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others. I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ja ESTt 1847■ V| 4
A 1 Icocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
For paing in the region of tne
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back t
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there Is pain apply
l Allcock’s Plaster,
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Golds, Goughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For Rheumatism or Patna in
Shoulders. hlbowsorelsewhere,
or for Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
and for Aching Feet, Plaster
should be cut sire and shaw re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc
Established 1762.
<s>
m
\
*
When yon get that “tyre-tired” feeling, try
MICHELINS^
the Tyres of which you Never Tire.
AFORTUNEI2 CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known. Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for //-, and postage for..
A TEST HOROSCOPE OF 5 LARGE PAGES,
Calculated and written by R. Hersoiiell, who has supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
“REFEREE” says “ The Prince of living Astrologers.”
This offer is made to convince those who are sceptical of, or unacquainted with, the truth ana value
of Astrological Science. .
Money returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect .
R. HERSCHELL (of London), “Woodville,” Mont Albert, Melbourne.
PILL IN, CUT OUT, and SEND THIS ADVT.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
THE
FAMOUS
DOLLOND GLASS
DOLLOND’S
PRISMATIC
BINOCULARS
vivV.v
are the best of all glasses—better in all respects
than any Continental makes, and cheaper.
The Dolland Binoculars are more dust and damp
proof than any other made. They can be cleaned
inside in the quickest and easiest manner possible
by anyone.
They contain many improvements not found in
any other glasses.
Price, £7.
Illustrated BooKlet Free.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
My Opticians,
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
M
m
The PLUM RAZOR is made
of specially-tempered steel—hollow ground—the
finest razor ever sold at or near the price, and
guaranteed for two years. Money back to any
dissatisfied customer.
PRICE:, 10/6 POST FREE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Post Free to any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
M Britisb=Eustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SOANTLEBURY.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
to a close, they have decided upon _ the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price ' .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. • • .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual Drice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. ... .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Discovery of a Rational
Treatment for Deafness.
A glance through the medical literature of the
last 20 years reveals to the close observer a re-
markable diversity of opinion among aurists as
to what constitutes the proper method of treat-
ment for deafness and diseases of the ear. Some
authorities recommend in obstinate cases cutting
away the drumhead of the ear, other aural surgeons
are emphatic in saying that the results obtained
are too uncertain to justify such severe measures.
Another class of medical men base the treatment
of deafness almost entirely on the application of
medicated vapors forced through the nose into the
middle ear by way of the Eustachian tube, but it
is strange to find these sameauristsacknowledging,
in their writings on this subject, that it is doubt-
ful if medication applied in this way can reach
the seat of disease which causes defective hearing.
In the midst of all this doubt and uncertainty
there is fortunately the record of the discovery of
a rational method in the Electricon to successfully
apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to the
Ears, permanently curing Deafness, and com-
pletely banishing all distressing Head Noises.
Like all innovations the Electricon received the
severest criticisms, but notwithstanding such
opposition, seven years’ test of the method has
given results so emphatically successful that the
usual medical opinions on the curability of deaf-
ness have been completely overthrown.
Those who are interested in the subject would
do well to read the complete description of this
method of treatment in the “Journal for the
Deaf,” published by the L. R. VERINON CO.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney, and sent FREE to
to any one asking for it.
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. C. E. Borchgrevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing proved most excellent during the time I
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).


Maryland Physician Cures Himselfof
Eczema With the Cuticura Reme-
dies. Prescribes Them Often and
Has Cured Many Cases Where
Other Formulas Have Failed— Dr,
Fisher Says:
CUTICURA REMEDIES
POSSESS TRUE MERIT
. _ “ My face was afflicted with eczema
in the year 1897. I used theßCuticura
Remedies, and was •entirely cured. I
am a practicing physician and very
often prescribe Cuticura Res.olvent and
Cuticura Soap in cases of eczema, and
they have cured where other formulas
have failed. I am not in the habit of
endorsing patent medicines, but when
I find remedies possessing true merit,
such as the Cuticura Remedies do, I am
broad-minded enough to proclaim their
virtues to the world. I have been prac-
ticing medicine for sixteen years, and
must say I find your Remedies A No. 1.
G. M. Fisher, M. D., Big Pool, Md.,
May 24, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file In the
Office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Deference: It. Towns & Co., Merchants, N. S.W.
A SET OFTEN CURES
Complete Treatment for Every
Humour from Pimples
to Scrofula.
Bathe the affected parts with hot
water, and Cuticura Soap, to cleanse
the surface of crusts and scales and
soften the thickened cuticle; dry,
without hard rubbing, and apply
Cuticura Ointment freely, to allay
itching, irritation, and inflammation,
and soothe aud. heal; and, lastly, take
Cuticura Resolvent Pills to cool and
cleanse the blood. A single set, is often
sufficient to cure the most torturing,
disfiguring, itching, burning, and scaly
skin, scalp, and blood humours,with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, when all
else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills (Choco-
late Coated, in vial of 60) are sold throughout the world.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
06S~ Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Every Humour."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
THe
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “ light ” visible is the
BL-ICK £lO £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
Oaiine
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion Of youth
through the hot Australian summers.
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favorite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it, too, after shaving, for it
soothes and heals the skin. Price 1/9 a
dainty jar, or 3/6 larger size, holding four
times as much.
At all chemists, stores, etc., through-
out Australia. Get a jar tc-c’ay.
POLICY tor thk COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES’
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE. Booklet, “Shoelight,” that
illustrates and describes our stock of Foot-
wear. Posted anywhere free on request.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at I & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
Whisky.
ACL LEADING HOTELS,
GRAVEL AND STONE.
When there is a sediment like brick-dust in the urine it is a certain indication that the kidneys
are not doing their work properly, and immediate steps should be taken to restore their healthy
action. If this precaution .is-neglected, the particles will gradually become larger, and the miserable
suffering caused by Gravel or Stone will result.
Stones are usually found in the kidneys, and descend thence into the bladder. They are composed
of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime ; solid matter which should be held in solution in the fluids of the
body, and be passed off in a dissolved condition in the urine. Uric acid stone is by far the commonest
kind.
When, a stone is formed in a .kidney great pain in the loins is felt, and this becomes agonising
when the stone leaves the kidney and passes through one of the narrow channels leading to tin-,
bladder; The pain then experienced is known as Kidney Colic. It ceases when the stone reaches the
bladder.
Once in the bladder, the stone may be passed off with the urine, or it may remain and become
larger by the accumulation of deposits. Sometimies a stone, will form in the bladder by the simple
gathering together of particles of gravel.
Persons of all ages may suffer from stone or gravel. Even little children are not exempt.
When a stone formed in the kidneys is too large ,to pass through the passage leading into the
bladder, the passage becomes closed, dropsy sets in, and the patient may die in a few hours.
When stones remain long in the bladder they grow to a great size, sometimes as large as an
orar.ge, and they frequently have to be cut out.
The following symptoms indicate stone or gravel in the kidneys or bladder Painful itching
sensation ; swelling of the seat of pain ; cramps in the legs and scrotum ; bearing down Sensation in
rectal region ; paroxysms of pain from kidneys to bladder—“ kidney colic;” pain and difficulty in
urinating, with sudden stoppages.
Treatment —The only rational method of treatment for this disease is to correct the action of
the kidneys, thereby removing the cause. In a healthy condition of the kidneys and urinary system
the water holds the solids in solution until it escapes from the body. In disease the solids are
deposited in the kidneys and bladder.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
restores to the kidneys their natural action, relieves congestion, heals the wounded and bleeding
mucous membranes of the urinary system, dissolves the stones already formed, and prevents further
formation. Warner’s Safe Cure is the only remedy in the world which has this power, and if the case
is amenable to any medicinal form of treatment, it will ultimately effect a cure.
BLADDER DISEASE.
Inflammation or Catarrh of the Bladder (Cystitis) is usually due to long retention of urine • the
effect of irritating drugs ; .stricture ; enlargement of the prostate gland ; irritation caused by stone
or gravel, or by the careless use of a catheter ; exposure to cold ; decomposition of urine caused bv its
retention, etc. •'
There are two forms of this complaint—Acute and Chronic—the latter being peculiar to elderly
people. It is commoner in winter than in summer; in cold than in warm climates; in males than in
females. It is always dependent upon some obstruction to the flow of urine, or upon a diseased con
dition of the urinary organs. The Bladder not being entirely emptied, the water retained
decomposes.
The kidneys are generally seriously involved in the mischief, the catarrh being usually a
secondary symptom of disease of the kidneys, and unless these are restored to their natural condition
a cure cannot be effected. .
Warner’s Safe Cure corrects the unnatural condition of the kidneys, prevents the formation of
pus and mucous by healing the inflamed membranes, and causes the water to become normal.
A treatis'e containing many letters from people who have been cured of Stone, Gravel and Bladder
Diseases will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
[ll]
The Inky Way.
The fierce blue light that beats upon a pantomime fairy
is as nothing to the search-rays cast in anticipation of
the Queen of Spain’s interesting event. Sections of the
British “ family” press took an especial delight in draw-
ing the attention of their juvenile and other readers to
obstetric details, which they would denounce as unprint-
able in the case of persons who were not “ royal.” As for
the Midwives Record, the frankness and cornplete-
ness of its Sarah Gamp details were • amazing;
while the Hospital Gazette, the Nursing Times the
Nurses Record, and o on, backed it "up vigorously.
Marvellous are the papers and magazines of Bull’s capital
including the Acorn, the Mouse-findeß, the Invalid the
Shop Assistant, the Practitioner; and the Jabberwock.
And there has been talk of publishing little, morbid
papers, specially devoted to people who are suffering from
special diseases of the common and lingering 1 order.^
* * *
The yellowest journalist in Sydney is Sun Johnson,
editoi of the Chinese Herald. Sun is a person of some
substance, possesses a white wife, a house at Hunter's
Hill, a motor-boat and other appurtenances of Western
civilisation, and keeps the dragon flag flying from the,
stern of his craft when he skims over the harbor.
* * * *
K. . W hat is the reason why the specialist religious
journals rarely have a title that indicates their contents?
if one sees the title Banking Record, Shipping Gazette,
or Medical Journal, he knows exactly wbat class of read-
ing he will find between the covers. But in religion it is
altogether different.- I have a pious step-sister who bom-
bards me with religious papers, as an antidote to The
Bulletin. One paper is called White unto Harvest. It
deals with the missionaries in India. Another is labelled
Blessed be Egypt, and deals with Egyptian missions. A
thud is branded China’s Millions. I took this one at
first for a pamphlet advertising the resources<of the Chow
country, and I thought the millions meant money. But
it was the same old missionary paper; I get these pretty
regularly ; but at odd times there arrive Darkness and
Light, Morning Calm, The N kt (this isn’t half a bad title),
News from afar, Regions Beyond,-Trusting and Toiling
Sentry, Word on the Waters, and a few others. They
are all, so far as 1 have managed to stagger through them,
mission papers, and they cover pretty well the ivhole
blessed globe. The editors would apparently die before
they would give up the fancy titles. At any rate,
I wouldn’t like to be the man to suggest chang-ing
China’s Millions into the Chow Missionary Record.
In fact, I have become so'obsessed by these titles that
I intend asking the bankers to rename their journal
Filthy Lucre, or The Gold that Perishkth ; and I want
the medical people to call their paper Bones. If some
day you miss a valued contributor, and happen to see a
gaunt, anxious form boarding a boat at Sydney for some
missionary country, you will, I hope, note the connec-
tion. It, will be me, and my flight will arise through
much reading of Trusting and Toiling. By the way,
how about Boiling as a name for a religious paper with
strong views on a material Gehenna?
* * * *
Much useful energy is being wasted in an endeavor to
boom Esperanto, the new universal language. Esperanto
has an advantage over Volapulc, from the standpoint of
English and Southern European people, inasmuch as it
has a Latin, and not a Sclavonic, foundation, but it fails
hopelessly in the first essential of a universal language—
it is not phonetic. How anybody could go to the trouble
I of evolving an intricate vocabulary and system of gram-
mar, and then perpetuate the very worst'feature of most
existing languages, is beyond comprehension. It is much
the same as if a man should devise a new system of uni-
versal weights and measures, and, having abolished the
imbecile scheme of English superficial measurement,
should declare that Ilf inches made a foot.
* * * *
“ J.P.” : If you desire to pull an Australian pressman’s
leg, you say something about Labor legislation having
deliberately driven your capital out of the country ; but
if you have designs . n an English ink-sinner, you tell
him that you have come, at a cost of £3ll 11s. ifd., all
the way from Peru to witness the contest for the Catch-
as-Catch-Can Derby Stakes over the Grand National
course at Goodwood Golf Links, or something like that.
The penny-a-liner will then dash off and give you three
columns and your portrait in his paper, and slobber
emotionally concerning you and “the imperishable
sporting instinct that is embedded in the British
breast.” Mr. Guy Tabart, of Christchurch (M.L.),
went to Fogtown, and chanced to be present
at the Cup-tie final at the Crystal Palace.
Next day he noticed in the Evening News (London) a
column concerning a man who had come from M.L. at a
cost of £2OO to see the Cup-tie. Whereat Mr. Tabart fell
upon a News reporter, and explained that he had come
all the way from Christchurch (M.L.) to see the match at a
cost of Is. 9d. ! He gave full particulars of how he made
the trip. Next News contained two columns, stating that
Mr. Tabart was so anxious to see the great match that he
worked his passage on the Orari, with only a dress suit
in his bag. On-arrival he pawned the suit for 135., spent
9d. on ’bus fares, and Is. for admission, thus satisfying
his craving for sport oil a total expenditure of Is. 'yd. !
The well-to-do Mr. Tabart has a M.L. reputation as a
joker. The pity of it is that in all probability the News
will never know it was caught asleep. ,
* * * *
For the benefit of Otto and Gretchen who haven’t yet
become acclimatised, Brisbane Courier prints daily
reports of the state of the oat and pumpkin market in
German.
THE MINOR BARD TO THE MAJOR MUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Virgil penned his .Eneid, and Homer wrote his
Odyssey
(Those classic works, so demigod and hero-filled and
goddessy),
O Muse (or Muses, it may be), who Homer and Virgilius
Inspired, I beg you tell me, were these poets sick and
bilious,
And did grim torment rack them—did they sob and sigh
and weep at all,
And when they went to bed at' night, O tell me, did
they sleep at all ?
Did Care, that demon merciless, with silent step insidious,
Come bothering Eurypides, or pestering Ovidius ;
And did they find that whfen they tried to write in blithe
pentameters,
Their words were of such length they’d scarcely fit into
hexameters?
And did they storm, and cus-i, and swear in Attic or
Latmity
M hen one line to the last bore no grammatical affinity ?
lor when I burn my midnight oil (or gas, or electricity)
My affability departs, and routed flies felicity.
Upon my parlor furniture of anger the artillery
I bring to bear, and sometimes tear my ornament capillary;
And sometimes, I regret t(J say, when bardic frenzies
dominate,
I utter dreadful oaths —a thing I commonly abominate.
I sometimes have to wander far to fetch my rhymes and 1
phrases too.
It makes me cross, and frequently I send my work the
blazes to.
The outside world with whistles shrill (a proof of its
vulgarity) r
Comes interrupting heart-drawn thoughts with all its
gross barbarity.
And when those thoughts flow swimmingly, and time—
I’m swiftly killing it,
v *t°P s its flow—those fancies vanish while. I’m
filling it.
0 Muse (or Muses p’r’aps you are), who fired the bards of
history,
I tender you my thanks, if you would solve for me this
mystery !
For when grim Torment racks me, and black Care sneaks
up insidious,
Twould pleasant be to feel that just the same beset
Ovidius— r ■
That sounds of-vulgar whistling did disturb the great
Virgilius— B
That metric difficulties made Eurypides feel bilious.
VIC.
ARCHIBALD LEE.


&
1^
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME.
THE ARTISTS’ MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit op
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim’s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer’s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous Instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
po not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
MELBOURNE
ALLAN P 5- R
Z 76-8 COLLINS ST
SYDNEY
w.h.palinc*c?l:“
GEORGE: S T
BILIOUSNESS#HEADACHE REMOVED
THE EFFECTS OF A BAD LIVER.
The brilliant work of Pawlow and his pupils has brought
to light many important facts concerned with the action of
the liver. His investigations go to prove that in many
diseases the battle is lost or won according as the safety-valve
functions of the liver rise and fall. The consequences which
follow liver derangement are very extensive. The symptoms
are pale and sallow complexion, headache, a bitter taste,
coated tongue, depression of spirits, languor, cantankerous
moods, insomnia, loss of appetite, flatulency, acrid eructations,
irregular bowels, usually constipated, and pain between the
shoulder-blades. To a sluggish liver is to be ascribed the
mental deterioration, the loss of memory, and gradual extinc-
tion of the intellectual powers. When liver trouble arises
from any cause take a dessertspoonful of Kutnow’s Powder
in the morning before breakfast. The action of this refresh-
ing corrective is materially hastened by a cup of hot tea
taken about ten minutes after; in twenty or thirty minutes
the desired effect is attained, and the entire system is
cleansed and invigorated. You can try it free of all cost!
KUW NOW'S
POWDER.
nirschensprung. or Deer Leap
Moot
IONOONi
41 JARRINGOON ROAD, EC.
The EXPERIENCE of PUBLIC MEN
A FAMOUS NOVELIST
WHITES :
“31 Gatton Road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 1906.
“ Dears Sirs, —For a considerable
period I suffered from severe head-
ache and mental depression, no
dohbt accentuated by my sedentary
occupation as a novelist, but I now
always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent,
wlpch never fails to afford instant
and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious remedy,
and I do not wonder at its enormous
sale. “Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
AN ARMY OFFICER
WRITES :
“ 104 Seymour Place, W.,
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much plea-
sure in stating that I have derived
much benefit from Kutnow’s Pow-
der, and, after taking four bottles,
am completely cured of abscess on
liver, contracted after a residence
in an Eastern climate of twenty
years. I now take a dose once or
twice weekly, and would not be
without a bottle.
“ I am, yours truly,
“0. ANDERSON,
“(General, Retired).”
How to Detect Fraudulent Substitutes*
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which
you can obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world.
Examine the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow and Co. Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap.”
You will then avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow's Powder
The British
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“It is gentle, effer-
vescent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
Prof. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
WROTE :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., himself a
sufferer from a gouty diathesis, found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to himself personally and in his practice, and this remedy is
one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels and
kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water taken
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts as
a diluent, and flushes out the.kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better eliminator
than Kutnow’s Powder.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH!
Soie Proprietors : S. KUTNOW <& CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[6-12.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For pjf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND on Security of Freehold or Leasehold
J- w Cjty or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand at LOWE3T CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine”
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Benjamin
Short,'Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Shaving
SticK
ft
A discriminating man who
has once experienced the
thick, cream-like lather of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, the
exquisite soothing and re-
freshing effect on his face,
the feeling of safety and
satisfaction that its purity
guarantees, is not easily per-
suaded to accept a substi-
tute. If he does, it’s at the
expense of his face.
“The only kind that won’t
smart or dry on the face.”
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the
world, or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets,
Is.: Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d._ (Trial size)
of Williams’ Shaving Stick, 6d.
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.: 4 Rue Chauveaux
La?arde, Paris; 161 < larence St., Sydney, New South
Wales. Head office and factories, Glastonbury, Conn.,
U. S. A.
Why I Wish to Tell
YOUR FORTUNE FREE
A YOUNG LADY in Sydney onee wrote asking
me to reveal her fortune by Astrology.
Among other questions, she asked me to tell
the color of her eyes and what color her house was
painted.
I mention this to show the mistaken ideas which
many people hold regarding Astrology.
It was to show what my system of Astrology
really means, and to prove my power to aid and
assist humanity, that I began many years ago the
I HAVE hundreds of letters from grateful patrons,
letters which I hold sacredly confidential,
letters telling: me of financial advancement, of
success in love and marriage; also many sad
letters regretting that my advice had not been
asked years ago.
Pleased patrons have sent friends to me, have
asked my advice for their children and children’s
children.
My system of Astrology will answer questions
sending of Trial Horos-
copes to all persons
interested enough in
their future to send me
Is. stamps or postal
note to defray cost of
postage, etc.
Dear Reader, I wish
also the privilege of
convincing you of my
ability to look into
your future, to guide
your steps in the right
path, to lead you (as I
have lead many, many
others) to success in
business, love, and in
the attainment of any
praiseworthy object.
Life is not all luck,
as many would have
you believe. Those
who crowd to the front
are those who under-
stand themselves and
their possibilities
thoroughly. No guess
work, no waiting to
see what may turn up.
When a prominent
financier has been
known to daily consult
an Astrologer before
entering upon specula-
tion, is it not high
time for 3 ou to learn
your fortunate periods,
time for you to look
into this science and
see what fate has in
store for you ?
Did you ever hear of
a divorce where two
people were married in
harmony with their
Astrological i n d i c a-
tions?
Did you ever stop to
think that some of
your rivals, who are
perhaps outstripping
you in the race for money, love or fame, are push-
ing forward in the clear light of Astrological know-
ledge, whilst you are groping blindly in the dark?
Why not turn to me for advice, and be yourself
the successful leader ?
(SMS
-S ■ ■ S'
■
m
r ■ :
■ :
-.: • ** -1
r -■ ■
t£
Your entire statement of past and present is ab-
solutely true, lucky days, journeys, that treacherous
friend all correctly named. It is wonderful how you
can describe everything: and answer my questions
without the slightest error. I am well pleased with
reading, and am only sorry I did not have it years
ago, for I know I would have been spared much
trouble.
MARY A. HOUGARD.
of vital interest
to every human
being ; will name
your fortunate
days and years,
will tell you of the
likelihood of lega-
cies. Will show
you who to marry.
This trial reading,
which I offer you
for Is., will mystify
you by its correct-
ness.
My system of
Astrology is differ-
ent from that of
any Astrologer
living. To the
Astrology of Bibli-
cal days I have
added the results
of my own study
and observation,
until I am able to
foretell events
which absolutely
come to pass.
Patrons write
me, after the lapse
of years, announc-
ing the fulfil-
ment of every pre-
diction.
You will be so
convinced by what
I tell you by my
wonderful powers
to read your future
like an open book
that you will write
me when in doubt
or in trouble;
when you want
advice about
speculation, busi-
ness, marriage,
travel, and the
future. You will
also be glad to
refer your friends
to me, and in that way repay me for the trial
Horoscope which I will send you.
Write me to-day lest you forget/
Send me to-day your full name and address, date of birth,
sex, and if married or single, with //-, postal note or stamps,
for return postage, and this Horoscope will be mailed you
at once FREE.
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
The Joker’s Surprise
Donkey Camera—Made like
a genuine Brownie. This
surprise camera is one of our
latest and best jokes. Can
be used as often as the
operator chooses free of cost.
Ask one of your friends
would he like his photo
taken, and when he accepts,
request him to put on his
best smile, and look straight
at the camera. Immediately
your victim is interested, re-
lease the lid and watch
result.
Price 1/6.
Post free to any address.
m
e
The Touch=Me-Not Sur-
prise Match Box. Can be
carried in the vest pocket,
and never fails to give the
match-cadger a shock. When
your friend asks for a match,
just hand him the box and
immediately he attempts to
open same, he receives a
very sudden shock. Nicely
made of nickel, and finished
in leather. Price post free
anywhere for 1/2.
False Noses. —These noses are made of
canvas cloth, and covered with wax. Beauti-
fully colored, and mnde in every conceivable
shape. Will fit tight on any nose, and always
causes heaps of amusement whether worn on the
stage or in the drawing-room. Price 6d. post free
anywhere.
The Joker’s Mouse Match Box.—/
pocket novelty, nicely tirade of polished
rubber ears and tail. Can be carried
pooket, and makes a very useful novelty,
post free to any part of Australasia.
l very neat
nickel, with
in the vest
Price 1/2
M
We also stock False
Moustaches at 2d. each ;
False Eyes at Bd. pair ;
False Novelty Spectacles
at 6d. ; or the whole
make-up, consisting of
nose, moustache, eyes,
and spectacles, posted
free to any address in
Australasia for 1/9.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise
and Joke Novelties.
Write for Price List B.
Wholesale and Retail.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
GRIEF WRECKED SYSTEM.
HARROWING TALE OF DESPAIR. LOSES MEMORY AT TIMES.
Clements Tonic
WORKS A WONDERFUL CHANGE.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
So many go on suffering year by year through
lack of serviceable information, it is deemed ad-
visable to place before the public the story of Mrs.
Mary Jane Budd, of 38 Young-street, Tied fern, so
that a salutary lesson may be learned. What
Mrs. Budd said to our special was this :
“It is now eight years since my husband died,
a calamity that took place when we had been
living in this house nine years, so you see I have
been residing here a good while.”
“ Yes,” assented the reporter. “ I believe you
are an oid resident of these parts ?”
“I was born in Bourke-street, and have lived in
this locality all my life. But, to go back to my
story. It was not long after my great bereavement
! that I became a total wreck. The blow nearly
killed me, and for a good while I was really
stupefied with grief. For some considerable time
my memory was completely lost, and it was im-
possible for me to concentrate my mind for a few
minutes upon any subject. When my dazed con-
dition passed away it was then that 1 realised how
terribly my whole system had suffered, a fact
which dawned upon me as I stood at the table one
day feeling so ill that I did not think I would live
till the morrow. For my own part, I did not care
what happened, but I thought of my three little
children, and said to myself: ‘What ever can I
take to do me good for their sakes ? ’ ”
“Was that the first time you thought of taking
anything ? ”
“It was the first time I thought of acting on
my own judgment, the reason being that I was
under a doctor for some length of time, and his
treatment hadn’t benefited me in the least.”
“What did your medical attendant say was
wrong with you ? ”
• “He told me I had taken my afflictions in-
wardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortu-
nately, for I could not even bear to hear the
children talking, their voices got on m v nerves, so,
and if a tap came to the door I nearly fainted with
fright. I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I
think one of my greatest afflictions was my in-
ability to get to sleep. For four years I did not
know what it was to sleep properly for one nisrht.
It was usual for me to remain awake till about 3
or 4 o’clock in the morning, and then dose off till
half-past 5, when I always awoke with a start, and
would get no more sleep till next morning. And
the dreams I had each time I slept—they were
awful.”
“ You must have lost weight during your
illness?”
“Oh ! I was ghastly. My bones were almost
protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I
would never get better again. I really thought I
was doomed to die, and feel sure I would have
been dead long ago ONLY FOR CLEMENTS
TONIC, WHICH WAS THE LAST MEDI-
CINE OF ALL THAT I TOOK. A friend often
used to say, ‘ Why don’t you try some Clements
Tonic ?’ but I always postponed doing so ; but at
last I thought that as I had heard so much about
it, and nothing else could dome any good, I would
give Clements Tonic a trial. This was the decision
that I came to the day that I stood at the table
feeling that I could not last another twenty-four
hours, so what better reason than that could I have
for saying that Clements Tonic saved my life?
You must understand that I was quite incapable
of doing any work, and that it was a common thing
for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly
unable to attend to anything that required seeing
to, so when Clements Tonic began to put a little
life and strength into me you can imagine how
thankful I was for it. And weren’t the neighbors
surprised to hear that I had taken a turn for the
better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished
nearly the whole of Redfern. Rut what a relief
it was to have my headaches ease off after sufer-
ing so long with them ! And wasn’t I glad to feel
that Clements Tonic was also doing good to my
nervous system? Why, I had only been taking
that remedy a few weeks when I could stand noises
of any kind without wincing, and already I was
getting more sleep than I had had for years.”
“Did you feel more refreshed after it than
formerly ?” 1
“Oh ! yes; much. The reason why, I suppose,
was that I did not dream at all, so both my brain
and body were resting all the time, and when I
awoke 1 felt so fresh and lighthearted—no nasty
taste in the mouth as before, a clean tongue, and,
my word, what an appetite for breakfast I had !
Clements Tonic did make me eat and no mistake,
and my nerves were getting stronger and strongei
as the days went by. Eventually my old fears and
imaginations died right away, nothing more
troubling me, and all this wonderful change was
entirely due to Clements Tonic. Oh! I have
thanked God thousands of times that I was guided
to take that remedy, and I am so anxious that
other sufferers may regain hope by hearing of my
cure. But Clements Tonic served me well in other
ways. It put an end to the giddy feelings I used
to have, removed the swollen feeling from my
eyes and the suffocating sensations from my chest
then, finally, built up my strength so perfectly
that everyone could see my health was thoroughly
regained.”
“ May I publish your remarks?”
“I gladly give you permission to publish them
in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARY JANE BUDD, of No. 38 Young-s reet, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth,
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting- of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any wey my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) MARY JANE BUDD.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four
before me. THOS. CADDY, J.P. ‘
Consult HERR RASSiOSSEN^peciaiist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . __ TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weakjen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tl»e Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Sell-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s.
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s
VI IIIMI-JT Aiuuuico, aiiu au diuuu
COURSES, 23'6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6,
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course. 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
MANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
. JXAV"
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.


The prevalent belief in the immortality of
all concrete things is conspicuously displayed in
the confidence which residents of old Sydney have
regarding their balconies. Many of these over-
hang the streets, without any pillars or posts to
keep them up ; they have no visible lawful means
of support save some aged and ant-infested joists,
which were shoved in the midst of the brickwork
in 1801, or thereabouts. Whenever a band assem-
bles in the street, or “ the Johns ” are struggling
with a malefactor opposite, every occupant of the
upstairs rooms rushes to the front of the amazing
balcony, and they weigh it down to a hair-raising
angle. Some day too many people will get on the
old projecting balcony, and the harried old con-
trivance will come down with a run, and, before
the inquest is over, the Board of Health will be
ordering about five hundred others to be demol-
ished within 24 hours.
This yarn appears in a Chicago (U.S.A.)
paper:—
Bion J. Arnold, chairman of the Board of consulting
engineers, said yesterday he wished to undertake the
work of acting as chief consulting- engineer for the Vic-
torian Railways of Australia, provided he could do so
without neglecting his duties in Chicago. “ I probably
could spend a short time in Melbourne, and then direct
the work from my Chicago office. If I make a trip to
Australia my work here will be planned so as not to be
affected by my absence.”
If that isn’t a tremendous hoax, then the import-
ing disease has reached a climax. Chicago is the
home of almost the dirtiest, least efficient, and
the most expensive Private Enterprise tramway
system on earth, and Arnold is a tramway boss
trained in that school. If it is seriously proposed
that he should be paid a large salary to muddle
the Victorian railways from his Chicago office,
someone must be mad.
Voigtlander’
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
Hi^h-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney,
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
a*
%
U
\
NO ONE should be weak. No one should suffer the loss of that vitality which
makes life worth living when there is at hand a natural and certain cure for
weakness and . loss of vitality. . . . Do not despair because you have
doctored and dosed yourself in vain. You can be restored! You are
simply suffering from an early loss of Nature’s reserve power, which is Electricity,
and this very element which you have lost can be restored, so
that you can yet be as strong and vigorous as ever you were.
You lack nerve force, vim, snap, vigor, magnetism, or to
be plain, you lack Electricity, and the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT
is the only certain means of restoring it. It is the grandest invention
of the age for weak people; the surest and easiest cure for all
Nervous and Chronic Diseases, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, Kidney, Stomach, and Bowel
Troubles, and Loss of Strength in old and
young. It has cured thousands, and we have testimonials from
every part of Australasia.
We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of treatment in
this country, and have many imitators but no equals. Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belt is the standard, and has stood the test of time. With its
special attachments for men and women it is
the most perfect Electric Appliance for home treatment in the World,
and its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in,
and we will send you
postpaid a copy of our
new ioo-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., Dep. lO Linden Court
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
MmwM . OFFICE HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
LINDEN COURT,
CASTLEREAGH-MARKET STS., SYDNEY
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address
5
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d -Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neigh Bor Raymond, Is ; posts Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bullet in series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is-. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
Ml
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in arid out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLIN'G CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac- .
fallen's Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s fid. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Poet Paid.
No SVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. . All About Incubators, 1s» Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* 1 •agrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. V f.st Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing’ ls 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music coni!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-Day’
THe GRANDEST DIVER PILL in tHe WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely."
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/1$ to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
#
r
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
!T}engers Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydnpy.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national jjank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under ike Companies A ct, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock. £43,435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,021 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
, Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial [Qutoal [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank nf florth Queensland
(Established 1888.) __ LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of ||ew Zealand.
• SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
GOVERNfIENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
fI'HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, 'k
P. E. WILLIAMS, }
W. H. O’M. WOODJ
Commissioners.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ' ... 1,130,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
Doudon Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
EACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dvson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
KT. D. La.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
l-rl V T.AnH/an A f t-» j
Steamer
’'BULOW ~
*YORCK ..
*SEYDLITZ
*SCHARNHORST,.
*BULOW .
*BREMEN ..
*SEYDLITZ
>
cS z
<D
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
man ILA 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., T and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
' Banking, Public Companies, &c,
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITJSIt.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0 l
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Thromihout the World.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
fDAMASCUS . I H. A. Schleman .. I Noon, July 19
*MILTIADES .. |A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 10
MORAVIAN .. |A. Simpson .. I Noon, Sept. 13
f3rd Class Passengers only. *Twin Screw. Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to sail about 12th JULY.
RUNIC, to sail about 9th AUGUST.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &e. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation'
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HOUPAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands' (about- 8*
'
s
- '
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. P. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Bmith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Qrioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
1?
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ivr.s.-w.
(IjontdepieteOjll. Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CjgEENE^
(l
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S J
“Facile Princeps”
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener,Birmingham.’
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL. MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Scenic Route
to Europe
is via Canada.
SAILINGS :
* Twin Screw.
PASSENGERS BOOKED TO
ANY PART OF AMERICA
OR TO EUROPE.
Write for Particulars.^
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, U to 5 Beacousfieltl Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHiS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone, No. 107, Windsor.
n
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
Shipping. ____
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, .
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. ,
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
July 20.
S.S. Marloo, July 6.
'S.S. Yongala, July 13.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
Best and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO.,' LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON and LIVERPOOL
(via Melbourne and Adelaide), calling at Durban to land
passengers.
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer—
DORSET,
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 10th JULY, 1907
~ „ „ Hobart ~ 14th „ ~
~ ~ ~ Melbourne „ 19th „ ~
~ ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 23rd ~ ~
Excellent Accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
Passengers.
The Saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The Third Class Accommodation comprises 2,4, and
8 berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main deck,
with dining saloon on the upper deck.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried.
FARES— SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
Durban .. .. £2O £10; £ll ; £l2
Capetown .. .. £22 10s £lO 10s ; £lllls ; £1? ps
London & Liverpool £45 £l2 12s ; £l3 13s ; £l4T4s
To be followed by other similar twin-
screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & CuMPANY LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, SATURDAY, July 6,
2 p.m.
PEREGRINE, SATURDAY, July
13, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE *v
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
COOLGARDIE, WEDNESDAY,
July 17, 12 noon.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, SATURDAY, July 6
2 p.m.
♦KONOOWARRA, TUESDAY,
July 9, 5 p.m. .
COOMA, SATURDAY, July 13
2 p.m.
* Through steamer to
Rockhampton.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter*
State S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
E. CHAMPION'S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.


GB9Bo.—Fine Diamond Ring, 18-ct. Gold,
£5/5/-. Larger, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO/10/-.
ORDER BY MAIL.
H613.—18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, £2/10/-
Write for Free Size
Card.
161.—Two Diamonds, Three Rubies
18-ct. Gold, £3/10/-.
Branches in Australia
m
18-ct. Gold, Two Diamonds and Three
Rubies or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
Sydney
H
F1443-—lB-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Diamonds, £l7/10/-.
Melbourne
E7458.—Tw0 Diamonds, Three Rubies
18-ct. Gold, £l/12/6.
Brisbane
18-ct. Gold and Three Diamonds
£3.
Fertb.
"-a"
is
F332L—18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3/10/-.
Correspondence
Invited.
H2951.—18-ct. Gold, and Five
Diamonds, £22/10/-
Jbtfuiart I9auioon €?.
j§>trantr Corner, (George
Gold Medal Jewellery
Our display of Gold Jewellery at the Christchurch (New
Zealand) Exhibition, just closed, was awarded the Gold
Medal, and in addition we secured a gold medal for our
Silver and Silver-plated Goods—a gold medal for our
Watches, and a further gold medal for Collective Display.
Our enormous turnover in our Eight Australasian Stores
places us in a position to supply reliable goods at the
most advantageous prices to you.
m mi
18-ct. Gold and Five Fine
Opals, £3/10/-.
18-ct. Gold Band Ring, £2.
Others, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal
Gent.’s Ring, £4.
■mm
18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Opal Ring, £2/10/-.
SSaSwSiIS
Gs29B.—Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £lO/10/-.
m
i
&
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Ring, £5O.
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Garnet Gent.’s Ring,
£3.
18-ct. Gold, Red, White,
and Blue Ring. Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires,
£6/10/-.
r.
18-ct. Gold, One Green
and One Yellow Sapphire,
£4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, and Fine
Diamond Gent.’s Ring,
£4O.
F8718.—18-ct. Gold,
Gem Set, Five Row
Ring, £7/7/-.
H641.—18-ct. Gold, Diamond Cluster
Ring, £7/10/-.
London House, 19 to 21
Hatton Garden.
174.—Four Diamonds, Three Sapphires,
18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-. .
■Special Rooms for Australasian
Visitors to London.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal Lady s
King, £2.
Descriptive Booklet Free, ex-
plaining advantages of above.
m
G 3589. —18ct. Gold, Diamonds, Sapphire,
and Pearl, £B/10/-.
Write our Nearest .Store.
SB
G7358.—18-ct. Gold, Diamond, Sapphire
and Pearl King, £3/5/-.
Quality our First Consideration
18-ct. Gold, Pearl, Ruby, and Rose-Cut (
Diamonds, £4/10/-. J
Money Back if we Fail to Please
——3S|ijjp
Gold
Diamond
and
Ruby
Ring
£B/10/
pjiiiii
W'S'S
171 A Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £2/10/-.
178. Wedding- Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £l/1/-
Heavier ones at £l/5/-,
£l/10/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3.
18-ct. Gold Diamond Band
Rings, £6/10/-, £4/10/-,
£3/10/-.
84890.—18-ct. Gold Ruby
and Diamond Ring,
£3/10/-.
G 5195. Fine Diamond
and Ruby Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, £ll/10/-.
M&m
m
18-ct. Gold and Fine
Diamond Ring, £3O.
18-ct. Gold and Fine Opal
Gent.’sßing, £4/10/-.
18-ct. Gold and One
Yellow and One Green
Sapphire, £3/10/-.
18-ct. Gold, Opal and
Two Yellow Sapphires,
£5/10/-.
(S 3
18-et. Gold and Fine
Diamond Gent.’s Ring,
£l4O.
18-ct. Gold, Pearl and
Diamond Ring, £5.
Half
hoop
Gold
Ring
: 92
Diamonds and Rubies, or Sapphires
£2/10/
ORDER BY MAIL.
Fs32B.—Three Sapphires or Rubies, and
Four Diamonds, 18-ct. Gold, £5/10/-.
Illustrated Catalogues
Free.
ifiM
18-ct. Gold, and Five Pearls
£2/10/-.
Branches in N.Z.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond, and Two
Emeralds, £2/5/-.
Auckland
j^SSRjSS
Fine
Fiv
Gold
and
Diamonds, £l6/10/
Wellington
G5193.—18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Peridots, £B/8/-.
Christchurch
G2792.—18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Emeralds, £3/3/-.
Dunedin.
F93ss.—Three-Stone Diamond Ring,
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/-.
Jewellery Repairs
Done Well.
f
181. —Fine Diamond and Sapphire
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £7/10/-.


Your scalp is
the soil
I'M T«U s»i'
which your
hair grows
in. The
abundance
of your
hair depends upon the fertility
of its soil. Nourish your scalp.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the scalp tissues which
supply the hair-growing power
to your hair. Tri-coph-erous is
a scalp food. It removes the
cause of baldness by building up
the wasted scalp. Be sure you
get Barry’s.
Reuter’s Soap cures pimples
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
FY F OINTMENT.
In use since 1096.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask vour chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S> GREEN, 210, Lainbetli Road, London, Eng.
110,000
Australia laughed ! ! !
and keeps laughing.
The WaybacK Series.
No. 3.
Red Harry Is.
DO YOU KNOW THAT
the latest motive power, and one
that is coming rapidly into almost
universal use is what is known as
SUGTION GAS?
This little illustration shows the kind
of plant. It is...
CAPEL’S COMBINED X.L. OTTO CAS
ENGINE and SUCTION CAS PRODUCER.
It is five times cheaper than ordinary gas, and at least TWENTY
TIMES cheaper than ELECTRICITY. YOU CAN RUN A
TEN-HORSE POWER ENGINE FOR LESS THAN ONE
PENNY PER HOUR.
Send for Booklet and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTD., Sole Ageots
7 and 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Why Take Large Doses
of Nauseous Medicines?
The Homoeopathic Treatment is
mild and unobtrusive in its
effects. Its simplicity makes it
possible for the patient to use
the remedies without his friends
knowing anything about his
troubles.
HOMOEOPATHY
MEANS Health
™™ os ! ILL-HEALTH!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to he able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Ner-v-ousness, Stomach
(SLiver Troubles, Vari-
cocele, Rheumatism,
(SL Allied Complaints,
£
ae-
I
E
r
r?>
M
The
Secret
0f...
Health
completely C&b permanently cored by
Prostatic Affedions ( Etc., are
Patients living: at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMOEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated : —“ Homoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.**
We would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure ‘‘ WORDS OF
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to — ,
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter St Bligh Streets, Sydney.
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, IS inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
'V 1
POST FREE
to any address .
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
9
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pstt-street, Sydney.
A!go at Corner of Ecurke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
§tWORD
TH]
(WISE
unwwin
SS
boxcalf
Meti'ißoott4SKo«
:
»
ACKING
Pleases People Who are 1
Particular, for boots polished with
Crozine keep soft, stay black, and look
well ALWAYS, besides are cleanly to
wear—
! CROZINE is the popular liquid
black—absolutely free from acids
easily applied imparting a correct
[ black polish of unequalled dura-
bility. It improves leather, and is
not itself affected by dampness and
will not smut nor soil the clothing.
At Soot Shops the world over.
' The Genuine is Hauthaway’s.
Made only by
C.L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England.
SAVES
MANY LIVES
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
£ungTomc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail . '
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
V .<$
&
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses _ them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-healtb
known as " run-down ” or “ out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. Forpains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords ma c * welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
S 3
&
&
c
AND
1
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
> Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient,, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serio.:s illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid./ on the live •,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from youi*< local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if 3’ou cannot get them at tincc,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, _ storekeepers, and P whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist;
Geelong, Victoria.


PS-':
r"_ %
«a
<c Keep Peps by Your Bedside,” is a motto which no sufferer from throat, lung, and chest troubles should
ever forget. The magic of modern science has at last imprisoned the pure, healing, balsamic breath of the
rich pine-forests, in the form of palatable little tablets called “ PEPS.” Peps not only bring the breath of the
rich pine-forests to every home, but in a highly condensed form.
If you suffer from bronchitis or asthma, keep Peps by your bedside, for they will soothe and allay that persistent
tickling cough, which keeps you awake at night, and disturbs the rest of everybody in the house. If you are
troubled with the dry, hacking cough which speaks of deep-seated lung trouble, keep Peps by your bedside, for
there is nothing which will bring such relief, or check so consistently the wasting and weakening caused by
incessant coughing. J
If the children are croupy, weak-chested, or troubled with bronchial coughs, whooping coughs, or
wheeziness, mothers should keep Peps by the bedside, for children take the pleasant little tablets’readily, and
they are absolutely safe and free from all dangerous drugs. . . Keep Peps by your bedside, and take
them freely if you have any symptoms of catching cold or influenza. Taken in time, you will throw off
the infection in the earliest stage, and have good reason to bless the wisdom of keeping a box of Peps
always by your bedside. . . Keep Peps by your bedside, and take them when others in the house are
suffering from colds, sore throat, and influenza. The germicidal and antiseptic
Pine essences in Peps will safeguard you against all infection. Keep a box of
Peps always handy.
Peps are a safe, sound, and sensible remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Sore
Throat, Huskiness, Loss of Voice, Bronchial Colds, that Dry Tickling Cough, Smokers’Throat,
Relaxed Throat, Laryngitis, Croup, Whooping Cough, Influenza, and other troubles of the throat
and lungs. Peps are of great service as a safeguard against the dangers of Pleurisy and
Pneumonia. Peps are invaluable for singers and public speakers for the throat arid voice.
Of all chemists and stores at 1/6 and 3/- per box (large size contains three times the
quantity), or post free at the same prices from The Peps Pastille Co.
39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
CAUTION.
Don’t be deceived when told
something is as good as Peps.
There is nothing as good.
Insist on getting Peps,
and see that the registered
name Peps is on the outside
wrapper of every box you
buy.
FREEJTjIAL
Send thi < COUPON
to iHE PEPS PAS-
TILLE CO , 39 Pitt
Street. Sydney, for
YOUR Free Sample
Packet of Peps, and
enclose Id. sta p
for r turn postage.
*\m\\v
A Pine Forest
in Evec Horae"
For all
Throaf and Chest Ailments.
Business, Robbery, etc.
" " T *
Smokers will learn with alarm that fresh trouble
is awaiting them. An American syndicate has cornered
the world’s supply "of biiar (bruyer e-heath) root, and is
dictating its own terms to the pipe-makers. Even such
old and famous firms as Loewd arid 00. and Barling have
been caught napping, and the price of their pipes is ex-
pected to rise shortly by 20 or 30 per cent. Even the
cheaper pipes will go up. It is rumored that the six-
penny pipe will cease to exist, and the bob pipe will be
Is. 6d.
* * * *
“Itan”: Cotton culture by white labor has
come to stay in Bananaland. At first the old Kanaka
party sniffed and said “Impossible!” But a Demo-
cratic Government decided upon a trial, and two hybrids
have been raised which promise to revolutionise the in-
dustry, and Dan Jones has invented a pickipg machine
which he, as an expert, considers very promising ; and
there is no better prophet in Australia in his line than
Daniel. Such results have been gathered this year in
Southern Queensland as 15001 b. per acre, 14731 b., and
13001 b. Joyce Brothers have taken over from the Q.N.
Bank the Ipswich factory, for many years idle, where
they will proceed as soon as possible to manufacture
calico and other cotton goods. Amidst it all not a mur-
mur is heard about black labor—not even from the Tory
press.
♦ * * *
An agricultural parson, the Rev. J. Taylor, has
gone to much trouble to demonstrate that the growing
o: flax on a commercial scale pan., be made a highly pro-
fitable industry in Australia' His site of operations has
been Orange, in N.S.W., an<J he has shown not only that
I he crop is easily grown in the district, but that there is an
enormous market in the Commonwealth for flax-seed,
flax-fibre, and flax-straw. Mr. Taylor’s ambition goes
even further than this, and he tells the local farmers
t iat there is nothing to prevent them from making
Orange the Belfast of Australia—“the seat of manufac-
ture of enough linen goods to supply not only Australia,
b it the Empire.” Without wishing to unduly damp the
rev. gentleman’s enthusiam, Tim Bulletin points out
that the central division of N.S.W. grows more than
enough wool to establish as many manufactories in
Orange as are run in Bradford and the whole of Yorkshire
together. Yet, owing to the inadequate nature of the
Australian tariff, the wool is shipped to Yorkshire, dirt
and all, andtoavels back again in the form of clothing.
“ Hamer ”: Re The Bulletin’s fear that the
Italian brought out to settle-on the land and hustle in
the canefield,, would more probably drift towards the
commerce of the Oyster and the ice cream, and the
banana, and the monkey on the organ. , Maoriland over
twenty years ago tried to form an Italian settlement at a
time when the West. Coast was booming, south of Hokitika.
There is still some settlement in that region, but the
Italians and their children are mostly to be found, nowa-
days, in the back streets of Auckland, Wellington, and
Christchurch. I met one of them in a little place called
Waipukarau, where he conducted a mixed industry of
bananas (when there were any) and fish, and announced,
as a matter of instinct, the arrival of oysters once a Week.
The oysters never did arrive, but it seemed to give the
Dago some satisfaction to associate himself with them,
eMen if only by advertisement.
In one of the Melbourne boot shops, t’other
day, a fervently patriotic native wanted a lot of persuad-
ing that the boots he had selected were genuinely Aus-
tralian. In the nekt place, he had to be convinced that
all the other boots in the shop were of local manufac-
ture. Finally he shook hands warmly with the shopman,
and told him to pack up the chosen pair of good Aus-
traHah hoots in good Australian pa er. Then he sud-
denly remembered that he wanted some good Australian
boot polish. The shopman unwisely admitted that he
didn’t stock it. It wasn’t good, he said. He kept only
the best foreign boot polishes. So the whole-souled
patriot repudiated his purchase, and went away to find a
shop where he could get good Australian blacking, with
boots that had been raised on the soil. Probably he
spent a long day in the search. It is a lamentable fact
that Australia mostly shines its boots with foreign black
or yellow stuff. In a country where any amount of fatty
matter goes to waste, the manufacture of leather-foods
ought to be a flourishing industry, nevertheless shiploads
of tinned polish are imported every year.
“Quan ” : The landowner is great at passing it
along. A Bpllingen (N.S.W.) landlord, who, under the
’Shires Act,; has to pay 41 a year more tax than formerly,
raised the relit of his tenant—a maintenance man—3s. per
week in consequence.. So the landlord makes a profit of
£6 16s. per Annum.
* * * #
“Cecil P.” : What is “Rhaupo” giving us?
(B. 25/4/.’07). Where is the butter factory in N.S.W. that
pays j sometimes in cash and sometimes in cheque”?
And where is the Australian who doesn’t know what a
cheque is ? I know the.teat-pullers of Stroud pretty well,
arid I shouldn’t like to try them with a good cheque
unless I had an ample quid pro quo. I should not like to
so try a butter splasher of any known breed, anyivhere.
Trouble with this country is, that it knows cheques only
too well. I’ve known Australians grown who've never
seen a sovereign ; but I’ve never known one who didn’t
know a cheque. Why, the smallest cocky usually pays
for a week’s work with a cheque. P.S.—A true Christian
fears God—and adds exchange to his cheques.
“ Boronia” : Came across a dog’s tooth in a tin
of m.utton the other dayi For a long time it greatly
puzzled me how such an implement came to be there,
but at last I think I have solved the mystery. When the
sheep were being yarded preparatory to their annihila-
tion, the dog must have been yarded as well.
* * * *
“C.K.Y.”: Within a hundred miles of Syd-
ney the ordinary store is decaying or dead. Windsor is,
half shut up; Bathurst likewise; Penrith is only ! a
corpse. Main reason : Time-payment canvassers sent out
by Sydney providers. The collector chasing the weekly
bob or half-a-crown is all over the land. The system has
an irresistible fascination for the bushie, ’ who will
gravely tell you that by this process he does not pay at
all. Hosts of small incomes are mortgaged as far ahead
as a telescope can see—sewing machine, ss. a week;
furniture, 10s. ; drapery, 2s. 6d. ; groceries, 10s., and so
on. Sydney suburbs are little better ; I know of terraces
with every house under bill of sale for time-payment fur-
niture. A speculator, seeing the opportunity, engaged
an army of canvassers, and provides orders for goods on
any store you like. You present his order, get the goods,
and pay him off by the week. What you can’t get in
N.S.W. now on easy terms is not worth owing for. I
asked a collector how he managed with bad debts.
“ Well,” he said, “ we can mostly get three instalments,
and that covers cost. The other dozen or two dozen pay-
ments are profit, so we have a little margin.” Great
heavens ! The cost is a sprat and the margin is two
whales.
* * * *
“ Cross Nibs” : The saturnine Greek was hold-
ing forth to the interested public congregated around his
shop front. The subject under discussion was the perfidy
of his neighbor, the red-headed plumber next door.
“ The las’ time rain acome vera mooch, I aska tha plumber
stoppa tha leek. He joomp on tha roof, an’ knocka dree
beeg hole in tha tin with a pooneh. I aska heem vvhata
for tha beesiness, tha winder give vera mooch fres’ air.
Then he say : ‘ You go fry tha feesh, you know not tha
job.’ But 1 knowatha leak ; so I go ’way an’ serve tha
customer. Two, dree day after, he senda tha beel in.
‘ Gastroo, tena bob ! Me pay lika tha begaire.’ He roon
in yes’day, red like tha lobster, an’ say, ‘ Blima, I beef
you seely you no cough up tha silver.’ I tell heem I
must getta bad cold first; then he do what you call tha
box an’ boomp me nose. I getta to heem then, an’ greep
his shorta reebs in two hands, an’ smash heem on tha’
wall, an’ he drop with his face in tha ovster bag. He
runa verra queek when I let heem oop,‘ an’ bringa tha
poleese. Then I show heem tha roof, an’ he tell tha
plumber : ‘ Settle heem out of tha court.’ Ha-a-a ! We
see ! I sticka tha oyster knife vera queek where I settle
heem, tha gasa-pipe serwindle, he coom here again.
Minda tha shop, Jeem, while I getta tha dreenk.”
* * * *
The allegations regarding the condition of
Arncliffe (Sydney) sewage farm may be unfounded, but
they certainly call for denial or investigation. Badly
managed though the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
Works is in many respects, its sewage farm at Werribee
is a source of considerable revenue. No complaint re
smells has arisen from the residents of the district for
years, the majority of the fertilised blocks are leased by
tender at big rentals, and those retained by the Board are
carrying—think of it, ye squatters out-back—ls sheep to
the acre. It would be a good business proposition, and
not one calling for very heavy initial expense, to remodel
the whole sewerage system of Sydney, so as to divert
the sewage now going to waste through the main outfall
sewer at Bondi to some suitable spot; where land might
be fertilised to provide future generations with cheap
vegetables. The whole question of Sydney sewers wants
investigating. Half the houses with water frontages
simply drain their fluid refuse into the beautiful harbor,
in many instances without even the pretence of what is
called a septic tank, but which, in 9a cases out of 100,
isn’t aseptic tank at all.
* » » *
The N.S.W. State schoolteacher is evidently
regarded by the Education Department as being of
doubtful morality. The promotion-of bazaars and con-
certs to get funds for material which ought to be, but is
not, supplied by the Department, is forced upon him ;
but he must forward a programme of the function
for approval, lest he should encourage gambling by
allowing raffling at the bazaar, or include songs of “ blue ”
tendencies in the concert programme.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: How’s this for a thirst for know-
ledge ? A widow woman, neighbor of mine, took her
16-year-old daughter from school and put her to work at
a factory, where she was to get 10s. per week. The very
next week, small sums of money which hitherto had lain
about the premises promiscuously and safely, began to dis-
appear. Then a half-sovereign left without giving'notice.
Later on, a pound note belonging to the lady boarder
sloped. _ Things were getting serious when, ohe morning,
the anxious woman met the school-teacher, and, in course
of conversation, discovered that Bella was still going to
school. Mother then went to the factory, and found out
that Bella had received her first week’s wages on the
Saturday, and had gone back to school on Monday. To
keep up appearances, she had appropriated the sums
before mentioned, and for four weeks had paid her
mother the wages every Saturday. I’m keeping my eye
on that girl. She’s either going to, later on, wear six
learned letters after her name, or she’s going to give the
detectives a busy time.
Tea may be defined in the modern commercial
dictionary as the substance with which you give away
things.
» ■*'»**
The cheap Chow. Some two years ago, a
Chinese person in Hongkong was dragged before the
judgment seat of Pilate for coining. It transpired that
his bogus money plant, if worked to its full capacity, was
capable of yielding' him a profit of 7£d. a day. Even
crime is cheap in the Chow country.
* * * *
“ Janor”: When is the bush-dweller to have
the opportunity to purchase Australian fish in the 'tin ?
Are there any fish in Australian waters, or is it a; tra-
veller’s tale ? During a recent local meat famine (butcher
on beer) I had to revert to the old tin menu. Among'
other mysteries, I purchased imported sardines, in nice
tins, with brilliant labels. On opening I found, not
sardines, but the tails of much larger fish, and the back-
bone concealed therein was like unto a sprig of gorse.
They were packed in oil—at least, there was a remark on
the tin to that effect; but it was thick and black, and it
smelt like a Chow’s whisper that had been dead for three
days. I passed the lot on to the cat. He’s still absent.
If I had the address of Jokerothers, your boss wailer,
I would have sent him a tin as a humble tribute to his
patriotic and statesmanlike attitude in the Dannevig
matter.
* * * *
Seymour, oh the Victorian north-eastern rail-
way, once had the chance to begin to be a manufacturing
town, with a bustle of population and real live money in
circulation. Sands and McDougall proposed to build a
paper factory there, the location being a convenient one
for a supply of raw material (straw) from the Goulburn
Valley. But there was only one site in the town which
seemed suitable, and the shark who owned it was so ex-
cited at the prospect of making a big deal with a rich firm
that he opened his mouth too wide—he opened it so wide,,
in fact, that it could have passed for a tunnel. So the
firm squatted somewhere else, and Seymour remains what,
it was—a yawning, spiritless, shark-trodden place, without,
enough hope to be worth throwing a clod at.
* * * *
“Agricola”: In the drapery trade customers
are classed as follows: “Snaps,” “chousers,” “geezers,”'
and “swaps.” “Snaps” are the easily-suited people—
people who have a good idea of their requirements, andl
of the capacity of that particular store for filling them..
As a reward, they are usually handed over to the tender
mercies of the newest chum, so that he may gain practice
without obloquy. “ Chousers ” haggle over the price,
and try to beat down the unfortunate counter-jumper,
who is between the devil and the deep boss. For the
special benefit of “ chousers ” a half-crown line is;
frequently quoted at 2s. 9d., and the “young gentle-
man ” behind the counter gracefully allows himself to be
knocked down to the half-crown. The “ chouser ” also
buys a yard-and-a-quarter to do the work of a yard-and-a-
half, and mildly asks for a “ finger-length extra for luck.”
Then the quickness of the hand deceives the eye, and the
length is measured off a couple of inches short, and the
heart of the “ chouser ” is gladdened by the ostentatious
addition of the lucky fragment. The “geezer” always
wants to match a peculiar shade, which cannot be matched
because it has faded to some unknown color, and she asks
with great earnestness if the thrip’ny-ha’penny print will
wash, thus causing the soulless hand to perjure himself
with wonderful rapidity. But the “swap” mauls the
whole shop about for half-an-hour, and then departs
without making a purchase—having got all she came for.
As she departs, the boss calls down fire and brimstone on
the head of the unfortunate whom she has honored with
her custom. An experienced hand can class customers
at sight, just as a wool expert classes fleeces. The coming
“ chouser ” casts her shadow before her.
• * * *
“Mul”: Re the commercial value of the indi-
genous grass-tree. The so-called Westralian “blackboy”'
is exceedingly rich in alcohol, and there will be money-
distilled from it some day. Government analyst Manm
never misses a chance to rub this fact in ; but the native-
’Groper recoils from modern ideas. His gold reefs had to be:
discovered for him by prospectors from Eastern Australia,.
Victorian railway contractors opened up his jarrah in-
dustry. His agriculture stagnated for 60 years till!
progressive farmers arrived; then his wheat crop increased:
tenfold in about five years. For all that, he still jerks:
his memory back to the time when he wolfed baked!
wallaby, and says, regretfully, “Them wuz the daysl”
THE CARPENTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The carpenter is a cheerful man—he .whistles all the
time, 1 i
While I sit here and try to make five shillings with a
rhyme ;
He throjws things thund’rously around—he splits and
smashes wood ;
lie never does things quietly—he knows not why he
should 1
The carpenter’s a busy man—he hurries in and out;
And when he passes some remark he does it in a shout
(A moment since he paused awhile, and softly, gaily
Then hit a nail or something’ with a'soul-destroving
; bang).
The carpenter’s a voter—white he splinters bits of logs
He tells me that the country is proceeding to the dogs ;
And I’ve to listen to him while I hold my aching' head !
I know that he is useful, but 1 ,vcuVethat he were dead !
The carpenter has lots of tools—he tells me what they
i cost;
lie makes weird noises with them like the raging of the
Lost ;
He heaves them in a corner like a careless millionaire ;
He doesn’t seem to worry, and he doesn’t seem to care.
The independent carpenter, he hammers all day long ;
He whistles little things he’s heard, arid sings his little
song.
He careth not for you or me ; he’s careless, bright, and
ffay,
And makes a row like thunder for a mere eight bob a day.
VIC.
KODAK.


MICH. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
®6g LEADING
HOUSE FOR
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
OUR
Special
Snap.
m
ri
2/0
4/0
6/0
ASK FOR
MU ST AD’S
“KEY BRAND.’
B X J To n " e 3/0 irby 4/0 ent "r kS ’("5 nge^ XX S B/o rOng 9/0 10/0
N 5d 6d 7d 8d Bd. 9d. 10d. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/6 per box of
«*v“ u^o a ? B “i“ u sr°'; r v I M r , »r* t wo” T
NOS M 4c? 4d. 5d sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/-per
M4 V MU IOtoI Be8 1 t I BriS Jo t ’ ° r 2/0 Pa,, 3/0 d "S? B % HO Fla ” etl ’ X |/o Str °9/0 10/0
N ° 5d sd. (id. 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/2 1/3 per
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
50.
box of 50
box of 50
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for JITJ - L -,- r
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World. of
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful p °£' f r isfnvalnable asit
st-sawaas «
__ f The irreat success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a numtoer
e '* Hra,re + alce imitations each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object o
sa ,e “'rsn
~- - - ■*
■ e - _ >t/o ooifi hv Chemists stud IVlGdicin© ftnd by the
HEARNE-S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/e;LareeS -, Addreos, when not obtainable 100 lly.
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. FOrwaraeu the meanine „f the Act. It is equally beneficial tor
NOTICE.“ HearneS 8, - onchitis cure "° 1A doeS thT l yo C u o n r, chMd P and the most ageOersm
R>o
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT I
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
\ SUBSTITUTE&J
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for CoughsandColds. Of IQyears’proven efficacy
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Golds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Golds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Goughs, Golds, and difficulty of breathing.
coagulineT klinx, tenasitine.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘ LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS ’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.,
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kav’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs am^olds
RODS
For Locating MIN ES,— —
LOST TOEASURE&c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Edw. MORTON.. 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making oui
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. YV e offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from am
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect l.y this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind ™
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and te 1 them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number ( ■ .. .
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds worth
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram show’s nine
squares with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 ln a s tial glit hn
in as manv ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer w
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
w :ii be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or-Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The dista
von mavdive away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportumtj for win-
nins- Study' therefore- and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., 5 Angel Place, Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA!
ES
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSINC SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagrh Streets.
-ms TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
REl4Uloll auu a PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING BOOMB ON GROUND FIOOB*
On
the Trail
of the Trust
*
tjx
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Poor
Weak and
Weary Mothers
Raise
Puny, Pindling
Children.
Sulphur Bitters
Will make them
Strong, hearty
And healthy.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so advertis.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success-therefore
I give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasing any; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, and I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Fits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy-approved by the
Medical Profession.
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum St, Bloomsbury, London,
England.
Send !/• for parcel postage to the Colonies-


CROUP.
Every family should be made acquainted with the symptoms and treatment of this
disease. Especially is this true in the case of those living remote from a physician.
From the lack of this knowledge on the part of parents, many a little one has perished
before medical assistance could be obtained. In some of its forms its progress is very
rapid, and, unless relief is obtained in a few moments, or hours at the most, death ensures.
This disease is generally peculiar to children, although it has been known to occur
with adults. Croup is the result of severe inflammation of the mucous membrane, and
is characterised by the formation of a false membrane, which covers or lines the inner
surface of the windpipe, which causes it to swell, and is liable to cause suffocation. The
symptoms are hoarseness, difficulty in breathing, and a sharp cough. Signs of great
distress are very evident. The treatment should be prompt and thorough. Bathe the
child in warm water, place the feet in water as hot a 3 it can be borne, apply hot applica-
tions, to the throat rub the throat and chest with brandy or alcohol.
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
For Coughs, Colds and Consumption
is a certain cure for Croup, and may be given with the utmost confidence, as it has never
been known to fail. It should be given every three hours, until relieved, in the
following doses
Half Teaspoon ful to Children under 2 Years.
Three-Quarters o f a Teaspoon ful to Children between 2 and 4 Years.
One Teaspoonful to Children over 4 years.
If the child does not quickly become relieved, a tent should be made over its cot by
means of a sheet, or an open umbrella over which a sheet should be thrown, and then
the steam from a tea-kettle should be allowed to pass in under the sheet, so that the
child may inhale the steam. If the child’s bowels have been at all constipated, two
teaspoonfuls of castor oil should be given, also an injection of warm soap suds.
A Mother's Letter.
“I have used Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery on several occasions.
My children are subject to Croup, so 1 always keep it in the house,
and as soon as I hear them the least bit croupy, I keep giving it
to them until they are quite well again. It is the best medicine I
have ever used for Croup, as it keeps the phlegm loose and guards
off all danger.
"MRS. JOHN BRAYE,
" Lambton Road, Lambton, N.S.W."
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY can be relied upon to cure all LUNG
TROUBLES: It has proved a blessing in thousands of homes, and has been ener-
getically endorsed by many of the most prominent citizens and professional men in
Australia.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is not a patent medicine or an ordinary
cough mixture, but a scientific discovery that will make sore lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere at Is. 6d. and 35.,
or will be posted on receipt of price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 13 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
M
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee.
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial. If you do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
and are not convinced that the Cap will completely restore your hair, you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to yourself. It
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Board on the subject of Alopsecia (loss of
hair) stated that If a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the hair follicles (hair roots) without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on when
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remaned that the Rap’would
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations ho had previously made before the Medical Board.
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that tho principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap ivill be sent , post free, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
The Spirits of Our Fathers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE, spirits of our fathers rise not from every
wave,
They left the sea behind them long ago.
It was many years of slogging —where strong men
need yet be brave—
All for you and me and baby and, maybe, a soul
to save;
And the end a tidy homestead, and four panels
round a grave,
And the bones of poor old Someone down below.
Some left happy homes in old lands when they
heard the New Land call
(Some were gentlemen, and some were social
wrecks);
Some left squalor and starvation—they were
soldiers one and all—
And their weapons were the cross-cut and the
wedges and the maul
(How we used to run as children when we heard
the big trees fall!
While they paused to wipe their faces and their
necks).
They were buried by our uncles where the ground
was hard to dig
(It was little need for churchmen that they had),
And our uncles sobbed like children, for their
hearts were soft and big;
And the myrtle and the ivy, and the vine-tree
and the fig,
And the heather and the shamrock where “ ould
mother ” kept the pig,
Waited vainly for the Grand Australian Dad.
The spirits of our fathers have belts and bow-
yangs on
(Oh ! father ! do you live again and know?),
Strapped riding-pants and leggings, parched and
perished in the sun,
And love-belts “ worked” by sweethearts ere the
digging days were donej
And the cabbage-tree, that went out with the
muzzle-loading gun
That was carried round the cattle out beyond the
furthest run,
Where the brave exploring drovers used to go.
The spirits of our fathers, they rise from every
grave
(Each side the line that Burke and Leichhardt
crossed),
Where still in “settled districts ” ghastly bush-
lost madmen rave
(And the grim search-parties, haggard, struggle
hopelessly to save) —
Till the spirit-timber beckons and the spirit
waters lave—
And the spirit of a father has been lost.
The spirits of our fathers, they rise from level sand
(Like an ocean where an ocean used to roll)
Out where Heaven’s grandest beacons light the
Never-Never Land
With the glorious hope and promise that the
bushmen understand,
When the rain and grass are coming till the desert-
plain is grand,
And the drought-divorced Australian meets his
soul.
Listen ! There’s the word that’s spoken when no
other soul seems near,
And the one who hears is sober, calm and sane,
And the name called, amongst many, when the
| called alone can hear —
Words by lone huts and in prison, speaking com-
fort, hope and cheer ;
And the Warning, not admitted to each other,
calm and clear—
Then the fathers of a nation speak again.
There are spirits of our fathers in the theatres to-
night
(And the places where rich sons of settlers go),
And a, half-dressed daughter shivers, and a
tailored son turns white,
For the heritage world-squandered, and the land
put out of sight,
And that awful thirst for Nothing that they
bought with their birthright !
And a haggard mother’s spirit bending low.
There are spirits of our fathers by the pleasant
South Coast roads,
Where motor cars of sons of stockmen go,
In the wealth robbed from up-country. Oh, the
shame of it is black !
And the laugh and giggle ceases, and the car
swerves and turns back.
’Tis the old dad, smiling grimly, with arms folded
i by the track,
And the shades of horse and swagmen that thev
I know.
There’s the flagship of the First Fleet rising
grimly on the tide
(Out by Watson, where the motor-launches go),
And the features known to many of our families
of pride ;
Bht the launches veer like seabirds—veer and
turn and circle wide
From the shadow of a free ship where the waiting
liners ride,
And pale faces of brave emigrants look sadly o’er
the side—
Boys and girls who were our parents long ago.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Mystery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE was dressed in black, and, sil-
houetted for a moment against a flood of
electric light, showed beautifully-rounded
outlines, I told myself it was the dressmaker’s
art, believing that there are more beautiful figures
made by good cutting than we care to dream of
even in our most cynical moments.
A* she drew nearer I noticed that she wore a
pointed belt, and was somewhat higli-waisted. I
like higli-waisted women.
She had dainty feet—undressed kid shoes always
make dainty feet! Then I lifted my head and
met her eyes. They were dark, lustrous, and
shone like stars in the gloom of her feathers and
the shadow of the boa that curled round her face.
She half smiled. I almost stopped. She went
on, I thought, a trifle slower, and over her shoulder
came the flash of those alluring eyes.
Next I found myself at; her side.
“How do you do?” I said, holding her little
hand. “ Have I the pleasure of knowing you ? ”
“You’ve done this before,” she laughed. “No,
you do not know me. But I know you. You
live in the big boarding-house with the four little
back balconies. I see you sitting on the third
one often. Sometimes at night, through the dark-
ness I see the glow of a red cigar shining like a
firefly, and then I know you’re sitting there smok-
ing and dreaming. Once, about a week ago, I
saw you kiss the girl who was putting up the
curtains on your balcony window, and I noticed
that she seemed to like it. So you see I know you
very well.”
“You do, by heavens ! ”
“ Well, what else?”she asked demurely.
“ Well, mystery is always charming—walking
is good exercise, suppers were invented that
women might reveal themselves thereat.”
“Very well—and I’ll chance the revelation !”
* • • *
A beautiful neck is the most alluring thing on
earth. I kissed it twice, and as I bent to do it
again a tiny loop of smooth, straight hair slipped
out from under the curls, and gleamed like
burnished copper in the light that fell in rays
through the bamboo clump.
The revelation had begun—the lady wore a wig,
and for disguise only.
A sound of chiming, then the clear strokes of
the bell borne on a breeze in the upper air told
that the time had come to start for supper. We
arose leisurely. In the supper-room she looked
me full in the face, and an astigmatic affection of
the sight made it hard to discern where the
natural woman ended and the disguised intrigu-
ante commenced.
And why was she disguised ? Was there a hus-
band jealous unto madness and crime? Nice
thing if he strolled in, although there was little
chance of him coining alone !
Her eyebrows were black as her hair. That
loop of burnished; copper haunted me. I dipped
a corner'of a serviette into water and leaned over.
“ Excuse me, your brow is stained ! ”
The dark stain from the eyebrow smudged all
the corner of her eye.
, “ You' wretch I” she hissed, drawing back with
a sudden jerk.
We went home in a cab. I tried to keep her
from being bumped when the cab went over
rough spots on the road. Finally I shook hands
with her, and said good-night.
“ Drive round the corner,” I heard her call as I
went up the steps. I was strongly tempted to
follow her, but overcame the inclination.
* * * * »
I’ve rambled with her since then through a
whole eternity of beautiful nights of velvet-like
darkness, and sought to steal away the darker
veil of mystery in which she has wrapped herself.
We have caught the last waiter, and finished
supper as the eastern rim of the world grew pale
in the rush of the hours. And across the last
liqueur I’ve looked into her eyes and whispered :
“ I wonder, wonder who you are? ”
And she only smiles a sweet, triumphant smile.
I have reeled through the crisp night-air in a
borrowed motor-car, with her beside me, singing
through the star-shine. She sings of life and
death, of love and immortality, but never a word
of who she is or whence she came.
Our motor-boat has rolled and tossed through
moonlit waves. With her spray-wet -cheek
pressed closed to mine she has almost yielded up
her secret, and then the wild rush of surging
water or the gusts of whistling wind have blown
it away from her lips.
And she is still unknown, mysterious and
alluring. 1
* * * *
Out of the jostling crowd a blonde, insipid face
with flaxen eyebrows, framed in a tangle of cop-
per-tinted hair, stared at me momentarily with a
half-frightened, half-defiant expression. Then
the look of recognition faded, and the face became
middle-aged and insipid.
I seek her secret no more. Ido not know if it
was her. Hours after it seemed to dawn on me
that it was. And now I love the dark —not be-
cause my deeds are evil, but that I shiver and
tremble when the moon sails out from the cloud
wrack once more. Life has taken a new terror,
and always I dread that the beautiful, unreal
woman will one night lift up to be kissed the
blonde, insipid, middle-aged face I saw in the
crowd.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Fido’s Nose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIDO trotted out on the lawn. He was
a pure-bred Skye, and he wore a blue bow
round his neck, but otherwise he was just
an ordinary dog.
It wasn’t long before he noticed that the front
gate was wide open, and, after a guilty look
round, he ambled slowly out of the gate, and pro-
ceeded up the street on a tour of inspection.
He had the usual dog’s enthusiasm about
smells. He spent his small life smelling everything
that came in his way. It was his instinct to rest
his small black nose for a second or two on an ob-
ject, and classify it by its odor. Smelling served
him in place of writing and speech, and—to a
certain extent—took the place of reason. So to
speak, he smelt his way through life, and, as he
was a painstaking dog and one who made full use
of his opportunities, he had smelt pretty well the
whole suburb.
The first thing he found when he got out was a
dead rat, and, as it was an extremely dead rat, it
was an exceptionally interesting subject. Fido
ran his nose carefully all over it, so as to get the
full flavor, and trotted on.
The next item of interest was a very dead cat.
It was up a lane, but its flavor called out to Fido.
The cat had been lying out in the sun for some
days and fairly howled for burial. Fido investi-
gated closely, had a drink out of the gutter, and
passed on.
Various routine smells and a chance meeting
with a poodle friend took up his attention for the
next two blocks, but at the beginning of the third
he discovered smells of unusual brilliance, and
followed them up until he found, encamped oh an
unbuilt-upon plot of land, a travelling circus.
Fido overhauled the whole show, and added about
300 new smells to his collection. He finished up
with the dust bins—there were five of them—and
passed' out wagging the short, hairy thing at
the conclusion of him.
On the way home he went through four more
dust boxes, held another inquest on the rat, and
wound up with another drink out of the gutter.
As soon as he slunk in at the front gate, a
pretty girl with fluffy golden hair cried, “Oh-h,
Fido darling ! ” caught him up in her arms, and
kissed his nose !!
Two -minutes later a young man walked in and
kissed the girl !
It isn’t always the drains.
KODAK.


STOP IT NOW.
Stop that Backache, for
Backache is Kidney-ache.
O')
J
*
\
V
( ((/
m
ZL
m
ft
1
I
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to pro-
tect yourself against fatal kidney complications is when
the first sign appears, for kidney complaint comes on un-
noticed, and it is bound to end fatally if neglected. Take
no risks with your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s
Pills are a special medicine and a sure cure for every dis-
order of the kidneys or connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
“Every
Picture
Tells co
Story.”
ARTARMON.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road,
Artarmon, Sydney, says : —“lsuffered
for a long time with severe pains in my
back. They were so bad that I could
scarcely move about. Rest was out of
the question. I would be tossing about
all night, moaning with the pain. I
could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill,
and would be confined to bed for days at
a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised as a cure for backache,
and got a box. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better,
until I was quite cured. There is no
doubt about it being a cure, for it is two
years since I stopped taking the pills,
and I’ve not had the backache all that
time.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling
Street, Sydney, says “My mother
suffered with severe pains across the
back, and in her legs. For six months
she was very bad, and some days
would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did
her no good. We saw Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and
thought we would get some and give
them a trial. After taking the first
half-box, we knew they were good, for
she felt a little better, and from that
on the improvement was marked, and
eight boxes completed the cure. She
is now splendid, and can get about
easily. It is twelve months since her
cure, and during that time she has not
needed to take a single pill. We feel
sure that she is cured for good.”
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says “ I can
strongly recommend Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for curing pains in the
small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it
was difficult to move about at all. I
blame sitting too close at work for
causing the trouble. The pills effected
a permanent cure, for there is no sign
of the ailment now.
Mrs. Lawson makes a second state-
ment four years later : —“ The above is
quite true, and time has proved that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills not
only cure, but cure permanently.
There would be less suffering in the
world if people only knew the value of
this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney, says:—“l used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for aches
and pains in the limbs, which I fancied
were caused by kidney trouble. The
pains had troubled me for years, defy-
ing all treatment. I found it very
difficult to get up and down stairs, and
fits of giddiness, which often came over
me, made it more distressing. Some-
times I would be laid up. Soon after
I started using Doan’s Pills relief came,
and when I had taken six boxes the
aches and pains and giddiness had dis-
appeared.”
Three years later, when asked about
her cure, Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I
am still quite well; none of the dis-
tressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
Por sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.) f or -will be posted on receipt of price by
POSTER-McLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\
\
\
The General Lover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lAM the general lover —I love the splendid
earth ;
In all things I discover some Pantheistic
worth ;
I love the holy flowers—l love the mighty sea ;
The winds that bring the showers bring happiness
tome.
I love the changing seasons —the winter and the
•spring—
When tree-heads make obeisance, I feel like some
proud king
Who sees his broad dominions with peace and
plenty teem —
My soul on sweeping pinions drives where the
planets gleam !
Beyond the stellar vastness I wander glory-shod,
Unto the sacred fastness of the Eternal God !
lam the general lover—l love the giant hills ;
When storms come driving over, my inmost spirit
thrills!
The rolling, doom-like thunder—l love to hear it
crash—
I watch in lowly wonder the lightning’s volant
flash !
On God’s majestic planet I stand in silent awe,
And feel the mountain granite a-thrill beneath
His law !
The chanting of the ocean, when on the cliffs I
stride,
Brings forth my soul’s devotion in one tremendous
tide !
No words can tell the feeling that animates my
frame,
When mountain-crests are reeling beneath the
lightning’s flame !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
The “Airship.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CALL it nerves, call it funk,” ob-
served the Barman of the Bag and
Nose Club, “but I’ve seen more drop
their bundles over billiards than at any other
bloomin’ game.”
The Barman had a psychological bent.
“Players don’t know they funk—-nobody
reckons he ever funked in his natural —but I’ve
seen, ’em all do it. The champions, too. It’s
’liman nature.”
“ Water with mine,” Higgins, the commercial,
interrupted.
“Lithia,” said Moss, the bookie.
Joe served the tonic, and continued :
“You never kin tell ’ow it strikes ’em. Some-
times they hits the ball all right, but they’ve lorst
the touch. It stiffens ’em. Some lose their sight,
and couldn’t hit a brick wall. Once I seen a man
chalk the jigger, looking solemn as a wet owl ;
and last Tuesday Alf Devine played the red
twice.”
“ Booze ? ” inquired Moss.
“No, it ain’t the drink.” Higgins looked
happy. “ And,” Joe went on, as he polished the
glasses, “ it don’t depend on health or condition.
It’s a funny thing, funk. Jocks and footballers
and bruisers and athletes in training, they cracks
up like men with ’eart disease and sluggish livers.
It’s the game. Look ’ere, cool men’s just as bad
as excited coves. If a man’s too cool in a tourney,
take it from me—he’s joined the airship.”
“ The what ? ” Moss asked.
“Theairship. Lost his nut, his cokum ; got
light in the head ; gorn aloft.”
Higgins ordered another round, and explained.
“It was Sam’s idea. Alf, who was 3 to lon,
dropped his bundle, and got beat. The windows
were thick with steam. Sam took a cue, and
drew a ship, the airship, and made Alf captain.”
The Barman chipped in. “ Orter be a bonzer
go between Riley and Jacobs to-night. They’re
just beginnin’.” * * ,
It was near the end of the tourney, and a fine
exhibition was expected from Riley and Jacobs,
sound middle-markers, and both prominent mem-
bers of the Ring. Bookies usually play fair—
they are watched closer than laymen—and it isn’t
half as easy as it appears to run a dead ’un,
artistically, at billiards.
This pair, however, was out for a scoop. Riley
was rather the better man, even at the points,
and the crowd was surprised when J acobs started
favorite at 5 to 4 on.
The “Pit” was crowded. Bookies, commer-
cials, men-about-town, gentlemen spielers, young
squatters—all kinds of “ sports ” watched intently
the erratic manoeuvres of the balls on the green
cloth.
Riley started badly, and Jacobs put on a few.
Riley seemed clean off form, and Jacobs forged
ahead till the marker called “196—147.” The
betting was now 2 to 1 against Riley.
Riley seemed restless, and kept on asking the
score. Being so far behind, he risked a break
and compiled a neat 36. A few flukes assisted
him. Jacobs stopped dead. Wagering then
became brisk, the chairman having all his work
cut out to prevent betting on the stroke; but,
though Riley was right up, the odds were still
2 to 1 on Jacobs.
Jacobs always had the balls lying pretty for
him, but he couldn’t make five. Riley’s bad start
was put down to over-eagerness, and when he
forged ahead there was jubilation among the
punters. But Jacobs remained favorite, though
he wasn’t scoring; and when Riley missed an
easy “jenny,” a murmur arose. Somebody was
about to remark something, when Higgins, now
screwed, created a diversion by spluttering out,
“I’ve a hundred on Riley, me bloomin’ month’s
salary. Bound to win. Lucky when I’m potty.”
Then he was escorted outside.
Fat Jacobs was a picture of woe. He puffed
frantically at a big cigar, dropped it on the carpet,
pulled his tie, stumbled round the table, called
for a brandy, and then wouldn’t have it. His
responsibility had proved too great. He knew
that he had to win ; a pile depended on him ; but
this knowledge disorganised his nerves, and it
w&s noticed thiit he was carefully chalking his
purple vest instead of the cue.
“He’s sent for,” said Moss.
“Christopher!” gasped the man who was
working the oracle. “He s joined the airship.
He’s done us in.”
1 And Jacobs had. He missed a childish cannon,
and after that he couldn’t have struck a bargain.
Riley had visions of being put out of the club.
He couldn’t miss evert / time. So, shutting his
teeth firm, and playing like a book, he ran out,
sullenly, amidst applause.
Riley’s victory was very popular. The punters
had had a good night, the chief losers being those
“in the know.” One swore he never wanted to
“ know ” anything more in his life.
* * * •
Round the bar Higgins, who had won a hundred
pounds, explained the luck of the drunk. “ Oneesh
promished wife never touched drop 18 munch. Went
Broke, only timemelife. So dish-ssh-gushed went
•on shicker, and first munch made six ’undred
quid.”
Riley came up to the bar with Moss.
The Barman said: “Didn’t I tell you, Mr.
Moss ? Anybody’s liable to funk in the pit. It’s
all right upstairs, but the pit does the trick.”
“ Good luck, Riley, ole cock,” hiccupped
Higgins.
“ You had a bit of luck,” said Moss, “ you were
off your game, but Jacobs, holy smoke, he was in
the airship.”
“Orter be made ad-ad-admir-ral,” spluttered
Higgins, patting Riley on the shoulder.
“ Damn the airship,” muttered Riley.
LOUIS ESSON.
Butchers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ about butchers —me an’ the
I missus bought this ’am an’ beef shop two
years ago. People said we’d want a
trawlin’-net to scoop up the flies that rushed in
from the big meat emporium next door.
“ I’ve lived in the same street with camel teams
in Westralia, an’ I’ve been on a whalin’ ship when
the smell uster chase the icebergs off our port
bow, but it was a herb garden compared with the
butcher’s next door.
“Me missus said the beef-smell was good for
the nerves, but the bangin’ of the sausage-machine
useter shake the saveloys off the hooks, an’ wouldn’t
let the pigs’ feet stay in the dish Oh, they was
fresh all right.
“First night I opened shop, we trimmed our
winder with a German sausage, an’ marked it six-
pence a pound. Five minutes after, the boss
butcher next door brings out a monster German,
all over frills, an’ hangs it right against our
winder—ticketed at fourpence a pound. Then
’e told the crowd outside that competition was
the soul of German sausage. It made ’em laugh,
but they didn’t buy any.
“ ‘ The ’ide of him,’ says my missus. It was
Saturday night, an’ while the boss butcher was in
the ice house my missus lifted the big German
sausage off the hook and passed it to me. I put
it under the counter.
“ ’Bout closin’ time the boss rushed outside an’
looked at the empty sausage hook, while his nose
performed circles around our winder.
“ ‘ Bill! ’ he yells to his ’ead carter, * where’s
the German ? ’
“ ‘ Blamed if I know,’ says William, lookin’
’ard at the hook; ‘ but there’s just been a big
earthquake over in ’Frisco.’
“ Week afterwards me an’ me missus found
we’d struck a corner block all right. One night
Bill, the carter, sticks his ’ead over our back
fence. ‘Hey, Mr. Small-Goods,’ he sez in a low
voice, ‘ stick yer big tub under the fence where I
can hit it.’
“Couldn’t make out why ’e wanted to hit our
big tub. Still, we put it ’andy, just to oblige
Bill.
“ ’Bout seven o’clock we hears a soft, squashy
noise in the yard, as though a lump of mud ’ad hit
the fowlhouse.
“ ‘ Plucks ! ’ sez me missus, quietly.
“We’eardßill breathin’ by the fence. Then
somethin’ like a policeman’s Sunday feet came
tearin’ an’ bumpin’ over the shed.
“ ‘ Bullocks’ ’earts ! ’ sez me missus. ‘ An’ we
can do with as many as he sends over.’
“ Bill was a terrible bad shot. He missed the
tub every time. The back yard was strewed
with sheeps’ ’eads an’ sausage fillin’s. When I
started to chop some wood next mornin’ me ’and
flew off some tripe what’d wound itself round the
axe-handle.
“Me an’ the missus don’t bear Bill any ill will,
mind ye. But the boss ’as given up ’angin’ his
Germans over our winder.
“The slaughtermen an’ the carters ’ave got their
poor relations, as well as the boss. * Two ’arf-
sheep an’ a side of beef walked away this week,’
he says one day. 1 1 don’t mind ’em slingin’ a bit
to Aunt Emma or Uncle Joe when they’re
passin’ with the cart, but, strike me pink, I’ll
stiffen the bloke I catch swappin’ my roast j’ints
for bottles of beer.’
“We watched the boss over our fence one
Saturday night. He ’ad his suspicions about
Bill. It must ’ave been 12 o’clock when Bill
passed out of the back gate with ’arf a pig on his
shoulder. The boss jumped from behind a tub
an’ lands Bill on the jaw. ‘ ’Ows that, yer ice-
house crawler ! ’ he sez.
“He kept rushin’ at Bill, hittin’ with both
’ands. Bill staved ’im off with the ’arf pig. Every
time the boss slogged and uppercutted, Bill side-
stepped an’ countered with the pig.
“ You could ’ear Bill’s hits round at the gas-
office till his foot slipped. The boss fell over ’im
an’ pinned ’im to the ash-barrel. He ’ammered
Bill for six minutes with a cow's fry. Then his
foot slipped on the greasy floor, an’ Bill rose with
the ’arf pig still in his right-’and, an’ started
golfin’ the boss round the yard. Every time Bill
hit ’im with the pork the boss would bunker near
the corned beef tub.
“Bill could ’ave played ’im till mornin’ if ’e
’adn’t started swingin’ the pig over his ’ead. He
swung an’ missed the boss, an’ shot through a
window inter some beef drippin’.
“ The boss reckoned the fight was a draw. He
ain’t a bad sort, ’cause he ’elped to wipe a lot of
the drippin’ off Bill. Bill came back on Sunday
mornin’ an’ cleaned up the yard.
“Well, so-long, Mister. I’ll just ’ave a peep
into my back yard. Y’ never know when Bill’s
goin’ to sling a bit of brisket or a jimmy over.
Yesterday mornin’ there were nine frys ’angin’
on the inside of our fence.
“And Bill. . . . Oh, he’s my missus’ brother.
So-long! ”
ALBERT DORBINGTON.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and en-
riches the blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
Y>\
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name—AYER’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DP. J. C. AYER & CO., Dowell, Mass., 0. S. A,
[•Til
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing’ 6
of our colored and high art Post Card 3 to sell for us, at fid. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us. our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of.jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Hi sk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any or.ner firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
v
FREE TRIAL! I
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BEETS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEOTRIC B iT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Freeds
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS Hi
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatisrti, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can bd obtained of ail Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks toy the use of
*j*m
mm
2W
the only Infallible Kennedy for WcAK.fcSS A DEAILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the’ world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 33s ; freight Is. &
is (id. Pamphlets free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faultling & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility; Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may he. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TYVENTY-F JVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Addrers : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
'BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous ami other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this hook.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth*
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Lows of Estreng’tli
and i*ne».g - y, in a most; simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. iuon’t pay exorbitant fees to.
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
A. thnr Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
.Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a M*ITLE KEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o.’ charge, to any-
one lMt»re6ted.
AJJrcss: A.MINER, ueP.O., SYDNEY.
A tine biuig.st or h.roa.s for tlj|C wi.ner arc
Such is “Lift* ’ by Torn Collins 4s. (id. ; The
I >ui.l,etin t Story Book 4s. 6d. ; Thk Bulletin
Reciter 4s. Oct. ; The Southern Garland 4s. (id.
ion can get the four for 15s. post free, from this
office. A representative group of
books.
Mom
are
you
?
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for **How are you? * Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion* or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECHAM'S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for giving strength to the stomach, correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Jfeep You Fit ,
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (J6B pills).
If Yota wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your . . ,
Rabbit iSkins,
FUR .SKINS, and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
HILL, CLARK <& CO.,
SYDNEY.
_ j
Lib
These, like everything sold at “the
store where quality counts,” are ex-
ceedingly good value at the price.
it
246—9-cfc. O'okl, set with
Pearl and two Rubies or
Sapphires, 7/6.
243 —9-et. Gold, set with
Bed or Blue Stones,
4/6.
247-9-ct, Gold set with
Pearl or Sapphire,
5/6.
245—9-ct. Gold, set with
Red or" Blue Stone,
3/6.
For other Scarf Pins and Ladies’ Lace Pins, see our Catalogue—POST FREE on request.
D COOTE,
GEORGE STREET, Corner of the Royal Arcade
(Opp. The Barometer, Q.V. Markets).
\\/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
v ' BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
EHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately,
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemists.
■ -
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours without
incon- |j
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name far -
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the ease
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
Dr. John Martin, M.D.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily. .
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Paaes
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Cclored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted'with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. jVo similar book has ever been published. °
CDCE A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and'coton d plate
1 »»“—»-• giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ’’(the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FRE: on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is (id (stamps). £*■ Note Address :— *
men
A NO
WOMEN
DR. WfA RTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,’
151 Elizabeth-st..
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO KEEP YOU WARM
AND DRY
USE OUR
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30/-,
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering* give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Pros, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Pros, Is.
Ssnd Stamp for Illustrated, Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries, Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
w. &
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Ho you want to know bow to utilize th» most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? I)o you value control over others ? Ho you value the
means of securing friendship; love and personal influence ? Ho you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beau'Jful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-scieuce of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ickwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. 10MS. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a verv extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OK TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Mm.
Public and
Private Balls
OB Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Parties
TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Various Si*es Supplied.
mm®
I Sc
jute?
EfeV •
Correspondence Invited
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
* -t *
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying;, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
WM
[ft
KBS
I
Engineers’, ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS;
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of* &. Sole Agents*
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL'S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK'S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths' Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel. ,
THE
TELEPHONES—BB2 anti 2435 CENTRAL.
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Orr/er from Your Professionai
or THE
Silvertouin Rubber (Jo.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“CAM” Brand Forged Steel Shoes & Dies
Guaranteed to give Entire Satisfaction.
THEY ALWAYS BRING REPEAT ORDERS —THE BEST RECOMMENDATION.
iflT REFERENCES CAN BE GIVEN TO MANY MILLS USING THEM.
N. GUTHRIDCE, LIMITED, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
