

a
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
fra
R. G. WATKZ9TS & CO.,
107 Koixfc Street, Syaney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 5 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.Trf.' OBA. 3Ft T.
PIOMEER
LEATHER
beTtTng
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & S(ta. Ud., 117 York St,, Sydney
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
•9
SOLE AGENTS Tor KSRGHNER’S
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists. t
m
it back,
1 must have
rand
HAMS ®
BACON.
S SAFES
YAL
ISW A N
V
I
m
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
ESIN & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
5§ CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
u A Ha&t.
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
MO
GO.
'
COMMISSION 2 Per Cent
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Esonomical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Fanner, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesoo
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
*
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
Rest!-
a
Metal Ceilin
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.F.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &«., <&c
(WholcxniG and Rvbcift),
k
1
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
Now Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Po6t free.
HELIDON SPA
f A Bottle every morning before breakfast, j
l RESULT: The eye is bright and skin clear. J
‘s}uo£v
■OO V NIIIO9
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1418.]
[Thursday, April 18, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. I_td.
CASTLEREACH ST.,
Sydney;
Le Dan tee, The Nature and Origin of Life, 17s 6d, post Bd.
Williamson, Science in Living, 4s, postage fid.
Oolquhoun, The Whirlpool of Europe, 18s. post lOd.
Ragg, Dante and his Italy, 15s, postage 9d.
Walsh, The Rontgen Rays, 4th Edition, ISs, post Is.
Vaughan, The Naples Riviera, ss, post 6d.
Joyce, Ancient Irish Civilizations, Is 9d, post 4d.
Marcus, Monism, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Brown, Patrol Engines, &c„ illus., Is 3d, postage 3d.
Gould, Concise History of Religion, 3s, postage (id.
Hard, Easy Outline of Evolution, 8d posted.
McCabe, The Bible in Europe, 3s, postage 6d.
Oilman', Woman and Economics, 9d posted.
Tronbridge, Emanuel Swedenborg : His Life 9d
I:4i3;Vf 'if;!, ftKffl i I .'1 if II H
Anotner so volumes have been issued in this compact and handv series
,j t _j, . now includes over 200 of the world’s best reading ’
lists on application. Cloth Is 3d, or in full limp leather,, gilt top, 2s 6d. postage 4d a vol/extra.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet: “ Proved to be’as effective, bactericidally,
las is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Phar3-ng-itis
and similar ailments.”
gg|ggygp
GrtUDSO^^
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. [3.
The RED PAGE
RODIN
ONCE it was my fortune to see the
greatest of modern sculptors. In
the tanagra room in the British
Museum my attention was called to two
gentlemen standing before an open show-
case—one evidently a deferential high
official of the Museum 'with power to
unlock and handle those dainty statuettes;
and the other a short, thick old man, with a
matter-of-fact business head, massive yet
alert, lit by small, bright, kindly eyes. Not
a figure to cause remark—nothing but an old
gentleman daintily and delightedly turning
in massive hands a tanagra statuette dug up
in all its dainty beauty from the ruins of
some forgotten Roman sepulchre. Yet it
was the greatest sculptor of modernity in a
mood of sheer delight over the almost uncon-
scious craftsmanship of some unknown lover
of beauty of a forgotten age—Rodin, the
creator of the Gates of Hell, humbly at the
shrine of a little ancient loveliness, pure and
calmly beautiful as running water.
I had seen some of his works. There was
“L’Age d'Airain ” in the Luxembourg—
that marvellous example of a mastery of
form so astounding that on his first exhibit-
ing it the committee of the Salon accused
him of having moulded it on a living model.
It took three years before Rodin triumph-
antly disproved that accusation. Then the
statue found place in the collection of the
State. Rodin having conquered form, pro-
ceeded to fill that dead thing with life. In
Arthur Symons’ Studies in Seven Arts (Con-
stable, Lond., per Sydney Book Club) that
exquisite critic thus elucidates Rodin’s
ideal
Aiming always at the utmost precision in
rendering his subject-matter, the artist comes
gradually to take a different view of what pre-
cision really is. He begins by seeking a form
which can express everything without leaving
anything over; he desires to draw his circle rounc
some separate fragment of nature, and to exhibit
the captured, complete thing. Only, Nature
rebels. Something remains over, stays outside
the circle. The breath has gone out of the body,
the mystery has gone out of the soul. He has cut
off his fragment, if you will, but he has cut it off
from life. At this point the public accepts his
work ; he seems to have attained. At this point
he realises how far he is from attainment, and he
sets himself to the eternal search.
I recall, in one of Rodin’s later works, the
meaning of that search. I had turned from
his marvellous “ Hand of,God,” exhibited in
London—a great hand holding a lump of
clay, half-buried in which, half being born
out of which, two delicate ephemerides,
man and woman, clinging to each
other in a pathetic delight, symbolised
human life in the grasp of the tre-
mendous, impassive hand of destiny. I
had turned from this to a recumbent-figure
in marble, shorn of arms and head and feet,
a vast mysterious thing, like some majestic
work miraculously recovered from- the earth
where it had lain, superb in its mutilation,
from unknown antiquity. What it meant I
could not guess ; it seemed as if the kindly
earth still clung to its outlines, softening,
shielding, wrapping it in mystery. But the
majesty of the thing, its shock of beauty, its
call to the imagination, still remain to me.
The appeal was as unanalysable, as com-
pelling, as a poem by Keats.
St
But let us listen to Arthur Symons, who
has seen the drawings made by Rodin, the
rough shorthand notes scribbled down for the
composition of his great groups.
In the drawings there is little of the delicacy of
beauty. They are notes for the clay, instan-
tanes, and they note only movement, expression.
They are done in two minutes, by a mere gallop
of the hand over paper, with the eyes fixed on
some unconscious pose of the model. .. . In these
astonishing drawings from the nude we see woman
carried to a further point of simplicity than even
in Degas: woman the animal; woman, in a
strange sense, the idol. Not even the Japanese
have simplified drawing to this illuminating
scrawl of four lines, enclosing the whole mystery
of flesh. Each drawing indicates, as if in the
rough block of stone, a single violent movement.
... • She squats like a toad, she stretches herself
like a cat, she stands rigid, she lies abandoned.
Every movement of her body, violently agitated
by the remembrance, or the expectation, or the
act of desire, is seen at an expressive moment.
She turns upon herself in a hundred attitudes,
turning always upon the central pivot of sex, which
emphasises itself with a fantastic and frightful
monotony. The face is just indicated, a face
of wood, like a savage idol ; and the body has
rarely any of that elegance, seductiveness, and
shivering delicacy of life which we find in the
marble. It is a, machine in movement, a mon-
strous, devastating machine, working: mechani-
cally, and possessed by the one rage of the
animal.... It is hideous, overpowering,. and it
has the beauty of all supreme energy.. .. Here
luxury becomes geometrical; its axioms are
demonstrated algebraically. It is the unknown
X which sprawls, in this spawning entanglement
of animal life, over the damped paper, between
these pencil outlines, each done at a stroke, like a
hard, sure stroke of the chisel.
For it must be remembered these are the draw-
ings of a sculptor, notes for sculpture, and thus
indicating form as the sculptor sees it, with more
brevity, in simpler outline, than the painter.
They speak another language than the drawings
of the painter, searching, as they do, for the
points that catch the light along a line, for the
curves that indicate contour tangibly. In look-
ing at the drawings of a painter, one sees color;
here, in these shorthand notes of a sculptor, one’s
fingers seem actually to touch marble.
And of the “Balzac” that all but set
France in a furore, Symons enthusiastically
proclaims :—•
Here is the Balzac, with its royal air, shoulder-
ing the crowd apart, as it steps into the final soli-
tude, and the triumph. It is the thinker of
action, the visionary creator of worlds, standing
there like a mountain that has become man.
The pose is that of a rock against which all wave 3
must dash themselves in vain. There is exulta-
tion, a kind of ferocity of enjoyment of life and of
the making of life, in the great beaked head, the
great jaws, the eagle’s eyes under the crag of eye-
brows. And the rock which suggests the man,
the worker wrapped in the monastic habit of his
dressing-gown, all supple force under the loose
folds of moulded clay, stands there as if growing
up out of the earth, planted for the rest of time.
It is the proudest thing that has been made out of
clay
No, even now, Rodin is not accepted, universally
accepted, as the one great modern sculptor, as the
Wagner of sculpture. ... We have been taught to
see before our eyes have found out a way of seeing
for themselves ; we have to unlearn whole tradi-
tions of prejudice ; we have to force ourselves to
look things straight in the face. The art of sculp-
ture has seemed the one art which has already
reached finality ; here, at all events, sighed the
public with relief, we shall have nothing more to
learn or to unlearn ; we know at least a piece of
sculpture when we see it. From the first, Rodin
has been perturbing. This warmth of life, is it
not excessive ? This softness, suppleness, spring,
are they quite the qualities proper to sculpture ?
Here is a back which will shiver if I touch it, but
why is the face half lost in the marble out ol which
the figure seems to grow ? Finally, is this a man
or a mountain or an angel which calls itself Balzac,
and is so different from the known portraits of
Balzac? Something new has come even into
sculpture ; there is a troubling upheaval of some
restless inner life in the clay ; even sculpture has
gone the way of all other arts, and has learnt to
suggestmore than it says, to erpbody dreams in
its flesh, to become at once a living thing and a
symbol.
♦
The youthful author should be grateful to the
Sydney Book Club, in whose new catalogue not
only the title but the plot of each new novel finds
place. Ihe student of literature can thus see at
a glance the sort of thing that the great public
craves to read about. He can then make his own
selection from the hundreds of plots gratuitously
provided. Something might be done, for instance
—and, apparently, something has been done—
with “ A decayed family live near their ancestral
home, now owned by strangers.” There ought to
be plenty of families sufficiently decayed in Aus-
tralia. But if this is not simple enough, he might
take as model a novel which “tells what an un-
married girl sees in her married friends’ homes.”
There ought to be plenty of plot in that. If he
wants a more idyllic style, here is “ English
country life ; arid marriage with the wrong man,”
or “An Irish peasant girl is found to be a peer’s
daughter.’ If the young author yearns for sen-
sation he can have “A sensational novel, begin-
ning with 1 the discovery of a corpse in a
trunk.” (The first rule in the construction of
a modern novel is never to oiuit the corpse
from the trunk.) Or if romance is wanted,
he can choose from “ Amusing experiences of one
who lost an eye and had another substituted ; ”
or the plot that “ tells of the removal of an
objectional husband by an avoidable motor-car
accident;” or even “the search of a gentleman-
highwayman for a masked bride with a torn
sleeve.” But possibly the best recipe for the
ambitious author is that which “ tells of a woman
with a past, some unkind scandal-mongers, and a
happy ending.” It is indeed difficult to see
what more the novel-reader could desire—unless,
possibly, the ( novelist could combine that theme
with an objectionable husband ruled out by the
motor car and the invaluable corpse in the trunk.
However, there are hundreds more ; so, young
authors, take your choice and get to work.
The modest Native Companion , whose editor is
the Boswell of Australian literature, continues to
prove interesting. Bertram Stevens contributes
an account of the genesis of the oft-quoted pro-
logue to “The Revenge,” the alleged first dramatic
performance in Australia, containing, the famous
or infamous remark about those patriots who
left their country for their country’s good.
Another of the Australian poets is put- upon the
rack of parody by “ J. 8.” The Native Companion
should beware of a tendency towards “ scrappi-
ness.”
It appears that Dr. H. Hensoldt, the purveyor
of sensational literature in his Sydney magazine,
Orient and Occident, does not believe in Blavat-
sky. The April number of that monthly says
some extremely unkind things about the lady.
But there is, to compensate, a photo of a spook
and a learned article upon the cabbalistic “Lost
Word” of ancient occultism. Our confident
theory, which we present to Dr. Hensoldt, is that
the Lost Word will turn out to be the great Aus-
tralian Adjective.
“Our rule in India is, as it were, a sheet of oil
spread out over a surface of, and keeping calm
and quiet and unruffled by storms, an immense
and profound ocean of humanity.”— Lord Ran-
dolph Churchill.
THE STAR.
Where an invisible cloud-banner flows
Upon a silver spear of light,
A single star, like some lone horseman, goes
Across the prairies of the night.
SIDNEY.
GEORGE G. WHITNEY.
WHISTLER O N ART
A favorite faith, dear to those who teach, i
that certain periods were especially artistic, anc
that nations, readily named, were notably lover
of Art.
So we are told that the Greeks were, as
people, worshippers of the beautiful, and that ii
the fifteenth century Art was engrained in th
multitude.
That the great masters lived in common under
standing with their patrons—that the early
Italians were artists, all, and that the demand fo
the lovely thing produced it.
That we, of to-day, in gross contrast to tlii
Arcadian purity, call for the ungainly, and obtain
the ugly.
That could we but change our habits anc
climate —were we willing to wander in groves—
could we be roasted out of broad-cloth—were we to
do without haste, and journey without speed, we
should again require the spoon of Queen Anne
and pick at our peas with the fork of two prongs
And so, for the flock, little hamlets grow near
Hammersmith, and the steam horse is scorned.
Useless ! quite hopeless and false is the effort
built upon fable, and all because “a wise man has
uttered a vain thing and tilled his belly, with the
East wind.”
Listen ! There never was an artistic period.
There never was an Art-loving nation.
In the beginning, man went forth each day—
some to do battle, some to the chase; others
again, to dig and to delve in the field—all that the;
might gain and live, or lose and die. Until there
was found among them one, differing from the
rest, whose pursuits attracted him not, and so he
stayed by the tents with the women, and tracec
strange devices with a burnt stick upon a gourd.
This man, who took no joy in the ways of his
brethren—who cared not for conquest, and frettec
in the field—this designer of quaint patterns—this
deviser of the beautiful—who perceived in Nature
about him curious curvings, as .faces are seen in
the fire—this dreamer apart, was the first artist.
And when, from the field and from afar, there
came back the people, they took the gourd—anc
drank from out of it.
And presently there came to this man another
—and, in time, others —of like nature, chosen by
the gods—and so they worked together; and
soon they fashioned, from the moistened earth,
forms resembling the gourd. And with the power
of creation, the heirloom of the artist, presently
they went beyond the slovenly suggestion o:
Nature, and the first vase was born, in beautifu
proportion.
And the toilers tilled and were athirst; and the
heroes returned home from fresh victories to re-
joice and to feast; and all drank alike from the
artists’' goblets, fashioned cunningly, taking no
note the while of the craftsman’s pride, and under-
standing not his glory in his work; drinking at
the cup, not from choice, not from a conscious-
ness that it was beautiful, but because, forsooth,
there was none other!
And time, with more state, brought more
capacity for luxury, and it became well that men
should dwell in large houses, and rest upon
couches, and eat at tables 5 whereupon the artist,
with his artificers, built palaces, and filled them
with furniture, beautiful in proportion and lovely
to look upon.
And the people lived in marvels of art—and ate
and drank out of masterpieces—for there was
nothing else to eat and drink out of, and no bad
building to live in; no article of daily life, or
luxury, or necessity, that had not been handed
down from the design of the master, and made by
his workmen.
And the people questioned not, and had nothing
to say in the matter.
So Greece was in its splendor, and Art reigned
supreme—by force of fact, not by election—and
there was no meddling from the outsider. The
mighty warrior would no more have ventured to
offer a design for the temple of Pallas .Athene
than would the sacred poet have proffered a plan
for constructing the catapult.
And the Amateur was unknown—and the
Dilettante undreamed of!
And history wrote on, and conquest accom-
panied civilisation, and Art spread, or rather its
products were carried by the victors among the
vanquished from one country to another. And
the customs of cultivation covered the face of the
earth, so that all peoples continued to use what
the artist alone produced.
And centimes passed in this using, and the
world was flooded with all that was beautiful,
until there arose a new class, who discovered the
cheap, and foresaw fortune in the facture of the
sham.
Then sprang into existence the tawdry, the
common, the gewgaw.
The taste of the tradesman supplanted the
science of the -artist, and what was born of the
million went back to them, and charmed them,
for it was after their own heart; and the great
and the small, the statesman and the slave, took
to themselves the abomination that was tendered,
and preferred it—and have lived with it ever
since !
And the artist’s occupation was gone, and the
manufacturer and the huckster took his place.
And now the heroes filled from the jugs and
drank from the bowls—with understanding-
noting the glare of their new bravery, and taking
pride in its worth. .
And the people—this time —had much to say
in the matter—and all were satisfied. And
Birmingham and Manchester arose in their might
and Art was relegated to the curiosity shop.
[From Whistler’s “Tert o’clock” Lecture, in
The Gentle Art of Making Enemies .]
-*• —
“Te Manuwiri,” author of Sketches of Early
Colonisation in New Zealand (printed, from plates
supplied, by Whitcombe and Tombs, M.L.),
pleads that this compilation of stories (inexpres-
sibly prolix) is his first attempt at literature. It
isn’t literature, and we have some conscientious
doubts about terming it an attempt. The desperate
reader, however, may possibly dig from its dis-
cursive pages some interesting facts of Maori life.
G-. K. Chesterton, whose remarkably able
biographies of Browning and Dickens are well
known, is to try his iconoclastic hand now upon
George Meredith—presumably after he has
finished with Job. The Chestertonian Meredith
will appear in Heinemann’s “Contemporary
Men of Letters Series.”
The flood of cheap Ruskin reprints now pour-
ing through the printing presses of England and
Australia is causing soi»e ill-feeling among the
publishers. The copyrights of the earlier editions
of Modern Painters have now expired and these are
being reprinted wholesale. Tips is the penalty of
fame ; but the ethics of publishing are involved
owing to the fact that these earlier editions were
repudiated by Ruskin himself. \ Apparently,
from recently-published letters of Ruskin, he
would have liked to destroy all the first issue of
volume 11. of Modern Painters in order to bring
out his revised version. “I’m glad you like the
new notes,” he writes of the revised version,
“but the only proper penance for having written
such a book would be in a ‘ white sheet.’... I
might as well have undertaken a big new book as
to revise this thing.” The cheap editions from
Ruskin House, which alone for years to come
possesses the copyright of the revised editions of
Ruskin, are authentic ones; but the other pub-
lishers’ ——- ? George Allen advertises that these
firms’ editions are incomplete and imperfect,
while George Routledge & Sons, in defence, men-
tion “G. K. Chesterton, who “cannot endure the
little notes that he [Ruskin] puts at the bottom of
the page to point out where he made a mistake
and how much he has grown since he made it.”
After all, does Ruskin, with or without his later
notes, greatly matter?
Sydney Evening News is running a serial called
The Centipede, by Ben Boothby, the brother of
Guy. Now, Guy Boothby is dead, but brother
Ben has taken on the family connection. Ben
seems determined to leave Guy in the backwaters
of the commonplace. “He Of One Hundred
Legs” leaves Nikola in the mud. It is believed
that the Herald is negotiating for a new serial bj
Jane Boothby, Ben’s maternal aunt. It wil
be called The Plague Flea.
A new edition of Picturesque New South Wales,
an illustrated guide for settler and tourist, has
been issued by the Government, compiled by T.
A. Coghlan, 1.5.0. The letterpress is generally
concise and informative, and the illustrations
varied, elucidatory, and artistic. It is a pity,
however, that when so much has been done,
a better paper had not been provided to give the
illustrations their full artistic value, while the
title page is spoiled by an advertisement on its
back. A Government publication should surely
prevent the advertiser from trespassing upon the
letterpress. The book, as a whole, however, wel
serves its purpose of attracting that elusive immi-
grant for whom we yearn.
I burst the remaining button off my glove (ex-
plains “M.W.S.”) in hastening to endorse
“M.M.’s” tilt at Miss Maorilander Bandicoot’s
declaration re Colonial girls’ reading taste (Bul-
letin 4/4/’O7). lam the unfortunate possessor
of three volumes of the “Girls’ Own,” each pre-
sented at successive “break-ups” for Pure Mathe-
matics, Phlebotomy, and Extra Metaphysics.
To-day this wealth of literature is as innocent of
thumb marks as a new piano. Whatever the
Australian girl may read—and read she does—
thanks to our good sunshine, it is far removed
from morbidness and such diseases. Last year I
honored England with a visit. Met many girls,
talked books with most of them ; well, five out of
seven swore by that supreme adjective master,
Marie Corelli. Give me the most lurid boy’s
bushranger yarn to painful Marie. Under those
circumstances only would Miss Hokitika Barni-
coat be within coo-ee of the truth of the legend
that we Australian girls prefer boys’ books to
well-written, decent novels.
The Advertisers’ A.B.C. (T. B. Browne, London,
etc.) is one of those annuals that every busy man
must have. The huge volume deals with all the
newspapers and magazines in the world, giving
their circulation, character, and advertising
charges, and in most instances charming colored
facsimiles of their covers. The book is a kind of
journalists’ Who’s Who, an element of healthy
optimism being always apparent in the inevit-
able “ Publisher’s'Own Statement” attached to
each advertisement. The color printing is admir-
ably done, and the information well brought up
to date.
From Pitman and Sons, London, comes the
first part of a useful volume, entitled The World's
Commercial Products. This part deals descrip-
tively with wheat and rice, and the work is amply
illustrated with photographs showing the methods
of cultivation in use all over the world.
The name of the “smartest” short-story writer
in existence is 0. Henry. It is, fortunately, a
name that is easily remembered ; but it is pro-
bably a name that most readers have seen here for
the first time. His book, The Four Million
(McClure, New York, per Sydney Book Club), is
delightful from beginning to end. It is American
literature with all its peculiar excellencies of
smartness, humor, crispness, and modernity, and
so admirably condensed that there is little room
for the just as inevitable defects of those qualities.
Above all, the writer of short stories should study
Henry’s method, and note how original he is in
his plots, how niggard he is of his adjectives, how
ruthlessly he prunes.
Oscar Wilde’s complete works will shortly be
available in fourteen volumes.
“It has been universally assumed that the
English are a serious nation. This is an error.
They are not serious, but indifferent, a nation of
individualists, each mainly, not to say exclusively,
occupied with his own private affairs. With the
vast majority unity of sentiment is suspect, and
patriotism a passive rather than an active
virtue.”— Lucas Malet.
A much-needed biography is promised by
Arthur Kitson. It js the Life and Adventures of
Captain Cook, R.N., giving a full record*of his
life, including his active service in the war in
Canada in 1759. The last Life appeared in 1836.


Here are some o/ Lassetier*s specially-selerfled and “ True»to»Label ” brands of Tobacco. Ouar buyer is the
best expert in Australia, and our 'Wholesale and Mail Order Departments do such a large volume of
business that our stocK is always renewed and in perfect condition.
'
mi
>
$ A
m
, . I
::
3
181:
m
i
mmmm
K.
(■MMI
• • .
< *
£ • •• .
WWMmS:
;
WmMmmSMM
13
Hi
in
:
31- ,
IB
-r^Sf
■*
m
SMSi-iSa
■
** -yv‘
i»
—
No.
CIGARS,
-V WALES—HABAN A—Heavy-Weights 2 Cigars for 1/-
„ LOPEZ—JIANIi A—Highest Grade' . .
f- NON PLUS ULTRA
4. SPORTSMAN SPECIALS
«' “perla” oriente-manila'..'
6. PARTAGAS “ESMERALDA”
7. PARTAGAS “OUPIDOS”
6 Cigars for 2/6
Per Per Per
25 50 BO
10/6 20/- 4\-
10/- 18/- 3 -
8/- 16/- 31/-
15/- 30/-
6/- 12/- 23/-
20/- 40/-
10/- 20,- 40,-
PAPERS.
ZIG-ZAG .. ..4 fcr G<\
LE COSMOPOLITE .. 6 for 1/-
LION No. 5 .. .. 6 for 1/-
No . CIGARETTES.
X. VAFIADIS, EGYPTIAN—ANUBTP. Gold Tips
2. COUSIS —“ DUBEC,” “ Superior,” “ Midium,” or Cold Til s
3. VAFIADIS, “Cork Tip" ..
4. VAEIADIS, “Admiral" ..
5. MELACHRINO, No. 8
6. VAEIADIS, “Fine”
7. MURATTI, “Bouquet"
8. VIRGINIAN STATE EXPRESS “099”
0. VIRGINIAN STATE EXPRESS " 555 "
TINS
Our New Illustrated General Catalogue, ICOO Illustrated Pages, The Buyer’s Encyclcptedia, will soon
be ready, Write at once in order to secure early copy* SENT FREE UPON BEQUEST,
F. LAiSvSETTER h Co. Ltd..
THe Universal Providers
SYDNEY
The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSBAY 9 APRIL 18, 1907.


Also KANGAROO, WALl&av
OPOSSUM, & c . ABY ’
Consign to:
WINOHOOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltca.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to AT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent ‘‘GRIP DROPPER.”
SKIN
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MAKES the
as SOFT at
VELVET.
m
o
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
, - , both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/S.
The “Joker” Trie it Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
a m a z e-
ment of
your friends, upon re-opening the box the tnatches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions. 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Bex. Post free
anywhere for 1 /-. Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3, P.O. HA Y/VJA RKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Joker Cigar Case.
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid,
four cigars, which appear to be quite genuine, are
shown. Invite your friend to have a cigar, which
offer he readily accepts, and immediately he
attempts to help himself a slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great, surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly mode. Price, packed
securely and posted free to anv part of the world,
on receipt of 1/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
, One of the most
amusing jokes to be found
in our varied stock. Only-
clean water required for
working, and it can be used
as often as the operator
chooses, free of cost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
and, when lie accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the bail
inside the camera, and your friend gets the greatest shock
he ever had in his life. Strongly made of wood, with strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price 8d
post free am-where. Wholesale and Retail.
IIITII fMiM
•INI
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious ASections,
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &e., and can be used at ail
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name-and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Bills (Formula? printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Bills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
«
&ioo
a We ell
Given
Away
Free
TOOTH & C 0.,. Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Alarming
Increase in.
A REMEDY OFFERED
Baldness!
Whicn possesses aIJ the elements that go to produce a good head of hair Its oo W »rr,.i
stimulating properties go sraight to the hair to'Ots, giving them a lifo j , C u T ,u ,
never knew before. And life and vigour to the toots mean more ha : r. stronger hlw
better hair. It will assuredly do all thisfor YOU, as it has done for thousands of othJr*
EDWARDS
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and De icately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toi.et.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/-. 2/6 g 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the worlJ.
om.
m
m
Edwards' “Harlene" Co.
95 & 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular bhipments
The Trade Supplied
incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &c. P»“Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Will Anprape - BOOKS.
MOLL KLAXDKKS, genuine edition,
Is. LOOK OK NATUitL and Ili.US-
tratk.d Maruiagk Guidk by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 19(4 edition,
hard enveis. iiujirnved. How TO
Danck, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
koh tub Spoii. ; and all Zoi.a’s, Is 6d
each. Vk.viih ogmsm Mauk ICasv, Is.
Up-to-Daik i'omic Rkcitkr, Irish
Comic Rkittkk. Dramatic Rbcitkr,
Is each. Rkynolds’ Corin' ok London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Hook, ]s. Tun Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkitaxieron. and
inanj others, all in cheap edition. Riudk of the
Hirst Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Poi.isiiing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise: Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; postl/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingaiia
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make He, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s (id. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 2i)th Century edition, very
latest, 1243 pngps, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s (id posted. Saeeiio, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is, Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.
Capsule marked END'S ‘ FRUIT SALT;' Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpuad only by JT. O. UNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
nownE
mm
IPDCLIL:
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallo
Remove the cause by using CARTERS LITTLE LlVfc-K
PILLS, and above all things, fight ?,° r ™ P pryr o ver
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LI v ER P LLS, U
Complaints never have and never can resist the won
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature oi


s:
m
m
y£R3
3C?
For coughs and colds.
“ A friend in need is a friend in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is just
such a friend. Never be without it.
It will prove a good friend when you
havo a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
Mger’s
'Cherrif 9eetoral
for an irritablo throat or weak lungs,
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to tho relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in largo and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., towell. Mass.. U. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bough - of us. Your
money in ful. refunded with nt question
if i.ot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten year>, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
£3 ulO to £9
LATEST
MODE' S
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all iates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any_port_in the world,. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGEfitS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our «uec ; ol ojfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
As LIVELY as a
CRH®
—THE EVIDENCE—
from 13, Yule Street, Petersham, N.S.W.,
July 23rd, 1906.
“ My friends did not think I would
rear my little William who was a
very frail child from birth. But
I never despaired of his life, for
I commenced giving him Scott’s
Emulsion when he was only
a fortnight old, feeling sure
that Scott’s would build him up
and make him strong. He is now
as lively as a cricket, he has lost
all his delicacy, and is a fine,
bright, healthy child, which is
entirely due to Scotc’s Emulsion.”
(Mrs.) EDITH C. SMITH.
:the reason whyz
LIFE WAS SAVED
C. Scott’s Emulsion went to work
to help nature by filling the little
system with the abundant nourish-
ment which it so badly needed.
Scott’s was able to do this be-
cause of the fine, pure Norwegian
TRADE MARK
cod liver oil, of which it
is invariably made,
and also because of its
perfect digestibility
attained by the beau-
tiful Scott process of
manufacture the
secret of which is
possessed by Scott’s
Emulsion only. 1
Make sure of setting this best of all
emulsions by seeing “the fishman
with the fish ” on the package.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
From all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
11 BUILT HIM UP”
IRISH
FOR
The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton's
and. see that you get it
STOP THAT PAIN
“There ft only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . , .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, cr
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over (1000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sycfi n ey.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. I hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a si ft lead pen.il.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Set es.
Works s Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
E
(Hegd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON 1 HE 6ELVEDGE.
B.v Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
" New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
(It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
y pleasant flavour and the feeling of
> freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how (
, thoroughly it cleans. i
Sold by Local Chemists ami Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
PLASMON OATS
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of HusK and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment
with easy coo King.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
Ask lor them.
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORE .
VARIOUR VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“And Thou Beside Me”
Oh, come with me, and let us seek
A refuge for our loves, and leave
What only can confine the weak—
The petty bonds of Commonplace ;
Forget the slanders that men speak,
The poisoned honeydew that slays,
The dagger hid in silken sleeve —
Deceits that teach us to deceive.
Leave wholly these, and let us go
Together to some faery isle
Where no rude tempests ever blow,
Set in smooth tides of sunny seas ;
NV here, from dawn-rise to sunset glow,
Brooks, valleys, mountains, plains and trees
In still, unbroken beauty smile.
And our enchanted eyes beguile.
With hopes more fair than fragrant bowers
By Cupid’s self for Psyche set,
Where enter only happy Hours ;
’Mid mossy banks and bosky glooms,
And deathless biros and fadeless flowers ;
Where woodbine and shy violet
Mingle their essence in perfumes
Too fine for mortal sense as yet.
And I will woo thy dreaming ear
With songs more sweet than ’neath the moon
Becalmed seafarers sometimes hear
From spirits far beneath the keel,
And cross themselves in pious fear
Lest wizardrie their souls should steal,
Or haply fatal prove the rune,
And on the strand their bones be strewn.
And coronals will I entwine
lor thy dark curls, thro’ which thine eyes
Peep laughter-lit, wild eglantine
And rose and every woodland flower;
In that far isle of thine and mine,
Where joy so gilds each glowing hour
That Fancy, with conceiving, dies,
And wakes to find it Paradise !
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.
Foam-drift.
Over the waking sea
Looketh the morn,
Out on the surf-line’s glee,
Some soul is born.
Some spirit seeks a place
Where it may rest a space;
Bringeth it sweet solace ?
Bringeth it scorn ?
Babble of inward tide,
Some heart is glad ;
Softly white patrols ride,
Some soul is sad ;
Over life’s river-brim
Only the strong may swim—
Shall it be song or hymn,
Tranquil or mad ?
High in the starlit dome
Spirits a-flight,
Out on the rock-marge foam,
Gushing and white,
Over the quivering grey
Mystery holdeth sway;
Some soul hath passed away
Into the night.
Over the mystic scene
Sougheth the wind,
Out on the foam-line threne ;
Death is enshrined.
Be not, fond heart, too vain,
Ours is the briefest reign,
Passion and life and pain
Subtly are twined.
Summer is here—’tis gone,
Winter is come;
Eye-glance is bright—’tis wan,
Glad lips are dumb ;
Love while the heart is gay.
Life is a summer day ;
Soon ’twill be cold and grey,
Soon ’twill be numb.
Cliangeless for aye and aye
Shine the great stars,
Ever the driven spray
Whitens the bars.
Who would love well if wise ?
Soon they will fade, dear eyes ;
Passion is born and dies,
Solace is sparse.
Over the dreaming sea
Singeth the wind.
Is the great mystery
Ever divined ?
When the earth-clinging soul
Leaveth the world in dole,
Is the requital whole,
Is it resigned ?
Only the dead may know.
Only the dead,
Blown as the foam-drifts blow.
Are not misled.
Life —and the roon-sun thralls,
Pain —and the niglit-mist falls,
Death —and the sea-wind ca 115....
Life’s whim is read.
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Mis* KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place
bec'ause it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial
benefit, to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
WHAT DOES YOUR ICE COST YOU?
ICC MACHINE
IS A MONEY-SAVER.
'X'HE loss of perishable poods in the sultry Summer
* Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be unpracticable on accountofits expense. Iteosts
very little with a BRUNSWICK —J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Sore Agents,
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C'B
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
of the past.
In 50
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Tailor-Made
Corsets.
All C.B. Corsets have rust-proof supports
143
C.B. Tailor-Made Corset* are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis-
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C. B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas per pair.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type as
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are in advance of
the old woven corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. Wittey,
York Street SYDNEY.
J. Bunting,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
mms
Sold bv
All Jewellers
to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
71 Certificate Given With Each Watch.
6 b9 \\ '«««
V\ 1802 1*863
s
ROTHEtHAfIS
Estate
1750.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JohnGeccs
Scotch whisky
il
mmm
w-
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
25
Z
7
By Royal Warrant to
t w3P
His Majesty the uing.
BOVRIL
is of great value as a “ Pick-me-up.”
Bo veil is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with the Commonwealth regulations.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” I'liOOlt STAIVS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors. Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“BAPOEIN” AlimiXlM i:\AVI EE gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE gold PAINT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
BJUI
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
ANCHOR FENCE'
Saves from tbree-fiftHs to four-fifths of the number of posts visually required, and
consequently saves a great amount of labor for digging post Holes. Anchor Fence
costs notHing for repairs—once erected neitHer man, beast, nor falling trees can
E. RICH&CO.Etd., Sydney & Brisbane
breaß it down.
Wholesale Agents -
F
ZZ2


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1418.
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1907.
PbiobGd.
THE NAVIGATION CONFERENCE.
Missionaries Lyne, Hughes and Ward bring the light of shipping reform to John Bull and urge him not to be a
cannibal by devouring the lives of his sailors.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By fending direct to Tiir Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted,
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials.. The person may mi be there; the otlicial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing' with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
f nß Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ZbxxHeZzvi,
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1907.
THE DISARMAMENT JEST.
The quaint disarmament fad of the present
British Government is not likely to arouse any-
thing more than a cold scoff among the nations of
Continental Europe. Yet there are always
possibilities in the maddest fad, and even a
very remote possibility is not to be lost sight of.
The proposal which Britain threatens to make to
Europe reads like the biggest confidence trick of
the last five centuries, but there may be some
hidden chances about it—-chances not yet visible
at this distance—which will cause it to be seriously
entertained. And if so, the time will have come
for Australia to ask in a loud voice whereabouts it
comes in. For apparently there is a back
entrance to the proposal as well as a front one,
and while John Bull stands at the front entrance
with a heavenly smile on his countenance and a
waving palm-branch in his hand, there is a very
grim-looking Monkey person sitting on the fence
and considering the back door of the proposed
House of Imperial Peace.
* * * *
The central point of the disarmament proposal,
as it affects Britain, is that that country is to
maintain for its own protection, as it does now, a
fleet equal to the two next largest European
navies; that it is to pledge itself not to excsed
the two-Power standard ; and that, by general
agreement, there is to be such an all-round reduc-
tion of naval forces that all the European fleets,
including the British fleet which is equal to the
next two biggest sea armaments put together,
are to cost only a fraction of the present figure.
All these things sound very beautiful, but in effect
they boil down to these rather cheeky proposals :
(1) That other States are to give up any hope of ever
owning the empire of the sea.
(2) That they are to give up any hope of acquiring
colonies which will enable them to build up a Greater
Prance or a Greater Germany abroad, as Greater Britain
has been built up.
(3) That Britain, having annexed almost all the avail-
able places that are worth having, and almost all of
these being places which can only be attacked by sea,
is to be assured of peaceful possession, by the other
States guaranteeing not to maintain navies which can
seriously menace the British over-sea colonies.
(4) That Britain is to be allowed to retain this safety
and supremacy at a great reduction of cost ; things are
to be so arranged that it is to be just as safe and just as
supreme as it is now at a mere fraction of the bill.
(5) It is to be in a position to blockade the coast and
ruin the trade of any European State just the same as
now, but at much less cost; and the European States are
to give a guarantee that none of them will make a serious
effort to get into a position which will make this un-
pleasant result impossible.
(6) The European States are to remove from the foot of
John Bull’s bed the one nightmare that oppresses him
in his dreams. The destruction of British agriculture
under Freetrade has made Britain the one country on
earth that could be brought to submission by two months’
blockade. The present Liberal Government proposes to
ask a guarantee from the other European States that they
will not attempt to maintain fleets which could possibly
bring this trouble upon J. Bull ; that they will not
menace Bull’s one weak spot, and that they will not
tread on his one really inflamed corn.
(7) Then, with no need—on account of his insular
position—to maintain a great army, and with no need—
on account of the naval disarmament—to maintain so
great a navy as at present, Bull will live in cheap and
pleasant security, while his European neighbors maintain
the old, costly, sleepless, harried watch on their land
frontiers as usual.
That is how the position will, presumably, strike
the big ambitious States of continental Europe if
the disarmament scheme is ever laid before them.
Meanwhile, how will it strike Australia ?
If there is any disarmament treaty John Bull
will, presumably, speak for the Empire. He
always does. It is a habit he has. His idea
is that, provided the other naval States of Europe
—France, Germany, Italy, and (when it recovers)
Russia—agree to limit their fleets to certain
•cheap and narrow dimensions, Britain will limit
its fleet to a comparatively cheap and narrow
figure, equal to the two biggest continental navies
combined. Thus John Bull, and, presumably,
the whole Bull empire, will be restricted to a
•certain amount of sea-power. Apparently Bull,
in his usual fashion, will demand that he shall
build, own, and control all that power, and
he will proceed to gather the whole of it
that has any fighting value round his own
islands. In that case, the construction of an
Australian navy will be absolutely prohibited,
and we will have neither any navy nor any
real promise of protection from Bull’s navy. If
the empire is pledged to maintain only so many
ships, and Bull insists on owning them all, there
will be no room in the empire for any ships except
Bull’s. Meanwhile the Japanese fleet will still,
apparently, be growing ; and the scrap-heap
squadron, which loads uselessly about Australia’s
coast in peace time, but which is to leave it in
war-time, will remain as scrappy as ever; and
Britain, under the blight of Freetrade and the
shadow of the Cobden superstition, will become
more and more dependent on foreign countries for
its food supply, and therefore more and more con-
firmed in its policy of gathering every ship that
has any fighting value round its own coasts, and
leaving Greater Britain to any fate that may come
its way,
|* * * *
It does not seem in any way probable that the
(so-called) disarmament idea at present mooted
will come to anything. It appears too lop-sided
to appeal to a country like Germany or a poten-
tate like William the Kaiser. Still, some kind of
agreement may come to pass at some future date,
and any agreement which provides that there
shall be only a certain number of arms, and allows
Old Mother to carry the lot, should be repu-
diated by Australia with all the voice it
possesses. The trouble is that, in such a
case, a mere voice amounts to little; it is
a sound and nothing more. If Australia’s
voice is to be of any account in the matter,
Australia must possess a fleet which can’t be
ignored. A European arrangement which, by
way of economy, limited the number of weapons
which each State might carry, and left Old
Mother tottering under all the weapons that
fell to the share of the British empire, would be a
worse danger to this country than all the bloated
sea and land legions of all the six Great Powers
of Europe. What Australia is reallv anxious
about is an Asiatic disarmament, and
after that a United States disarmament. A
European disarmament, which only made the
Japanese power more imposing in proportion to
the aggregate sea-power of the globe, would be a
reason why Australia should hasten to provide
itself with weapons, rather than a cause why it
should put its faith gladly in Old Mother, strug-
gling in the distance with all the empire’s collec-
tion of war implements in her arms, and with her
eye fixed on Brixton and Peckham Rye. At pre-
sent, however, our chief satisfaction lies in the
fact that there isn’t likely to be any disarmament
for quite a long time. We have every reason
to be glad of the fact. Australia has been som-
nolent enough over defence questions while the
world was an armed camp on land and a floating
fortress on the sea. If a bogus European peace
set in, the chances are that its somnolence would
become something incredible, and it would only
wake when Asia was climbing in dead earnest
over its gate.
CARRUTHERS GOES FISHING.
With an eye on the coming general election,
N.te.W. Premier Carruthers outlines a scheme
to subsidise friendly societies out of the Treasury.
The Labor Opposition commands the trades
unions; Carruthers cuts in with a bribe to the
great number of men who, though often not
trades unionists, generally support the Labor side.
The Sydney Telegraph gives the scheme its warm
support; and that, and its authorship, and the
fact that it is submitted at a moment when every
available political hook is being baited, are
enough to cover it a foot deep with suspicion.
Carruthers’ scheme is to pay friendly societies
(1) One-third of the cost (after the first 12 months’
sickness) of sick pay to all male members under the age
of 65 years, or women under the age of 60 years.
(2) The whole cost of sick pay for all members over the
age of 65 in the case of men, and over the age of 60 in the
case of women ; cost to the State not to exceed 3s 4d
per week under 65, nor ss. per week over 65.
The only condition that the Government proposes
is that the societies’ sick funds shall be certified
solvent; if they are not solvent in the opinion of
the Registrar there is to be a pro rata, reduction
of sick pay until the fund is nursed back to sol-
vency. Not a word is mentioned about the cost.
As far as can be made out, Premier Carruthers
has no idea what it will be, and probably doesn’t
care. As the State is to pay the whole of the sick
pay up to ss. per week for females over 60, and
males over 65, and as the aged member makes
the largest call upon the sick fund, it is clear that
Carruthers proposes to relieve the fund of its
heaviest responsibility. The question then
arises, what actuarial basis is going to be adopted
in deciding the solvency of the fund ? An old
man, trying to enter a friendly society, finds
himself barred because the society reckons that
it will soon have him more or less permanently
on its sick fund, and it puts up the scale
of contributions, and shuts him out. But if
the society doesn’t have to pay, and the State
does, then very moderate contributions can be
accepted from the elderly man; and the whole
body of elderly men, knowing that, will promptly
rush the societies. This will make things bad for
the Treasury. If, on the other hand, they don’t
reduce the contributions, then, as they will not
have to pay out (the State doing that for them)
they will simply pile up money for which they
won’t have a use.
* * * »
The Premier’s yarn is that the State won’t have
to pay as many old age pensions if it can en-
courage people to join friendly societies. It is
doubtful, however, whether the State will not
have to pay more in subsidy than it would in
pensions. And, anyhow, there is the matter of
expense. Friendly societies, granted that they do
good work, are, for the most part, costly businesses.
A recent report of one of the best managed in the
world shows that the cost of keeping the Grand
Secretary, and the P.G.M., and the Q.Z.F., and
of maintaining the rest of the flummery, was more
than 21 percent, of the total income.; while the
earnings of accumulated funds did not exceed 2f
per cent. A first-class insurance office manages
its business for less than 12 per cent., and it earns
up to 4J per cent, on its funds. If the State must
su bsidise something, why should it subsidise the
more wasteful, while it actually taxes the less
wasteful form of thrift and providence ? Also, if
a man, knowing that the landlord is the darkest
shadow on many an old couple’s life, chooses to
provide for his old age by laboriously buying or
building a cottage, why shouldn’t the State
subsidise the building society, or the Starr-
Bowkett society, or the old man himself ? Or
why shouldn’t the man be helped to pay fire
insurance, since the destruction of his home means
so much misery to him ? Or, since trades unions
unquestionably tend to lift wages, and as many
trades unions also allow accident pay to their
members (the old ones were formed mainly for
that purpose), why should not Government aid be
given to them ? The reason why it can’t and
should not be given in any of these cases is that all
such aid is piecemeal and its distribution is costly
and wasteful. If the Carruthers Government
wants to do something for the sick, and especially
the aged sick, and it cannot look as far as Europe
to find out how to do it, it can get a hint of what
it might do from the N.S.W. Miners’ Accident
Relief Fund. It costs less than 5 per cent, of its
income to manage, its funds are well invested,
and—far more important still —it misses no
employee of any but the very smallest mines in
the State.
• * • *
In any case, however, where is Carruthers
going to get the money? It is true that,
chiefly through selling land and calling the
proceeds revenue, he had a surplus last year,
and expects one this year; but already large
amounts have been cut off the railway revenue by
freight reductions ; the land-tax (£338,000 last
year) is given over under the Local Government
Act ; the new shires are, moreover, to be
heavily endowed ; and one-third of land-sales
money is to go towards repurchase of estates and
similar purposes. Now Carruthers, probably
in this matter one-part Premier and nine-parts
electioneering agent, talks about large subsidies
to friendly societies. Even without all this,
N.S.W. had a deficit in 1900, and another in 1901,
and a third in 1902, and a deficit of £171,166 in
1903, and another of £71,559 in 1904. But
because, in two years of bumper harvests and
exceptional prices, there has been a .sur-
plus, though he still had an accumulated
revenue deficit of £1,814,516 to wipe out at
the end of last year, this “Reform” politician,
who happens to be Premier and Treasurer, splashes
around money and promises of money, and borrows
a million and a third a year, and hangs the conse-
quences. Unfortunately N.S. Wales can’t hang
the consequences. Even if Carruthers can offer
foolish people these inducements to let him stay
in office, and forget all about Land Scandals and
everything else, the bill will remain.
BILL LYNE IN LONDON.
This from “ Jacques ”
A poet stood at a fish-stall. His brain bubbled with
high and noble thoughts. He said to the fishmonger :
“ Sir, how picturesque are these denizens of the vasty
deep 1 These specimens which I see—and smell—upon
your stall—what glorious color, those pale, opalescent
tints, this wine ruby, those rose madders over burnished
silver ! Do you not recall the Miltonic lines of shoals of
fish that, with their fins and shining scales, glide under
the green waves ? Perhaps one of these same fish, so
apparent to both the senses, might but yesterday have
visited Grey’s dark, unfathomed caves of ocean, and
gazed with fishy eyes upon the gems of purest ray serene
which ”
Here the fishmonger interrupted. In a harsh voice—
harshened by his calling and his nationality—he said :
I knows nutting about all dat, Mister; I sells fish, I
does.”
This is an apologue. Now for Bill Lyne. States-
men and sentimentalists may stand at the political stall
and rhapsodise about the People, may talk of the Pate of
Nations, and the Destinies of Millions Yet Unborn ; of
foreign complications, and domestic problems, of high
statecraft, of emotional theories, of millennial aspira-
tions. Calmly Bill Lyne stands behind the political
counter and says “ I sells fish.”
Now Bill has gone to sell fish in London. We no
longer feel his heavy political tread shaking this con-
tinent. The far northern Islet trembles beneath his
number fifteens. We are sensitive as a nation—all young
people and nations are—as to what others think of us!
There are millions of intelligent strangers where Bill is",
and we ask ourselves, with self-conscious sensitiveness!
what they will think of Bill.
* • • <
Bill has been a long time in the Statesmanship busi-
ness. He has occupied leading positions. He has been a
Cabinet Minister and a Premier of a State. He was,
indeed, in an informal sort of way first Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth. But for the want of a few harmless
but necessary colleagues, and of a miserable but indis-
pensable majority in Parliament, he would have been
It. Reid— the sanie old George, always entirely different
—smiled upon Bill’s momentary elevation, as it might
have led up to HIM.
But the men whom Bill had worried and stung from
behind during the fight for an Australian Commonwealth
wouldn’t have Bill. He had played for his own hand
when our greatest fight was waging. He hung on to the
daily press and the old Cabbage Tree party. He trotted
out the faded flag which Jack Robertson used to wave
late o’ nights in the whisky-scented atmosphere of the
Reform Club. When the war squadrons were engaged,
and the fleet and the flag of Australian nationality were
in peril, Bill Lyne cruised round in a pirate galley, with
the Black Flag of provincialism at the peak, and
fired ineffectual shots at the sterns of the Australian
national three-deckers.
The moment the battle was over, the enemy’s flags
struck and their ships boarded, Bill leaped ashore
from his piratical galley, hoisted the Australian flag,
which he had kept locked in the hold or hidden up his
sleeve (prepared for emergencies) and declared the new
territory his. He was even able to force himself into the
national syndicate afterwards, in spite of his previous
defection.
* * » ,
Now, what will the great British public—the great
British Public House public—think of him ? What do we
think of him ? Have we ever asked ourselves that ? We
see his rugged, obstinate demeanor ; old Kruger he is
called (colossai compliment!)—affectionately called, mind
you, not angrily. We see his flounderings, always keep-
ing just out of the deep holes. We know instinctively
that, if there were only one political plank to hold on to
in the shipwreck, he would manage to be on it somewhere
near the thick end.
We know that he is liked by his colleagues, that he is
popular with the public, that he is a success, that he is a
figure of importance, that he belongs to our history, and
will loom largely through it. What is the secret of his
success? It is largely because he is a sticker, because he
plays the game “ for keeps ” all the time. A nation in whose
character a keen sporting and a keen political instinct
n^oh'MS n m a Sa h “r eWto, » ,ve *
as the culpable one is a sportsman d JUdgment - 80 lon ?
He is «
he could never fa.hom ’ aS WaTB ? n ha s !
literary flavor of Ewing’s fluent sophistries aP
he doesn’t seem a clever man, he cels
fni* 16 ’ r , There . s unconscious but blustering straight; 6
forwardness in Bill, combined with a practical JEfiSt
ness, which is no more expected from* him than vou
expect an elephant to thread a needle. Yet both Bill
and the elephant thread the needle. DOCn iJILL
Jf ®“ d fco be a bully ; but look into it, and you will
He has a foSt wlth g hl e fi a V y ,n the / iprht over
NSW S fc , bls ® s t ts around the precincts of the
is’chlckfnh S ef , l marks > but no bitterness. He
In ,i, V £ th f fc fl uab ty which is called obstinacy
in a bad cause and perseverance in a good one.” He
b ,\!“f a Conservative, representing squattocracy—one
of his first Ministerial acts was to endeavor to put down
the new railway men’s union by force. He will die the
most advanced and sincere of Democrats. Much water
union 1111 Tr lC *‘ r hls . bridges since he tried to wreck that
union. His time since has mainly been spent watching
for new political lights on the eastern horizon, and
analysing them with his spectrum analysis. No man
knows the public pulse less, no man thinks he knows it
™°^ e - Ic ,s ln J the cat-like way he falls when he blunders
that he succeeds. He invariably blunders ; he invariably
succeeds. J
• • * *
He spoiled the most promising political combination
that ever was projected in Australia—the coalition
between Parkes and Dibbs. That coalition, effected,
would have saved N.S.W. from the most degrading
t remiership this country ever saw—when for six years the
time of a Premier of a great State was spent either in listen-
mg at the keyhole of the Labor caucus, or in waiting on
trie doormat of the directors’ room of a daily newspaper.
Had Lyne stuck to his leader, the veterans Parkes and
Dibbs would have died in harness, and N.S.W. would have
been saved the disgrace of seeing two great men, who
had served their State faithfully according 1 to their lights,
turned out like a couple of old ’bus horses.
Bill has been fortunate in having had as colleagues
men of first-rate ability. Consider them —Dibbs, Barton,
Wise, Deakin, Kingston, Isaacs, O’Connor, Crick (this is
not an attempt to place them). All these easily over-
shadowed him. He had what many of them lacked—
Grip. Though his abilities and his intellectual powers
are mediocre, he has the great barrister’s, the great sol-
dier’s, the great gambler’s, the great jockey’s instinct—
the Lust to Win.
• * • *
Barton, Kingston, Wise, Deakin, loved the fight— Lyne
loves the victory. The fight over, Barton left the pur-
suit to others, the loot to camp-followers, the occupa-
tion of the citadel to his subordinates. Lyne never won
a light in independent command. Bill has always been
lucky enough to serve under great leaders ; a sort of
political Front-de-Bosuf.
• • * *
And so Bill is in London ; and no doubt the men in
command there, the men who have come through the
flower-strewn trade routes to political eminence—Eton
and Harrow and Oxford and Cambridge men—will
wonder how an uneloquent, slow-thinking man ever
arrived at Bill’s political altitude. John Burns, the
finest assimilative brain in England, will wonder at
the unassimilative Bill, who has lived for a lifetiu:* in
the atmosphere of statesmanship and never absorbeu
—who still sees the means as through a glass darkly, but
can clearly see the end, none the less.
But the good opinion of Bill will grow—his merits will
be recognised. I have said the worst of him, but much
is left behind—his shrewdness, his kindliness, his friendli-
ness, his rough common-sense, his capacity for sticking
to friends and hating enemies. These and many other
good qualities and amiable weaknesses will make their
due impression in the Islet, and Bill Lyne will be esti-
mated at his true value. He is in a way a statesman—
not one off the top shelf, but, nevertheless, a statesman.
And somehow he has the habit of often achieving better
results than better statesmen do, and there are far lighter
elephants that don’t thread the needle half so accurately,
though they may caper more gracefully while doing it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Capital.
There was a disquieting report in Sydney Tele-
graph last week. Premier Carrdthebs was
credited with saying :
Furthermore, they (Federal Ministers Forrest and
Chapman) discussed with me the points whether, if the
area were reduced to 200 square miles—that area in-
cluding, of course, the water supply—-and if the proposal
to reserve the land for the railway to the coast was
abandoned, the objections of this State to the site would
thereby be removed. I unhesitatingly stated that they
would make the proposition a much more reasonable one,
as the conditions which hedged in the original proposal
for the Dalgety site were such as to be absolutely
impossible.
But there does not seem to have been much cause
for alarm. According to subsequent statements
by John Forrest, he never suggested any such
abandonment of Federal rights. How Joseph
Carruthers and the Telegraph between them
got to the stage at which they dreamed that tale
doesn’t transpire. And it is not of any import-
ance. What is of importance is that no Minister
entrusted with Federal authority should dare to
barter away one atom of the Commonwealth’s
rights in this matter. Better far that the Federal
capital question should be hung up indefinitely
than that such concessions should be made to the
State Frights party in N.S. Wales as would make
it impossible ever to have a fitting capital. Delay
is bad, but an agreement that would kill all
chance of a real national capital would be
disastrous. The Australian capital must be at a
spot where it will have access to the sea. It
should have access through its own territory to
more than one State, for a mean and quarrelsome
Government like that of Carruthers might do
any wickedness in the way of cutting off the capi-
tal’s communication by road and railway with the
outside world if the Federal territory were wholly
surrounded by the territory of N.S.W., and de-
pended wholly on N.S.W. for access to places
outside its own limits. The Federal territory
must be self-contained within itself as regards
water supply and space for the safe treatment of
sewage; it can’t afford to depend on the good
pleasure of Carruthers for these essentials. It
must have ample area for residential and manu-
facturing purposes, and should be of such an area
as to prevent, as far as possible, the unearned
increment arising from the planting of a new city
from slopping over into the pockets of private
landlords outside its limits. Those are the
essentials. A few other conditions, such as good
climate, whilst not absolutely essential, are nearly
so, and at any rate can be given full weight
when there is such a wide area of choice —all
N.S. Wales, except the area within a 100-
miles radius of Sydney, which Reid had
barred. It was an area which voted for him,
and kept him in power for five long (to
friends of honest government they seemed very
long) years, and probably G. Reid reckoned that
it only got what it deserved for its folly. In
pitching upon the Monaro as the ideal spot, the
Federal Parliament acted with obvious wisdom.
In objecting to the site, the N.S.W. Government
was governed by obvious pique and spite, and the
desire to put its fingers to its nose at the Federa-
tion, to distract other people from holding their
noses with their fingers over the N.S.W. land
scandals. It would now be simply disastrous if,
in the vain effort to exhaust the possibilities of
Joseph Carruthers in the way of nasty little
objections, the Commonwealth made concessions
which would kill for all time the idea of a truly
national capital. At all costs such a ruinous
surrender must be prevented.


A Test.
The time has come when State politicians should
be put by the electors to a Federal test. Federalism
versus anti-Federalism should be made an issue of
State politics. The Owe’Sullivan, who, in spite
of his disastrous borrowing policy, has the true
faith in many matters of politics, argues soundly
when he gives as a reason why he can go
into no coalition with Carruthers that that
political insect (phrase ours) is anti-Federal.
We are all Australians now, primarily and princi-
pally, and the success of the Commonwealth is
the most important of all issues that can come up
at any Federal or State election. If a State
Premier has all the State virtues, but is without
faith in Federation, and without a lively desire to
aid it to success, it should avail him nothing.
The Bulletin therefore proposes, as a test for all
candidates in all States, this test question : ‘ ‘ Are
you a good Federalist, and are you prepared to do
all in your power to advance the interests of
Federated Australia, and to sit hard down upon
sour State Frights, local grumblings and jealous
parochialisms ? ” In the event of an unfavorable
answer, the candidate should be opposed, however
sound his views on the parish pump, and the new
road to Kiah, and the new railway to Waitabit.
There is no State issue important enough to justify
the return of an anti-Federalist for any con-
stituency.
Kidston the “Oppressor.”
It already becomes obvious that one of the things
that will be thrown up with great fury against
Premier Kidston at the coming Queensland
election is his surplus. Already the Brisbane
Watt.y Tale and other Philp organs point the
bony and accusing finger at that surplus as an
evidence that Kidston has been grinding the
faces of the poor and tearing money from the
pockets of the oppressed. It is true that Kidston
takes much less money out of the pockets of the
oppressed than Philp did, although he has a sur-
plus, while Philp had huge deficits and went
tearing like a maniac along the road to bank-
ruptcy. Also, Kidston hasn’t had very much
surplus as yet; he had about £14,000 the year
before last, and about £125,000 last year, and
there may be as much as £200,000 this year.
But even if there is a surplus of £300,000 this
year, all the three years’ surpluses put together
won’t have paid off one year of Philp’s dreadful
deficits. There are still £1,000,000 or so of
Philp’s deficits to be liquidated—Treasury bills
that Robert the Awful floated to cover up his
monumental incompetence. Then there are
many millions of wholly unproductive fixed debt
that should be paid off ; and there are railways
and other public works wanted to the tune of
many millions more ; and there is the knowledge
that if bad seasons come the revenue will dry up,
and if Philp comes the expenditure will again
become a raving and irresponsible maniac. The
Premier who, after greatly reducing taxes, would
sacrifice more revenue just because he has a small
credit balance in a good season, when there
is still £1,000,000 deficit to be extinguished,
would be a madman. Nevertheless, Kidston’s
little surplus is becoming quite a favorite
brick to throw at him in the character of
an “ oppressor,” and the people who throw
the building material loudly demand the return
of Philp because he didn’t have surpluses.
Philp dragged more money from the people than
Kiijston does, but he never had surpluses. He
wasn’t even suspected of one surplus. He is
guaranteed never to have one. The Anti-Surplus
party can’t deny that there is a huge accumulated
deficit to be paid off, but it holds that it shouldn’t
be paid, and that Kidston should be sacked for
paying even part of it. The Anti-Surplus party
puts forward Philp as a man who can be abso-
lutely relied upon to let that big deficit slide and
even to add to it, and if Philp gets back to office,
and the British people who hold Queensland’s
shipload of securities hear of the circumstances,
they will naturally feel good. As a sound, reliable
destroyer of a State’s credit, it is hard to think of
anybody—now that Duncan Gillies is dead—
who is in the same street with Philp. Not that
Philp, in a political sense, was ever in a street. A
drain was his natural habitat.
«
The Victorian Butter Agent Bobs Up Again.
One desirable result of the odoriferous Victorian
Butter Commission was the appointment—in
somewhat irregular fashion—of a Butter Experts
Committee which, after being spoken to very
firmly by the co-operative factories, finally
arranged a contract with the White Star, Aber-
deen and Lund lines of steamers for regular
carriage of butter to London at fd. per lb. This
contract lasts till September 30, 1907, but may be
extended or modified on either contracting party
giving six months’ notice. This committee, one
member of which has been for years, and still is,
a Melbourne butter agent, thought so lightly of
its responsibilities, and apparently cared so little
for the interests of the dairy-farmers, that it was
about to conclude a contract at fd. per lb. freight,
when the Government, moved by the department,
interfered, and got the previous rate of fd. a lb.
reduced to §d., as stated. The mail steamers
contract—they took as much as they had room for
at the same rate —lapsed on March 1, and
there is no other arrangement in existence
for the shipping of butter from either Sydney,
Melbourne or Adelaide. Yet on April 2
this charming committee notified the three
shipping companies mentioned that it did
not propose to extend the contract after September
30. There being no other proposal in evidence,
the position is that after September the butter
factories, unless they can make terms meantime,
must hand themselves over to the shipping com-
panies to be dealt with singly, and sweated as
freely as possible, or must put themselves into
the hands of the equally disastrous butter agents.
These committee-men had no authority whatever
from any co-operative or other butter company or
factory to end the shipping contract; they simply
acted “on their own.” They may think they
have done something for which the precious agents
should be grateful; but it is just possible they
have builded better than they knew in the
interests of the co-operative butter makers. For if
arrangements can but be made to cover the six or
twelve months from next September, the Common-
wealth line of mail steamers should then.be run-
ing, and the guarantee of a regular and consider-
able supply of profitable butter cargo will be a
boon and a blessing to it.
♦
Canadian Preference.
Premier Laurier, of Cana'fta, is going to discuss
with our affable Deakin the question of preferen-
tial trade between Canada and Australia, and he
hopes to “arrive at an arrangement.’’ No one
blames Laurier, as a stannch Protectionist, for
attempting to get a certain a-mount of Protection
in outside markets, in addition to effective Pro-
tection in his own; but an examination of the
Commonwealth trade statistics for 1905—the latest
so far available—should be sufficient to show that
there can be nothing in the deal for Australia. Im-
ports of Canadian origin into the Commonwealth
that year represented £379,125, including har-
vesters, £65,014; other agricultural machinery,
£48,883; other machinery, £8281; printing paper,
£86,111; tinned fish, £48,851; apparel and piece
goods, £14,523; and timber, £53,154. The balance
of £54,308 is made up of a variety of items, in-
cluding arms and ammunition, boots and shoes,
carpets, chains, cheese, sewing silks, cottons, etc.,
drugs and chemicals, apples, furniture, flour,
oatmeal, pianos and organs, leather, medicines,
metal manufactures, oils, groceries, whisky, spirit
essences, stationery, and bicycles. Most of the
above items come into competition with Austra-
lian manufactures, and practically all of them are
articles which Australia ought to manufacture,
and any preference which has the effect of in-
creasing such imports from Canada must
necessarily reduce the manufacture of, or the hope
of manufacturing, those articles in Australia.
And what would Australia receive in return?
'ln 1905 Australia only sent Canada locally-pro-
duced goods to the value of £43,288. These con-
sisted almost entirely of raw products ; and Aus-
tralia’s staple exports are mainly articles which
are also the natural products of Canada. There
is, therefore, practically, no market for them
there, as Canada itself produces more than suffi-
cient for its own requirements. The principal
exports of Australian produce to Canada in 1905
were-—tin, £6545; wool, £5459; hides, £4086 ;
onions, £5368; coal, £4049; and frozen meat, £2762.
Any preferential arrangement with Canada would
be entirely of a one-sided character. Canada
with High Protection has built up manufacturing
industries upon such a solid foundation that it is
able to largely compete with Australian manu-
factures in the Commonwealth, on account of the
latter's inadequate Protection. Consequently,
any preference or reduction of duties in Canada s
favor would enable it to expand its exports to
Australia to the detriment and partial ruin of
Australian manufactures. There is probably, how-
ever, not much to fear. Even if Alfred Deakin
were affable again, William Lyne stands behind
him ; and in matters of this kind William has a
habit of getting down to bedrock—which is a very
good place to get when a keen commercial com-
petitor begins to talk prettily about crimson
threads of kinship.
♦
At Sea.
Wnen Lyne and W. M. Hughes left these shores
last month Sydney Telegraph mentioned that
both were “ land-lubbers ” and “ sea-lawyers ” of
a peculiarly contemptible and degraded brand;
Hughes might conceivably know a deep-sea
steamer by sight if he happened to run up against
one in broad daylight (having spent so large a
portion of his career in wandering about harbor
wharves and docks with the object of shooing
capital into Port Jackson), but Lyne could
not boast even that degree of knowledge.
All the other anti-Federal publications followed
suit, and pictured both these impossible politi-
cians in the act of studying the correct method of
manipulating hosepipes, hornpipes, and such
like essential nautical contraptions, as necessary
preliminaries to sitting on a Navigation Confer-
ence. And local Toryism positively shrieked at
the side-splitting conceit. In more serious vein—
“and putting all humor to one side,” as those
journals would naively express it—bitter shame
and humiliation was voiced at the inevitable dis-
grace two incompetent mountebanks like Lyne
and Hughes must bring upon the Commonwealth.
One lonely gleam of light flickered over the dreary
prospect. It shone from the person cf Dugald
Thomson, M.H.R Newspaper readers were
given to understand that were it not for Thom-
son, Tory editors would fall incontinently
on their pens, and perpetrate hari-kari
across the office doormat in a very ecstasy
of patriotic grief. Australia’s honor was
solemnly entrusted to Thomson. It is an appall-
ing thing to have to admit, but up to the present,
if we may judge by the cable messages to hand,
Dugald Thomson, the calm, the perceptive,
the acute, has been, to all intents and purposes,
a calm, perceptive, acute Dummy. With a skill
almost superhuman in its efficacy he has concealed
from the British experts, and from the public
generally, whatever deep acquaintance he has
with the inner ramifications of the shipping
industry. He has suggested nothing, advanced
nothing, initiated nothing; nor even seriously
objected to anything at all. In fact, were it not
that he bursts forth now and again and insists
gently but firmly on concurring with a resolution
of Lyne or Hughes, people here would be prone
to think him dead. Lyne and Hughes, on the
other hand, have been the bosses of the Conference.
And Lyne and Hughes, so abhorrent to Con-
servatism in this part of the world, do not appear
to have terrified or disgusted or inspired with
mirth in the least degree the British experts on
the Navigation Conference, whose opinion the
D.T. valued so highly six weeks ago. As a gene-
ral thing, the resolutions of the two Australian
delegates have been received quite seriously, and
passed unanimously ; and on the few occasions
when things have been otherwise, an amendment
has been added, or three or four words deleted,
and in that form the hideous Socialistic proposi-
tion has gone through. Steadily out of the sea of
recent cabled reports rise two plain facts: (1)
That the shipping experts who were to be so edi-
fied at the spectacle of Thomson addressing his
intellect and experience to the problems of navi-
gation, hardly seem to know that that distinguished
man is alive; (2) that Lyne and Hughes, with all
their defects heavy upon them, and lacking as
they do a knowledge of the proper conduct of
even so much as a mere marlinspike, have “col-
lared” that Navigation Conference as completely
as any two men ever yet “ collared ” a Conference.
It is all very baffling and tiresome, will
these British experts omit to read their Sydney
daily papers ?
The Law and the Maniac.
A little while ago, a small, wizened, rat-faced
man of 25, named Buckingham, appeared before
Acting-Justice Fitzhardinge at the Sydney
Central Criminal Court, charged with a horrible
offence against a little girl six years of age.
Buckingham raised the defence of an alibi , but it
was just the poor, weak sort of an alibi that might
be expected of such a degenerate, and the jury
found that he wasidentical with theotfender, though
having the natural disinclination of juries to hang-
ing people, they brought in a verdict of guilty on
the lesser count of attempted assault, notwithstand-
ing that the whole of the evidence, medical and
otherwise, was against such a finding. In arriving
at this decision, which occupied less than five
minutes, the jury evidently imagined that
Buckingham would receive something approach-
ing the maximum sentence for attempting
outrage on a child who was almost a baby,
and would go to gaol for 15 or 20 years.
Then Buckingham’s record was read, and
showed that out of 11 prior convictions one was
for an offence against a girl of nine, and another,
originally a charge of indecent assault on a child,
had been reduced to one of common assault to
simplify the work of the police. Then A.cting-
JusticeFiTZHAßDiNGEordered him tobeimprisoned
for three and a half years, concurrently with a
sentence of 18 months he was already undergoing.
This means that Buckingham, for his appalling
act of criminal lunacy—an act that would rank
equal with the most fiendish murder, if it were
possible for a sane man to commit it —will be kept
in a safe place for two years extra, and in three
and a half years altogether, he will be free to out-
rage a fourth little girl. In the adjoining court,
at almost the same instant, another man who had
stolen a few medals was sent to gaol for three
years; while, the same week, a woman who
pleaded guilty to stealing a skirt was awarded
four years. Property has to be respected. You
can sell a medal or a skirt, while children are of
no value as personal property since cannibalism
became extinct. The most pitiful thing connected
with this astounding sentence is that the law con-
tinues to treat creatures of the Buckingham type
as normal beings, and leaves it to the will of indi-
vidual Judges, on the one hand, to torture
them for their abnormalities, and, on the other,
to let them loose to commit further horrors,
after serving ridiculously inadequate sentences.
In fact, any sentence, save that of detention in a
lunatic asylum—permanent detention unless a
cure can be effected, and that is hardly ever
possible in such cases—is ridiculously inadequate.
Neither Buckingham nor any other degenerate
like him ever changed his spots in a gaol. The
last man hanged in Victoria for such an offence
committed it within a month after serving a sen-
tence of 20 years for a similar one. The Bucking-
hams of this world are as mad on certain subjects
as the raving maniac who thinks that he is the
Emperor of China, and has a passion for trying to
behead his imaginary subjects.
♦
Australia, when it gets a good Protectionist
tariff to create manufactures, andibreaks up its big
estates to make room for heaps of agriculturists,
and is ready for immigration on a big scale, will
probably find its best supply of new settlers from
the Western Coast of Canada and the U. 9. This
Canadian letter —published in San Frisky Ex-
aminer—is one of the reasons why people will
hustle this way :
It was 41 below zero last night, and at 5.30 this evening is
30 below. I am sittingby afineopen hearth wood fire, in an
also steam-heated room, and still am none too warm. The
first train in four days brought your letter. Since I left
Toronto, on the 15th January, the thermometer has
ranged from 15 below to 50 below, and there is terror in
the hearts of the people of the prairie districts. There is
no fuel and no food in many parts. Railroads are unable
to carry freight. As soon as they are open they are
drifted shut again. Another snow blow, and all rail-
roads in the north-west will be blocked until thawed out
in the spring. All along the line of theC.P.R.R. cattle
and antelope have drifted against the barbed wire fences,
where they freeze and starve to death. At Calgary there
are 50,000 dead carcases. In fact, the ranching business
is ruined. It is feared that thousands of people have
perished in their homesteads. It is shocking to see
the dead and dying cattle and antelope along the
track. Trade is at a standstill. The risk of travel is
very great at present, and will be greater when the snow
melts. You can imagine the discomforts of travel when
the drinking water tank at the end of the car freezes
solid. These conditions have existed since November 15.
Thebe is great anger in pr*duce and other circles
because N.S.W. Works Minister Lee lately
threatened to stop the expenditure of State
money on certain of N.S.W.’s hopeless northern
rivers as soon as the North Coast Kailway is com-
pleted. But unless the North Coast towns will
pay for the dredging of their rivers, or the steam-
ship companies will hoof the bill, what else can
be expected? The Government has pledged
itself, at the earnest request of the district, to
build the North Coast railway. It will have to
do its best to drag enough money out of that line
to pay for interest, working expenses, mainten-
ance, repairs and axle-grease, and the freights
and fares must be built to correspond to these
necessities. The railways have to pay for the
construction and maintenance of their highway.
If the steamboat companies, for whose trade
the northern rivers have been kept open,
or partly open, at immense public expense,
were called upon in future to pay the cost of re-
pairs—breakwaters, dredging, &c.—to their high-
way as an alternative to the abandonment of the
highway, then they would also have to fix their fares
and freights to correspond, and the competition
would be a reasonably fair one between the boats
and the railways. But if the highway of the
Private Enterprise boat is still kept in repair at
the State’s expense, then the Private Enterprise
boat, thus subsidised by the State, will be able to
make a profit while carrying goods at much lower
rates than those the State railway must needs
charge. Consequently, the State railway will be
a dead loss, and the dead loss on the railway,
added to the deader loss incurred in keeping the
rivers open for the benefit of rival carriers, will
make about the deadest loss imaginable. The
N.S.W. northern rivers have been a sink for
public money, and one of the great objects of the
North Coast railway is to end, so far as some of
them are concerned, this hopeless effort to fill up
a quicksand with sovereigns.
»
“ Rifleman ” says a word :
One of the great mysteries of the world is why Labor
parties are so often opposed to the idea of military
training. As history contains no record of any privi-
leged class voluntarily resigning any of its “ rights,'’
one would expect that the party which, in all
countries and under many names, has the one object
in view, would favor a system of training that, in
the day when the privileged classes made their last
stand, as they have always done, behind a military force,
would enable the reformers to meet force with force. A
sad example of the folly of trying to revolushe on popular
lines occurred in Roumania, the other day. A great mob
of peasants, number over a thousand, started out to get
back some of their own from a prince’s country mansion.
They ran into a battery of artillery, and in about four
minutes as many hundreds of them were lying dead.
Against that sort of mob, artillery is frightfully effective.
Against a few 7 score of riflemen who had received sufficient
training to have taught them to scatter and take cover,
that battery would have been powerless. It would have
been crumpled up. The gunners could have been picked
olf by the scattered riflemen even as they were at Laing’s
Nek and Spion Kop, and then the battery might have
been used with considerable effect on the prince’s man-
sion. It w 7 as its ability to lay its hands on some men
who had been trained in the art of war that made it
possible for the English Parliament to hold its end of the
log up against Ciiarlks 1., and to eventually shift one
end of that rather genial tyrant. It was the fact that
every man in the community was a trained rifleman,
accustomed to face fearful odds of Zulus, that made it
possible for the Eoeis to ho’.d out against Imperialism so
long, and even when they went under they did it on
terms—dictated by the rifle—that left them in possession
of somewhere about three-fourths of the land of the
conquered States. The rifle is the modern God of
Battles, and a jealous one at that, and those who
neglect their service to him are, sooner or later,
stamped flat. Note how, in the U.S.A., the plutocracy
is always ready to resort to force, and shoot down people
who show a disposition to meet fraud, legal corruption,
and conspiracy with brute force. The various railroad
companies have, over and over again, employed hired
gangs of riflemen to shoot down the workmen of opposi-
tion companies, and striking employees. Rockefeller
used cannon to batter down the bridges of the indepen-
dent oil men who were trying to take an oil pipe-line into
New York. Carneoie used Pinkerton’s police to shoot
down his striking employees at Homestead. If the
strikers had received some military instruction and been
armed with rifles the Labor movement in the United
States would be a long way in advance of its
present position. In Germany Emperor Bill once
interfered in a Westphalian coal strike. “You
must put your affairs in my hands implicitly, and go back
to wrnrk at once, or I shall not have the slightest hesita-
tion in shooting you down like wild beasts!” he said to
the Union leaders. “ Allow me to inform your Majesty
we w 7 ill do no such thing; and if shooting does start,
Sire, you will find that it will not be all on one side ! ”
said the chief spokesman. And he was right. Every
one of those Westphalian miners was a trained soldier,
and Bill the Emperor recognised the fact, and said no
more about shooting. The miners carried their strike
through to the bitter end and won. It is time the Labor
parties everywhere re-considered this matter.
♦
Now that the little busy insects are buzzing
about religious instruction in State schools, and
threaten to buzz till they get it, listen to what
Victorians said when they had it—not “godless”
Victorians, but the sectarian bosses themselves.
Donald McDonald, Presbyterian minister of
S. Melb., told a Commission, appointed in 1866,
when religious instruction was in vogue: “A
large proportion of our population is sinking
rapidly as regards their position, circumstances
and tone.” Bishop Perry said that “religious
instruction in many of the C. of E. schools is
painfully deficient.” J. O. Symons, Wesleyan
minister, said : “Religious instruction used to be
given in the morning in our Lonsdale-street
school, but many children stayed away; it
affected the average attendance; also, it had
a bad moral effect.” A. M. Henderson, Con-
gregational minister, told the same Com-
mission—“ I have always held as a principle
that, if people are real lovers of religion, they
will extend it themselves and not ask others to do
it. Exclude religion from the public school, as a
school, and you have done no one any injury. To
teach religion is the proper work of the Christian
ministers and the Sunday schools. It is the only
thing they have got to do, and yet they want to
hand their duty over to the public schoolmaster
and get it paid for by the State.” Which last
statement, by the way, hasn’t lost any of its
accuracy through age, and is as good in 1907 as it
was in 1866.
Victorian statist Drake’s 1906-7 wheat-harvest
figures are out, and as usual they show that the
best land in Victoria is being used to run a few
sheep on. The Western District, which includes
nine counties, provides only one, Ripon, where
enough land was under cultivation to be worth
including in the return ; yet that district supplied
the highest average yield in 1905-6 and again last
year. There are 6,359,244 acres in the Western
District, where the State’s best average yield can
be got; yet only 68,087 acres were under cultiva-
tion last year in Ripon, and there was too little in
the other eight Western counties to be worth
mentioning. In the one Mallee county of Kar-
karooc, however, 326,998 acres were reaped; yet
Karkarooc gives an average for the two years of
under 7 bushels—Ripon’s average is 15| bushels.
Thus the farmer is squeezed out on to the edge of
things, where he sometimes gets a poor harvest
and often gets none ; while the squatter runs his
sheep on the land that would give a good wheat
harvest practically every year.
Abrawd!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a land of milk and honey
That’s by every virtue blessed ;
Its industries are wonderful,
Its products are the best,
Its men and manufactures
You can hear us loud belaud,
When we talk about the country
That we always call Abrawd !
We ne’er can hope to do a thing
As well as they do there ;
So what’s the use of trying, as
Some persons here declare ?
They’ll give up all those thoughts when we
Sufficiently have jawed
Of how we should depend upon
That lovely spot, Abrawd !
We tell them of its progress,
And we make an awful fuss
About the people there, until
They come to live with us.
It’s marvellous their consciences
Remorse has never gnawed,
For coming to Australia
From their native land—Abrawd.
As we want to fight no battles,
Nor provide for any wars,
We will have a fleet from England
To protect our empty shores ;
And we’ll give it some bluejackets
To be diligently “ hawed ”
By some officahs imported
From the place that’s called Abrawd.
And nothing need we make or grow
While ships are coming full
Of cloth that’s made in Hamburg
Out of Argentina wool.
We’ll nothing do but hang about
The coastline, thanking Gawd
That all we wear and eat and drink
Is carried from Abrawd.
Great times are coming, when we’ll bring
Our onions from Japan ;
Our harvesters from Yankeeland ;
Our shirts from Hindustan.
When our boys are tending harems,
And our girls are daily pawed
By the multi-colored millions
That we’ll welcome from Abrawd.
’Tis sad the world is still so small,
Or we might charm our hearts
By sending up to Venus for
Some bright and frisky tartg ;
While beer from far Uranus would
Adorn our city bars,
And around a ring from Saturn
We would watch some pugs from Mars.
But still we’ll do our best with what
We have, and so we laud
Each man and thing
And thought they bring
From what we call Abrawd.
n.s.w.
MILTON MAOGHEGOR.


For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 393
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison's ph'ungi >y!is and products.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal.. “ Raffles.”
Criterion “ The Village Blacksmith.”
Palace “ Peter’s Mother.”
Twoli Rickards' Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
J^ ONDI “Wonderland.”
Exhibition Ground.... Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Musgrove’s Grand Opera Co.
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal. “Revenge.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
4,
A violin virtuoso, Leopold Premyslav, has
arrived in Sydney from India, not in the manner
of a heavily-mopped and well-advertised eccentric
whom latter-day Philistines crowd to gaze upon
as a zoo. curio, but as a rigidly classical Con-
tinental musician, thoroughly well versed in his
art—unostentatious, unaffected, and hitherto
unknown so far as we are concerned. Just like
Hugo Heermann, and similarly acceptable ! But
while Heermann was an extremely well-finished
and elderly professor, Premyslav is a young artist
not far advanced beyond the budding stage, and
if he does not at times exhibit the same complete
mastery over the violin, there is any amount of
scope for the small allowances that have to be
made on his behalf. Premyslav is on a globe
encircling expedition. On the 10th and 18th inst.
he gave two concerts at the Centenary Hall in
conjunction with Laurence Godfrey Smith, our
latest pianist. To purists, the programmes were
unexceptionable. The domain of solo instru-
mental music traversed was not too exclusive;
the items were well arranged, so as to avoid any
approach to ponderosity, while sparing vocal
allowances were conceded by the attractive
Mrs. Fitzgerald, with Papa Sykes casually looking
in as accompanist.
• * * 9
The audience which assembled at the first
concert was so enthusiastic concerning everything
that the encore nuisance emphatically asserted
itself, and the programme was unduly prolonged
for half-an-hour. Premyslav’s chief performance
was the Mendelssohn Concerto, which he gave
with remarkable skill, though he might possibly
have made more of the tender Andante
movement. His technique in rapid fiddling is
characterised by ease and grace, he has a full tone
in the upper register of his instrument, and his
unfailing harmonics are as trivial circumstances.
In a collection of four short pieces, introduced by
a Humoresque by Dvorak and terminating with
the Perpetuum Mobile of Ries, he was singularly
effective. He concluded the programme with
Wieniawski’s difficult transcription of Gounod’s
“ 1 aust,” and altogether made an agreeable and
wholesome impression. Laurence Godfrey excelled
himself in brilliancy as well as lightness and deft-
ness of touch at the piano, but he did not look
romantic during sinuous bodily antics or finger-
ing affectations when the caressing mood pos-
sessed him. Eccentricities which are not the
innate possessions of the individual may be
safely dropped without any fear that they
will, be missed, and Lawrence Godfrey, if
he is wise, in time may relapse into an
honest antipodean style which will be in-
finitely more adapted to his own peculiar per-
sonality. His main contributions were Schu-
mann’s “ Faschingisschwank,” a varied theme by
Paderewski, and some trifles, winding up with a
brilliant Octave study by Leschetizky. Mrs.
Fitzgerald gave songs by Schubert, Strauss, and
Lambert. At the second concert the new
violinist was heard in Bruch’s G Minor Concerto,
three short classics, pieces by Tchaikowsky and
Hubay, and the “Witches Dance” of Paganini.
On the piano Brahms and Liszt Rhapsodies were
given along with MacDowell’s “ Woodland
Sketches.”
* * *
“ Peter’s Mother,” presented on Saturday
at the Palace for the first time in Australia,
starts out with talk of a surgical operation which
Sir Timothy Crewys, J.P., of Barracombe House,
has to undergo. So it comes aptly after “ Little
Mary.” which dealt with the question of innards,
and “ Dr. Wake’s Patient,” whose genesis was the
binding-up by a medical man of a girl’s wounded
arm. “Peter’s Mother” first came before the
public as a novel by Mrs. Henry de la Pasture, and
it has the disadvantages of most plays carved from
books. The design, in this instance, is not varied
enough—no high or low reliefs, which make
for effect. The story ripples on like a
brook in a charming half-light, and without a
suggestion of boulders or falls. In plain English,
the play lacks action. But, even so, it is a pretty
human document, writ on hand-made paper, grey
in tone, with faint-red ink, and the family crest
and motto of the Crewys at the top. It
is exactly the kind of human document the great
suburban eye of England loves to see unrolled.
There is the politely-crushed wife and mother;
there is the polite crusher, husband and father;
there is the fearfully, fatly respectable, smug
widow; and the seventy-nine-articles-ridden old
maid. Last, but for all that, first, there is Peter—
and no one kicks him ! This writer longed to
take off a heavy shoe and throw it at Peter, but
feared to kill a fiddler (who played really well)
instead, and perhaps never get the shoe back.
The influence of Pauline doctrine lies like a bale
of wet sheepskins over the majority of the char-
acters, and if there is one doctrine Britain loves it
is the Pauline.
* * * *
Stiff, grey old Crewys, J.P., dies under
the operation, whatever it was. Perhaps it was
the injection of real blood into his veins. His
vital supply of sour, skim milk may have run out.
Anyhow, he goes out, just as his only child Peter,
aged eighteen, is setting off for the Boer war.
Lady Mary Crewys, who is some twenty years
younger than her poker-like lord, is a sweet,
patient, lovable, and lovely creature, with a
capacity for being trampled on. A real Pauline
female. But she wants to rush away to South-
ampton to see her cub off, and the only way she
can be detained is to tell her of the impending
operation—one of the weak spots of the piece. The
news impresses her no more than if Poker-Back
was to get his corns cut. Yet she is devoted to him.
After the demise two years stretch between the
next act. A large adiposey K.C. named John
Crewys, who has been on the scene from the
beginning, and Lady Mary—her hair is now
fluffed and her gown frilly—are shown to be in
love with one another. But the thought of the
chip of the old block farm-burning in South Africa
restrains her from blotting out the memory of the
drab past with a rose-pink future. Peter returns
with but one arm. He is wept over by his
mother, cheered by the tenants, and he asks
where are the stuffed birds and wax flowers that
used to be in the hall. He finds fault with
his mother’s hairdressing, and wishes nothing
were altered that his father liked. He
wishes to mould himself into a replica of his
father, and talks and acts and looks as if his
charming young mother was now to be a cross
between a caretaker and a granny. Peter reminds
one of Sir Willoughby Patterne in “ The Egoist”
—only he is not so gentlemanly, and hasn’t any
brains. He frisks up to London after his old
sweetheart, Sarah, comes back joyously excited
by his successful wooing, and tells his mother she
can go and live in the old damp dower house with
the two old dry aunts. He is awfully shocked
when he learns she wants to travel and
live her own life. It’s not proper—his
father would not have approved. But it
ends with the effect of a soothing lotion. Adi-
posev John Crewys and Sarah tell Peter some of
their private opinions about him, and the former
marries Lady Mary, and the subdued and (ap-
parently) enlightened Peter weds Sarah.
* * * *
Lady Mary Crewys is Miss Day’s best
part up to date. It fits her and she fits into its
character drawing without a crease. Mr. Flem-
ming is a most effective K.C., and his love-
making is as ponderous as a hippopotamus,
and as dignified as that of a leader of the
Bar. Mr. Carter Pickford is Peter, and he
does the horrid young man admirably. Miss
Gordon Lee is red-haired for her Sarah
r6le, and in spots she is a little virago. Also,
in spots she acts well, but her fatal speak-
ing voice is incapable of sympathetic inflection.
Miss Bessie Major as the fat, sad widow, is
ripping, and Mr. Norman McKeown looked old
Poker-Back until he moved, and the beholder
beheld a youthful man under the old disguise.
“Peter’s Mother” is in for a long run and good
business.
* * ifc *
The good and large Easter bill is still in
force at the Tivoli, and while waiting for a change
to turn up The Bulletin is giving itself a day
off to consider the question whether a theatrical
critic can be a Christian.
** # *
“ Mother Goose ” pantomime, at Her
Majesty’s, has laid one new gag, to the effect that,
“Baffles” being illegal in N.S. Wales, Julius
Knight is in danger of Darlinghurst; for the rest,
the show remains just the same as it was a week
ago, and continues to draw the same crowded
houses.
LITTLE MAY MARTIN, of Wirth's Circus.
Champion contortionist of the world.
May Martin, the amazing child whose
portrait of herself, tied in a knot, appears in this
issue, is probably the world’s champion contor-
tionist. She is 10 years of age, and is an Aus-
tralian native, having first played with the tail of
the domestic cat at Rockhampton (Queens-
land). Her father was a French Creole,
and her mother a Sydney blonde. The
father was the first apprentice Wirth Bros, had,
and they still affirm, although he has not been in
their employment for years, that he is the only
man who could do a handspring and a double
forward—whatever that may mean. Anyhow,
little May’s luck is good. Mrs. Martin, whose
name she bears, is one of the Wirth sisters,
and she has adopted the clever contortionist,
and educates her herself while travelling. The
youngster is circus mad, and all the time she is not
actually forced to attend lessons she is to be found
tying herself in knots in an obscure portion of the
big tent, or galloping on bare-backed horses while
the groom is seeing a man about an elephant and
otherwise attending to the business of keeping the
show going. The portrait shows May in one of
her restful positions—loafing, in fact.
#* * &
“Raffles ” still flaunts its exciting story of
an amateur burglar who was a demon bowler, and
therefore all his sins were forgiven him. The
public likes the story, being interested in both
sports—burglary and cricket; and the fine stage-
setting and management helps the piece to success.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion the “ Village Black-
smith ” is still leading a virtuous and vigorous life,
and successfully wrestling with the world, the
flesh and the devil. No change of bill is hinted at.
*# * *
Wonderland City will have tor its next
and last sensation the Lost Girl. On Saturday
night, the Girl will be lost in the multitude at the
City, and it will be up to the citizens to find her,
aided by the description the management will
publish.
* * # ¥&
West’s Pictures are inexhaustible. For
three hundred and sixty-five nights, less the
Sundays, fresh films are unrolled and draw the
eye of the audience. Saturday found a Scottish
set of films—Bonnie Scotland, its bluebells and
lakes and the Kyles of Bute, and the King walk-
ing in the grounds of Balmoral. To this last the
audience exclaimed “That’s him,” and roared
with joy its own keen perception. The Brescians
are as usual, which is good. The three Martin-
engos and Mr. Chenoweth were the performers.
The big Wirth Circus is in its last week.
Had the proprietors consulted a reliable fortune-
teller, or trustworthy old lady with a familiar spirit
given to telling the truth, they would have
arranged subsequent dates differently. They
have stayed longer than they expected,
and have found good business doing all
the time. The latest novelty they are tak-
ing away with them is a troupe of full-
blooded Maoris, who do a fearsome war-dance
and go through the handwork of cutting the
whiteman to mincemeat. “DeathtothePakeha”
is the refrain of their hideous row. The Sydney
youth declined to take Tawhiao seriously, and
made remarks about fried fish. Ho seemed to
think the Maori and the Dago were long lost
brothers, or something of that sort. The latest
high jump, at time of writing, was Mrs. Stace’s
6ft. 6iin. on Lady Morton. Secretary Somers
again measured the height. The mare cleared it
at the second attempt.
** * *
The unwavering rush for seats at Mel-
bourne Princess’s is viewed with approval by all
good citizens, who think that a moderate fond-
ness for high-grade music is better worth culti-
vating in a young and vigorous country than its
somewhat savage appetite for meat and muffins.
Melbourne, for the most part, seems determined
to make the best of Musgrove’s Opera Co., giving
each production in turn the benefit of the doubt,
where a doubt arises, and remembering that a
manager’s first duty to his show is to make
it profitable in the sordid sense of the word.
Two additional operas came into operation last
week. As regards “Tannhauser,” there was no
reasonable doubt whatever. In no respect bril-
liant, the performance was very effective at
all points, from the overture to the final tableau,
where the weary heroine lay at rest upon a
mediaeval stretcher, and the heavyweight hero
died of penitence, assisted by nervous shock.
Orchestra, principals, chorus, and scenic acces-
sories achieved a highly respectable success in
“ Tannhauser,” a notable feature of it, as
compared with the production of years ago,
being the German stage management. The
chorus ladies of yore were unnaturally horrified
when the recent arrival from Yenusberg twanged
his little harp— i.e., pretended to twang it whilst
a member of the orchestra did the real business—
and sang of Love’s physical delights. At a signal
from the conductor, they used to press their blush-
ing fingers to their ears and flee from the silly
Tournament of Song like leaves before a whirl-
wind. This time they merely appear to get
shocked for propriety’s sake, and it is duty, rather
than inclination, that draws them away. And
out of the corner of their individual eye they
look at Tannhauser as though they could
have wished him to explain his sinful meaning
even more fully. Karl Studemund, the tenor
with a large comprehensive figure, acts the name
part better than his flat-toned voice can sing it,
and there are moments when one can be so far
uplifted by the performance in general as toover-
ook his corpulency: Much of this uplifting is
due to Miss Sara Anderson, who gives a sweet
interpretation of the Elizabeth part. There are
two Wolframs in the company, both of them
pleasing, and two Venuses, neither of whom can
disguise the fact that Wagner had no genius
for writing amorous music. The goddess’s
notion of a love strain sounds dull enough to
drive any young man to purity. But what is dull
in the opera and lacking in the performance
amounts to very little when the whole work comes
to be considered. “Tannhauser,” like “Lohen-
grin,” displays Musgrove’s German Opera Co. at
its best, and a few extra performances of those
incredible musical narratives would be welcome
departures from the original plan of campaign.
* * * «
“ Carmen,” staged on Saturday, and due
again on Thursday and Saturday of this week,
has been more adequately done by previous com-
panies, except in minor parts and sundry small
details. The Carmen (Miss Heinze) has dramatic
force and intelligence, but it is one thing to be an
impressive Ortrud in “Lohengrin,” and quite
another thing to be a gay, irresistible, young
Spanish minx from a cigarette factory. Miss
Heinze is heavy on her feet, and her easy
conquest of two soldiers and a bull slayer must
be more a matter of luck than fascination.
The tremolo tenor (Oeser), Miss Barckow,
Emil Greder (the most versatile actor in the
co.), Miss Stoller, Eritz Rupp, and Mohwinkel
are more or less at home in the other principal
parts. Rupp, the baritone comedian, is a “new
sort of toreador,” a hearty, manly, and rather
commonplace man in velvet, who scored an
amazing success on the first night by singing his
introductory solo in English, with a violent Ger-
man accent, all the rest of the music for the prin-
cipals being sung in honest Deutsch. The treble
encore given to Rupp suggested that a large
section of the audience was rejoiced to hear a
very familiar air sung in the dear old language of
Carlton and Fitzroy, where the footballers come
from.
** * *
“0.K.”: When Ada Ward opened her
Melbourne season in her popular character of the
Converted Actress, I jumped to the natural con-
clusion that she had come out under engagement
to J. C. Williamson for the purpose of booming
the alleged wickedness of the Stage in the first
place, and of getting herself re-converted by
Miss Tittell Brune in the second place. But
after reading a report of “ Miss Ada Ward’s
Life Story,” as she told it to the congrega-
tion at Wesley Church the other night (Is. admis-
sion, and hundreds turned away), I am convinced
that J.C.W. has no hand in the business.
Ada’s latest yarn has too many variations to
have been delivered by arrangement with any-
one who remembers her as an autobiographist of
yore. She worked the life story game long before
she left the sinful profesh. Ada’s present story
is not what it used to be when she published it on
the back of the flimsy, colored programme at the
old Alexandra Theatre (Melbourne) what time
she was “ starring,” with poor results, in 1888. I
find that in her latest Life Story—
She also told how in South Africa another man, who
was a good actor, made love to her, was refused, but per-
sisted in accompanying her rather surreptitiously in the
same boat to Australia, whom she eventually married in
Tasmania, who was good to her, and whose relatives at
home received her with open arms. She did not fully
love that man, but he cared for and advised her to adopt
a new and better mode of life. Pursuing, however, her
own wayward course, she was again in Australia, playing
in Adelaide, whilst he was settling certain business affairs
of his own in South Africa. He was expected from
South Africa by the next boat. “I was playing Juliet.
I was on the stage when they brought to me. a telegram.
They asked, ‘ Shall we let the curtain down whilst you
read it?’ ‘No,’ I replied,‘it will keep until I go off.’
In the dressing-room afterwards I read the telegram, and
it was—‘ Your husband died in the morning, and was
buried in the afternoon.’ He had died of the dreadful
South African fever. ... I did not do as other women.
I kept my grief locked up in my heart, and played
out my part. Although I had not loved the man, strange
to say when I had lost him a great, mad, passionate
love for him came into my heart.”
But in turning up her previous Life Story I dis-
cover serious discrepancies in matters of detail.
Liet the 19-year-old programme speak :
At Cape Town she caine across one who was to exercise
a grand influence on her life. Mr. Hugh Fisher an accom-
wpUhhe f rt ' St and a^ r of ab . iUt y. Played lead, and did so
w ell he was engaged to continue his performances. He
was a handsome man, fell desperately in love with the
wl lant A s ! r) ’ aild , wished to marry. Miss Ward hung
in Australia, she was again the heroine of
hut the hard work told upon her, health failed,
and the footlights were forsaken. Mr. Fisher was the
best of nurses, and brought the sick one back to health,
when she became his wife, and found him the truest and
best of men Returning to London, she played at the
Surrey but illness coming on her husband, they went to
South Africa, where Mr. Fisher found his old position.
* U « v!f “I o ® BB returned, and the brave actress had
to light for both. Distress came, notwithstanding her
ceaseless efforts, and she had to take an offer for Eng-
land. Here Mr. Wilson Barrett, that good and gracious
actor, engaged her to play with Mme. Hodieska. The
piece failed, but Miss Ward so pleased Mr. Barrett he
kept her on, and she continued playing at the Court and
Princess’s, the scenes of Barrett’s grand efforts for art.
Having saved money, Miss Ward returned to her husband
in South Africa. Coming home one night from a full
house and a great success, she found a letter to say that
he was dead. Thus faded from her life a light true and
noble. She went on to San Francisco, where letters were
waiting to announce that her mother had died the same
day as her husband!
In the interests of Art, the new story should be
made to harmonise with the old one, and the
death of mother should be feelingly referred to.
A converted actress needs a long memory.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, the woes of Walter
Baker are still being intensified (for thoughtful
observers) by several harrowing scenes of comic
relief incidental to the Romantic Military Melo-
drama, entitled “Revenge.” All the people who
wander around the throne of King Somebody—his
name and kingdom are not stated on the pro-
gramme—will keep on acting in defiance of prob-
ability for one more week, or even longer, but a
revival of “ The White Heather ” is promised by
Bland Holt, and, for the sake of the estimable
drama in store, the present scribe will drop an
explosive tear into his inkpot and blind himself
to the follies of the present production.
** * *
The clergy of any denomination are
cordially invited by manager Williamson to come
along in their doth of righteousness and godly
head-gear and accept the courtesy of Her
Majesty’s Theatre during the present week in
order that they may utter “a fair and impartial
expression of opinion ” as to the strongly moral
character of “Parsonful.” The cordial invita-
tion (which is doubtless quite as warm as
the red hot cross in the play) doesn’t
ask for the expressions of opinion to be
pulpit utterances, hut the suggestion to that
end seems pretty broad, therefore it is to be
hoped, in the interests of business, that all the
shepherds in the district will give “ Parsonful” a
chance, and will take for their texts on Sunday
next, “Klingsor said unto the woman, ‘Disrobe’.”
A sudden outbreak of sermons on the subject of
how Kundry took some of her clothes off would do
the management of Her Majesty’s a world of good.
Nothing is so attractive to sincere Christians as an
opportunity to blush.
## * *
“Merely Mary Ann,” as a Wednesday
matinee hill, is not more convincing, nor any
better suited to Miss Tittell Brune, than when
Douglas Gerard played the hero of Zangwill’s
comedy. With Kingston simulating artistic
hysteria in the part where the younger man was
Jess obviously unnatural, the result is as poor as
could be expected.
sfc * *
Two new “turns” from beyond the seas
will arrive at the Opera House this week, and if
their merits are in keeping with their poster pic-
tures the Rickards programme is about to receive
some valuable additions.
*
Comic opera has found Adelaide in a
particularly appreciative mood, and the Royal
has been packed every evening. “The Spring
Chicken ” is going beyond the one week which is
generally regarded as a safe limit in the little city.
It was probably very funny indeed in French,
but the adapter has had to knock put much
of the humor in making it fit for the na-
tional idea of what is allowable. One motive
after another is taken up, and dropped in
evident dread of what it might logically
lead to. In particular, there is one unexplained
episode between a low-necked lady and an old
musician (never again heard of) which is quite
meaningless as it stands. The last half-act “lets
down” the whole show badly, but the rest is
brisk and exhilarating. The music is always
tuneful, and the words are unexpectedly clever.
The dairy business has enriched the lan-
guage by the addition of two dictionary words—
“coward’’and “bully”—and innumerable slang
expressions.
Dear B.—l notice that the capitalistic
press of Australia can scarcely express its disgust
with the San Francisco unions which are utilising
the labor conditions to the best advantages of
their members. Of course the good capitalist
never seizes on any opportunity of turning the
misfortunes of a community to the swelling of his
dividends. By the way, it was not the Labor
unions that charged preposterous rates to the
wretched refugees who were seeking to leave the
ruined and flaming city by steamer, was it ?—D.
Dear Sir, —Father arrived from the Easter Show, in
Sydney' to-day, and a pretty sketch the old man looks.
He has got a black eye and a lump knocked off his boko.
Somebody stood on Ills belltopper whilst he had a fight.
I guess he won’t be fit for work for a week or two. You
know he is dead gone on that Tyree Spray, so nothing
must do but a trip to Sydney to see Tyree and give him
a few points. He was engaged for a week as salesman at
the ground. A big' hoarding was put up for the old man
to show how the machine could whitewash a rough wall
at the rate of forty yards in eight minutes. My word ;
there was a big crowd round. The old man got so excited,
that when the timekeeper called time, he flourished the
hose over the onlookers, and in less than a second he had
whitewashed the bally lot; you should have seen them
perform, but they couldn’t get near the old ’un, the
whitewash kept them off. Well, after they had been
scraped down, father gave a demonstration with oil paint
—time, forty' y'ards in twelve minutes. Then he was put
on to some tall trees about thirty feet high—time, six
minutes per tree. He got so interested in an argument
with one of the crowd that he sprayed a young couple
with the oil and resin wash, by' accident, result, more
fight. He showed it spraying molasses on cow’ feed, dis-
infecting the pig yards, putting out fires, killing weeds
and scrub at Is. 6d. per acre, spraying sheep and cattle,
washing carts, and a lot of other uses. He explained that
the carbide cost one farthing for every two gallons
sprayed. He kept the office blokes booking orders as fast
as they could write. I think Tyree was so satisfied with
the old man that he is going to fit him up with a travelling
exhibit to stump the country. He is bound to get orders,
but if he gets the bits knocked off him at the same rate,
there won’t be much left of father in six months. Please
tell your friends to write to Tyree Ltd., 314 George-street,
Svdnev, for full particulars. No more, Yours &c., BILL
WILLIAMS.*


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
From Brisbane, too, describing the “civic
reception ” of the Japanese training fleet:—
It was a significant fact that every one of the officers
had with him an official notebook, containing sketch
plans of Moreton Bay and Brisbane River, and with these
they compared notes among themselves.
There is nothing to fear from using Cham-
berlain’s Chough Remedy. It is safe and sure.
For Is. 6d.*
To be Published on MAY 1st.
ORDER NOW, AND MAKE SURE
OF GETTING IT.
The Lone Hand’s first issue is now in the
hands of the binders. It is a bulky volume of
182 pages, every page packed to the limit
with good things. The odd corners are
filled with bright epigrams and witty sentences.
The ideal has been sought (following The
Bulletin example) of making the most of every
inch of space. At the same time, care has been
taken of the readers’ eyes. (With 100,000 Aus-
tralasian eyes to please, that had to be considered.)
The smallest type in The Lone Hand is a shade
larger than the largest in The Bulletin. Withal
it will give two days’ good reading to the average
purchaser. To give a rough idea of the close
“packing” of The Lone Hand, the “Judicious
Thief” section, which isn’t counted in with
the index of contents, contains 13 pieces of
verse, three articles, one story, and 30
paragraphs. The main body of The Lone Hand
contains 88 illustrations, nine short stories, a rich
collection of verse, several literary reviews, a
wide range of special articles, a strong editorial
section, to which Edward Dyson, Alice Muskett,
and the Editor contribute, and some score or
more of epigrammatic paragraphs. You will find
the whole range of interesting reading from the
profound “ review ” article to the sharp, vivid,
sensational story.
The idea of bringing Australian readers into
close direct touch with the thought of Europe is
new with The Lone Hand. In the first number
not the least interesting articles will be those
from our Parisian contributors.
The Lone Hand cannot claim originality in
undertaking the exposure of medical and other
frauds; but it hopes to get a verdict from its
readers that its treatment of the subjects handled
is more thorough, honest and fearless than Aus-
tralia has been accustomed to.
As already explained, The Lone Hand is not
going to strive for a casual circulation. The
policy of sensational advertising of fake “features”
will not be followed. It wants to make 50,000
friends and to keep them.
You can only make absolutely sure of getting
The Lone Hand by ordering NOW, either
direct to this office or to your nearest newsagent.
The issue will be large, but so, to all appearances,
will be the demand. Make sure of your copy by
subscribing now. Send 12s. for a year’s subscrip-
tion, post free, to the office or to the nearest
news-agent.
InEfcNEflflNB
214 George Street.
Sydney* Australia.
How silly the discussion as to whether
Campbell-Bannerman should preside at the
Imperial Conference. The only presiding influence
worth considering is D.C.L. Whisky, which dis-
penses goodwill and common-sense as honey
dispenses sweetness. With a bottle of D.C.L. on
the Conference board anyone might preside and
be a complete success —provided that he passed the
bottle.*
Acting-Prime Minister Forrest came to
Sydney, the other day, “to settle the Federal
Capital difficulty in an amicable discussion with
Mr. Oarruthers.” But Bigjohn found, on closer
acquaintance, that Carruthers wasn’t a large,
comprehensive statesman, who could “ discuss
amicably ” —he was only an insect who buzzed
discordantly with one little parochial note. This
is the way the little buzz impressed the big
man:—
Objection is taken to a provision being inserted that
access to the sea should be reserved to the Federal
Government from the capital site, and also to the
Victorian border. These seem to me such reasonable
conditions as not even to require stating. Surely no one
will be found to argue or to maintain that the Common-
wealth Government should not be given the right of
holding communication from the Federal City with the
sea, or with an adjoining State. One would think that
the Federal Government and the Federal City were to be
walled in by the Government of the State in which the
Capital was situated, and that no access was to be
allowed without the State’s permission. To me such a
contention is so un-Federal, so unreasonable, and so
foolish that really I cannot understand anyone desiring
to put it forward. The Federal City will belong to
Australia, and no State should have any right whatever
to prevent outlet from it, or inlet to it, either from the sea,
or from the adjoining State. Ideas of this sort seem to
me like parochialism and narrowness gone mad.
In ordering the household supplies, don’t
forget Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It never
fail in cases of croup.*
Every Week, Bairnsdale (Vic.), ll/3/’07,
contains this : —
Working the Oracle.— The Sydney Bulletin, one
time the most radical of journals, has of late displayed
much venom towards the Labor party. The reason for
the change of front is that Mr. David Syme, of the Age,
has purchased a controlling interest in The Bulletin.
True Liberals will therefore know in future what estimate
to place upon any article affecting the Laborites which
from time to time appears in our Sydney contemporary.
Dog doesn’t eat dog, or The Bulletin would
ask at the point of a writ (what it now asks as a
courtesy) the Bairnsdale paper to correct a gross
untruth. David Syme has not a penn’orth of
interest in The Bulletin. All the proprietors
of The Bulletin work for The Bulletin. If
this paper made a “call” of its staff, it could
close the front door on all the proprietary.
This notion that nothing in a big way can
and should be done in Australia without borrow-
ing the money is, after all, a comparatively new
disease —it came in with the boom. In 1886, just
before the boom set in, S. Australia appointed a
Commission to go into the question of a Trans-
continental railway; and ex-Treasurer Simpson
Newland, as chairman, reported that it ought to
be built, but “should not be constructed out of
loan money.” But when the boom started S.
Australia, like the rest, dashed its good resolu-
tions into the coal-scuttle.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Roland Hogue, a son of the H.S.W. Chief Secretary, is
lately stepping into good parts with the Royal Comic
Opera Co.
Perhaps the most interesting part of Ada Ward’s Life
Story was the part she left out. “ She accepted invita-
tions to champagne suppers, went to races, betted, and
soon.” It is the particulars of the “soon” we’d like
to hear.
Ernest W. Hastings, American actor, and brother of
Cuyler, the cold, calm person who put the burning cigar
on the mantelpiece, was recently killed in a railway
collision near Omaha (U.S.A.). He was one of the best
of the younger leading men of the American stage, and
was only 34 when Private Enterprise railway management
cut his career short.
Those actresses who rise to protest in such pathetic
dead earnest against Ada Ward’s statement that “Ro
actress can be a Christian ” may, after all, have missed
the point. Perhaps Ada only meant that no one could
be such an actress as she was and be a Christian.
Announced in a London paper that Edna May will
write on “Love letters I have received.” Pretty sure
the lady won’t tell of any real love letters, if she’s had
them.
An English failure, now freezing nightly with William-
son in Australia, is very wrathful against this country
and its people. Coming off the stage the other night
after the excellent round of silence that followed her
song, she remarked, “ I wish I’d never come out to this
convict country, and its convict people.”
Yankee pug Jack Johnson will, it is announced, marry
a white wife and settle down in Australia. Under the
circs., it would be interesting to learn how Mr. Johnson
was admitted to the Commonwealth. Did he pass the
dictation test, and enter triumphantly as a full-blown ebon
candidate for Australian citizenship, or was he, like
Merzouk, and other colored athletes, who previously
showed here, allowed to come in under an exemption
certificate, issued conditionally on his subsequent de-
parture ?
“Lucifer”: “Parsifal” possesses some dignity as a
legend, but this thing of the Rev. E. Hillhouse Taylor is
rather a deformed nursery fable, and its fleeting success
on the stage is achieved by effective pictures, magnifi-
cent dressing, rather than by any beauty of narrative. It
would appear that the Rev. E. Mountain-hut Taylor has
aneyefoi the flesh, while preaching of the soul. The
Garden of Temptation is a feast of fleshly voluptuous-
ness, pink warmth in tights, sinuous, twining limbs, and
Parsifal —six feet of ridiculousness in silver paper.
Indeed Parsifal is scarcely impressive clutching
his sword like a Salvarmy flagpole what time Kundry
and company wave the rounded and sinful limb.
Yea, the Rev. E. Summit-crib Taylor has given a dull
adaptation of a doubtful story that Wolfram von Eschen-
bach filched from some mysterious being named Riot
some seven or eight centuries back. However, why the
humorous, grinning goblin in the first scene of Act 1., as
if the piece was a “romantic mystery” pantomime?
Why the red hot cross ? And those skulls in the crypt of
Klingsor’s castle, like the carved turnips with which we
were wont to play ghost in our youth ! And the spear
trailing across the roof of the Grail Temple was cheap
stage cra't spoiling the picture. Yet, let it be said that
the fall of rice from Heaven or thereabouts during the
marriage of Amfortas and Kundry is masterly, simply
masterly. One feels that Parsifal should close the ser-
mon by spreading forth his hands and saying, “ Let
there be rice over all the land 1 ”
Melbourne is just now afflicted —cursed—infected—in-
fested—by Three Converted Kanakas. They are absolutely
the biggest Religious Draw in the city, and secretaries of
Endeavor Unions, Anti-Smoking Societies, Social Muck-
Rakers, etc., hunt them as violently as people with
a foundation-stone hunt John Madden. The three black
brethren are to be found at Cathedral mission meetings,
in front seats at Ada Ward’s lectures, and at the Talks to
Business Men which a weary person named Urquhart is
propounding daily in Oollins-street. The trio of sooty
Tommies are having more mixed drinks in religion than
they ever had in their lives before. All good Christians
love the nigger—African or Polynesian. They love him
because he is a cheap slave on a plantation—and slavery
is sanctioned by Holy Writ.
Mrs. Tom Fitz Gerald, when last heard from, had been
doing good business with her new circus in India, but her
health was not too good, and she thought of shipping the
show to Australia at an early date, provided that quaran-
tine regulations would admit of the horses being landed.
Last year Mrs. Fitz. failed in her attempt to land some
Victorian horses from India at the port of Melbourne, but
as a set-off to her disappointment she got a vague
promise that the Vic. Lands Department would grant
a renewal of the lease of the Fitzgeralds’ Circus build-
ing site, to which the heirs and assigns of Tom
and Dan have something more than a sentimental
claim. It now appears that Premier Bent and co. will
neither renew the expired lease nor let the ground to
anyone who would maintain the old Circus building as a
place of public gatherings. It isn’t the circus business
they object to, nor the Sunday evening concerts. The
idea is to “ queer the pitch’’for political meeting pur-
poses, inasmuch as the building has been used of late
years as a hall of Democracy and wicked Socialism, where
the speakers stated unpleasant truths re Bent and his
Government. Some weeks ago the Lands Department
invited tenders for “ the right to permissive occupancy ”
of the land, which the FitzGeralds rescued from desola-
tion, but the first tenders must have been distasteful to
the Minister, seeing that he set them aside and called for
more. Judging from which Ministerial breach of faith,
it is practically and scandalously certain that the afore-
said promise to Mrs. Fitz was intended only to deceive.
“S.S.”: I was not afflicted with the humors of Mel-
bourne University students when they heckled John
Madden at their Commencement ceremony, but I had the
bitter bad luck to get in touch with a bunch of them at
a local theatre that evening, and I was never afflicted
with a more woeful outburst of moral incompetence.
For wit, a pack of barrackers in a boxing-hall would
make cheap Chinese labor of these specimens of “our
intellectual classes,” and in the matter of common,
civilised decency, the pug’s patrons would come out
with a big lead and plenty to spare. In fact,
if the yapping scholastic hoodlums had behaved at
a fight as they behaved amongst the long-suffering
people in the theatre, they would have been taken up
bodily by the shilling-seaters and rushed into the street
gutters. They were in a state of baby-drunk, and their
wit was the “ Commencement,” brilliantly repeated unto
seventy times seven—strings and gags from stale panto-
mimes, dribbles of rhyme from coon songs, the patter of
“guns” and kerb loiterers. It was pitiful. The first-
class in drivel from Kew could not have made a more
lamentable exhibition of the abasement of the human
intellect.
Tittell Brune and others wrote wildly humorous letters
to the newspapers when Ada Ward announced that actors
and actresses were immoral camels who couldn’t pass
through the needle’s eye into heaven. The ‘‘young
tragedienne” (taking herself, oh, so seriously) says that
the general public might remain without “introduction
to many of the finest things in the language if it were
not for the stage. Frinstans, if there were no plays,
we might have lost that gem of impassioned
pathos:—“Good night, Da-vy ! Goo-ood night, Tow-
sah! Goo’ night, Jaek-kee!” which wrung tears
from the stoniest man in the theatre. Daisy
Belmore returned to mortal ken with a wild splash
of ink, and made Wilson Barrett’s bones blush : “The
clever author of that wonderful play , ‘ The Sign of the
Cross,’ is dead, but his memory will live and be blest
and revered through that play.” The Bulletin has made
many scoffing remarks about the “ Sign.” It now with-
draws them, and explains that it didn’t realise that it
was upsetting the family Bible, and destroying the Ark
of the Tabernacle. Not one of the stage people who were
interviewed had the sense to laugh hilariously at Ada,
and say that she was the prize jest of the season. They
were all as serious as the Great African Desert. Even
’Arry Rickards got his coat off and fought Ada’s wild
statement for three rounds at close quarters.
“D.M.R. . i' has the gin been neglected and not
received her quota of love songs ? Surely she is as worthy
of the praise of shrieking serios and coon impersonators
as the Hottentot, the Matabele, the Maori, the Zulu, the
American negro and other niggers. I think something
like this, which is as devoid of everything as most coon
songs are, would advertise the aforesaid natural resource :
Dese Oder fellows talk about dere lady loves,
But dey ain’t in der running with mine ;
She’s a pearl—my Queensland girl—
And she meets me when de moon does shine
With a short black cutty twixt her lips
And a dainty smile that fairly makes me ill.
You can hear her softly bellow, “You a plurry dam good
fellow ! ”
While to her I gently, sadly, kinder trill:
“ Mary, Mary, my coal-black fairy,
For you I don’t care a pin—a pin.
’Neath mulga’s shade, dear,
Done be afraid, dear,
For you are my gin, gin, gin.”
Few of the people who shout encores at a juggling and
sleight-of-hand performance realise the strain upon the
performer, and yet that strain is enormous. It draws
upon all resources—physical strength, activity, nerves,
brain, and eye ; consequently it is terribly exhausting.
Even Oinquevalli, old a bird as he was, and apparently
quite cool and callous when on the boards, admitted that
a full performance took it out of him to such an extent
that he had to keep himself very fit, and avoid quite a
variety of foods and drinks that tended to throw him out
of gear ever so little. Y'ounger performers, not quite up
to Oinquevalli in the matter of cat-gut nerves and iron
constitution, frequently faint after a performance when
there has been a little extra call upon their energies.
That trick of running- quickly about the stage, chasing
flying plates, is one that plays the deuce with the weaker
brethren, coming after a breathless run of tricks that
keep nerves, eyes, mind, and muscle at concert pitch.
The most noticeable result of the Exhibition at
Christchurch (M.L.) up to date has been the alarming
increase in the trade in shady pictures and literature. In
the Exhibition itself a number of “peep shows” were
exhibiting- what the true-blue portion of the community
described as “ shockingly immoral” pictures, and it was
only when a row was started that the exhibitors put on
scenes with less undress in them. The crop of postcards
that had to be enclosed in envelopes to get through the
post was simply enormous, but the last straw was a
biograph that raged round the country towns, and for an
extra sixpence gave an additional half-hour's entertain-
ment to “ men only.” The fame thereof went in front,
and the crowds of strange men, never seen in the districts
before, who rolled up to see that show, suggested that
some of the weaker sex were good on theatrical make-up.
This was not the result anticipated when the show was
opened.
“Foxhof”: Quite on the cards that Die Walkiire, the
most looked for Wagnerian Crash, will not be let
loose —at any rate this Melbourne season. Difficulty said
to be chorus, and lack of stage room. Opera-goers were
commencing to speculate re their “tea hour,” Die
Walkiire, if played, starting at 7 p.m.
In the play, “ A Millionaire’s Revenge,” now being
acted in the United States, the characters of the Madison
Square Garden murder are very thinly disguised. Harold
Daw, Stanford Black, and Emeline Hudspeth are easily
recognisable. As the fate of Thaw is still in doubt, the
playwright ends with a meeting in the prison between
Daw and his mother, and the curtain falls on his final
slab of vague pathos: “Good-bye, mother, good-b\e,
darling. You need have no fear, for lam sure I will be
saved by my mother’s love.” Now, why shouldn’t some-
one write an Australian play, in which the hero, Jack
Penn, pursues the heavy villain, Willie Mudkins, down
Wee Kurk-street, and in the last act lays him out by smit-
ing him on the head with the heavy end of a bob tote ?
“ Boh ”: The mass of female young woman struggling
to Melbourne Princess’s to have her voice “ tried,” the
other Wednesday, made a wild, riotous wave of color, and
a hum as of millions of bees in Spring-street. The day
was fine, and the summer girl was there —five hundred of
her—looking for a job. Many called, but few got up to
the high 0 required—and the dailies got funny at then-
expense, reporting verbatim the “ slinging-off ” indulged
in by the conductor and other gentlemen ! ! The impulse
to “ guy ” by those in authority is pretty freely indulged
in on these occasions. It takes a brass-bound young per-
son to stand the cool, head-to-heel inspection of a red-
faced man, with a cigar in his mouth—and for what? To
spend the best part of seven weeks at the theatre re-
hearsing—with the chance of being put off at any moment
in favor of anotner aspirant of better voice, or legs.
Seriously, it is sad to contemplate the number of young
women who prefer to stand about in draughts and insuffi-
cient clothing, braving the fierce rays of the limelight,
and yelling in a foreign language, to staying at home and
helping mother to wield the domestic broom.
It is hinted that R. S. Smythe, following in the wake
of Ada Ward, thinks of raising the solemn question,
“Can a manager be a Christian?” After which he will
probably start lecturing on “ Temptations I Have Met.”
Post Mason, well set-up in the matter of voice, and
with a fine eye for effective stage decoration, is making a
triumphant run through Queensland. At Rockhampton
and Mt. Morgan, where he and his co. were last heard
from, they had been singing to record houses.
A scratch dramatic company from Melbourne has been
working the Gippsland towns with “ Bushranger Bill,” a
new and original Australian play, written by the actor-
manager. At one town the management was presented
with a large kangaroo to add realism to the bush scene in
Act 11. The ’roo was tied by the leg to keep it from wan-
dering out of the wilderness, but the first pistol shot so
startled it that it plucked itself loose with a mighty bound
that brought down some miles of bush and a mountain
range on top of the heroine. The ’roo landed fair on the
chest of the orchestra and drove him under the front stalls.
It bounded again, and lit in the thickness of the pit,
knocking over three large farmers. It jumped a third
time, and went on leaping about that horrified and
demoralised audience, damaging somebody every time it
landed. The audience damaged itself a good deal too,
rushing to get from under when the ’roo jumped. This
excitement lasted seven minutes, and then a sixteen
stone man got on to the beast’s tail and anchored it down
while the local policeman cut its throat in the dress
circle. “ Bushranger Bill ” has since been played without
the assistance of native fauna.
The music-hall strike in London brought into the glare
of publicity the munificent wages paid to some of the
stage hands. Dressers frequently receive as little as 2s.
6d. per week ; scene-shifters sometimes get no more than
7s. per week, their week’s labor consisting of 32 hours’
work ; and even the men in charge of the stage-lighting
arrangements, whose work is important and fatiguing,
are only paid 12s. per week. England is a great country
for the worker.
To a certain extent the mummer is still considered a
rogue and a vagabond in France, just as he was in Eng-
land in the time of Shakspeare, and for a good while
after, and as he still is in Australia by the Judders. Sara
Bernhardt recently made application for the decoration
of the Legion of Honor as an actress, but was refused. It
was intimated to her that, if she chose to apply as a
theatrical manageress or a sculptress, she would get the
bit of red ribbon. To this she replied that she would get
it as an actress, or not at all. Paris, which adores Sara,
has begun an agitation to get her the gaud her soul
craves after.
The crowd that swarmed along the banks of the Yarra,
following Annette Kellennann in her long swim through
Burnley an - Richmond, will read with gladness the
following slice from a London paper: “The part of the
mermaid heroine (in ‘The Treasure Ship in Fairy Seas’)
is played by the popular woman champion swimmer, Miss
Annette Kellermann, from Australia. Owing to her
familiarity with the aqueous element, as a mermaid she
is said to be more realistic, though not more beautiful,
than the famous Pauline Chase, who figures as a mermaid
in another London play.”
“ Hamer ” : The regular suburban show has come to
stop. In time past the mummer only thought of the
suburbs when his beer money had run out, and he had
tapped all his friends for loans, and his landlady was
making nasty remarks about overdue rent. Then he
solemnly foregathered with sundry others in a similar
plight, and asked them what parts they knew ; and,
after one rehearsal, they raked in an undeserved few
pounds, out of which they paid as few people as possible.
But the suburbs, worked properly, are a paying proposi-
tion. One show, which wasn’t' a very good show, but
tried to be, opened in Parramatta to 355. ; but it came
again, and reaped as many pounds. The conscienceless
Thespian has spoiled a good thing in the suburbs for his
fellow mummers, but his work can be undone. One
drawback is that the man who does the undoing will give
the brigand an opportunity of reaping another harvest,
and that will mean more undoing.
Ada Ward challenges anyone to produce actors or
actresses who desire their children to be on the stage
from any motive other than immediate gain. It is
indeed remarkable how many Thespians dislike the stage
for their offspring. Even George Lauri’s intensely
theatrical father tried to compel him to be an architect.
A daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Keeley married Montagu
Williams, then desperately stage-struck. Said little Bob
Keeley : “ If you go on the stage you won’t get a farthing
from us, but if you study as a barrister I will pay all your
expenses.” The eminent Charles Mathews, barrister,
stepson of the comedian, appeared as an actor in Sydney
and Melbourne, but the old man wrenched him out of
that, and a precious stick he would have been. George
Vandenhoff writes in his autobiography: “ I could not
bear to act with my distinguished father. His distress
was so palpable at seeing me on the stage.” Macready’s
autobiography has references to “ My wretched profes-
sion,” and so on. E. Kean, Irving, Coppin, Jefferson,
and Greville are only amid a host of performers who tried
to keep their offspring- put of the profession., Edmund
Yates was the son of Mr. and Mrs. F. Yates, players of the
highest respectability, besides being both of eminent
talent. F. Yates managed the Adelphi, and lived there
with his wife and child. Yet they carefully kept all
knowledge of the theatre from little Edmund as long as
possible. Nevertheless, Edmund Yates managed to die
in a theatre. He was found moribund in his stall, at the
London Garrick, after a performance of Bulwer’s
“ Money.” A Melbourne married couple, actor and
actress, refused to allow their sons, as boys, to enter a
theatre. Not the Majeronis, although their ideas were
the same.
“Hamer”: “Kodak’s” observation about a Roman
and his barrel organ and his flea-bitten monkey, which
crept by the power of music—barrel org-an music—into
the theatrical division of The Bulletin (28/2/’O7), offended
the susceptibilities of an actor of my acquaintance, and
he told me that you were a vulgar paper. “ They put an
item about a barrel organ and a monkey into the
‘Poverty Point’ column,” he thundered, as he watched
the bar entrance with a gloomy expression (we were
outside the bar). “ What has a barrel organ to do with
our noble profession?” He seethed with indignation,
but his eye still contemplated the bar door. “’Twas
merely to get some humor out of fleas,” he said scorn-
fully. “ What has an actor to do with fleas ? ” To relieve
his mind I was giving him a few anecdotes of how, as an
actor, I had met fleas, when he informed me that I was
no actor, and that he had been on the stage before I was
born, and a few other facts. Then he left me majestically,
and disappeared inside the bar, w'here the counter lunch
had just arrived. The last I heard of him as he disap-
peared was the indignant query : “ What has an actor to
do with fleas ? ”
“ Hamer ” : I saw Jones wandering dow n
•Pitt-street, Sydney, the other night, holding a
lobster affectionately in his hand, and I knew that
he was drunk. In times of drink Jones’ fancy
lightly turns to thoughts of lobster, in which re-
spects he is like many other drunks. I went over
to him to induce him to go home. He whispered
to me, as a secret, that he wanted to buy a lobster,
and asked me to hold the one he had (which he
seemed to think was a valuable present he had
bought for his wife) while he got another. While he
was gone for the future lobster I carefully buried
the present one in a garbage tin. Jones re-
appeared with two lobsters, one of which he
gave to me with his blessing. While Jones
wasn’t looking I threw it into a passing
cab and its sudden embrace startled a lady going
home from the theatre. When Jones saw that I
was empty-handed, he insisted on seeking out a
fish shop. He put the lobster he had into a bowl
of curried prawns, and asked to be shown some
lobsters. This time he bought three—he ex-
plained to me that we could put some by for a
rainy day—and then we caught the last train.
Jones placed the three lobsters—the fourth was
left behind in the prawns—tenderlv on a seat,
and then 1 helped him to get in, andl. sat on them.
He remarked several times that the seats were
dashed hard, but I thought it best that he should
forget the lobsters, and said nothing. When I
met Jones on the following morning, he claimed
that he couldn’t have been drunk, as he didn’t
bring home any lobsters. Jones has a short
memory, and it is only the remains of lobster in
the bedroom in the morning which tells him of
the glories of overnight. Then I told him that
the back of his pants were still covered with
lobster. Now, why do drunken men buy lobsters?
“ Backstay ” uses a belaying pin :
“ Bobstay ” (B. 10/l/’O7) talks some sense re Australian-
Maoriland sailing vessels, but is out on the wages ques-
tion. The ordinary inter-State seaman at £6 a month is
a myth. One Tasmanian sailing vessel I’ve met is worked
almost entirely by apprentices, who get less wages than
“Bobstay’s” Norwegian ordinary seaman. Inter-State
steamers pay ordinary seamen £3 a month, and steamers
always pay better than sailers, for some unknown reason.
A short time ago, able seamen in inter-State sailing
vessels were getting £4—that is, I Os. a month more than
English wages. They may get a little more now, but I
don’t think it. It’s time somebody squashed the idea
that wages are so much higher in Australia than
anywhere else; also, the other idea that Dutchmen
work for nothing. I’m not a stinking-fishite by
any means; but pars like “Bobstay’s” give a wrong
impression. The 4th officer in the German steamers that
come here gets £7 a month—the same as on the Orient
line, and only £1 less than the Arbitration Court fixed
for our coast ships, in spite of the acknowledged greater
responsibility and increased cost of living. Foreigners,
with an eye on future needs, carry more boys than
English or Australian ships ; but taken all round, their
wages bill is not so much less. Yet I am entirely one
with “ Bobstay” in saying keep the foreigner out of the
coast and inter-State trade. In fact, I’d like to see him
shut out of all inter-British trade, as he was before the
Freetrade microbe got in its deadly work.
THAT’S ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The drama lifts its curtain,
The players are arrayed,
The garlands are got ready,
And, when your money’s paid,
You see a little man
And he woos a little maid.
Dame Fiction pens her story,
The tale is old and frayed ;
Here theme is always much the same
When all is done and said :
It’s all about a little man
Who woos a little maid.
We puppets take our places,
The farce of life is played ;
’Tis a shifting panorama
To all the world displayed ;
For you’re yourself the little man
Or else the little maid.
vio.
CAM CRAWFORD.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Bead the following statement
The Hon. Joseph Blumbntiial (Tax-Commissioner)
writes “I am pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years’
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to vou
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
* EABOSOOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable."
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FBEE. Address—
■THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Sc., Sydney, N.S.W.
.411
A Real Camera ...
is
:Ticka
Tlie
12/6
POST
FREE.
FILM TAKES
25 PICTURES.
Watch Pocket
THE “TICKA” resembles, in size and shape, an ordinary Watch. It is made of Nickel.
It produces clear photos the size of a postage stamp. Simple to work, and can be
carried in vest pocket always ready for a snap. Fitted with a Rapid Lens, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price 12/6 Post Free.
Spool of Films for 25 Exposures, 1/3. Instruction Book Free.
We Stock CAMERAS, LENSES, and GENERAL PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES from the BEST of the WORLD'S MANUFACTURERS.
you require anything Photographic drop us a line for particulars.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.,
386 George Street, SYDNEY
93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
THE CONTEMPT OF BEEF.
MIGHT: “ Glad to see you back , Mite; d’you
feel better after your trip? ”
MITE: “ Oh, yes, bai Jore, I've put on flesh.”
MIGHT: “ How many ounces are you?”
Already the advent of NSW Railwav
flramnimmnoi. t..i, i • , ' ' • rvanway
awfsfanendeH 1 ? tt *T ror *i Last weeb
thelS nlt n JnSi? ! d^ nk< ? nneSS , a » d
sStnfei Li
£ssr?s«sr* “ e — -
Dear Bulletin, —Have just come across
an item in a March Bulletin asserting that it is
not always the fastest girl that catches a husband.
Write in great haste to say that it is not always
the fastest young man who keeps ahead of the
girl who intends to be his wife. — Kati-Kati.
• * * *
Of course some one at the Rawson-
Mitchell marriage, recently celebrated in Sydney,
had to drop in with the idiotic and howlingly
out-of-place remark about the event “drawing
closer the crimson thread.”
* * * *
The Centenary Hal], York-street, Sydney,
used variously by the Methodists, does not
apparently pay, the whole of the property being
up for auction sale on April 24. It is understood
that there is a heavy mortgage on the property,
an amount which it was fondly—and vainly-
hoped would be wiped out by the last will
and testament of a lately-deceased Methodist
millionaire.
* * * *
N.S.W. Field Artillery practice this year
was conspicuously successful, every battery
“ qualifying ” for a grade, with Major Lenehan’s
in the vanguard. The idea of having militia
field artillery is mocked at in some quarters, it
being held that only permanent soldiers can be
equal to the requirements of the big gun, but the
resourceful Australian seems to be able, with a
few days’ training, to get results which come in
other countries only after many months.
* * * *
A correspondent from Sussex (Eng.) :
Kinjr Edward VII. always comes to this part of Sussex,
and stays with Mr. “ Willie ” James, at West Dean, for
the pheasant shooting. Not long since, 3000 birds were
slaughtered in two days by a party of eight guns. Many
of the poor things were so tame that the beaters could
not make them rise, and a lady who was present told me
that at one end of a drive there were quite 500 of them
clustered at a gate, and the enraged head-keeper and two
of his under-keepers were gathering- them up in armfuls
and tossing them over the other side. But, even then,
very few of them flew ! Noble sport! In November last
I was passing through Lord Egmont’s estate of
Cowdray, near Medhurst, and I was followed everywhere
by hundreds of pheasants, which came to see if I had any
grain to give them. P.clists complained bitterly that
they could not visit the famous Cowdray House ruins on
account of the numbers of pheasants which covered the
roads, and would not move out of the way. There seems
to be a great “record” awaiting the man who attacks
these birds with a machine gun.
'*» * *
The trustees of St. Philip’s, Sydney, are
on the horns of a dilemma. They cannot find a
strong Protestant ” Anglican clergyman to fit
into their pulpit, now vacant through Bishop
Langley taking the See of Bendigo. All the
smart men that can preach and work have
“ritualistic ” tendencies. And the “ strong Pro-
testant ” variety are stodgy. Interesting to see
how the decision will go—in favor of a stodgy
gentleman with the true faith about the Eastward
position, or a smart shepherd with a Romeward
tendency. It may help to decide the question
whether the mission of the church is to instruct or
amuse.
• • * *
Apropos the decision of the Melbourne Art
Gallery trustees to pay £5750 for Corot’s “Bent
Tree,” under the Felton bequest, it is interesting
to note that about 2000 fakes, alleged to be by
Corot, were offered for sale in 1906. The Wales
pnncelet fell in by buying one as genuine and
presenting it to Dublin gallery.
**■*•*
“Dux”: New Plymouth (M.L.) won’t
have Chinese at any price. Months ago the
Chows put up their signs in every town on the
railway line from Wellington to New Plymouth
and everywhere, except at N.P. they collared the
“ fluit tlade ” and “the laundly.” But N.P.
would have none of them. Frantic white men
filled the daily papers with fiercely eondeinnatory
notices. The youth of the town splashed yellow
paint over the premises of the Chinkee, and
notices that would have gladdened the heart of
Lionel Terry such as “Yellow Peril! God
bless Terry.” The heathens soon gave up the
struggle and departed, leaving a crowd of creditors
behind them. They paid nobody, merely smiling
blandly and remarking, “You no patlonise me,
you luin me, go bankluptee if you likee, got no
monee,” and they went their way.
* * * *
In sentencing a housebreaker in Sydney,
the other day, Judge Murray gave a fine exposi-
tion of the prevalent worship of the other places.
There was lacking in this country, he said, the
respect for property that was felt by the inhabi-
tants of some of the older European lands, where
destitution and poverty provided more tempta-
tion. Here people could not leave their houses
locked up without fear of thieves, while in honest
Europe shopkeepers could go away from their
shops at midday without anybody touching the
stock. The spectacle of the confident European
grocer strolling off for an afternoon’s enjoyment,
while the virtuous Hooligans and Apaches stood at
his door, too honest to touch the bottles of beer
on the counter, is, as every traveller knows, a
common spectacle in Europe. But the criminal
statistics unfortunately show that the Australian
is about one-half as dangerous a person as the
European to be left near loose articles. Which
fact throws a little doubt on Judge Mhrray’s
Statements.
* * * *
The Freetrade-Tory press was very nearly
breaking out into a burst of lamentation over
the exclusion from Australia of the Rev. Goliath
Joseph, but just as it had inhaled a deep breath
and was going to blow out its first big adjective
about the oppression of our holy brudder, things
began to happen. The Anglican Church repu-
diated Rev. Goliath in his alleged character as
an Arnglican missionary in Asia ; it said it had no
missionaries where he said he came from. The
Archbishop of Melbourne said that he was advised,
by special arrangement, when any real Asiatic
Anglican parson was coming this way, and that,
in the absence of any advice about Goliath, he
couldn’t regard him as a genuine brother.
Goliath himself said vaguely that he had a con-
gregation of 60 people at some vague address, and
that they didn’t pay him anything. He made his
living as a colored cocky farmer. He didn’t seem
to be ordained by any recognised church, nor did
lie seem to slop over vastly with theological eru-
dition. He said his object in coming to Australia
was to collect money, and he held his hand a
yard above the floor to show how much money he
expected to collect. He admitted that the money
was not for any church ; it was just for himself—
Goliath Joseph. So the Commonwealth authori-
ties sized him up as a brownish mendicant of
dubious purpose, and shut him out. And, by
way of making things square, it is to be hoped
that the next time an Australian bishop takes the
holy collecting till to England that country will
shut him out as an undesirable, just like the Rev.
Goliath Joseph.
* » * *
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
analysed by chemists. It contains no poison.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
TRANSLATED .
NEW TEACHER (who finds the drill has been disgracefully
neglected): “ Now, then, don't you know what right wheel means? Halt! Now—right wheel !!”
No. 4 (hurriedly, to No. 3): “Whoa back, Bill, an' gee up! ”
At one big Melbourne bakery the manager
tried an unfortunate experiment last Easter eve.
The bakery turns out an enormous quantity of “hot
cross buns,” and employs a number of small boys
counting and bagging the popular confection. The
manager had found by experience that much time
was wasted because of the efforts of the boys to
work and eat simultaneously, and so, on this
occasion, he told them they “could eat their fill
before getting down to business. The result was
disastrous. The boys got at the hot, soggy buns
with such avidity that before midnight the firm
had its hands full of disabled kids in various
stages of mortal indigestion, crying for mother
and the benefit of clergy. A doctor had to be
called in to allay the pangs of the gorged boys.
The work was sadly delayed ; but the manager
reckons he will employ those boys permanently.
They are cured of the bun habit.
A “ MONSTER" MEETING.
It has been arranged that Mr. Alexander, the singing
evangelist, shall address a monster meeting in the Town
Hall on Sunday night.
The devil certainly preponderates in Sydney.
Victoria had one of its prize degenerates
in its hands the other day, and Panton, P.M.,
treated him in a remarkable fashion. After over
40 convictions, mostly for larceny, vagrancy, and
general blackguardism, he was charged with
murdering the unfortunate woman he was just
then “protecting.” He wasn’t convicted that
time, but within a few Weeks he was charged with
brutally assaulting another woman, and got two
months. Having served that, he came out and
promptly made an attack upon still another
woman—and Panton gave him another two
months. It isn’t quite clear what Panton, P.M.,
gave him two months for, but apparently it was for
encouragement.
• * * *
A well-dressed man who pleaded guilty to
seven charges of larceny before Judge Murray at
Sydney Quarter Sessions, stated on oath that he
had received an “allowance” of 7s. a week, while
engaged as a tutor at a suburban private-enter-
prise grammar school, at which the sons of a
number of extra-eminent citizens, mentioned by
name, were pupils. It would appear to be about
time that tutors organised a trade union.
N.S.W. Railway Department is doing battle
with the problem of the brass-faced bagman who
wants to monopolise all the room in a railway
train. It is a common dodge of the commercials
on the long-distance trains to “spread” them-
selves. Two of them get into an empty oarriage
and fill up the other spaces with portmanteaux,
parcels, and umbrellas. Should any ordinary
traveller, who is paying full fare (much above the
privileged bagman rate), venture to look in, he is
promptly told the compartment is all taken, and
that the other passengers are out helping a man
to drink a dog. Then again commercials who
have booked on the sleeper sometimes help to fill
up an ordinary compartment in which are some
of their bag brethren. When bedtime comes they
repair to the sleeper, leaving the compartment
free for two or three of their mates. The result
of this impudent arrangement is that other cars
are filled to overflowing, in order that the
“traveller” may stretch his knowing carcase in
comfort a,nd ease. A new regulation will shortly
be published making it compulsory for sleeping-
berth passengers to travel on the sleeper all the
way. Also, new instructions give railway porters
more latitude in dealing with the alleged absent
passenger who is only baggage after all.
* * * *
Some men-children, owing to the foolish
fancies of their devoted parents, are cursed with
a sweeping flood of golden curls until they reach
quite a mature childhood. Little Cecil Bounder,
of the Hen-Houses, Darling Point, Sydney,
who had this kind of hair, sneaked out one
day to play with the Brown brats and their
pals, a bunch of youngsters who usually
effervesced on the corner block after school
hours. There was a little girl in the crowd, who
wore her k-ur about six inches long. During the
afternoon it was suggested that Cecil should be
relieved of his flowing locks, a proposal which he
himself met with manly approbation. Forthwith
a pair of scissors was acquired from the Brown
dwelling, and Master Bounder knelt lamb-like at
the feet of the brown-haired small girl while she
removed his yellow mane. Later, little Cecil pre-
sented himself to his mamma, shorn arid grinning.
Mamma screamed, then stormed, and finally broke
down and wept all over the spick-and-span
drawing-room furniture; but, in sprite of her
tears, the Bounder boy now bids fair to become a
youth with a solid backbone-and a good Australian
opinion of himself and his country.
• * * *
“Stargazer”: He the question “ Can an
actress be a Christian ?” An American evangelist
who wanted me to re-write a semi-hoiy book of
his, with the object of infusing humor-interest
into it, and enhancing his reputation as a comic
saint, once asked me if a journalist could be a
Christian. I replied : “Yes—with difficulty.”
It is precisely so with an actress. Why not :
“Can a stockbroker be a Christian?” “Can a
hind-agent be a Christian?” “Can a tea-room
girl be a Christian?” They all could—with
difficulty ; but in these days of keen competition
and sharp practices, the chances are that a Chris-
tian land-agent would have to put up with small
profit.'«, and a Christian grocer would need to be
content with a humble villa and a less ostenta-
tious wife than his sinful rivals, while a Christian
policeman would scarcely expect to be able to
retire into private public-house life after seven
years’ service. Almost anybody can be a Chris-
tian if he really wants to. Even my evangelist,
quoted above, might have been, only he was such
a busy man.
A LESSON IN ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Modesty, be not too coy
Whilst keeping Impudence at bay.
The arts that cheaper girls employ
Are ■* hateful,” as you often say,
And, what is more, they rarely pay ;
Blit I would have you understand
That, though she ogle not, nor leer,
A woman may perchance command
The tribute of a passion grand
By merely stretching forth her hand
To pinch an erring brother’s ear.
It was to such a one as you
I fell a victim. She was cold
And prudish. But her eyes were blue ;
Her tresses had a glint of gold ;
Her figure turned my fancy bold
To thoughts of love and torchon lace.
I urged my suit for half a year,
But having failed in Phoebe’s case
To win one maidenly embrace,
I was about to quit the chase,
When, carelessly, she pinched my ear.
I feel the rapture as I speak—
The thrill of unexpected bliss.
No widow warm or spinster meek,
In granting a responsive kiss
Had given me such joy as this.
Sweet Phoebe, with instinctive skill,
Shot one swift glance of meaning clear—
The glance wherewith wise women kill
Man’s hope of being blessed until
The bride’s assenting words—" I will
l’all softly on his captive ear.
But Phoebe did not take my name :
Her spinster will I could not bend,
She likes to see me near the flame.
Without a heart to give, or lend,
She keeps me lingering “ as a friend.”
And sometimes when I plead in vain
She says, with kindness quite sincere,
Yet not unmingled with disdain—
" Now, please don’t talk like that again.
To think you can be so insane,
And all because I pinched your ear ! ”
Miss Modesty, be not too coy
Whilst holding Impudence in check,
To hypnotise a seasoned “ boy,”
And keep him at your call and beck,
Put not your arm around his neck,
Nor stroke him where his whiskers grow,
Nor flatter him with sigh or tear.
The fleshly lover, fast or slow,
Should not be granted any show
Of favor till he turns to go —
And then’s the time to pinch his ear.
vie.
EDWARD FISHER.


Do you easily catch cold ? If so you need
a remedy that will not only soothe and strengthen
the lungs, but will also act as a tonic. Angier’s
Emulsion does both, and is the remedy above all
others for coughs, colds and all lung affections.
It is wonderfully soothing and a great help to
• digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
A few doses of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will cure your cold, and perhaps save a
doctor’s bill later on. It always cures.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A WINTER HAT.
PRICE—
-12/6
EACH.
Postage,
9d. Extra.
Interstate
Postage, 1/-. ,
. •
■
.
. " •-■■■ '■. •
mm
■
A Soft Hat that will be
a Winter Hat and a
popular one too. It has
the advantage of being
most durable, and is in
shades to suit the
season.
It is really a negligee
hat of a high character,
yet in perfect style to
wear with sac coat or
overcoat. Made of the
finest Fur—3-inch brims
—all sizes
PEAPES & CO* Ltd*
MEN'S and BOY’S OUTFITTERS'
309-311 George St., Sydney.
Another big mansion in the neighborhood
of Sydney—that of Henry Moses, M.L.C., at
Ryde—went out of family occupation, last week,
and became a Home for Incurables. That, or
something like it, is the usual lot of the great
buildings erected by these rich Australian ances-
tors, who seldom leave any descendants. Mr.
Moses estimates that he spent between £15,000
and £20,000 on the house at Ryde. He handed
it over to the Incurable people for £O9OO, one-half
of which amount he returned as a donation, so
that he parted with his one-time ideal for a merely
nominal sum.
* * * m
Australian statesmen now guests of the
British Government at the Hotel Cecil are no
doubt fed with a free hand at the public ex-
pense, but many who sneeringly refer to the
matter participated with great enthusiasm in the
Royal Reception spree in Sydney of a few years
ago. The Hotel Australia acted then as guest
quarters, and Treasurer Waddell was presented
with a bill for many thousands as the result.
Some of the State’s guests on that occasion tipped
their barber ss. every morning, and treated the
chambermaid and boots and others in similar
fashion, and “drew the expenses.” They dragged
in acquaintances from the street, and filled them
up with champagne and loaded them with cigars,
the items going down as “courtesies.” The
N.S.W. Assembly tried to knock £3OOO off the
bill, but Tom “acted splendidly,” and it was all
paid.
* * « *
Lately a person with store whiskers, a
large revolver, kerosene, matches and house-
breaker’s implements was caught inside a house
at Dannevirke (M.L.) about to set it alight. This
intending illuminator had several schemes in hand
for the destruction of Dannevirke, and in con-
sideration of the size of his proposed operations,
to which he gleefully confessed, Justice Chapman
severely reprimanded him and sent him to gaol—
for six months ! At the same sitting a monster of
iniquity was charged with stealing a nickel watch
valued at ss. Gd. In consideration of the fact
that this man had never stolen anything before,
his amazing Honor gave him nine months’ im-
prisonment to go on with.
HAW! HAW!!
"Haw, really now, with youah figuah, I should
have thought motoring would have been youah
favorite sport.”
“ 8.J.” : A new method has arisen in the
X.S. W. Public Instruction Department. For-
merly, when a kid was absent without leave or
excuse, notice of absence was sent from the school
on the:same day. Now the notice comes many
days after, and comes in an envelope endorsed
“ State Children’s Relief Department of N.S.W.”
Prehs?br Carruthers must be on a hard and fast
saving tack when parents are notified of absence
by the State pauper office.
j if. * * * *
Vice-Admiral Wilmot Fawkes has recom-
mended deferment of portion of the pay allotted
to Australians in the squadron, allegedly on the
groundthat such procedure “will prevent a good
many, immoral practices which must be the out-
come of high pay.”
“ ’lgh pay, low morals,” Mister Fawkes,
In your belief I quite agree ;
n But since the truth is sich—oh, lawks !
’Ow sweated hadmirals must be !
TTSCHGUT.
LITTLE BUTTERCUP.
“ A. 8.” : Female modesty is a strange
thing. On Easter morning, in the troubled Corn-
stalk sea at Bondi (Sydney), I brought up against
a nuggety female, swathed in a blouse and skirt,
so loose and capacious as to conceal every out-
line of her figure. When she turned to protest
against the breaker which bumped me against
her, I found, to my surprise, she was an artist’s
model, whose
acquaintancel
had made in
the studio of a
friend, what
time she was
posing in the
altogether.
We took a few
breakers to-
gether, then
paddled into
shallow water,
where she
gazed with in-
finite scorn at
a trimly-built
brown damsel,
whose stock-
ingette cos-
tume fitted her
like the white
paint of the
Modern Milo.
“ It beats me,”
the studio
nymph obser-
ved, “how a
girl can have
the nerve to
come out in a
costume like
that! ” Then
she dived into
the next roller
to hide her
blushes. Pos-
sibly it was
professional
jealousy. Pos.
sibly it wasthe
trades - union
instinct ; the
other girl was
reducing the
value of the
female figure
as a market-
able commo-
dity. I once
remember hearing a leading Australian pug submit
to gross insults at the tongue of a wizened
cigarette-smoker of seven stone. “ Why didn’t
you land him one ? ” the mighty man was asked
afterwards. “Not me,” he replied, “I make my
living outer hittin’ blokes. D’yer think I’d be
such a mug as to give away some of me stock-in-
trade for a bar-full o’ dead ’uns?”
* * * *
“ Cict ” : Let me wail an extra-large wail,
for I too have been stricken by a “chain prayer ”
—I who have done nought awry
(at least not so much awr} 7 ) to
deserve the infliction. I seldom
receive per post anything hut
hills, subscription lists, and Some-
body Else’s Bile Syrup advertise-
ments, and these are duly stamped;
but t’other day the local post-
mistress demanded fourpence be-
fore handing me a pretentious-
looking epistle, which I calculated
must come from some firm of
solictors in Ma-land, who were
after me with a dead uncle’s
millions. Full of eager and inno-
cent anticipation I repaired to
the back of the pub stables, so
as to be alone in my joy. Very
tenderly I ripped it open, for I
thought a million or two might be
inside loose, and then I lighted
upon—“ Chain Prayer to lift
Man to Heaven.” It appealed
frantically to Providence to
lighten my dark mind, to inflame
my spirits (I have none), and help
me fight Drink, Gambling, and
Sabbath-breaking (and I am no
pug). Next it demanded that I
should repeat the infamous libel,
and threatened me with numerous
damnations if I didn’t write out
and post nine of those libels to
nine of my friends at 2d. per time.
And for this I had gone secretly
behind the pub stables —not to
mention the fourpence.
* * *
“ Boyleader ” ; Here’s a
realler and bigger teachers’ griev-
ance than those mentioned in
“ Pterodactyl’s” par. (B. 4/4/’O7).
Teachers’ examinations are reli-
giously held in the holidays, so
the teachers, who have been fag-
ging furiously, or maybe studying
steadily, while keeping their
school, or section, or class up to
the necessary standard, spend their
vacation in the torture chamber—l
mean the examination room—and,
at the end of the ordeal, take up their teaching
work without having had any holiday. The very
teachers —the studious, ambitious, plodding, per-
severing ones —who want a holiday most of all (for
mental as well as physical reasons) have to go
holiday-less. I ask is this broad, wise, generous,
sympathetic, stimulative administration of a big
department? No, its Board-administration.
Well, Board ought to be broad ! Yes, of course.
* * * *
When Maoriland Lands Minister M’Nab
was touring in the U.S.A. recently, he put in a
lot of solid work hunting among the archives of
Salem, Massachusetts, for records of old-time
trips to Maoriland, and discovered the log of the
ship Endeavour, the mysterious wreck of Dusky
Sound that had baffled historians for years. This
ship was, it seems, a sealer, and was abandoned
in Facile Harbor in 1795. The crew of handy men
set to work in Dusky Sound and built another
vessel, which they named the Providence, and
which sailed out of Dusky the same year. This
was the first sea-going ship built in Australasia.
The Minister is writing a history of the early,
misty days of the south end of Maoriland, and has
gone” to no end of trouble and expense to get
material. The book will be published in a few
weeks under the name of “ Murihiku and the
Southern Islands.” Murihiku is the old Maori
name for the south end of Middle Island.
A fluid ounce of the paregoric dealt out to
teething infancy confesses to being 45 per cent,
alcohol, 2 grains opium, and a quarter grain mor-
phine. Many an infant should have been arrested
for drunkenness when its fond Ma thought it was
only enjoying the sleep of innocence. And what
a way to start life, with the liquor habit acquired
in the cradle !
HOW?
THE AGED ONE: "Sailor , how does this ship
go ?”
THE SALD (with his eye on the weather): “ Well ,
mum, with a good stiff breeze it goes like
--!!"
“ I goes in with me mother-in-law an’ me
missus, yer Honor—at least, she ain’t exactly me
missus, but she’s the same thing.”— Admission of
a witness to Judge Murray at Sydney Quarter
Sessions.
* * * *
S.A. Premier Price has received the
following petition from 18 full-blooded aboriginals
of Point M'Leay Mission Station
The mission does a great lot of preaching and pray-
ing, but we old natives of the soil would do with less
of that and more of food, clothes, and better tents. In
fact, we are too badly dressed to attend church, and too
ill-fed to think much about praying ; but we do pray you
to take over the place. We may then be better off. We
can’t lie worse off.
The old trouble—not enough solid food and too
much windy halleluiah.
* * Hr *
The other day the Law found a man riding
a bike on a Melbourne footpath, and asked him
who he was. He said he was Jehosbaphat Slow-
coach, of 10 Talbottle street, Kew, that being the
name and address of the first man he could think
of. Jehoshaphat was duly summoned, but when
he appeared the Law remarked that he wasn’t
the culprit at all, and he could go home as quickly
as he liked. Thereupon Jehoshaphat, having lost
a day’s work, asked for costs ; but the Law,
putting on a learned aspect, assured him that
there was no statute in such case made and pro-
vided ; also that, if he hadn’t appeared, he would
probably have been fined, so he could consider
himself lucky as things were. Then Jehoshaphat
went out and marvelled greatly as to how copious
a mule the Law really could be if it tried.
From “ Stony ” :
There is no disgrace in being a butcher, from my point
of view, so long as one is honest, and gives full measure
of sausages, pressed down and hanging over the edge of
the basket. Nor is there legitimate cause for shame in
the knowledge that one’s dad provides the bread of the
suburb in which one lives, if it be good bread and crisp in
the crust. It must, however, be a source of wrath to all
decent butchers and bakers and candlestick-makers to
see by the papers how respectable Trade has been dis-
graced by its sons and grandsons at the recent Univer-
sity Commencement in Melbourne Town Hall. It is the
gilded upstart tradesman —pseudo-“ society ” worm,
“ dancing man,” budding supporter of Anti-Sosh leagues,
and such—who is responsible for the larrikinism which
disgraced “ educated” Australia at the fussy show over
which John Madden presided and prosed. First and last,
this small section of pushites are hobbledehoys of straw,
who, if it were not that their portly fathers were able to
provide greasy cash to pay for a flash education, would
be spitting at street corners and calling out “ Ja-ane ! ”
to the solitary Miss hurrying homewards from earning
her humble bed and board and boots.
Practical people, • the Americans. Pro-
fessor MacCallum, of Sydney University, lately
found employment bureaux running in several of
the American universities. Their business is, not
only to secure billets for graduates, but to find
temporary jobs to help hard-up students through
their course. Mostly, with the approval and
blessing of the Uni. authorities, the students run
such things themselves. ISlovv, conjure up the
spectacle of Chancellor MacLaurin bestowing the
Senate’s blessing and approval upon a registry
office “within the University of Sydney” !
* * * ¥
Not long ago Bill Iblett arrived in Mel-
bourne from Woorntakka, on one of his infre-
quent city holidays, in sublime unconsciousness
of the fact that the police force had blossomed
into a new kind of helmet, much like the variety
sometimes worn by the ordinary citizen. When
William had taken in quite enough beer to go on
with, it suddenly struck him that a helmeted per-
son on the road, whom he took for a tram signal-
man, would be able to give him some information
about the way the cable wheels go round. “Well,
tram my,” he began, slapping the personage on
the back. He got no farther, for 16st. of police
dignity turned on him and made it plain that his
hand was on the wrong back, and that “for two
pins I’d run you in, me mahn.” The lesson was
not lost on William. He returned to the Jasper
Sea Hotel to brace himself up with another of
the same, and soon he began to “ see” policemen.
They were not altogether figments of fancy. The
helmet was there all right, but it was merely
the top-piece which Jones or Smith or Robin-
son had considered suitable for the super-
heated day. By carefully hiding behind his
beer glass Bill managed to evade the sup-
posed minions of the law, whom he regarded
as conspirators on his tracks. But when one of
the bar-girls, who had been having a night off,
arrived in a helmet, his muddled brain thought
things were getting a bit too dangerous. Bill
left the bar with a stealthy but thunderous walk
that looked like a bad imitation of a biograph
figure. He took about two hours to manoeuvre
his way down a few hundred yards of street,
hiding in a doorway whenever anything in a
helmet hove in sight. At last William’s desperate
bravery brought him out of the city boundaries
into a dark spot where none of the dreaded
helmets were to be seen. “Saved! saved!” he
yelled, and staggered into the arresting arms of
one of the few remaining constables wearing an
old-style helmet, who had been lurking in an
adjacent corner.
* * « *
A party evidently resembling those re-
unions mentioned in popular Irish songs as
“Finnigan’s Wake,” or things like that, was de-
scribed at Sydney Quarter Sessions, when James
Hargraves was tried for maliciously wounding.
James is a dealer, and, one night, took his wife
and his mother-in-law to the hou .3 of an acquaint-
ance at Redfern. There was beer, and James
sang a song. According to the story of the prose-
cutrix he also used noisome language, and when the
lady of the house remonstrated James hit her on
the head with a bottle, and his wife pounded the
cranium of the lady’s son, at the same time urging
her husband to further deeds of derring-do. The
story of the defence was quite different. James
said that after he bad sung his song, a damsel
shocked the visiters severely by revealing much
openwork stocking. A rebuke" from Mrs. Har-
graves, through her blushes, brought retribution
in the shape of a blow from another lady with a
hammer, and James was simply pushing away this
strenuous Amazon when she fell and cut her head
on the fender. After worrying for half-an-hour
over these and other complications of Redfern
society, the jury discharged James. Particulars
of the party will doubtless be found in the
woman’s page of the dailies.
* * * *
“Hassan” (of Sydney) : Analysis of the
half-column of Rawson wedding-presents would
lead a stranger to the conclusion that the bride
will spend her time decorating the house with
flowers. The happy couple bagged no less than
34 vases, beside two or three rose-bowls. Books
come next; they got 21 of these. Then come
photo frames :18 of them. They will light their
crib with 20 silver candlesticks, and seven pepper-
pots will liven up their table. Four silver caddies
will hold their tea ; six pictures \vill hang on thei r
walls ; the lady will stick her hat on with three
hatpins ; and there will be four inkstands to spill
on the carpets. She will fan herself with six fans ;
and he will take his smokes out of two cigarette-
boxes, lighting them from the same number of
matchboxes. There are four sets of spoons and
one whisky bottle. (Will my friends please take
note that I prefer one spoon and four complete sets
of whisky bottles?) Fifteen dishes will give the
lady something to wash up with three tea-cloths—
or is it dish cloths ? There are two cruets, and
two cheques. Society seems just a trifle “ near.”
There are too many books (I wonder whether
any are second-hand). Pepper-pots are very
cheap, so are vases, mostly. And as for photo-
frames, you can get them now with a pound of
tea. Society would seem to have averaged about
a pound a head. No—getting married is not
what it used to be, now that silver has gone down.
THE QUEST OF THE GOLDEN SWITCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOST, Monday night. Switch of Hair, ke' p-
sake.—Melbourne Age advt.
By Araminta’s coilfed hair
Aroused to ardor’s pitch.
I begged that she unto my care
Would grant a tiny tress so rare ;
She said, “In hair I’m rich—
Here, take a switch.”
She told me what each coil had cost,
This candid girl of mine ;
But now, alas ! I’m trouble-tost;
I’ve but four bob—the switch I’ve lost—
She’s jealous—and that line
Costs four-and-nine !
TIC.
N.L.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEYS
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons' English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Apropos Oarruthers’ proposal to provide the
friendly societies with sick pay for their members over 60
or 66 out of the Treasury, without suggesting- where the
money is to come from. Dr. Oockburn, ex-Premier of S.
Australia, was the Commonwealth’s representative at the
international congress which meets once in three years to
talk about workmen’s insurance and such matters ; and
h; lately sent the Commonwealth Government a report
on the proceedings, held at Vienna University. Mainly
he.deals with insurance in Germany, the German system
being the most complete in the world. Ordinary- sick-
ness, accident, and old age(ordisable'nent)are separately
provided for. The insurance is practically universal
among the working people ; employers are made respon-
sible for the contributions and must collect and pay them
in, and that cuts costs down to the bone. In one alone of
the three branches over 19,000,000 people are insured. But,
though the system is so nearly universal, the only time the
Imperial Treasury is dipped into is when an old-age or
disablement pension has to be paid : towards that the
State gives £2 10s. a year. For sickness insurance the
employee provides two-thirds of the contributions and
the employer, one-third; for accident insurance the
employer provides the whole of the contribution or
premium ; for old age and invalidity half the premium is
paid by the employer, the other half by the employee.
So the employer pays one-third for sickness, half for old
gge or disablement, and all for accident. Heaven only
knows what sort of a fit the Argus would have if it were
proposed that the Australian employer should part up in
the same way-. Yet Dr. Bodiker, a director of the
engineering firm of Siemens and Halske, is quoted by
Oockburn as telling the Congress that tue great indus-
trial activity and prosperity of Germany- were “not in
spite of, but because of ” the employers’ contributions to
these funds. Anyhow, there is the vast German activity
and prosperity to speak for themselves, and that isn’t a
matter of opinion, but of fact.
In Australia, however, the thing must always
go through the Treasury. If land for close settlement is
needed, the State must buy- it, and the Treasury must
pay for it. The same end could be served by putting on
a heavy graduated land-tax, and thus forcing land into
use, and under that scheme the State couldn’t be
left with any IO Uto pay. The local landlord
dips into the Treasury to get his roads built, and
the local dressmaker dips into the Treasury to
buy Marie Corelli for the local “School of Arts,”
and the city landlord dips into the Treasury to
maintain a fire brigade to save his premises. The per-
verted idea seems to be that if the State approves or orders
anything, it ought to pay for it; but there is no reason why
it shouldn’t order people to do it for themselves, and see
that they do it. In that case the State doesn’t take any
financial responsibility. It is the State’s vast capacity for
accepting financial responsibility which has swallowed up
£86,000,000 of loan money and £53,000,000 of land-sales
money in N.S. Wales alone. Even assuming that the whole
of the loan money is represented by “ permanent and re-
productive undertakings,” which it isn’t, £53,000,000 at
least of land-sales money has gone somewhere—£s3,ooo,ooo
in addition to the ordinary revenue of the country. And
as the same land can’t be sold twice unless it is bought
back (and the price which has to be paid for it is generally
many times more than was got for it), and as almost all
the land worth selling has now been sold, this fund into
which the Treasury has dipped to pay all manner
of subsidies and back-door aids is reaching its end.
The N.S. Wales Treasury, if it continues its old policy,
will in the near future therefore have to pay the sub-
sidies out of revenue or out of loans; and the chances
are about 20 to 1 that it won’t pay them out of revenue.
The reason why the Treasury has been dipped into is be-
cause that was a cheaper way of getting money than for
the dipper to dip into his own pocket, and if the dipper
has to put the money in before he dips it out he won’t
gain anything by dipping. But as he will still want to
dip, and as weak Treasurers will still want to oblige him,
the weak Treasurer will go on borrowing, and pay for
Marie Corelli and the landlords’roads and the prize for
the large pumpkin out of the money that he ought to be
spending on public works, instead of borrowing to pay for
them. If the State, instead of pledging the Treasury to
pay for a heap of these things, compelled people to pay for
them themselves, provided they were things the State
reckoned they should have, one big incentive to continue
the borrowing habit would be cut away. And when any-
thing is an incentive to the worst disease that Australia
suffers from, it can, for a start, be looked at with a great
deal of suspicion.
* * • *
The “Bank rate” — the Bank of England dis-
count rate—has been brought down another point.
From the middle of October to the middle of January it
was 6 per cent., the first time it had continuously stood
so high for 50 years. Then it came back to 5 per cent. ;
and on April 10 it was reduced to 4 j percent. Apparently,
therefore, the drain of gold from London has eased off.
At once some alleged Australians, who have the habit of
looking at things from the London point of view, tooted
their little “ Hooray 1 ” Certainly if we had to borrow or
renew it would be a mighty bad thing to strike a market
with a 6 per cent. Bank rate ruling. But, on the other
hand, dear money in London has lately helped to pile up
Australian banking and other profits. Usually the Aus-
tralian bank does not know what to do with its current
account money, the smaller banks especially ; lately they
have felt safe in letting it out at call or short notice in
England, and have netted over 4 per cent, by the trans-
action. That harvest is over now. Cheaper money cer-
tainly means a higher price for Australian stocks, other
things being equal; and Broken Hill and some Queens-
land copper shares improved on the strength of the
change. But Australia caii’t benefit by a higher price
unless it can sell to London, and - London is well-loaded
already. There are, however, the metal markets to con-
sider. What is going to be the effect on them? The
Bank rate was put up to counteract the effects of an intense
foreign industrial activity. It is that boom which un-
doubtedly has had most to do with the great rise in the
metal markets. While, therefore, cheaper money in
London may favor industry in Great Britain, it also sug-
gests that the foreign boom is easing off ; and if it is, then
the metal markets are likely to ease off too, after the first
effect of the lowering of the Bank rate has passed. The
immediate effect of the reduction is a rise all round, irre-
spective of any special considerations ; but that first
effect isn’t likely to last.
* * * *
This shows the course of Melbourne Tram shares
for the past 10 years (quotations are at the end of
March): —
1897 .. 10s. 6d. 1903 .. 15s. lOd.
1899 .. 13 0 1905 22 10
1901 .. 24 6 1907 .. 35 3
So the present price is nearly 350 per cent, advance on
that of 10 years ago, and 50 per cent, above the quotation
of two years back. The co. put £250,000 into the busi-
ness ; the present market price is £1,704,000, and upon
that amount the public pays interest. In round figures
it thus pays'£6s,ooo a year as interest on capital which it
has itself contributed.
At the date of the last balance-sheet (June, ’O6)
the co.’s position was as follows : Liquid assets, £876,443 ;
freeholds, &c., £250,903 ; other property, £143,431; total
£1,270,777. Less debts, £286,295. Surplus, £984,482,
or 20s. 6d. per share. The co. pays at present 12$ per
cent, on the watered capital—the £250,000 actually paid
and the £230,000 transferred from reserves—and at
365. 6d. this shows a return of £3 10s. 6d. per cent.
Therefore, if only enough profits can be maintained to
pay the 12$ per cent, dividend, at present price an
investor gets £3 10s. 6d. per cent, plus the present sur-
plus. The 12$ per cent, calls for £60,000 ; and, apart
from rates recovered, the average profits of the five years
1901-6 were £102,453. As those five years included the
drought years, there seems little doubt that the 12$ per
cent, will be maintained. In five years, in fact, the assets
had increased Dy £243,635 ; this was profit after provid-
ing for renewals and dividends. And the co. has yet
nine years to go from June 30 next.
The Tramway Co.’s present surplus of assets is
£876,443, and at 355. 6d. the concern is valued at
£1,704,000. In other words, supposing the present
return on the investment (£3 10s. 6d. per cent.) is re-
garded as fair interest, the co. must have £1,704,000 to
distribute in the end. It had £876,443 at June 30 last;
it had then 10 years in which to make up the other
£828,000. So it must make, say, £83,000 a year in addi-
tion to its 12$ per cent, dividend (£60,000), or in all
£143,000 a year. In the past five years it averaged, as
said just now, £102,453 ; in the past 10 years it averaged
£87,956, but from that it wrote off considerable sums.
Disregarding the latter, the man who buys at 355. 6d.
must expect that the profits for the next 10 years will be
62 per cent, greater than they have been for the past 10
years. Otherwise, he can’t get his money back and 3$
per cent, interest.
But there is one point of interest to the general
public ; and the high price of the stock suggests that the
public will probably be more deeply interested still
by and bye. It was shown just now that the assets at
June 30 last totalled £1,270,777, including £250,903 for
freeholds and £143,431 for other property, mainly cars,
grips, etc. On July 1,1916, the municipalities will take
the service over. Question is : What will be done with
this property ? The municipalities won’t want it—for
long, at any rate. The cable system is out-of-date
already, and will be more out-of-date in 1916. The bulk
of the cars, etc., will be useless ; and much of the co.’s
other property will be in the same boat. But neither
the municipalities nor the Government could change
over from the cable to the electric system between the
evening of June 30 and the morning of July 1, 1916. If
the Trust got its own cars, etc., in advance it would still
have the permanent way to wrestle with. How the
Trust is going to get out of the difficulty isn’t
obvious: possibly some way may be found. For
the present a few people who have been buying the
shares steadily and heavily for some time past, evidently
believe that the co. has got the Government and the
municipalities by the wool, and is in a position to force
them into paying full price for all the rolling stock and
most of the properties ; and the “full price ” is something
niore than the balance-sheet price. It is this pleasant
little anticipation, and possibly a hope that the co. may
in some way engineer a renewal of its lease in 1916, and
proceed to boom afresh, which helped the heavy buying,
and forced up the price in the wav traced above.
* * * •
This in brief is 10 years’ history of what, all
things considered, is the most amazing monopoly in
Australia—the Sydney Ferries, Ltd. In 1897, the ferry-
ing was done by the North Shore Co. That concern was
then in 60,000 shares of £1 ; and in April they were
worth about 425. The co. was, however, making so
much profit which it did not show, besides a good deal
of undivided profit which it did show, that in 1899 it set
about reconstructing itself, as the easiest way to continue
the monopoly without showing the fatness of it. Shares
had then gone to over 50s. A simple process was
adopted : the 60,000 shares were cut in halves, and each
half became a £1 share. So, instead of an 8 per cent,
dividend absorbing £4BOO a year, by this juggle £9600
was paid, and it was still 8 per cent. By April, 1900, the
shares were worth 355. 6d. It looked an absurd price, for
the dividend then on the watered stock was only 7 per
cent., so as an investment the stock was yielding
under 4 per cent. In other words, investors were
already heavily discounting future waterings and in-
creases of dividend. In 1902 it became known
that there was to be another watering ; and another
20,000 shares were issued, at par. That meant that,
while the stock was worth about 40s. in the market, the
co. issued to its shareholders 20,000 at'2os.—made them a
present, that is, of £20,000, either provided, or to be pro-
vided, by the public. By April of last year shares had
crept up to 625. ; that is, investors were so discounting
the future, or paying such a premium for the right to
join in the future rich feasts at the public’s expense, that
they were getting an immediate return of under 3$ per
cent. The first of the feasts arrived during the year,
when 20,000 shares, worth over £60,000 in the market,
were handed over to the shareholders for nothing—
£6o,ooo which the public either had provided or was
going to provide. And, without another penny being
added to capital, the dividend, which formerly absorbed
£14,000 a year, now absorbed £16,000, though it still
masqueraded as the old 10 per cent. On £BO,OOO (the
original £60,000, and the actually-paid £20,000), £16,000
would be 20 per cent. ; and the public might begin to
take an interest in the matter if it were announced that
it was providing 20 per cent, dividends to a co. which was
ministering to its needs. Late last year it became k uown
that still another watering was coming : and presently
40,000 shares were issued at par. That meant again that,
while the public would have to pay £3 or more per share,
the shareholders get 40,000 for £1 each —another present
of £BO,OOO from the public which uses the ferries. These
new shares have already had 10s. paid on them and are
worth 525., so the gift actually amounts to over £BO,OOO.
Presumably the old 10 per cent, dividend will
be continued (there is no doubt whatever that it is easily
earned). Then, including the old co.’s £60,000, the actual
paid capital (assuming that the full 20s. on the new r shares
is paid in cash) will be £120,000. The dividend on 200,000
will be £20,000 a year, and that, on this £120,000, will be
equal to 16§ percent. That is what the public will be paying
the Sydney Ferries Co. for its services. The Gas Co. makes
15 per cent., and looks as though it knows that it dare not
go any further ; and the Colonial Sugar Refining Go. has
hard work to justify its 10 percent., and is constantly
threatened with extinction ; yet the Sydney Ferries,
Ltd., though it came into existence less than 10 years
ago, is put up with, though it pays 16§ per cent.—it
works out at actually more than that at present. If it
had built up its business through generations of hard toil
and moderation in the matter of dividends, less could
be said ; but it is a comparative newcomer, whose entire
strength lies in the fact that it is fed at both ends by the
State’s tramway and railway systems. That any few
private capitalists should pocket such profits under such
circumstances is intolerable.
And the position only gets worse the longer it
is left. Ten years ago, taking the market value of the
shares, there was only £126,000 in the business. To-day
there is just £600,000; and of the extra £474,000
only £40,000 has been put up by the shareholders. The
shareholders haven’t provided a farthing of the other
£434,000 of capital, yet the public has to pay interest on
it. And it is quite obvious that the public is expected to
pay interest on a vast deal more paper capital yet. The
value of shares lately reached 625., and a 10 percent, divi-
dend shows a return of less than 3J per cent. ; and it is
quite certain that investors would want more than 8$
per cent, if they didn’t expect to get some more watered
stock—stock, that is, for which the public and not the
shareholders subscribe the capital. It will be interesting
to see how the matter strikes a newcomer like Chief
Commissioner Johnson. And if Chief Commissioner
Johnson rises in rebellion, he may even find the S.M.
Herald following at his heels.
* * * «
The Trust, representing mining cos., munici-
pality, and Government, which is to give Broken Hill a
second water supply, has been formed ; and now the
B.H. Water Co. has a weekly prayer-meeting to petition
that the Trust may fail to get the money. The only
mining co. which stands out is the B.H. Prop. ; that big
concern often moves in a mysterious way, and its way in
this business is more mysterious even than usual. At a
crucial time its directors started talking about the Dar-
ling River as a source of supply, which looked very much
like a resurrection of the old dodge of getting the public
to quarrel over details so as to prevent them getting any-
thing and keeping them in the hands of the Water Co.
Possibly the B.H. Prop, wanted to make itself “ solid ”
with the Water Co., and have a friend there in case the
Trust failed ; but it was a mighty dangerous proceeding,
since it may have the effect of preventing the second
scheme from going through. And it’s no use having a
Water Co. for a friend if the Water Co.’s reservoir is dry.
* « * »
Auditor James Robertson, of Sydney, has, with
the approval of the accountants’ societies, sent share-
holders in the Australian Newspaper Co. “(a) Balance-
sheet which should have been issued, (b) balance-sheet
issued without the knowledge of auditors.” He was
auditor last year ; also he was appointed for this year.
Going to the office to do work under the latter appoint-
ment, he says, “ I discovered that the balance-sheet for
the year ended June 30, 1906, printed and issued to the
shareholders of the co., was not signed by me. It was
not submitted to me for signature, nor was it signed by me,
although it appears to bear my signature.” The trouble is
over the accumulated deficit. Instead of the profit and
loss account showing this debit, the published statement
started off scratch, so to speak, and instead of showing
£5918 of old leeway to make up, showed merely that a
profit of £B3 had been made during the year. Also this
old debit balance was tacked on in the balance-sheet to
“Goodwill,” though shown in a separate line. All the
particulars were in the published balance-sheet, but the
statement was “ dressed,” and might have misled any-
body who looked at it at a gallop. All the same, even if
it was only window-dressing, it is a pretty serious matter
to issue an auditor’s certificate, “ We hereby certify that
we have examined the above balance-sheet ” —the dressed
balance-sheet—when what the auditors did examine and
certify to was (according to their Statement) a naked
balance-sheet, with the deficit undisguised.
* * *
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne)
Investment
Ordinary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserve.
1897 .. £2742 4 p.c. = £2953 £1451 £2789
1898 .. 3005 4 ~ „ 2953 1503 674
1899 .. 2299 4 „ „ 2953 849
1900 .. 1066 l£ „ „ 1107 808 819
1901 .. 2722 3£ „ „ 2584 946 306
1902 .. 2886 4 „ „ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 .. 3255 4 „ „ 2953 1076 301
1905 .. 3427 4£ ~ „ 3322 1181 332
1906 .. 3874 5 „ „ 3691 1364 552
1907 .. 4931 5 „ „ 3691 2604 630
This co. has a paid capital of £73,822, which is an unusually
large amount for a trustee co. to put up; and as
most of the money is earning only a low rate of interest
(being a guarantee fund to protect clients’ interests,
the money is necessarily kept in gilt-edged securities),
the rate of dividend is small, in spite of the fact
that the estates in hand have now passed £2,000,000.
The co., whose accounts are presented in a way which
several Australian trustee cos. would be the better for
marking, sets out its investments in detail, and makes
also a revaluation of assets every year ; hence the fluc-
tuations in the investment reserve shown above. All
expenses amounted in the past year to £6071 : that is at
the rate of ss. lOd. per cent, of trust estates—a rather
high rate compared with that shown by some trustee
cos. But the man who leaves his affairs in a trustee co.’s
hands is more interested in securing efficiency than
cheapness, for the cheapness.benefits the shareholder, if
anybody. In this case the expenses run to ss. lOd. per
cent. ; the profit to Is. Bd. per cent. The total cost to
the estate is therefore 7s. 6d. per cent.—it remains at
about that average pretty constantly—part of it paid by
way of commission on the capital value, part of it as
commission on the income.
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when £68,272 of
capital was forfeited and applied to cover losses :
Forfeited
Capital Nomi-
Losson Loss on Total Carried to nal Re-
Mar., Business. Property. Loss. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £1450 £604 £2054 £19,751
1898 .. 1289 1520 2809 £276 17,218
1899 .. 1481 867 2298 366 15,286
1900 .. 897 540 1437 456 14,453
1901 .. 649 153 802 1830 15,481
1902 .. 196 565 761 484 15,204
1903 .. 256 59 315 62 14,951
Profit.
1904 .. 243 35 208 245 14,988
Loss.
1905 .. 73 1279 1352 1152 14,788
1906 .. 56 348 404 338 14,722
Profit.
1907 .. 28 28 55 14,805
This is startling. There is a business profit for the first
time since the boom burst and left this co. on the rocks,
nursing a vast quantity of vacant land, acquired at the
rates that ruled when the unregenerate Q.N. Bank used
to send its managers out with a weapon and instructions
to bring in somebody to borrow ten thousand or so. The
capital was originally £300,000, of which £148,398 in £1
shares was subscribed. In 1896 the £1 shares were
reduced to 12s. 6d., and the 7s. 6d. was written off. At
that time, however, 46,157 shares had been forfeited, and
on the balance (102,241 shares) ss. was unpaid. In the
11 years since that reconstruction the forfeited shares
have been increased to 59,235, so only 89,163 out of the
former 148,398 are alive. The rest have succumbed to
the calls (totalling 2s. 6d.) which have been made since
1896 ; and there is still a liability of 2s. 6d. per share on
these shares. The society also owes £40,759 in deposits,
etc. Against this there are £42,182 of advances, £51,605
of properties (book value, as written down), and £6415
of cash, besides a few sundries. For many years
past the expenses (mainly interest) have been greater
than the income ; yet there is enough faith in
the society’s prospects and Queensland’s prospects to
bring in more deposits, which have increased during the
year from £32,986 to £36,758. Possibly the society has
some profitable new business in hand, though the balance-
sheet doesn’t show it ; in fact, the advances are rather
less now than they were 12 months ago. How sales of
property panned out during the year isn’t clear ; there
wasn’t a visible loss, but there may have been a profit,
applied to increase the special reserve against probable'
losses on future transactions. As for years past the
income hasn’t been enough to pay interest on loans, it
looked as though all the capital was gone ; but, as the-
assets are understood to be largely vacant land, bringing
in no revenue, that is not a sure test. The time has
arrived when there might be a cleaning-up. If a re-valu-
ation is not thought advisable, at least non-revenue-
producing vacant lands might be separated from the-
rest of the assets. While the two are mixed, it is not
possible to guess at the capital value from the rental
value ; therefore it is not possible to even guess at the
size of the shareholders’ prospects.
* * * *
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and>
Building Co.
Profit Loss Total Capital.
on on Loss nomin-
Busi- Proper- for Total ally
Dec., ness. ties. Year. Deficit. Intact..
1897 .. £lB7 £1,522 £1,335 £17,730 £85,025-
Loss.
1898 .. 32 3,383 3,415 21,145 81,610'
1899 .. 33 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249’
1900* .. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,539
1901 .. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,254
1902 .. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,887'
1903 ..89 89 63,959 38,798
1904 .. 383 1,725 2,108 66,067 36,689
1905 .. 352 236 588 66,655 36,101
1906 .. 472 120 592 67,247 35,509-
In the nine years from the end of 1897 there has thus-
been an ascertained loss of £49,516; and meantime the
assets have been reduced by £123,867. That means that
£123,867 of assets have paid off £74,351 of debt. There
remain now £80,150 of assets (other than cash) to pay off
£45,632 of debt. The cash in hand will pay off £991,
leaving £44,641 to be paid by the £80,150 of properties,.
&c., and if these remaining assets pan out as the others-
have done, they will be enough to pay off £48,000. On
the past nine years’ record, therefore, the co. might have
£3OOO or £4OOO of its capital intact—the difference be-
tween £48,000 and £44,641. . The directors mention that,
the Companies Amendment Act of 1906 having passed,
“it is the desire of the directors to make such proposals'
as would (if adopted) enable the co. to carry on the usual
business ; but it would be useless to hope for a resump-
tion of ordinary business without a substantial increase of
the co.’s capital.” It would indeed.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
Mine
D . , , Develop- Re-
trofits. Dividends, &c. ment. serves
Sept., 1901.. £6511 j Jg- x f* P' c - l _
Loss.
Mar., 1902.. 1661 Nil _ me
Sept., 1902.. 25 Nil _ $OO
Mar., 1903.. 525 Nil _
Sept., 1903.. 1163 Nil _ i aZo
Mar., 1904.. 1214 Nil _ 2 ’702
Profit.
Sept., 1904.. 353 Nil _ 2 349
Mar., 1905.. 105 Nil _ 2 ]244
Sept., 1905.. 2S9{ Writ( . en N o » £lgs6 J 221 4 ,032
Mar., 1906.. 577 Nil 751 4,206
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 2 Nil 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907.. 441 J £l2Bo } 4274 12,295
The slump between the first line and the second shows
what happens to every coal mine in the long run—
and every other mine as well. The co. about
six j'ears ago worked out the old property;
but, instead of putting anything by for the return
of capital or the purchase of another mine, it
divided profits up to the hilt. Subsequently, though
except for plant its capital had all disappeared, and its
credit was none too good (that was proved by the price
it had to pay for accommodation), it secured another coal
area at Cessnock, which it is now developing under the
name of the Neath. The amount spent on development
is shown above, and the amount written off during the
half-year is money spent on dismantling the old property.
Alread)' there has been a small output of coal troiii
Neath, but the shaft must be bricked before anything
much can be done. As mentioned just now, the co.
exhausted its paid capital before it moved after a new
mine ; but there are 20,()00 “ new ” shares on which calls
are being got in slowly. The bulk of the cost of purchase
and development has, however, to be either owed or paid
for with borrowed money. At March, 1904, ‘‘sundry
creditors ” stood for £3097, and against that were £4294
of book debts. Now “ sundry creditors ” stand for
£17,335, and book debts have been reduced to £556.
What “ sundry creditors ” consist of isn’t mentioned.
The improvident old co. is thus trying to get a new life
without parting with any of its old profits, and, aided by
its present plant, it may succeed, but it can only be by
heavily discounting the future; so there is a long struggle
ahead of it.
From the beginning of the year down to March
27th, Mt. Lyell (Tas.) had put up the following record in
production :
Ore, Copper, Silver, Gold,
tons. tons. oz. oz.
January .. 29,625 528 56,031 1572
February .. 30,981 593 53,017 1523
March .. 34,018 001 48,009 1387
94,624 1722 157,057 4482
The furnace charges included 1885 tons purchased ore
and fluxes. These figures were for 12 weeks. For the
last quarter of 1906 the co. obtained 1919 tons copper
from 103,690 tons ore; total value of gold, silver, and
copper was £241,000, or £2 6s. sd. per ton. Mt. Lyell
treats twice as much ore as the Great Cobar, and more
than three times as much as Mt. Morgan. The labor cost
is exceptionally low' ; 2100 men handle 32,000 tons a
month. Low costs more than counterbalance a low
average extraction ; it costs Mt. Lyell no more to mine
and smelt than it costs to mine and concentrate at
Broken Hill. The co.’s profit on copper is very high, not
less than from £5O to £6O per ton under present condi-
tions ; but, with 1,300,000 shares to feed, every 2s.
dividend sw'allows nearly £l7 per ton profit on copper.
The fact that low grade ore can be made to yield such
large profits foreshadows the end of the copper boom at
no very remote period. With copper at a low price, 2
per cent, ore would be a close proposition ; but the recent
development in the North Lyell has somewhat changed
the co.’s outlook, supposing it had to face a slump.
• • • *
Pioneer (Tas.) has at last topped the £lOO,OOO
dividend mark, much to the elation of the fat crowd on
the directorate—such as Sep Miller, Harvey Patterson,
and the Gibbs-Bright representative. Last six months
saw the ground average the satisfactory figure of 2*1611b.
stream tin per cub. yard ; and, as the metal was up at
about £l9O for a good part of the time, the co.’s interim
divs. during the term just exceeded the guinea. With
the payment of the £lOO,OOO the ground sluiced reached
2,000,000 cub. yds., and on that basis profits have been at
the rate of Is. per cub. yard, leaving- the difference for
working costs, &c. During the last six months the total
cost per ton of stream tin was £32 Bs. 6fd., against
£3O 9s. 2£d. for the preceding half-year. From the start
the ground has averaged 2'osBJib. of tin oxide per
cub. yard. The co. u« s both water gravitation and
steam, being the only mine on the north-east coast of
Tasmania worked on these lines. At present it has two
big- pumps, and one little one, submerged in the claim,
owing to the flooding of the mine. A big No. 3 plant has
just been finished, and this will soon clear out the water
and ensure a return to divs.
• * * *
Mt. Stronach has passed through a time of
travail, along with the other Tasmanian tin show's. It
has this advantage, that it is a gravitation property.
When it first started, it w'as thought that it had all tin
and no water ; now people who want to be nasty say it is
all W’ater and no tin. Anyway, the boast is made that
the co. to-day has a better supply of water than any tin
mine on the coast, save the Briseis, and that 80 acres
bored have averaged ljlb. of black tin to the cubic yard.
The question may be asked w'hether the co. did not have
a lot of boring and sinking done on the old ground before
late poor yields ; and if the average was not expected to
be a bit above ljlb. If this be so, it is just as well for
those behind the shares not to holler until they have
sluiced the tin into the race.
• * * *
Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas.) is straining itself to
show good balance-sheets with a view'to its purchase by
the State. It is a poor sort of line, cheaply and badly
worked. It was nevertheless of great use in opening up
Meehan and Lyell, but it needs to be properly run now to
further develop the West Coast mining fields. In the
Hand of Lots of Sleep its vagaries excite no comment, and
elicit no protest. Its road bed and rolling stock look like
the worst south of the Equator. The other week a loco,
tried to climb over a log, got its two forelegs over, and
then baulked. Nobody took any notice of the accident;
Tassy woke up out of its chronic doze, smiled vacuously,
.-and went off to sleep again. The sooner the Government
buys the line the better for the rising mining fields
strewn on its route ; only the State will have to keep its
brains at work while the negotiations are in progress.
* • * *
It was about two years ago that the Vulcan
■(N.Q.) began to get into the eye of the Southener. For
nearly 15 years it had been working in its quiet way, and
paying fine dividends—fine, that is, considering the
modesty of the capital. The co. then was in 44,000 £1
shares, of which only £28,233 was paid. Southern
’Changes didn’t then know the stock. Then the
Southerners, going north to pick up new shows, heard
•of men w'orking under the wing of the patriarchal John
Moffat, w'ho were reputed to have vast wealth, though
they still swung the pick. The Southerners, nodding to
the innocent men of Irvinebank, said, “ These are our
:game,” and they began to buy. As a matter of fact, the
■dividends were not as big as they seemed ; for a very
modest lot vi’as reckoned as a fortune thereabouts; and
■down to the end of 1905 the total dividends were
■only £121,000. But Southerners having become
interested, of course shares had to be cut up to
oblige them, and each old. one became 11, giving the mine
264,000 shares to earn dividends for. But it was going to
do that easily enough. In February, last year, 950 tons
yielded 125 tons black tin worth £10,550—12‘1 per cent.,
black tin, that is. Sixpenny divs. were talked of; the
Irvinebank Co. was going to put 30 head of stampers
always at the co.’s disposal. All the new bustle was,
however, more than the mine could stand ; and from a
record of 5513 tons crushed for 528 tons black tin, giving
■dividends of £24,264 for the half-year to the end of
February, 1906, the record has fallen in the past half-year
to 4184 tons stone crushed for 256 tons black tin yielding
£13,591 in dividends. And that isn’t the woist of it; for
while £2098 beyond the dividend w’as earned in the early
half-year, £3807 less than the dividend was etrned in the
last six months. In other words, the profit c -upped from
£26,362 to £9784 ; and the surplus of liquid assets (assum-
ing- that the reserve fund, £4593, was liquid) from £12,501
to £SSB.


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance .for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These tw ■ plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
hy W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other, (t saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in .steam nipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * *
Felton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
• * • *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working uart —the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man w'lth this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine _ uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Comparly’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
• * * *
The Financial Standard (London), wrote in
its issue of 11th September, 1906, regarding The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited Notwith-
standing the utmost conservatism observed by the
directors, continual progress is being achieved and the
latest report shows that the trading for the past year is
no exception to past records.”*
.*■*■»*
The Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Co. were so
satisfied with their first Card Concentrator, that they
have just installed six more. Block 10 Broken Hill is
also installing 12.*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * » *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly. Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable,' write and we' will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne. * * # #
If you want'to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
»■* » •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field fox
investment, fullest information gladly given. G.eo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * ♦
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
*** * s
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six laree Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Eaymarket, Sydney.*
* » * «
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
•** , *
C.anbelego.— Mining speculator? correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest Informa-
tion on the field.*
The Vulcan directors explain things this way:
“ Owing to shortage of firewood at the battery, crushing
was greatly hampered during the term, completely so for
the past two months’’-which is to be taken to mean
that crushing was stopped for two months. But whereas
down to 18 months ago the average output was worth 10'5
per cent, black tin—and for the first months of last year
(when the South nibbled at the shares most briskly) the
return was actually 12T per cent.—for the past half-year
iti was only 6*l per cent. Shortage of firewood wouldn t
account for that, anyhow. Fortunately, the shares were
never run to any dizzy heights, and there will probably
be no heavy losses. The ore, though poorer, and some of
it now more refractory, is likely to last; and on figures the
tin market looks the strongest of all the metal markets.
But no big thing is going to be made out of Vulcans, and the
Northerners, who were supposed not to know the value of
their mine, are not the game they were supposed to be.
For 13 years prior to 1905 the co.’s dividends averaged
£6500 a year, and that was on 10 per cent, ore; and
£6500 a year wouldn’t mean 6d. a share on the present
register. Certainly more ore can be crushed now, and
the market is better ; but it was on the modest basis
mentioned that the co. and the mine made their repu-
tation.
The Vulcan Co. doesn’t possess a battery of its
own even now. It depends on the Irvinebank Co., which
is mostly John Moffat. That co. failed to get firewood ;
hence the battery was hung up, and the co.’s dividends
had also to be hung up. The shareholders can’t ask John
Moffat what he means by it —can’t even sack him from
the Board, because he isn’t on it. If, however, the co.
had its own battery and the directors allowed themselves
to run out of firewood, they could be spoken to severely.
It is a bad arrangement altogether.
* * * *
Miles and Co.’s option on Candlish’s Charleston
and Georgetown properties (Q.) includes the pick of'the
field for high records and reefs still living. The Nil Desper-
andum is largely stoped to the 370 ft. level. The reef, is,
3ft. 6in. wide for 800 ft., and going strongly underfoot at
the 370 ft. level; and, what is unstoped for 90ft. above
bulks 16dwt. Mgr. gold, Boz. silver, and 10 per cent. lead.
This is east of the shaft; west the shoot is 160 ft. long
and 3ft. wide, of heavy sulphides, bulking' loz. lOdwt.
gold, 12oz. silver, and 15 per cent. lead. During 1906
the Nil Desperandum crushed 1032 tons for 10950 z.,
exclusive of concentrates, which are stacked, waiting'
the railway, and exclusive also of sands, which, with the
concentrates, show a further gold value of 735. per ton of
ore. Total “ official ’’ returns (and like all good Etheridge
shows, these Oandlish mines have had a large unrecorded
output of payable stone) are 11,668 tons for 19,M10z. gold.
East and west of the shaft, at the lowest level, there is
a shoot 530 ft. long by 3ft. 6in. wide, bulking over loz.
The Queenslander reef has been proved for a
length of 1000 ft.—the deepest of the four shafts is down
300 ft. At 180 ft. the reef has been stoped to surface for
a length of 600 ft. ; and it has been driven on for
1000 ft. The end of the west drive shows 3ft. of sulphide
ore, which bulks 2oz. 3dwt. gold, lSdwt. silver, and 10 per
cent. lead. At the western end stopes have been put up
30ft. for a length of 300 ft. on 6ft. of sulphides, bulking
2oz. 3dwt. gold, Boz. silver, and 15 per cent. lead. A
6-ton parcel, shipped to Cockle Creek, returned £5 14s.
gold, 21s. 3d. silver, and 675. lid. lead. The main shaft
is 125 ft. below the 180 ft. level, and levels have been driven
at 280 ft.—west 440 ft., and east 140 ft. The “official”
records of the mine are 15,760 tons for 19,5570 z., indepen-
dent of concentrates and sands, concentrates representing
10 per cent, of the ore crushed. A parcel of 10 tons 15cwt.
of concentrates, sold to Brandeis and Co., realised £169
nett, or £llls. 4d. per ton of ore, after payment of charges.
The Sir Henry Havelock reef has been worked
in oxidised ore for 1200 ft. In the sulphides the reef
has been proved payable for a length of 450 ft. No. 3
level is 250 ft. from surface, and in the shaft 25ft.
below that a sample from a reef 3ft. wide gave Boz. 7dwt.
During 1906 the mine treated 2018 tons for 27960 z., and
total “official” output is 8044 tons for 88610 z., exclusive
of concentrates and values in sands.
The Dry Hash shows to a depth of 60ft., and
over a length of 300 ft. there is a lode 3ft. wide. The ore
in the bottom of the shaft gives loz. lldwt. gold, 6oz.
15dwt. silver, and 49 per cent. lead. The levels at 50ft.
give loz. 3dwt. gold, 9oz. 13dwt. silver, and 40 per cent,
lead. Warden’s office returns are 678 tons for 4870 z.
gold, the baser metals being lost. Sixty tons crudes sent
to smelters netted £664; the ore averaged 58 per cent,
lead, 12oz. silver, and 9dwt. sgr. gold. The ore dumps
bulked loz. 3dwt. gold, 9oz. 13dwt. silver, 45 per cent,
lead, and 7 per cent, copper. The Havelock and Queens-
lander have 10-head mills and a forest of Berdan pans ;
but grinding of the sulphides is interminable, and gives
poor results.
Rail connection with Chillagoe will bring
transport and treatment charges of concentrates from
Etheridge down to 50s. a ton, as against £lO or £ll at
present. A great tonnage was raised and treated before
returns were regularly kept; yet the warden’s office
figures show the stone treated from the Nil Desperandum,
Havelock, and Queenslander to be 35,393 tons for
47,5590 z.
Gilmore tin (N.Q.) will have to “ pass ” at least
one dividend. Nothing will be paid in May ; the future
beyond that is uncertain, for “treatment troubles” have
begun already.
A “ transport difficulty ” is arising at Cloncurry
(Q.) ; but it isn’t the one that Queensland mine-owners
usually talk about when they want to explain why
dividends are not forthcoming. This new trouble is that
the carriers can’t get handy loading down to the head of
the railway, having shifted all the available copper-ore
that was lying close in. The few big mines are stacking
ore to smelt when the railway is through ; and of the
little mines only the remote ones have now any left that
will pay to shift the distance.
r * ■* * *
Croydon, the sickest of all Queensland gold-
fields, has got word at last concerning the intentions of
the owner of Bennion’s Block. Bennion, with a few
thousands behind him, set out to prove that Croydon
reefs persisted beyond the intrusive granite, or break, and
he bored at heavy expense to find the Lady Mary or Iguana
reef. Finding something, he belted down a shaft, and
was drowned out. Then he started making mistakes ;
instead of getting in machinery to beat the water, he
tried to dodge it by belting down another shaft, and that
was flooded out too ; at the last, water was making at the
rate of 5000 gallons an hour. However, he got a reef
formation in both shafts, with some rich seams. No. 2
shaft, which was a mistake from the jump, was aban-
doned ; it was too near the intrusion, and the formation
was faulted. Across the bar the Lady Mary yielded
16,3220 z. from 8364 tons, and the Sir Walter 39950 z. from
1434 tons. What has now to be proved is whether across
the intrusion the reefs are not too faulted to give profits ;
and seeing that reefs are proved to be there —and
there is little doubt they are extensions of reefs which
gave the returns cited—it is a risk well worth taking.
Bennion, who hung on grimly to the show, admits at last
that he isfinancially beaten, so the public will be allowed to
take a hand. It would have been. a good thing for
Croydon if this had happened 18 months or two years
earlier.
• • « *
“ Q.” : Lucky Creek, near Charters Towers
(Queensland), will shortly own a battery with a history.
It is the property of Janies Cockburn, who was a Gympie
(Queensland) miner for many years, and went to Horn
Island soon after the discovery of gold there (the gold
was discovered by a man who was in search of a bullock
which had swum across from Prince of Wales Island).
Cockburn managed a five-head stamper for Smythe and
Co. While there, a frenzied engine-driver tried to murder
him, and then committed suicide. Cockburn’s injuries
were such that he had to go to Brisbane for medical
attention, and, while he was there, Smythe and
Co. sold out to a Melbourne co. After some years
he heard that the Melbourne co., after putting up 40 head
of stampers, had deserted Horn Island as unpayable.
Cockburn went backhand, finding payable gold, sent for
his two sons. With their assistance he set to work to
-erect a battery from the ironwork of a missionary vessel
which had been wrecked on the coast 32 years before.
The iron was scattered about the beach about three miles
from the mine. A means of transit was the difficulty, but
this was overcome by the discovery of an old, ant-eaten
buggy in the last stage of decay. It was strengthened
with iron, wood, leather, and odds and ends, and with
•one man in the shafts, a couple hauling with ropes, and
occasionally one pushing, they got the iron to the mine.
The necessary timber was procured from a heap of Oregon
Eine stranded on another part of the island. A raft was
uilt to carry it to a point near the mine. And now the
• curiosity has been shifted to Lucky Creek.
Mining looks up in Papua, as in most other
places. Port Moresby was never more pleased with
itself and its prospects ; this is chiefly owing to the large
quantity of copper ore which is being discovered in that
vicinity. Some of the stuff returns as much as 60 per
cent, copper. Of course, this is picked ore. It has to be
packed, then shipped to Queensland, and, as a rule, sent
south from there; so it doesn’t pay to send away
mullock. One man started packing surface stone about
seven months ago, and, with the profits, has bought a
team of 18 mules and gear, bringing them over from
Oooktown (Q.). There are many apparently good surface
shows, but, so far, only one true lode seems to have been
found—that worked by the man with the mules. At
Woodlark Island, too, gold-mining is more hopeful: the
local men are buying heavily into Kulamadau and Wood-
lark Proprietary. Woodlark King is, however, making
the best show for the present; the owners, starting from
scratch, have paid for 10 head and other plant out of
profits, and at Samarai are reputed to be doing extra
well. Very little is heard of the new goldfield reported a
while ago, mainly on account of the extreme difficulty of
prospecting it.
The water supply for the Broken Hill mines is
running short. Unfortunately, no official estimate that
is worth anything is ever made ; last time the mines had
to shut down, it may be remembered, it was officially
announced almost up to the last moment that the supply
was ample. Three months will, however, get to the silt
which is now deep in the reservoir, and greatly diminishes
its value. The “rains at Broken Hill,” lately reported
with big headings in metropolitan papers, didn’t make
one of the supply creeks run even a trickle.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, has decided to monkey
no longer with the chances of a collapse in Harvey’s
creep-wracked shaft. For a long time the management
poOh-poohed the idea that a movement in the creep area
would pull the main shaft out of the perpendicular; but
that danger has long been too apparent. So a new main
shaft is now under weigh, intended for the present to
relieve Harvey shaft down to the 600 ft., below which
depth it is not thought likely that the creep will affect it.
The new shaft is west of the hanging wall, and close
alongside the road leading to the South mine.
North Broken Hill in the February-March
eight weeks made a profit of £17,635, after allowing for
depreciation ; but about £6500 spent on mining develop-
ment and machinery was charged to capital account.
The profit was equal to £1 Is. per ton of ore, with
perhaps another 3s. 6d. or 4s. per ton in the tailings,
&c., but that is uncertain. This is at the rate
of £57,313 per half-year, or 9s. 6d. per share.
This is a very fine result; but, then, during February-
March lead averaged about £l9 13s. per ton. There were
1994 tons lead in the concentrates, equal to 6480 tons for
a half-year. From that it can easily be worked out what
a fall in lead would mean to this co. ; but the profit
would not all disappear until lead got back to £lO 14s.
per ton. Of course, the idea of lead beinj* £lO 14s. per
ton is pooh-poohed for the moment; but it is worth re-
membering, nevertheless, that only at the beginning of
last year J. H. Ourle, the mining adviser of London
Economist, wrote : “ It is not safe to value lead at much
over £ll, certainly not more than £l2 per ton ; and as
for zinc, I expect it is coming down to £l6 or £l6 a ton.”
Hd was viewing mining as an investment; for the specu-
lator, it is enough to know, not what the market will be
next year and the year after that, but merely what it will
be to-morrow.
* * * *
The Gillies zine-extraction plant on the Block
iff lease, Brokep' Hill, is quite capable of doing good work,
but in its erection there was a strange lack of foresight.
' While some sort of provision (how found to be inadequate)
was made for getting rid of the residues, absolutely no
thought was taken for the inevitable accumulation of
slimes. The result is that the 1 plant now looks like the
centre of a pig-stye. Even the scheme for the disposal
of the tailings has proved<a failure. After being dumped
by a belt conveyor into bins erected by Block 10, whence
it was proposed to shoot them down into worked-out
stopes, they refuse to shoot without being violent ly per-
suaded with crowbars. The present manager is, however,
gradually overcoming his difficulties, and is evolving
order out of chaos.
* * * •
Water clarification interested the De Bavay
people (whose little experimental plant on the North
B.H. mine has been doing good work) to the extent of
about £3OOO, which was what their large storage tank
ran them into some little time ago. After all that ex-
penditure the scheme promises to be a failure, at least
for the ;purposes of a large mill, for which it was
intended. A cheap gun would have killed the bird just
as dead.
* # * *
B.H. Junction is a much-improved mine. The
evil doings of the old pig-rooting days have for years
past had a bad effect upon its outlook ; but the traces of
those old times are being slowly and laboriously wiped
out. There is now some nice ore to be seen in the backs
of the principal stopes, which are opening out well. A
mine which carries such an ore body as is being revealed
at the lower levels cannot be regarded as hopeless. The
directors have not been interfering with the development
of the mine of late, which is a good thing for the mine.
The early resignation of the chairman would not cause
much surprise.
*i• » *
To prevent the drill and othei dust which
causes “ miners’ disease,” they use sprays at Broken
Hill; but no other'N.S. Wales mines do so, and very few
in other States, even where water is plentiful. Some
time ago, at Chief-Inspector Jaquet’s request, general
manager Delprat, of the B.H. Prop., put a meter on to
the supply-pipe of a jet. In three weeks 229 ft. of boring
was done and 385 ,tons of ore broken, at a cost of
10,000 gallons of water ; so it took 26 gallons of water per
ton of ore, or 44 gallons per foot of boring.
* * * *
G. H. Blakemore, general manager of Great
Cobar, advocates smelting works to take all classes of
copper ore, no matter what they 7 contain ; at least, he
says such works would be a great benefit to the copper-
mining business. The Cobar Co. purchases copper ore ;
also Waratah, Wallaroo, and Chillagoe do a customs
trade ; but they are all shy of small lots of mixed refrac-
tory 7 copper ore associated with zinc, bismuth, antimony 7
or lead. Very little has been done by the State Mines
departments, either, to help solve difficult metallurgical
problems. Presumably they have not worried, because
the refractory, or mixed, ore is'easily exported to foreign
works, whose Governments do an immense amount in
helping the study of metallurgy. It is simply knowledge
and Protection, and not the possession of vast ore
deposits, that give the Germans the lead in this busi-
ness. They get the ore for next to nothing, and the
extraction of the metal provides employment; and avail-
able work and good wages mean population.
* * * *
Great Oobar has had a momentary labor-
trouble ; but both men and co. are doing too well just
now to want to stay idle, so general manager Blakemore
and Donald Macdonnell talked it over and easily patched
the differences ti]s—for four months at. least. Shares,
which the promoters found great difficulty in pushing
off 12 months ago,’ and which at one time fell below par,
have advanced to, £lO 10s., partly on the strength of the
metal market, partly because of. the fine developments at
about 800 ft. The new shaft is being hurried on but,
though it is being worked at from three points, it will
be well towards the end of 1907 before it is down
1000 ft. By that time the new plant (which, by the way,
is being made in England, the American orders given in
the first place having been cancelled) will be ready, and
this time next year the output should reach 1500 tons a
day or over 500,000 tons per annum; and an ultimate
treatment of 3000 tons a, day is possible. By way of com-
parison, Mt. Lyell treats about 400,000 tons a year, and
Wallaroo and Moonta last year handled 203,000 tons.
* * • *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) the oxidised zone is
practically worked out at the principal such
as True Blue, Barrier, Junction, Shamrock, and Golden
Fleece. The sulphide ore now met with at depths of
from 400 ft. to 1100 ft. is, however, a very satisfactory sub-
stitute, and yields from soz. to 240 z. gold per ton. It is
treated at Cockle Creek. Chlorination, in general appli-
cation at Wyalong in the early days, is now completely
discarded. The question of erecting a smelting plant on
the field has been looked at from .' every point, but the
cost is found prohibitive ; the chief item, coal, is the stum-
bfing block. The Welcome Stranger is coming to the front
again. A parcel sent to Cockle Creek, the first for some
tune, resulted in 970 z. from 30 tons. At Neeld s, the one-
time bonanza, now a back number, sinking in the deep
country is proceeding, and the owners are sanguine of
picking up the shoot that was worked with such satis-
factory results down to the 600 ft.
Past three months’ work at the Harden
(N.S.W.). billed. Revenue. Costs. Profit.
January .. 1053 tons. £3735 £1049 £2686
February .. 1014 „ 2975 1000 1975
March .. 972 „ 2951 1164 1787
3039 tons £9661 £3213 £6448
Meantime about £570 has been spent on development
and charged to capital account; b.ut the costs include an
average of £lOO a month written off for depreciation, and
to extinguish the development charge. There are 50,000
shares in the co., so profits are averaging tenpence per
share per month.
* * * *
The Harden reef is now being explored at 300 ft.
Since it was cut by crosscut it has been driven on west
27ft., and east 36ft. In the west drive its average width
is 48in., and its average value 85s. per ton ; east, the
average is 42in., and the value 58s. In the present end
of the west drive the reef is 39in., worth 455., while east
it has got down to 20in. wide, worth only ss. So far as
proved, the reef at 300 ft. is therefore worth considerably
less than it was at No. 2 level (160 ft.), where for 365 ft. it
averaged 65in. wide, worth 87s. 7d. per tom liut, though
the figures so far are not as good as those relating to
the upper level, the chances are that, with regard
to values at any rate, they will improve. The pay
shoots have a decided easterly pitch, so that low
values were anticipated for the first 30ft. or
40ft. driven east. Whether they will improve
has yet to be seen ; because they are poor where poor
values were expected, it doesn’t necessarily follow that
they will be high where high values are expected. In the
west drive the stone is better than had been looked for,
and it is possible that there is another pay shoot in that
direction ; if sOj it will be distinct from those worked in
the upper levels. This end is, therefore, being explored
as circumstances allow. The current month’s output
will be under the recent average, as an accident to the
main engine hung the mill up for live days.
* * * w
After the three experts called in by the co. had
agreed that Ooppabella (N.S. W.) was no good for a co. to
go on with, manager Turley, who had stuck to an opposite
opinion, took the mine on tribute ; and in six months he
has got away 75 tons of hand-dressed ore at a profit of be-
tween £2OO and £3OO. Now a little concentrating mill is
to go up to treat the accumulated seconds. It is good
concentrating stuff, and there are modest profits in the
business for a party like this. The only 6ther show on
Ooppabella which has done any work worth mentioning
during the past 12 months is the No. 1 Block, in what is
known as “ Jacky Thompson’s paddock,’’ a couple of
miles away from the main Ooppabella find.
# • » *
Chalk’s No. 3, Ballarat, has passed another
£lOOO to the Government. About 12 months ago the co.
obtained a grant of £5OOO for developmental work, and
only another instalment of £lOOO remains to be repaid.
This bright example is hardly likely to be followed by
the South Star, which is still a dim twinkler in spite of
the boost it got with the £5OOO grant from Bent and Co.
• * * *
South Star backers are making valiant attempts
to interest the public; but the investor has been there
before, so he is not paying anything towards the peep-
show now. Every time a hit of gold is met in the mine
out comes a yard of puff. The other day, 17 tons from
the 1100 ft. crosscourse gave 6dwt. per ton ; so there
appeared an elaborate calculation in the Age, based on the
fact that the crosscourse starts below the gutter, as if it
were likely to show up above it, and computing* that
there are 60,000 tons of stone down to the 1100 ft. level.
This raises all sorts of mining speculation. Geologically
it is recognised that a crosscourse is of later origin than
the formation it cuts. In Victoria there appears to be a
very generally accepted mining dictum that when gold
makes on a crosscourse it is high time to sell. There are
exceptions, the Glenfine South being one. Still, there
the gold petered out a little distance from the fault. But
the Glenfine South stone was worth an ounce; that of
the South Star only, 6dwt. The Glenfine South stone
fell off to under 6dwt., and, reasoning by analogy,
the 6dwt. stone of the South Star might fall
off to ;nothing in a very short way. The 6dwt.
average is, however, said to give shillings per
ton profit. This is a nice way to put matters ; but that a
crushing of 17 tons is to settle up the whole 60,000 is a
trifle too big a whale for most people* to swallow. Then
the crosscourse is said to be 120 ft. wide; but it would
be well to learn wliether it is a formation actually de-
serving the name. What the co. wants to do is to stop
this puff-puff and to put its finances in order. The Bank
overdraft is the old man of the sea, and' until it is in
process of liquidation the public won’t take any South
Star.
• . * ■* *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla (Vic.),. has decided to
go in'for a new -battery, and is sending its manager to
W.A. to study up the latest makes of plant. Charley
Anderson needs a spell; but, apart from that, surely there
are those on the Board competent to tell off-hand the
battery that ought to be built. Anyway, the broad
question mav be asked: What is the justification for
putting up a battery at all ? There may be a need to pro-
vide vanners, but the co. wants togec stone to crush be-
fore it spends thousands on a new plant. Grayson’s
original scheme was to sink the incline shaft and put up
a battery at the same time. That was on the estimate of
the stone left in the north-west ground, which of course
still remains. But ‘ to-day the workings below the
levels to which the north-west ground was opened
up look the reverse of promising. So that there
is every reason to do two things—(l) sink the shaft
and see if there is anything deeper to make
up for the disappointment above, and (2) prove the north-
west ground farther at the present bottom level. The
battery has been patched up for so long that it can be
made to do service for an additional spell. When the co.
gets stone, it won’t take long to rush, a new plant up.
Besides, the co. ought to wait developments at 2800 ft. in,
the Bong Tunnel Extended. There the plat is being
cut, and three months should see the reef intersected.
Whether the lode will be rich or poor, or whether it will
make east or west, no one can tell, but the issues are of
the utmost importance to the Tunnel. They may bring
the Extended Board to see the folly of throwing away Bs.
a ton in costs when the Tunnel could do the work for them
for that much less. Anyway, Long Tunnel shareholders
need to see that the Lord Nelson foolishness of putting
up a battery ahead of development is not repeated.
-Hard times have driven sense into the heads of
the directors of the Spring Hill Leads and the Berry
Extended, Creswick. Both shows have a sad call list,
and have not too much unworked ground. Spring Hill
Leads is hampered by having to pump thfe Berry United
ground as well as its own, and the Berry Extended hasn’t
a level to work the 2000 ft. of gutter on its boundary and
that of the Spring Hill Leads. This ground could be
tapped at low cost from the old Spring Hill ( Leads
workings, and The Bulletin long since urged the two
cos. to come to terms to open up the block. The
fact that when the Leads had a tribute block
of the gutter south of the 2000 ft. block it made a
profit of £3500, while the Extended got royalty amount-
ing to £3900, demonstrated that it would pay both sides
to come to terms. Now an additional reason exist.-:.
Leads’ pumps can take no more water, so any cessation of
operations by the Berry Extended would mean disaster.
Consequently, the directors have entered into an agree-
ment by which the Spring Hill Leads is to work the wash
on a royalty basis; so not-only will a continuance of
mining operations be ensured, but there will be every
chance to earn profits. The only doubt is whether the
“hydro-thermal” has disturbed the gutter inside the
Berry Extended boundary as it did inside the Leads lease
adjoining. That can only be proved by mining, and the
position of the two cos. justifies taking a risk in respect
to that matter.
* * * •
J. Hendry : So far from never hinting at any-
thing of the sort, you will see it pointed out in B. 21/2/’O7
that the co.’s share of bonuses for 1906 was £9860.....
Conch : Yes, but there is a liquidation liability of £4O per
share. A refund of the British income-tax paid by the
bank can be got on application.
* • * *
The electric ore finder has got to S. Australia
The Cobar Copper Corporation * took it over first to
Port ’Lincoln ; but it is at present under the wing
of ex-Agent-General Grainger, who has induced the
Kapunda optionists to give it a trial. Of course, it
indicates that there is a lode of. some sort there. The
electric ore finder seems a good deal like the frowsy
fortune teller who for a shilling or so provides every
Mary Ann with a dark prince from over the water. By
the w,ay, according to local tradition, a travelling “ clair-
voyant ” saw this same ore-body in a dream some years
ago. In a deserted mining town it doesn’t need a clair-
voyant, though, to dre:.:u of lodes and reefs. Everybody
dreams of them—by day as well as by night.
Bewick-Moreing’s star isn’t as bright as it was
in London, and the financial papers are beginning to
throw out hints that they are about ready to beat their
joss. This side, the firm never has had the reputation
that claquers made for it on the other side, where it
seems to be taken for granted that it manages every-
thing worth managing—forgetting small things like the
B.H. Prop., Mt. Morgan, Mt. 1-yell, Great Cobar,
Wallaroo and Moonta, Sulphide Corporation, and Briseis.
The fact is that London investors and speculators have
fooled themselves over this business ; the firm’s alleged
“domination of Australian mining” is a myth ; the
failure of B.M.’s enterprises will leave the mining on which
Australia has built its reputation practically unaffected.
All this, however, \von’t save Bewick-Moreing. One
has only to point,” a London paper says, “ to the con-
tinued delays in connection with the Deep Lead group,
the present temporary trouble with the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s expensive process, the mistakes that have occurred
at the Laneefield, and the other instances where processes
to treat refractory ores have been in course of erection
under Bcwiek-Moreing auspices for some time past with-
out finality of expense or success.” If that feeling
spreads, the firm will be in for a bad time, for most of its
alleged success so far has depended upon the willingness
of the London crowd to keep on backing the firm with
unlimited cash.


Hotel
Australia
BATES PROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Gastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
declared free from injurious, substances bv
Government chemists. For sale everywhere.
Is. 6d.*
HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
shoiv them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Leichhardt’s Bar, Roper River (N.T.),
only gets a mail every six months. The mailman
waits at the Bar eight weeks and then returns to
Borroloola, where he connects with a steamer for
Palmerston. People don’t rush into print there-
abouts. When a man at Leichhardt Bar sees
something in the paper that displeases him, he has
to linger for two months before he can even post
his indignant reply.
* * • •
“ Lot ” : Re the growing of hops in Too-
woomba (Q.) by V. O. Redwood (B. 21/3/’O7).
What is wrong with the native Australian hop ?
In our home of long way back it was continually
used for the same purposes as the imported, and
the bread and the home-made hop beer were above
the average. The bush, which can be found in
almost any part of Central Southern Queensland,
is one of the prettiest we have, the hop varying
in colors from delicate pale green to the deepest
red, with alternate yellows and browns, while the
leaf of the bush is a vivid green. It reaches
greatest perfection in sandy soil, and a forest of
hop bush in bloom is far more interesting with its
varied colors than the much be-poemed wattle
with its endless monotonous yellows. By the
way, why do the bush poets sing of the wattle as
a spring bloomer. The bush is just howling now
with yellows, and this at the time of St. Pat’s Day.
THE ABSOLUTE CHEEK OF BILL.
BILL : “Seem’ as it’s Christmas, Missus, I thought
we might 'ave ’ad some dumplin’s."
MISSUS : "Dumplin’st Dumplin’s! Is it luxuries
yer wantin’? ”
“ Sandfly ” : The bullock buggy mentioned
in The Bulletin (4/4/’O7) is not so remarkable a
vehicular turn-out as the combination a party at
Coolgardie used to drive regularly up to a year or
two ago. It consisted of an American buekboard
buggy, with a camel in the shafts, and a horse as
leader. The camel was harnessed as a horse
usually is, with the difference that the collar was
put on upside-down.
“West-o’-Dar-
ling ” : Re shear-
ers’ cooks. In
Bulletin (7/3/’O7)
“The Mooch
About ” mentions
old Jimmy the
Rooster. Jimmy
was once cooking
at an out-station
vvest of the Dar-
ling, called Early-
up, as the men
were usually up
and waiting for
daylight to go to
work (in this re-
spect some Back-
block stations run
the South Hoss
cocky very close).
Jimmy had an off-
sider, as we were
a big crowd just
then. The in-
gredients for the
early morning
stew were cut up
over night, all
ready to shoot
into a large three-
legged pot first
thing after jack-
ass. We were all
crowding round
the fire, as it was
very cold weath-
er, when one of
us spotted some-
thing in the semi-
darkness floating
in the pot. This,
on closer inspec-
tion, proved to
be the scrubbing
brush. “What’s
this yer got in
ther stoo, Jim-
my?” he asked.
Jimmy came,
saw, and turned
himself into a
Royal Commis-
sion on the case.
Further investi-
gations brought
forth the dish-
cloth and half a
bar of soap, all of
which had been
left in the pot
when the slushy
cleaned it the
night before. The
Roosters finding and remarks were delivered
with a dignity worthy of the Chief Justice, the
hnafl, ‘ Yes ougliter be more careful, Tommy
as it’s a thing like this that gets a cook a bad
name, being a masterpiece of injured profes-
sionalism. Wo had cold mutton for breakfast
• • • •
Millewa : If down south and west
they talk the Eternal Cow, here in the dreary
and God-forsaken wastes of the
north it is the Almighty Wheat.
The Mallee cocky, running an
ungodly race with drought and
heat, grows wheat, talks wheat,
and thinks wheat, till his whole
existence is bounded by wheat
and land—land for more wheat.
Wheat is spread over every
siding, radiates over every road,
scatters itself over every transac-
tion of the day, and is found
reposing among the hotel sheets
at night, left by the cocky who
sifted his samples on the bed and
made his wheat clean as the gar-
ments of the elect. And. in spite
of harvesting machinery, the
hum of the stripper is stili heard
in the land, and the cocky’s
family—men, women, and little
children—toil round the win-
nower amid a wind like the blast
that moans among the iron trees
of T.ophet, or a still heat like a
live coal in the valley of Hinnom.
And the result of it all—to get
more wheat for next year’s crop,
and start the whole blessed
wheat-wheel turning through another harvest.
* * * *
“The Prawn”: Yet another of our
innocent imported friends has gone wrong. I
refer to the sanctuary, or, as it is sometimes
called, the church-yard plant, which in England
goes about under a special brand of halo. It now
romps over thousand ; of acres of good Australian
land, killing out 1 oth natural and imported
grasses. On account of its extremely bitter taste,
cattle and horses will not touch it, nor will sheep
unless on the verge of starvation. It seeds so
heavily that it is almost impossible to get rid of
it, and, in any case, after a few years, it im-
poverishes the ground so much that the soil is
quite worthless. This little pink-flowered plant
was transplanted here by our English poke-
bonneted grandmothers what time they did
likewise to themselves. They valued it as a
medicine plant, and it is certainly useful in cases
of dysentery. My grandmother always grew
some in the back garden, plucked and dried it
when in flower, tied it in a bundle, and hung it
from the kitchen rafters. She loved to boil the
stuff and give it to me in school holidays, and the
flavor was such that I would sooner have had no
holidays. It tasted like all the bad things that
had ever happened to me, or were ever likely to.
* * * *
At Sydney Show, the other day, a hairy
Outbacker threw mud and laughter and con-
tumely on Dr. Danysz and his microbes. “What
ye want,” he said, “is carpet snakes. Carpets ’ll
eat all the rabbits ye can send out. There isn’t a
rabbit within fifty mile o’ my place at Trangie
Head, all on account o’ carpets. A carpet so
long he produced a hairy arm in a faded sleeve
“eats three runnin’, an’ when full-sized it’ll
put away the better part o’ a dozen comfortably.”
“ But rabbits go in millions ? ” “Go ? Of course
they go ! There’s the beauty of it ! When three
or four carpets tackle a mob, ye should just see
that mob go ! The bunnies eaten are nothin’ to
them as is scared. Why, I’ve seen the whole
plain for miles nothin’ but bunnies runnin’ from
Trangie Head. I dunno where they run to, an’
it’s not my funeral.”
“Percole”: In Victoria the railway au-
thorities are largely to blame for bad naming of
towns. Until some little time ago Vic. was about
the only State that didn’t possess a Claremont.
Then a number of;“stopping-places” on the Edi-
Whitfield line were raised to the dignity of
stations, and named respectively Docker, Byrne,
Angie; ide, Hyem, Milne, Jarrett, Pieper, and
Claremont. Where an alien name is not applied,
some local bigbody, who is not known outside his
own radius of six inches,, constitutes himself as a
district, and submits his own ,surname to the
Railway Commissioners whenever a new railway
station is to be christened.
* * * #
“Prospector”: Read a par. in a recent
issue re fatal properties of heat as regards rep-
tiles. I once had a good opportunity
for verifying this, up Central Aus.
way. Party and myself were re-
frigerating in the shade of Some
boulders while the thermometer
stood at about 127° in the ice-chest.
We saw a blackfellow energetically
sprinting about on a sandy patch
with a stick, and,.being interested,
I strolled over to investigate. The
black had a forked stick about sft.
long, and was engaged, in intercept-
ing the sprints a goanna was making
for a pile of rocks. The'said “go.”
finally gave up in disgust. On in-
quiry, I learned that the heat
killed the “ g 0.,” and also that
“go.” steak, killed in this way, was
exceptionally tender.. The theory,
I believe, is that reptiles have no
sweat glands, like the higher crawlers
of the Judkins type, and so cannot
regulate the heat of the body to
any extent. They simply have the
temperature of the surrounding
media, and consequently the “go.”
in question had to give up the ghost
in the great heat when he failed to
reach the desired patch of shade.
* * * 7T-
Caul-fat or kidney-fat stealing, which led
to two blackfellows being sent to gaol for man-
slaughter at'Port Darwin, the other day, was at
one time a common practice with the aboriginals
in every part of Australia. Some stole the fat
from.members of their own tribe, but generally
they poached on strangers. Stealing is the
equivalent of the aboriginal word for the process
of abstraction, though with some tribes the
individual was knocked down with a club and liis
abdomen cut open without any pretence of secrecy.
Ordinarily, however, the victim was approached
when asleep, throttled and bound, and rendered
unconscious before the operation was performed.
The humane aborigine stuffed sand and grass into
the wound before closing it, and it is recorded
that the victims often recovered. The fat when
abstracted was smoked over a fire and eaten at
leisure, the belief being that the consumer absorbed
the best qualities of the victim. Fierce tribal
battles have resulted from disagreements re
lcidney-fat.
“ Branston ” : I think the solution of the
frog-shower mystery (B. 4/4/’O7) is that vast
numbers of frogs, different to those usually found
about marshy places, are in the earth, coming to
the surface at times of heavy rain or floods
During the ’BB drought I saw the blacks unearth
colonies of frogs by digging through two feet of
very dry soil in coolabali timber some miles from
the Bokhara River. Same drought, after a local
fall of a few points of rain, the ground, as seen by
the coach lamp lights, was swarming with black
frogs. Later when all the flat country between
the Bar won and Balonne Bivers was under
flood water in J 9O, a ribbon of frogs edged
highwater mark for the six weeks that the flood
lasted, I saw many miles of that ribbon, a varie-
gated one, made up of three new species of frogs,
black, bright green, and dun-colored, squatty
croakers. The black and green factions were
continually fighting, the vanquished going down
the victors throats alive. The night the back
water left for the river channels, that myriad of
frogs disappeared as mysteriously as they came.
Subsequent researches for fishing purposes un-
earthed the four old bait species of the ante-
diluvian times.
* * * *
“ Ino ” : A contributor (B. 4/4/’O7) doubts
a shower of frogs. I saw thousands of little frogs
hopping about during a heavy storm at Prospect
about 40 years ago. Should say there was one
to every square yard. They appeared with the
downpour, and must have come with it. The
explanation is easy. They .were carried up by a
waterspout, and the whiriwind continued after it
left the place where there was water to lift, and,
maybe, travelled miles still whirling and keeping
the frogs suspended, same as it does arty rubbish
that it picks up. The whirlwind breaks, and the
water and frogs scatter with the wind, and fall
like rain. Sheep, men, cats, &c., don’t live in
water, and are too heavy to be whirled up. A
frog is lighter than his size in water, and his
shape makes air-resistance greater; so he falls
lightly. He would probably fall as heavily from
12ft. as from 1200 ft. The frog is a tough little
chap, and a bump against soft mud, grass,
or water would not damage him. As for
him bouncing, probably he does bounce;
why shouldn’t he ? There is no question
of waterspouts inland. I have seen two. One
was insignificant, the other quite capable of taking
up frogs. It was on a plain about 30 miles below
Forbes. There was water for miles, about 9m,
deep; I was within 100yds. of the spout. It
lifted a column of water about 4ft. diameter. If
there were frogs or little fishes they must have
gone .up. The affair seemed to die out after some
five minutes, but no water fell that I could notice.
I have seen on Bathurst plains water lying 4in. or
sin. deep, and swarming with little frogs and
large tadpoles. If you dipped a billyful from the
hole, you would have about half a billy of frogs
when the water was drained off. What price a
waterspout there?
* • * •
“ Gip ” : Said here that phosphorus is
wiping out the wild bees. A bushman told me
that he had seen the bees sucking at the jam and
treacle-sweetened baits, and roundfive treesthathe
knew of the insects were lying dead in hundreds.
If rabbits did not persist in refusing to become
diseased, they would soon be a rarity here.
Native cats and hares are dying in hundreds from
some my&terious complaint, and hardly anyone
in the immediate neighborhood has a domestic
cat left. The epidemic carries off its victims
within three days. My own prized pussies were
called for, and the other day a great wild brute,
born to be domesticated, but which had early
taken to the bush, dragged himself to me, craving
for help if ever cat did. He died half-an-hour
later with paws and breast in a saucer of water.
A TEST CASE .
BARREN J OEY: “Go in and ask him for two
beers.”
TERRIBLE BILLY: “ But he might be a fightin'
man.”
B.J.: “ That's what I want to find out.”
“ G.8.F.” : At Quat Quatta station,
Corowa (N.S.W.), there is an old horse so com-
pletely broken down that he stands on his fetlock
joints, and has his pasterns and hoofs growing
straight out in front of him. This horse is
Cannoneer, a standard bred trotting sire, inr-
ported from England. Cannoneer is about 25
years of age, and in his time was a tremendously
high-actioned animal. Apparently he suffers no
pain, and he can shuffle about fairly well, eats
well, and is still a stock-getter. His hoofs grow
to a great length, and occasionally have to be
pared down much in the same way as a foot-rotty
sheep is dressed. This operation is performed
whilst the horse is lying down in his box, and he
seems to enjoy it.
MILKING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Homeward thro’ the waving grasses
Drift my cows and I,
While above the fleecy masses
Float across the sky ;
And as thus we sweep along
Sweetly sounds my milking song.
Buttercup, and Pink, and Daisy,
Blossom, Clover, May—
Haggards, you will drive me crazy,
Loitering this way 1
Hasten to the milking-shed,
Where the fragrant hay is spread.
Calves are list’ning for your lowing
By the paddock rail,
For the music of the flowing
Milk within the pail.
Wake up, Daisy 1 Lift up, May !
Blossom, Buttercup, make way 1
Clover, are you coming never?
Pink, are you asleep ?
Must the poor calves call for ever ?...
Laggards, how you creep 1
Come up, Daisy t Lift up, May I
Blossom, Buttercup, make way !
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


Take a little Wolfe’s Schnapps morning
and night to keep the stomach, bowels and kidneys
in good order. And it does the business.*
The quickest way to get rid of a cold is to
take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
Evolution.
The untiring law,
back of all pro*
gress, has left
its impress on
modern jewellery.
It is deeply inter-
esting to watch che
process, and only live
houses can keep its
pace.
Diamonds with Opal or Turquoise Centre,
£3B.
All Pearls and Peridot Centre,
£5 ss.
Pink Tourmaline,
Choice Whole Pearls and
Diamonds, £l5.
Our turnover is so large and rapid that we can always show the latest that evolves.
We are forced into it both by inclination and the demand of our buyers.
Some of the newest Pendant Necklets we are showing ahead of every house in Australia.
They are remarkable for beauty and effect, and the prices are bedrock.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“ J.P.” : A noticeable feature in nearly all
western Queensland towns is the Chow baker.
Cunnamulla, Angathella, Tambo, and Isisford are
supplied exclusively by Chinese, while many
other towns, including Blackall, Barcaldine, and
Longreach have the Yellow Misery well estab-
lished. <■'■■■
* * • *
“ Gee Arc ” : Here’s an instance of endur-
ance. While cattle hunting at a place called
Thooracadgee, a man named George Oliver ran a
stake through his ankle (in one side and out the
other). He rode back to the camp, and there his
mate tried to pull it out with a pair of pincers,
and not till he had been at it half-an-hour did he
find out he couldn’t shift,it. Then George struck
out for Mingenew on horse-back. He rode till
dark, and then tethered his horse out with the
bridle rein; when the horse had cropped the grass
there he would crawl on his hands and knees and
shift it. He daren’t hobble the horse because he
knew if he did he would not catch it again, and his
funeral would have been then. After a couple of
hours’ spell he got on again, and rode till daylight,
and tethered out again. This lasted three days and
four nights, and then he struck Mingenew. He
had to wait for a train for some hours, and then
went up to Dongarra, where he got the stake out.
When speaking to him about it some time ago, he
said: “My oath, it stdn’g a ;bit, I tell you.” He
is all right again nOw, and; takes on light work,
such as fencing, getting sandal-wood, and driving
his own team. ' r
* ■# \ • *
“ Mallarapoouie ” on the subject of heathen
burial:—
I was prospecting on the northern peninsula once. A
tribe of natives occupied a river-bend below my camp.
Early one morning three semi-civilised gins called at my
camp for the loan of a pick and shovel. “ Halves !” I
fairly shouted, when I recovered from my astonishment.
“ We’ll float it in London! ” The eldest gin smiled
wanly, and informed me they hadn’t struck a 3oz. reef;
they only wanted the tools to bury a defunct relative. I
was flabbergasted. Burials played no part in the customs
of that tribe. Their dead were usually bundled up a
hollow log or shoved down the spout of some giant decayed
paper-bark—anywhere, or anyhow, so long as the remains
were got out of sight with ease and rapidity. Then
the lubra laboriously explained that the defunct —
an old gin—was an unusually obstreperous corpse
and they wanted to experiment on it (by following
the white man’s custom!) in order to overcome its
innate perversity;, and minimise the possibility of its ever
returning to camp and causing disagreement and cussed-
ness. With several big boulders on its chest, they calcu-
lated, it had less chance of obtruding itself in camp than
if promiscuously stuffed up a hollow tree trunk.
I obligingly offered the use of an abandoned prospecting
shaft up a blind gully, and it was accepted with alacrity.
They took no chances of the deceased ever returning—
she had 18 vertical feet of mullock on her brisket when
the job was finished. Yet that afternoon the
whole tribe struck camp and left. I asked the
wherefore for this exodus, and was told —“ No
good stop to-night—Ngyaryinjarri come back.” (N.
was the departed.) If they stayed, it seemed, N.’s
spirit, or Something, was certain to return to camp (not-
withstanding the 18ft. of ballast) after dark and endeavor
to rejoin the social circle, thereby making things ex-
tremely hostile. Every night for about a week the spirit
would return to its old haunts in search of company,
being naturally of a gregarious turn of mind. But if the
spook found the camp deserted, it would, after a few
nights, reconcile itself to inevitable solitude, chuck up
the game as a bad job, and depart, a lonely and em-
bittered ghost, to the mountain caves and fastnesses for
all time. For this reason most North Australian tribes
abandon their camps for a few weeks after a death.
CONSISTENT MR. BROWN.
BROWN : “ Yer er blanky cur t' beat yer missus like that! ”
BLACK : “ Gerrout, I ain't beatin' her. She’s singin."
BROWN (disgustedly): “ Singin’! Singin’! If my missus sang that way I’d belt her ’ead off.”
“J.W.” : Re “ Cecil P. ’s ” explanation that
different shape of north and south sides of sand-
hills in the great Australian interior is due to the
prevailing winds (B. 7/3/’O7). The effect of wind
on sand was very strongly realised by ‘ ‘ King
Billy ” Patterson, butcher, Mt. Morganaire, etc.,
of Rockhampton (Q.), when he built a new seaside
resort within 40yds. of the beach at Yeppoon.
In a weak moment, to obtain an uninterrupted
view of the sea, he cut down some scrub in front
of the property. Shortly afterwards, after em-
ploying many drays to remove the continuously
accumulating sand heaps, he built an iron fence
7ft. high, and subsequently increased its height
to 15ft. But when the sand surged over the top
of this and streamed into the premises, Billy gave
up the struggle and sacrificed the marine resi-
dence at bargain prices.
THE ROAR OF THE LAMB.
THE SMALL MAN : “ D'yer know
wot ’appened to the last man wot called me a liar?”
THE LARGE MAN : “ No.”
THE SMALL MAN : “ He was fined ten shillings for insultin’ language.”
“F.C.”: I don’t wish to call “Paul
Cupid ” (B. 21/3/’O7) an Ananias, so I simply
remark that this isn’t a snake controversy. If
you try to cut ordinary sheet glass with a pair of
scissors, it simply cracks and breaks anyhow.
But under a small stream of running water you can
shear off slices. I myself have thus reduced a
large, irregular piece of glass down to a slightly
rough-edged piece, lOin. by Bin., subsequently
putting it into a window so cle aly than none
could say it wasn’t cut by a din: jond. I didn’t
ask “P.C.” to give his amateurish experiences
(I know it can be done, for I have done it); what
I wished to discover was wherein lay the virtue
of running water.
A playful hunk of wind smote a corner of
Bairnsdale (Vic.) the other Sunday. In a second
buildings were partially demolished, unroofed,
and otherwise annoyed and complicated. Veran-
dah signboards, sheets of iron, street lamps, and
similar trifles flocked aloft in profusion, and landed
in any old place. The zephyr crossed the Mitchell
River in such haste that the waters banked up
30ft. high on either side of its track, exposing the
river bed in a style that would have done Moses
and his rod proud. The river water, mingling
with the flying dust, bespattered buildings a quar-
ter of a mile away with blotches of mud. Bairns-
dale has an amazing main street —it is so wide
that there is a strip of park down the middle of it
—and the fact that the park wasn’t blown away
was the only thing the town had to congratulate
itself upon when it came to and found itself
sitting dementedly on the ruins and talking to
nobody about nothing.
“ Struggle-Isation ” : Re the bush hay
rough-and-tumble, “S.R.”says that the late James
Tyson had several silos which were not touched
for 15 years. Well, Tyson had two big properties
in this district, and never made bush hay except-
ing for working stock. One property had at one
time 250,000 sheep. Now, what amount of dry
bush hay would be required to keep this flock
going for nine to twelve months (our last rainless
stretch was 18 months) ? Again, bush grass
(Mitchell chucked in) does not go more than half -
a-ton to the acre. Further, the cost of feeding
bush hay out to stock (in any quantity) is tremen-
dous. All must get some, and none too much.
Perhaps “S.R.”is speaking of small holdings ;
if so, he should leave Tyson out of it. The area
of one Tyson paddock out this way is 4500 square
miles.
* * * *
“J.P.”, who started the bush-hay con*
troversy, finishes it:—
Re “ Tarboy ” and “ R.H.P.” on the bush-hay question
(B. 2/21/’O7). They say, in effect, that the cost of storing
is prohibitive ; also they raise other difficulties. Now,
what I want to know is, what are “Tarboy” and
“R.H.P.” going to do about it? Do they abandon all
hope, or are they merely waiting for some scientist to do
something? The former says great destruction was
wrought amongst the sheep sent down to the coast
during the last drought, so, presumably, he looks
for no relief from that quarter. The question of buying
feed to keep them alive could not be entertained for a
moment—unless it is this bush-hay I talk of. In the
event, then, of another run of dry seasons of
similar severity, what would be the result? Simply
disaster; for it must be borne in mind that the
scrub, which was such a standby in the past,
will play a far less important part in future. In many
places, it is entirely cut out, and, as it becomes scarcer,
the necessity of providing some substitute become more
apparent. Both “ Tarboy ” and “ R.H.P.” go into figures,
and try to show that the ruinous expense that bush hay
involves makes it a practical impossibility. “Tarboy”
quotes Bs. 2d. as the cost of keeping a sheep for twelve
months on bush hay, while “R.H.P.” makes it IOS., or
thereabouts—which is, in my opinion, fair. For the in-
formation of those who think this an exorbitant sum, I
might say it cost Burrawang Station, on the Lachlan,
three times that amount per sheep during the disastrous
year of 1902. The run-holder that kept his money in his
pocket, instead of spending it in feeding his sheep, had,
I admit, a long way the best of the bargain. He held
that it was cheaper to allow them to die, and to stock up
again when the drought broke. But supposing every-
body had followed that lead ? There would then have
been no sheep left to stock up with, and Australia
would have been dealt such a blow that the
financial panic of the early ’nineties would have
been a mere circumstance in comparison. If there
is •no better destiny for Western Queensland than
to be continually building up fine herds and flocks,
only to see them "wiped off the face of the earth again
by dry spells, then it has a zig-zag and melancholy career
before it. But that is not my opinion, for I have the
greatest confidence in this magnificent western country.
I believe that, as the artesian basin has been the means
of solving the water difficulty of vast areas, so will
time, and men with brains, succeed in eventually master-
ing the other part of the problem. It is rather late in
the day to be replying to “Tarboy’s" and “R.H.P.’s”
conclusions on the matter, but that is one of the penalties
a man has to pay for getting smothered up in isolated
districts. I had no opportunity of reading “Tarboy”
and “R.H.P.” until a day or two ago. On the other
hand, it is because I am out where I am that I know some-
thing about the matter. “R.H.P.’s” assertion that I
based my theories on the strength of information received
from coach-drivers, etc., is very wide. My statements
are the outcome of close observation and 15 years’ con-
tinual experience.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken, re,contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Uckle : (1) The Lone Hand’s first issue will be
on May 1. (2) Six months’ subscriptions didn’t count....
D.M.R. : “Appreciation” hardly rises to the vastness of
the occasion. ..Hamer: Victorian Upper House mem-
bers would be no stood for dissection corpses ; they’re too
fat, and you can’t conveniently dissect a fat corpse.
Come to think of it, it is very hard, to find a use for
the Victorian Upper House.... Krys W. :“A Memory’’
reads like the In Memoriam poetry of the undertakers’
advertisements Austra : “ Tuppence ” was real good,
and got special payment Bullet: Your bullock-lie is
rather too complicated. It reads like a problem in the
higher mathematics, though we have a dim idea that
there is a lie of A 1 quality in it somewhere... .Sos. :
Enough of shake slime for a while P.S.K.: Discussion
of “anthropomorphic religious conceptions” too weary-
ing ip this autumn season... .S. G. H. Burgess : You are
another man with a pathetic faith in the capacity of a Vic.
penny stamp to carry a letter all over the continent....
T.S.: “Southern Cross” is a very loose whoop
about a constellation which is equally the property of
South America, South Africa, a'nd Maoriland. Then you
whoop some more about “ Back the invading foe will
reel.” But unless we get some more guns he won’t reel
worth a pint of beer. We don’t care for loose whoops.
They make people tight... .J.F. (Lumsden): May publish
someday. Have not decided yet... .Panjidi: Not one
of the “Mining Incidents” worth print P.O’L.: Has
poetic feeling, but is weak in execution.. .H.W.: “ Written
on board the Suevic.” No wonder it was wrecked....
J.A.P.: Amusing in places, but drags rather heavily in
other places...^E.N.: Well-meant but too shaky in
the versification. . .C.8.A.: Reasonably well-written but
too crudely melodramatic.... Anna K. : Rather poor
quality.. ..W.B. : “ Through Love ” is the better of the
two, but doesn’t quite score.. ..Mary M. 8.: Almost it
persuaded us E. Read: The editor received 18 letters
by one post from people who wanted to join in the snake-
sliming controversy, and that scared him into shutting
down on it. He didn’t know how heavily it was loaded.
One week’s letters on snake-slime would have filled
the paper. It is evidently a popular subject......
Minx : The makings of a story, but you haven’t made it.
Billy Sandgroper : Good, if trite, sentiments badly
expressed H.C.R. .and Others: If all the poems
that are written to Her were only sent to Her how
happy Her would be ! And the W.P.8., how empty!
J.G.D. : “Random Rubaiyat” too random.....
A. A.: “ Bush Auction ” only a plain, unvarnished descrip-
tion of an oily man selling socks., ..Ski ter : “Defeat of
Jud ” too monotonous. Thanks for prose item.... Ripley :
Try to write something cheerful... .H.J.M. : Statement
that jokes are perfectly true possibly accounts for their
dullness B. Tlirein : You say, “ Under separate cover
lam sending a photograph.” You don’t say what it is
about, and three photographs have been received with
no name or address on any of them. As they were all
valueless the basket swallowed them P.O.L. : “AMass
of Fleshless Bones” is a cheerless and bony item... .Bol:
Please note that the copy which is rolled most tightly
isn’t always the best copy... .H.J. Ford : Good par., but
an Adelaide man got in ahead of you with a fuller
description of that person’s career W.E.P. : With
so large a subject as the devil to write about you
should do better than that.. ..Phono: Your pushites
don’t slang interestingly .H. J. M’Lachlan: All
much the same, and rather a depressing same....
Munda: Well done, but too slender and girly
Leslie Roylett: Hardly smart enough, and topical verse
must be smart Leonardo: Verses much below your
usual level E.M.B. : You send in three pages of
apology for a little sad poem ! And this is your second
try “ after a lapse of years.” Let ’em lapse some more a
decade or two. We will be patient G.F.B. : You say
her “ hot tears rose and fell.” Your poem simply fell
C.S. W. : Clever versification wasted on weary subjects...
F. Berry: Couldn’t see;the story for the words.. J. A. Deck :
It promised—and then it didn’t keep its promise... John
L.: Absolutely illegible Paiaka: Idea novel, but treat-
ment unskilful S.G.: None of them much good
Dalmack: Too trifling a fragment Cygnet: Rather
funny', but otherwise unsuitable Poseidon: Too un-
equal in quality E.G. (Melbourne): Well written, but
hopelessly out of our line... .M.L. : Your par. is evi-
dently incurably lame. It’s no better after being
doctored Percole: Yes, he uses made-in-Eng-
land advertising iron plates. But you can’t get such
plates made in Australia as \vet, and he does his
patriotic duty by striving to have them made here.
Similarly, The Bulletin had to import the machinery for
The Lone Hand, because the Freetrade pestilence of the
past didn’t foster the making of such machinery or the
growth of a local population large enough to support the
industry... ..Turtle: You take far too long to erawl to
yourpoints, and then y'ou’re generally'late in starting.
If you want to “chip into ” an argument, write promptly
and concisely R.C. : A severe attack of doggerel
J.W.8.: Too* stiff and stodgy Mopoke : You have a
sense of melody and some notion of telling a story, but
you greatly lack cultivation Jerong: It has an
occasional gleam amidst the gloom.. ..Comet: “Phono-
graph” and “ Ahibition” and “Sin of Pleasure
add three more to your list of failures Philis-
tine: Well w-ritten, but rather trite and preachy
J.0.Y.: Good idea in-it. Sorry to have to knock it out
on other grounds;.•.. Dobbin Grey': Some dash, but little
skill behind it Realm: Very inferior quality
Nivel: Plenty of “go” but not finish enough.....
Hamelitus: Very weak in places C.A.S.: More vigor
than verse-skill Gordon R.: Prosy and w'ooden
J.A.G. : Has neither strength nor beauty T.L.M. :
Rather smart, but too technical for the general reader...
C.N.F. : The theme required a livelier touch... .W.F.H.:
Falls very flat Y.R. : Too complicated a jest
Cavendish : Blank verse isn’t necessarily made up of blank
statements No. 19 : Very limited demand forpictures-
relating to mal de mer. ... J.T.H.: It is, as you say, a
fact. It appeared in The Bulletin long ago. All things
that appear in The Bulletin are facts Kelpie: More
spirit than skill... .P. Reid: Amusing, but has no current,
application Silvertop : Far below print level.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Bison : Don’t mind your pictorial ideas being facts.
Trouble is that they’re such aged facts Professor
W.C.H. : The idea is indecent, and the picture looks like
a mixture of rags, ghouls and heavy rain E.B.C. :
Picture dashed bad, and joke dashed old. Other joke
very dashed old.. ..J.A. : Can only suppose you meant
these pictorial jokes for private circulation... .R. Set-
right : Doesn’t even begin to express the situation
BertS.: “Pug of the Future” doesn’t appear to be
apropos of anything. Other not conspicuously' humorous.
G.D.L. : Kid who was “always blamed” has been
used under many disguises.. . H.J.D. : The picture is
obviously a copy from an English scene. That brings
suspicion upon the joke, which may be a copy' a 150.....
Thomas Something (Melb.): The man who offered to bet
the lady an under-garment is neither art nor mirth nor
sense.


CAN AN ACTRESS BE A CHRISTIAN?
“My splendid figure,” “my fine
house,” “my beautiful face,” and,
lastly, “ my magnificent opera cloak."
—Miss Ada Ward.
A more pertinent query Is : “ Can an
actress be anything but an actress?”
Sermons are supported by God—no
one can say that of plays. —Ada Ward.
Theatrical Manager : “ Well, my dar-
ling, you mustn’t begrudge us the
support of the gods I ’’
THE BLESSINOS OP COMPETITION.
The rejection of the Rev. Goliath
Almsgatherer Joseph as an undesirable
alien is approved of by the clergy. Any-
thing—even our godless immigration
restrictions—may move for godliness
when the sanctity of the local three-
penny bit is menaced.
The Laity: “ But I thought ybu believed
In the holiness of the colored
laborer? ”
The Clergy : “ Yes; but not the colored
laborer In the vineyard."
AUSTRALIA'S DESTINY, AND AUS-
TRALIA’S LAND.
The Man In Possession: “Your Destiny
must go through - my paddock,
must It? Why, It’s nothing but
trespassing. I’ll have the law on
you sooner I ”
We have before us a great work of
education—Anti-Sosh Fairbairn to a
Falman gathering.
Not of educating, let us suggest: but
of being educated.
Bill Lyne and Co., at the Naviga
tioc Conference, are earning the queru
louB anger of Auntie Abqvs. *
Well, this Is the best tribute Auntie
can pay to a politician.
h O irv-v ro . L I r~* » o J to,
SERIOUS AND NOT SO SERIOUS.


o' c> „< ® 4
.V vV A?*
& * «* *
.O' .. '0 > oV
& * » -O^.
.
a v p A
I
W/
V/
The lady oh top of the chimney ic
the burhing house (Set fire to by the
villain) about to flee on the telegraph
wire. Attitude very high as Well as
moral.
SHAKSPEARE CHRISTIANISED.
Mrs. Macbeth: “Eh, mon Hac,
dlnna be so ower muckle firrum o’ purpose.
SELF-SACRIFICE.
Oalatea noo'y going back on to her pedestal In order to patch
things up between Mr. and Mrs. Pygmalion.
i, “. Rem , e ? lber ’” sa y B the heroine wildly, after the villain
has chased her over three acres of ground and up a chimney,
woman “"a h* X? ° ver the roof ~“ remember that lam
a matter h ° v “ aln lmmedla tely does so, having, as
a matter of fact, suspected It from the very first.
The comic-relief lady who assures
the virtuous, but crushed, heroine that
’er ’umble ’ome is always at her ser-
vice.
Here you have Mercia look-
ing coldly on the lion.
CAN AN ACTRESS BE A CHRISTIAN?
THE ESSENTIAL GODLINESS OF THE STAGE, ILLUSTRATED BY INCIDENTS FROM CURRENT DRAMAS.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
f. a. Robinson.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
The absence of all narcotics makes Cham-
'berlain’s Cough Remedy the safest and best that
(gan be proceed.*
Ihere is a good old saying to the effect
that “the proof of the pudding is in the eating.”
In other words “ you cannot tell till you try.” If
you have a cough or any form of lung trouble you
really ought to try Angier’s Emulsion. Send 4d.
postage for a free sample bottle and mention The
Bulletin. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd.,
7 Barrack-street Sydney.*
Don’t neglect a cold. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will cure it promptly. For sale every-
where, Is. 6d.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It warms the Australian heart to Alfred
Deakin that he refuses to accept any title, even
that of Doctor of Laws, which Edinburgh Uni-
versity has just sought to confer upon him.
The London Stage, a wholly worldly
paper devoted to mummers and muipmeresses,
puts our latest visitor among its plain business
items thus :
TV/riSS AD A WARD
Making a Tour round the World as
Actress-Evangelist. Melbourne in March.
Was it an enemy who did this thing, or did Ada
insert it herself '!
Ben Tilletfc, the British Labor leader,
returns to Australia for a trip. The Lord defend
us from these British Labor leaders ! Tom Mann
and Ramsay MacDonald were the two best friends
Australian Toryism ever had.
BONDS OF EMPIRE.
Events show that the Freetrade policy of Great Britain
has been of incalculable service in promoting Imperial
intercourse and indirectly assisting- to forge the bonds of
Empire, while the Protectionist system has tended to
keep even the nearest neighbors apart.— S. A. Register.
OUR FREETRADE FRIENDS: “ Hooray! Let's think
of Empire, and damn Australia!”
Reverend W. I. Carr-Smith returns to
Sfc. James’, Sydney, in June.
Two Anglican Bishops are on the sick-list.
Bishop Dawes, of Rockhampton, is disappointed
with Rotorua—his trip in search of health was
not satisfactory; Bishop Stone-Wigg, of New
Guinea, is reported very ill from asthma.
The Victorian Government recently invited
applications for the post of superintendent of its
new Inebriate Retreat. The first letter opened
was from a Mr. Tipple, and the name was con-
sidered to be sufficient cause for rejection. Yet
men named Lush and Beer are not uncommon.
Eldon Gorst, who succeeds Cromer as
British Agent in. son of John Eldon
Gorst, who was Civil Commissioner in Waikato in
1861-63, and a native of Maonland. As Civil
Commissioner the father founded a Maori news-
paper in the interests of the British settlers, but
one fine morning a tribe swooped down, captured
the plant, and deported the editor to Auckland.
The warders at the Yatala Labor Prison
(S.A.) state that ex-M.P. Charles Tucker is one
of the quietest, best behaved, and most indus-
trious workers they have ever had under their
charge. He takes things as they come, just as he
did in the days of his greatness when a lot of
things Came his way, and he took them all.
An old Australian died at Mittagong
(N.S.W.) the other day. “ Captain ” James
Chalker was born at South Creek in 1815, and in
the old coaching: days kept the well-known Rush’s
Hotel on the old Southern Road. He and his
brother Jack had a hand in the capture of bush-
ranger Lynch. James was partly responsible for
11 children (eight living), 86 grandchildren, and
57 great-grandchildren.
Recently-deceased Henry Cuthbert, of
Victoria, was an Irishman by birth. He came to
Victoria in 1854, and hung out his shark’s shingle
at Ballarat in ’55. He helped to found Bal-
larat Gas Co., Ballarat Hospital, and some other
things. He became M.L.C. for the South-
Western Province in ’74, and continued one of
the more or less Rich Immovables till his death.
He was once part-proprietor of Ballarat Times,
the first newspaper on the field.
A divorce case listed for the consideration
of a Victorian Judge revives memories of a mys-
tery that filled the papers four years ago, and has
never been solved. On a February evening in
1903 Mrs. Rosalind Scholl left her home to go
visiting or shopping or to take the air, her hus-
band, a North Carlton ironmonger, being absent
at the time. She failed to return, and has kept
on failing ever since, wherefore now Mr. Scholz
wants a divorce for “desertion.”
Harcourt Whipple Ellis, chemist, dentist,
druggist, and optician, of Perth (W.A.), being
examined in the Bankruptcy Court, stated that
his own private laundry bill was 15s. or more per
week. Said Harcourt Whipple Ellis : “I would
have you know that I claim to be the cleanest
man on earth. I always try to live up to my
ideals. I wear four shirts and two suits of
under-garments each day.” This is truly the
cleanliness which lives in a semi-detached villa
right up alongside godliness.
The last recipient of a Macleay fellowship
is J. M. Petrie, Doctor of Science, Sydney Univer-
sity. The late Macleay founded several scholar-
ships valued at £3OO a year each, provided the
recipient undertook active scientific research in
Australian subjects to the satisfaction of the
trustees. Dr. Petrie has selected the study of
Australian plant life, particularly the medicinal
and poisonous properties of the indigenous plants,
a field which, though little explored, has already
yielded the oil of the eucalypte and the Queens-
land paw-paw.
Adelaide University has got another pro-
fessor who has had all his training in Australia.
For some years R. W. Chapman has been the
local lecturer in Engineering; now the council
establishes a chair and seats him in it. A Vic-
torian State school scholarship took Chapman to
the Melbourne University, where he graduated
in Arts and Engineering. Strangely, though
Adelaide only now gets a chair of Engineering,
its University has turned out students who have
become top-notch Engineering men elsewhere—
amongst them Hudson Beare, Regius Professor of
Engineering at Edinburgh University. The S.
Australian Government supplied him with a
(since abolished) fat travelling scholarship; but
he never sailed back to give the State a return on
its outlay.
The death of Henry Cuthbert, of the Vic-
torian House of Landlords, brings to the fore, as
applicants for the dead man’s job, Edward Morey,
the man who looks exactly like Bent, and ancient
David Ham. They were both M’s.L.C. afore-
time—Ham from 1886 to 1904 ; Morey, from 1889
to 1904. When the Council was reduced, they
were both thrown out, as was also Cornelius Job
Ham. The Bulletin completely fails to trace
David Ham’s relationship to Cornelius Job Ham,
or to the Rev. John Ham, or to Mr. Jabez Ham,
but presumably there is a connection. A curious
circumstance is that a third probable applicant
for the vacancy is Brawn—Fred Brawn, share-
broker and anti-Soshite. Between Ham and
Brawn there seems to be a considerable rush of
cold eatables for that seat.
“ O.” : Re that viscous controversy, a man
connected with the Melbourne press told me he
knew of a peacock being slimed before
swallowed. My informant is one of
those men who say what they consider
clever (i.e., incomprehensible) things,
and I thought at first he was referring
to ex-Premier Peacock, but he finished
up by saying that the peacock was
David-slimed, and the Chief Secre-
tary’s name is Alec, you know.
It is said that amongst the re-
cords of those gramophones sold by
Reuben Keirl to the Vic-
torian lunatic asylums, at
the instance of Premier
Bent, are a couple of
Tommy’s speeches. It
shows an unexpected
strain of humility in
Bent when he brings his
speeches under the head of
“Edification for the Insane.’'
Still, present writer recalls the
terse criticism of a lunatic at Kew
when a concert was given by Mel-
bourne amateurs for the amusement of
the inmates. “My God ! ” said the deranged
one, “where’s the good of being in a lunatic
asylum if one isn’t to escape this kind of thing ? ”
About a Prophet's son:—-
Now that Lije Dowie is unalive, there’ll soon be a row
between Voliva and son Gladstone. Used to go to school
with “ Gladdie.” Tall for his age, and bony, he used to
shamble along with the loose stride of a camel. His hair
was wild, his voice shrill, and his whole demeanor atmo-
sphered budding eccentricity and irresponsibility. The
rude street kids used to consider “Gladdie” fair game,
and he would chase them in: a cyclonic rush which was
never effective except from a spectacular point of view
His college mates, though regarding him as a kind of
freak, always had a certain respect for him, for he had
ideas and often solved problems.,'
The dark-brown fanatic Rua is now storing
tucker and men in the bush previous to: wiping
the pakeha off the face of the “Long. White
Cloud.” The “prophet” has consistently done
no work for many moons, and his faithful fol-
lowers have helped him and supplied the tucker,
clothes and cash. Poverty Bay Maoris, who are
not his followers, begin to ask for white troops
and Maxims to wipe Mr. Rua out before he exe-
cutes a threat to do the like for them and for the
900,000 Maori land pakehas who don’t credit his
assertion that he is the Messiah. It was the same
Rua who, a while ago, predicted the early arrival
of Jesus Christ and Edward VII. in those parts •
but, apparently, he has explained away somehow
thejailure of that part of his prophecy.
DIDN’T KNOW IT WAS LOADED.
STOUT PARTY (severely): “What's that boy crying for?” KID : “He stoushed me!”
W. H. J. Slee, who died at Sydney last
week, had a long and serviceable reign as Chief
Inspector of Mines in N.S. Wales. For many
years he was tlie only inspector ; then present
Senior-inspector Milne joined him. Now the
staff, including that on the coalfields, runs to
about a dozen. Slee learned his mining on the
diggings, and was neither scientist nor penman ;
but he could talk to both miner and mine manager
like a father, and he was a first-rate man to
straighten things out on a new goldfield, where
the threads always have a habit of getting tangled.
“ Victorian” : Saw Crick and Willis for
the first time in the Sydney Central Crim. Was
struck all of a heap by the theatrical appearance
of the pair, using the term in its literal, not
its offensive sense. Both might have stepped
straight out of a stage door, though they represent
the opposite poles of dramatic art. Willis looks
the tragedian in cxcelsis ; his straight brow, his
mass of waving hair, his clean-cut features, his
figure and bearing all seem to demand that he
should step forth from behind a marble column as
Marcus Superbus, or swing a toga around his
shoulder as Antony. On the other hand, Crick is
the ideal comedian. He is Patsy Crick, Rickards’s
latest knockabout artist —the fellow who keeps
the gallery in shrieks of laughter. Nobody could
think of Crick as William Crick, or Bill Crick, or
Willie Crick, or even Patrick Crick. Nothing
but Patsy would meet the case. Anybody who
had never seen or heard of him would know his
name was Patsy Crick if they met him in the
middle of Sahara. He has the quality of Patsi-
ness developed to the wth power. Willis is not
well named. He ought to beMarmaduke Mortimer.
THE VORTEX OF EUROPEAN
MILITARISM.
“In no circumstance,” says Wilfred Laurier, “ will we
consent to Canada being- drawn into the vortex of Euro-
pean militarism.”
There is a world of meaning for British statesmen in
that statement. We venture to say that it is also the
essence of Australian opinion if Mr. Deakin has only the
courage and insight to utter it.—Age.
J.B. : “dome on, kiddies, don’t be mean! Join
our little game.”
“ Oby ” writes :
Bill Lyne’s sole superstition is a belief in black cats.
“ I’ll be Federal Premier,” he said when a black cat
jumped on his knee in a house at North Shore. He was
Federal Premier—for some days, on paper, and he may
yet be the genuine article; there are men with worse
chances. A black cat mounted to his shoulder a few
days before his knighthood came along. When in doubt
about accepting the invitation to the Conference in
England a black cat came and made affectionate over-
tures to him, and looked at him encouragingly. Deakin
thought it was his persuasive eloquence that persuaded
Bill, but it was the cat.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Waddell’s lack of
brilliance is compensated for by the talents of
his nephew, Barrister Waddell, at present shark-
ing at the Sydney courts. This young Waddell
is LL. D. —the first during eleven years of Professor
Pitt Cobbett’s law examinations. He is also
M.A. and is a product,of purely local education,
having passed from Sydney Grammar School to
its University, with honors all along the line.
Wilkinson, ex-Federal representative for
Moreton (Q.), had ari antipathy to Chinese which
nothing could appease. One day a Chow from
Brisbane took up the bamboo and baskets in place
of the regular vegetable heathen, and in less than
half-an-hour -was yelling in front of Wilkinson’s
residence as the regular Chow would never dare
to do. The vision of an excited man and a big
ebony office ruler, hurling themselves towards the
front gate, and calling out, “Git, you yellow
scum,” got on the new John’s nerves, and saying
feebly, “ Whaffor?’'’ he dropped everything and
fled to report' to the boss heathen that he had seen
a devil. The boss recognised Wilkinson by the
description, and ran like all the Chinese sheols to
recover the vegetables, but the goats had got
there first.
The Bulletin’s Most Aged Inhabitant
reminisces :
Mr. William Foster Dind, who died last week at Cowles-
road, Mosman (Sydney), aged. 71, was a native of Hobart.
Also, he was a son Of William Hind, who, from the very
early ’forties up to his death, at the age of 82, was inti-
mately associated with theatres and theatricals either
as treasurer, manager, or lessee. In the early ’forties
Hind, senior, kept the Clown Tavern in Pitt-
street, where Baumann’s new caf6 is now. He
sold out in 1843 to George Coppin, who kept
the house until all his money was gone, and
shifted to the Star and Garter, nearly opposite.
From the Star and Garter in ’49 or ’5O, Mr. Hind went to
the Lily of St. Leonards pub (sign, a young aboriginal
gin) at MUson’s Point. At that time Robert Campbell (of
the Wharf) had a large tract of land just beyond Milson’s
Point. Campbell engaged Mr. Bind to see it cut up and
prepared for sale. As his reward, he was to have his
pick of the allotments, and he selected the corner of
Fitzroy-street, on the Lane Cove Road, as it was then
known ; now Alfred-street. Here, in the early ’fifties, he
built the house, known still as Bind’s Hote . It was a
house of call for theatrical and operatic people, and its
walls were adorned with portraits of celebrities, many of
which hang on the walls of the new house. Bind’s
became historic in connection with the Bertrand-Kinder
case of 1866. Kinder, the City Bank clerk, lived along-
side, and was a steady customer for long beers.
Yasco Loureiro writes from Melbourne :
Next Tuesday (16th) I leave for London by the Medic,
and start the first chapter of my illustrated diary
“ Round the World on a Pencil.” I don’t expect to strike
a more kindly place on earth than Australia has been to
me. Last year I tried my luck as a Shilling Portrait-
Sketch Artist on the Hobson’s Bay excursion steamers,
working the various picnics. As a business it panned
out splendidly. When the Melbourne season was over I
sought the nimble shilling in Sydney on the Manly ferry
boats, and if passengers were scarce I studied navigation
and took a turn at the wheel. Then to Brisbane in
August. Cairns tourists on the Wyandra and the
wonderful men at the Queensland shows gave me plenty
of work. I was always earning a living. At the Brisbane
Exhibition my neighboring fellow-artists were a
man who sold “ your fortune with a lump of Boncaster
butter scotch” for 3d., and the Gippsland Fat Girl
who exhibited her bulk for 6d. in a tent. One day
an ‘ old farmer came along with a prize bull and
wanted me to do its portrait for a “ bob.” My word—
the size of that piece of beef ! It is quite touching some-
times when a careful mother, or a fond and needy father,
wants two children sketched on the one sheet for the
same old shilling. This idea of the half-price cubical
capacity of children is rather embarrassing. The first
difficulty in dealing with a crowd is to make a start, but
with experience you can look around and count your
marks. The man with a waxed mo. and a flower in his
coat is a certainty, and then come the people you would
least expect—hard-working men. The most amusing
experiences are with an Eastern Market push, when
“Ginger" or some well-known fish-shop chef is held
down in his chair to be sketched, blushing furiously
the while. Women and drunks need most attention.
From London I go to Liverpool with the intention of
working on the boats that run to Bouglas (Isle of Man),
where I hope to get steady employment at twelvepence
a job.
Young Loureiro, a mere boy in appearance, has
a frank, ingenuous manner, which makes friends
for him wherever he goes, and hundreds of people
in Australia will wish him luck on his foreign
travels.
JOHN BIGTAIL.
[For The Bulletin]
Mr. John. Madden, writing to Melbourne Argos, and
enclosing his little cheque (and advertisement) for the
testimonial to the Bonnie Vale divers who rescued
Varischetti, spoke thus: “While the devotion and
sacrifice of all concerned to save a life and to be loyal to
a comrade command everyone’s pride in our people, and
gratitude for their success,.the fine resolution and calm,
dutiful courage of those divers in facing a grave, novel,
and untested peril, and overcoming it so well, is notable
indeed, and above all praise.”
Wherever there’s a phonograph
My whiskers may be found ;
Wherever a reporter is
There do I float around ;
My curled moustachios cut the air
By every circus tent—
For life to me, and soul, and breath,
Are but advertisement.
When mangling widows mangled are
Beneath suburban trains,
My horror in the Argus shows
My clear and powerful brains ;
The diction of my letters would
The child within the womb
Affright, when I do send my screed
With ninepence for a tomb.
And when the time has come to die
And walk in heavenly fields,
I’ll take the last advertisement,
Post-mortem travel yields;
And, ere St. Peter drives me through
The streets of glittering stone,
I’ll write my last advertisement,
And nail it on the Throne I
VIC.
ANGEL BEER.


MILLINERY %
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
CREATIONS..
Send for AUTUMN and WINTER FASHION
PORTFOLIO Post Free Anywhere.
k
V\Ni
x*i
V Jf
*
s
vLi ••
v
111
s*
K
mil
&
.. w
f
■-•«*.■ V
c w
No. 90.—Velvet Hat, folded Chiffon Crown and Veil, trimmed
Wing’s and Ornament, 25/"
m
Mm
*
I
w
B
No. 117—Pelt Picture Hat, trimmed Velvet Hoses and Velvet
Foliage, 30/»
No 121—Fur Toque, trimmed Roses, -White Fur .. 15/6
Brown Marmot Fur .. .. •• 21/-
Grebe . .. •• •• 30/-
Sable Fur .. . • • • • •
wz*
V
Ks
■s
%
i
S 3
a
V
I
>.
No. 104— Felt Hat, trimmed Tulle, Ribbon Velvet and Roses, 30/-
>A
✓
-<r:
m
No. 93—Felt Toque, trimmed Velvet, Chiffon
and Ostrich Tip, 30/-
m
M
m
■j
Mb
: if/
if
'
Wo. 123—Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Tartan Ribbon
and Wing Mount, IQ/G. •>
KS
-: '
! No. 122—White Felt Hat, trimmed Swathe of Silk, and
large Bird Mount, also in colors, 25/“
ANTHONY HORDERN <%L Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
Palace Emporium,
.. BRICKFIELD HILL,
' w :'
N.S.W.


The bitter cry of a S.A. family of farmers
who sold out to go West, and were back again
within five weeks (Adelaide Register, 18/3/’O7): —
There is only the poorest land now to be obtained in
Westralia. There are good patches, but they have all
been swallowed up long ago. It would take 20 acres in
some parts to carry a sheep, and then it would not keep
it. You would have to go 40 miles from a market for
land of anything like quality, and inferior at that....
At present photographic views of the most fruitful spots
are being prepared, and soon a lecturer will visit the
Eastern States, painting glowing pictures of the West.
But it goes without saying, none of the barren places—
which are practically alone available—will be dilated
upon.... Farmers should by all means stay at home.
It is impossible to better themselves in the West in
existing circumstances. It cost us £lOO to find that out.
Complexion Charm. —Every child is by
Nature endowed with a skin as soft in texture and
fine in grain as the petals of a peach blossom, but
to retain it beyond the years of childhood, or to re-
gain it when lost, Nature must be assisted.
Valaze affords this aid. Valaze builds up the
tissues, refines the skin and gives the complexion
that fine grained softness and transparent charm
that makes a face beautiful to look upon. It
clears away every trace of Wrinkles, Orowsfeet,
Sallowness, Freckles and Tan, and gives again to
its user the smooth rose-petal skin that washers
in childhood. Yalaze is guaranteed not to en-
courage the growth of downy hair. (It is simply
a Beauty on Nature’s lines.
3s. 6d. and 6s. jar (containing three times as
much), postage Gd.
V alaze Herbal Soap, as used by the famous
Court beauties of Russia and Vienna. Com-
pounded wholly from almonds and rare herbs.
Delightfully refreshing and makes the skin like
velvet. It should be used in place of other soaps
with Yalaze. It is far choicer and lasts thrice as
long. 2s. cake, postage 3d.
Rusmo Hair Killer, a new preparation for
instantly removing superfluous hairs. Cannot
harm the most tender skin. Can be used at home,
leaving no after trace or blemish. Fs., or posted
under cover ss. 3d.
Yalaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure.
No matter how obstinate these distressing
blemishes have proved, this Russian cure will
dispel them. It makes the coarsest skin soft and
clear. 2s. 6d. box, posted 3s.
Yalaze Massage Rollers, for plumping out
and reducing the flesh, so that Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Flabby Necks, Crowsfeet, and all like un-
lovely detractions are rolled away. Price, Bs. 6d.
each; small set, in case, 10s. 6d. ; set of two, in
case, 18s. 6d. ; complete set of three, 255. Sold
by all chemists, or direct from Mlle. H.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All serious throat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies—Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into siltnce as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removing the
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured in
that way. It is pleasant to take ; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is.
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
The Child Study Association.— Dr. Alan
Carroll, president. Chronic invalids, imbecile,
defective children received third Friday of each
month, 2 to 6 p.m., Whitefield Institute, 393 Pitt-
street. No fees. Donations gratefully acknow-
ledged. Private appointments must be made per
Mrs. Izett, Hon. Organising Secretary, “Holly*
wood,” Botany-street, Waverley. Telephone 91,
Waverley.*
GOOD LIQUEUR.
HERRING’S
CHERRY BRANDY
IS THE BEST.
THIS
FIGURE
shows the effect
of
Klein ert’s
Slim Belt
Hose Support.
LIGHT, EASY,
GRACEFUL.
MADE ONLY BY
KLEINERT.
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
w lisfl
“CRAV'EMETTES”
Are the Ideal EabricS
for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 16, 1907.
My Dear Abini,—
Amongst the two thousand or so wedding gifts
to Miss Mitchell, up to the time she became Mrs.
Rawson, there were two silver cigarette boxes —
one from the Northcote Excellencies. Vases and
fish slicers, silver frames and scent bottles and
pepper pots, were duplicated unto seventy times
seven, but the cigarette box is daring. It implies
that the bride smokes. Cigarette smoking is
nearly as common as coffee drinking amongst
women, but a large number of women and a
larger number of men are shocked at the idea, let
alone the fact. No use to tell the shocked that
Queen Alexandra and her sister of Russia are
amongst the shockers. They won’t believe it.
And if you show them a picture in a high-class
illustrated of the Queen and Dowager Empress of
Russia smoking cigarettes in the gardens of their
childhood’s home in Denmark, they 11 look at it
sourly and say, “What lovely autumn weather
we’re getting!” or ask, “Where’s that nice
Gordon setter you used to have?’.’
There was a time when the world was supposed
to rain down cruets on young couples who risked
it and got married. Cruets are, however, more or
less useful, and “Society” apparently feels that
it is casting some reflection on the purse of the
bridegroom (or the bride’s father) if it comes up
to the scratch armed with anything that the
young experimenters can’t very well do without;
so the cruet has been ruled out, likewise the
clock. In their place have come silver candle-
sticks ; no less than 17 of them were dropped in
upon the Ravvson-Mitchell couple at Sydney the
other day—and probably there were half-a-dozen
others included in “services.” With gas at 4s. a
thousand feet, and getting cheaper every year or
two, the candlestick is about as serviceable a
thing as a pair of “snuffers,” so “ Society ” rushes
it as the ideal thing to lay at the feet of the bride.
Talking of those Rawson-Mitchell presents, a
•friend tells me that the most beautiful thing
among them was the Ministry tea-set of Stafford-
shire ware. Another ripping gift was the
ostrich feather fan, from the G. H. Reids.
Twenty-three feathers in it from the Ostrich
Farm at South Head. Most curious and inter-
esting present was a shoe of Poseidon’s in which
he won two Derbys and two Cups. It was not
“set” in anything, or gilded—it was just plain
cast-off horseshoe.
When bridegroom Rawson “returned thanks”
at his wedding breakfast, he advised the other
units of the Bachelor League of the Pah’f’l to
break away and take wives from Sydney. One
man “is aces up” to him, as the Yanks say.
Lieutenant Evans, known as “ Copper top,” who
was one of the groomsmen at the wedding, imme-
diately got engaged to Miss Christina Macneil, a
daughter of motor-car Hugh Macneil, the big
ironmonger of Edgecliff.
State Ex. Rawson, Miss Rawson, and Mr.
Arthur Allen motored to National Park on Mon-
day to visit the Rawson bridal couple at Port
Hacking. _When they return—the b,c., of course
• —they’ll live at Wallaroy, the bride’s home on
Edgecliff-road.
Mr. “ Dick ” Rowe and Mrs. and two mar-
vellous youngsters are in Sydney from Melbourne,
and yachting and wool men are making a great
fuss over him—calling the waiter every two
minutes, and asking “ Dick ” to go in bathing.
Other visitors from Melbourne are the Edwardses
—he is of the Continental Tyre Co. The lady
looks smart in a hock-tinted frock and claret-
hued hat.
A citizeness of this by no means mean city is
rejoicing over her achievement of four infants. The
stork must have taken to her three other parents’
share. So sympathetic are the borough authorities
(Paddington) that they detailed a member of the
force to slow down traffic opposite the house.
Cable : “ Engineer-Lieut. E. W. Chamberlain,
R.N., is applying for a divorce, on the ground of
his wife’s alleged misconduct with Sir Brodrick
Cecil Hartwell, Bart., with whom she is said to
have eloped to Australia.” The pair were here
at one of our big hotels for months. He booked
as plain Mister, but when they went off on a
yachting druise, a Sydney weekly gave snapshots
of Sir Brodrick and Lady Hartwell, and the
latter’s little dog, and the yacht. She is very
dark. According to “ Whitaker,” Sir Brodrick
married, in ;1902, a French lady in Algiers. The
Hartwells’'yacht Stanley picked up, it will be
remembere'd, the crew of the wrecked Annasona.
Stanley is. in port now, and the Hartwells are
living on board.
_ The did a little treasure-hunting as a
side lines dn the South Seas. When the Stanley
left Sydney she took on board an expert diver,
with a .complete outfit, and it is said that the
Baronet was in possession of inside information
about tin worked deposits of pearl-shell, and that
he alscf intended to rummage several of the wrecks
dotted about the South Seas. They had the luck
to strike the Annasona the day after she stranded,
and, filling their vessel up, returned to dispose of
their haul.
The circle of Sydney Bohemianism narrows
visibly under Purityrannic legislation. It would
seem that we all have to be, for the future, very
good and very dull —or at least very dull. I
notice that, in future, Paris House is to be closed
on Sundays. It is the one altogether satisfactory
eating place in Australia, and was a refuge on
Sunday for the citizen or citizeness kept in the
citjr for lunch or supper. But the shadow of police
; espionage brooded over the'Sunday guests, watch-
ing lest they should have wine with their food, and
Paris House closes. Now, if a woman wants to
eat in Sydney on Sunday she’ll have to go to a
“ Dago ” fish-shop. At the hotels a casual dinner
customer on Sunday is looked upon always as a
spy.
By the way, why have not Sydney women a
club ? Melbourne cats have had a sunny corner
to bask in and adjust their hairpins and their
tempers these years. Sydney still lags behind.
Lord William Nevill, who, cable says, has been
sent to prison again, is a handsome scapegrace.
It is an open secret in Melbourne society that he
made artful and prolonged efforts to marry the
only daughter of a wealthy draper in that city.
Spite of his looks and manners she wouldn’t
“ yes.” Used to say there was something sinister
and repellent about him. She is still unmarried.
He in 1839 caught a Spanish heiress.
Mr. and Mrs. William Anderson have sent out
cards for the closing of Wonderland City
on Sunday next. After that, Wonderland
City will go on wheels. It will travel
north on the railways of the Common-
wealth, and its whole population, from the
two amazing young ex-journalists (by the way,
they are not wholly ex) at its head down to
the trick dog at the tail, will live on the
cars. A big bunch of cooks and housemen
accompany the theatre, circus, Alice, the Happy
Pair who were married on Alice’s back, and other
side shows. American ex-journalist Kilpatrick is
Boss One. He is a tall, panther-like, lean-faced
young Anarchist, who cannot stop three weeks in
any one city without wanting to run for Mayor,
or calling a mass meeting of the inhabitants to
change its name. Mr. Claude McKay, a Vic-
torian, is Boss Two. He had done considerable
sparkling journalism before going to the lions and
William Anderson.
Little Frieda Stach, a Melbourne girl who is
one of the eight pink roses in “ Mother Goose ”
and one of the song-dancers in the Gretchen
whirl, is a promising youngster for comic opera.
Off the stage she is a slender, modest, gray-eyed
girl with silky, black, very curly hair —enough for
three heads.
Old historic circus, Fitzgeralds’, was sold yes-
terday by ex-bookmaker Oxenham. Wonderland
Anderson bought most of it.
Mrs. J. W. Flood, who was married a few days
ago at St. Peter’s, Eaton-square, London, to
Surgeon-Major P. H. Winston, of the Irish
Guards, is third daughter of Mr. John Bligh
Suttor, M.L.C., formerly of Bathurst, and grand-
daughter of that George Suttor who came to
N.S. Wales under the auspices of Sir Joseph
Banks at the beginning of last century.
“The Rats” gave a dinner at the Australia
last week to two departing Rats named Douglas
and Blitz. A brave combination to keep such a
name in these plague days. Their table decora-
tions ought to have been cats and traps.
Home for Incurables was opened at Ryde by
Sir Harry Rawson last week. Awful pity the
directors don’t give this charity a less hopeless and
depressing name. Its presentone is equal to writing
over its portals “Abandon hope,” etc. Original
Home for Destitute Invalids at Redfern was a
miserable little place, and the present splendid
one is, to a great extent, due to the generosity of
Mr. Moses, M.L.C. In response to an appeal made
last year, he offered his mansion and land—43
acres—at Ryde to the management for £6OOO, and
at the same time promised to give half the amount
himself. Naturally, the management jumped
at the offer, and the invalids have now
a beautiful home. Necessary alterations and
furnishing have run into expense, and £lOOO is
needed to put the Home out of debt.
Slab of wisdom from Mrs. David, wife of Pro-
fessor David, of Sydney University :
Some people say that there is nobody like an old
woman who has had heaps of children to tell you what to
do about babies. The first woman who undertook to
instruct me said that she could tell me everything, be-
cause she had had a dozen children. I asked her how many
were alive, and she said “three.” I said “ Thank you,”
and went to an old maid who knew, and she taught me.
The Brough-Flemming Co. (there’s mighty
little Brough in it these days—only Bessie
Major. Where are Mrs. Brough and Emma
Temple ?) produced “ Peter’s Mother” last Satur-
day. Plemming (fine killer, that!), as the middle-
aged K.C., is in love with one Lady Mary, who is
in the late thirties, and by the importance with
which he invests the part—following the author’s
intention, of course—you’d think he’d invented
middle-aged marriages. “ I want you to know,”
he says to the twenty-one-year-old hero, who is in
love with sweet-and-eighteen Sarah, “that love
is as possible between a man in the forties and a
woman in the thirties as between you and Sarah.”
Most of the audience thought “Queen Anne’s
dead! ” If the play wright had handed us a grand-
father in love with a grandmother, and much
high faluting about their mutual affection and
coming marriage, we would not have been
surprised. We’d know that the bride, instead
of being apologetic about her second or third
heart-budding, would wear white silk and a hat
with baby roses, and have a wedding that would
make a loud splash in the society pool.
Wonder what will the playwrights do when the
elderly spinster as a separate, individual, and dis-
tinctive horror, no longer exists? In fact, the
“ Peter’s Mother ” spinster—does she exist these
days ? If she does, it is only in England. There’s
none like her here. Anyhowq in “Peter’s Mother ”
there’s a ripping old (stage) maid. And she has
the long back that is nowadays considered a fatal
accident. She has the cameo brooch, the black
velvet bow on top of her thin-in-the-parting hair,
and a little black silk apron, and as you gaze you
feel that her very soul is cemented into straight-
fronts, so prim is she.
A friend, travelling by road to Liverpool, tells
me that he met Mrs. Howard Vernon (pretty
Vinia De Loitte) and her husband driving in a
useful vehicle towards Sydney. Their farm is
at Liverpool, and on the land the pair are quite
happy and busy-beeish, though once or twice
since leaving comic opera they have given con-
certs in northern cities.
The widow of late Ebenezei Vickery has
bought “Lindfield,” at Darling Point, where
Beautiful-Calves Suttor and his family live. She
will reside there—when present tenants leave.
H.M.S. Pah’f’l, which lay so long like a frown
on the face of the waters in Farm Cove, left last
week to give the M.L. girls a treat. It’s hard on
Lieutenant Evans, whose girl had only just said
“ Yes,” to be taken off.
Cable tells of divorce secured by Mrs. Violet
Shine, once of Sydney, from her comedian,
Henry W. Shine. As Miss Violet Elliott she
made some stir as a singer in London. She is
dark, tall and magnetic.
Andrew Black will be heard in Song Recitals,
at the Town Hall, commencing next Wednesday.
That’s the line in which the thundering baritone
considers himself to be at his best.
Charity Ball season burst into bloom last week
with St. Vincent’s. This ball has never been a
failure. It has always too cute an executive.
Last was no exception, even if not so inflated as
usual. Group of pretty debutantes —amongst
them a sister of Miss Jean Maclurcan, Miss
M’Killop (who helped to hon. sec. the ball)
and Miss lolantheFoy, a daughter of Mr. Francis
Foy. Miss Josephine Deakin's pupils danced a
minuet and other graceful measures for the benefit
of the galleries.
Lighting of the hall was gruesome. Union
Clubbers, whose ball rolled the night previous,
had left over their decorations—which was kjnd.
But the effect of the mauve shrouds over the
electrics was wicked. A corpse-light hue tinged
every fair and healthy face. So must have looked
Juliet when she was in the vault with mangled
Tybalt and other painful circumstances.
Singing Evangelist Alexander’s wife, at pre-
sent in Sydney, is one of the Cadbury cocoa
heiresses. Papa Cadbury died more than a mil-
lionaire. There used to be an awful lot of money
in cocoa, and the young Cocoa Nuts inherited ex-
tensively, and became matrimonial prizes. Alex-
ander has done better in a wordly sense than those
Evangelists of the New Testament who didn’t
sing.
A voice from the Bush—that of Miss Gertrude
Walsh—rang through the Sydney Town Hall
one night last week in joyous orgies of
dancing sound. None that heard her would be
much surprised if she rose to be in at least the
second flight of Australian singers. First-flight
covey is only three or four strong, be it remem-
bered. She has a good presence, and would
appear to possess brains, but she has had very
little training.
Jonah’s gourd didn’t grow more quickly than has
the interest in the Australasian Ex. of Women’s
Work since Lady Northcote’s “At Home.” In
every suburb a mayoress and a committee are
looking for work. To exhibit, of course. And
every mail brings Lady Northeote letters from
Highnessess or other women of quality in all
countries, and from men of action, telling that
they are collecting with zeal. Princess Alexander of
Teck is sending a picture painted by herself, and
Princess Christian of Schleswig Holstein has
already forwarded a piece of embroidery of her
own working. Countess Grey, Governor-General
of Canada’s wife, has promised our Ex. five tons of
Canadian exhibits ! Exhibition will certainly be
a magnificent success, but if the exhibits come in by
the ton Lady Northeote will have to change
its venue to Flemington Racecourse, for the
Exhibition Buildings in Fitzroy won’t hold them.
To replace the Melbourne Cup with the Exhibi-
tion of Women’s Work would be a great joke—for
the cuppers.
Archbishop of Sydney, junior, has been a long
time recovering from the accident that delayed
his marriage for nearly a year. Young Saumarez
Smith’s horse got rid of him on to the metalled
road with great rudeness, and for a time it was
feared that he would be a grave man (like the
gentleman in Romeo and Juliet) ; but as he
announces, in a cable to his father, his marriage
to Miss Hanbury, he must have recovered.
Sydneysider who was born Miss Jacombs, and
who sang under the name of Madame Rosa Bird,
and who married one Mr. Popplewell, has been
“presented.” She was, when here, a slight
girl, with a thin voice, and did some study under
Kowalski. Her daughter is grown up, and pro-
bably clamoring for presentation all the same as
mama. The presentation rash is a ticklesoine
thing to those who read of the presented.
What’s the use of it, except for advertising pur-
poses ? In Mrs. Popplewell’s case it is under-
standable.
Mr. John Harrington, who holidays to Europe
shortly, came to Sydney 10 years ago, and
invested his only sovereign in photographic
chemicals. That was the start of the firm of
Harrington and Co. which now employs a couple
of hundred workers. He is a well-known figure
in the Sydney yachting world.
Little Miss Sidney, one of the imported Julius
Knight Co., is now known as the Human Dynamo
amongst the group of girls who saw her in a
private performance. She, her hair and a comb
were the performers. The lights of the sitting-
room were put out, and the girl let down her hair,
which is as long as herself, and combed it—and
straightway the room was illuminated with millions
of electric sparks. Miss Sidney has a fine singing
voice. J.C.W. may present her in comic opera.
A Canton visitor writes me that she was per-
mitted a survey of the trousseau being prepared
for Olive Hypatia, the handsome daughter of
Queensland Commissioner Jones, who will shortly
join partnership with the chief of a wealthy
Hongkong firm :
Everything of the finest hand-woven silk, and frilled
with the genuine silk lace, all so beautifully delicate, but
destined to last for generations. It is rarely that this
specially-loomed stuff goes outside the inner ladies’
circles of the South China gentry. During the visit a
green-and-yellow-blazoned ancient arrived, his dignity
supported by a dozen sedan chairmen and the usual
accompaniment of wild-looking rascals on ponies to
guard the route. Father Christmas, with much
gravity, produced from his waist pocket a 6in. by 3in.
teak box. He must have kow-towed 50 times before
opening the tiny pocket, which contained four dozen
handkerchiefs. A set of furs from far-off Thibet
made me wish that the Philp-Leahy set would
machinate my paternal progenitor into the permanency
of an Asiatic Government billet. The Mandarins are
greasing their pigtails already for the occasion, which
promises to be an eventful one. The cost of the last
Chinese banquet tendered to Jones makes for belief
that when all the Celestial presents are uncovered there
will be a rare show. When Mr. Chinaman does it he
does it in style, The wedding is to eventuate in Hong-
kong, with Macao for the first week’s rest, then London
via Vladivostock and the Siberian railway.
One “ Stony ” sends me this tale
She was a bouncing forty-year-old, and wore a pair of
gold-rimmed nose-pinchers and a dissatisfied expression
upon her well-powdered countenance. For some time
she burrowed among the magazines-on-hire, but at length
gave it up and came across to the Miss at the counter,
with a poisonous look in her eye. “ Have you noo maga-
zines?” she demanded, regarding the whole establish-
ment with an air of chill disparagement. “ Perhaps you
have seen this?” suggested the maiden behind the
mahogari3 r . “ Whatt is thatt wunn?” asked the dame,
and then, after a glance, answered herself, scornfully:
“ 00, Australian ! 00, noo, thenks! 00, noo ! Ah,
good-morning !” and she swished out, smiling supercili-
ously. And the aggravating part of the business was
that the “Australian” magazine had that qualification
only because it was printed here. If the superfatted
dame had read its contents in the Pall Mall or
the Windsor, she would have relished it, as a
matter of course. But because it was printed in Aus-
tralia, it was anathema. Fancy Snatchit’s Life being
condemned because its matter was Australian !
From Brisbane :
At Government House the Governor folk are back, and
Lady C. and the Du Cane girl do nothing but talk, and
eat, and dream of the coming ffite. Prim Miss
Scott, who looks after the vice-regal kittens, causes
some jealousy by her evident chumship with her
mistress. I have a suspicion that after the receptions,
and the parties, and the balls, in that dark hour when
women brush their hair—or unbutton their shoes —to-
gether, those two have some hearty laughs over the
“ fam-il-iees,” so firmly brought under their notice,
especially in Toowoomba—they are so select in
Toowoomba ! A dear old lady from there once told me
that she was sending away her black cat because it had
spotted kittens—she so hated things mixed.
Sloe-eyed Violet Okeden, daughter of ex-Police Com-
missioner, is to wed Charles De Burgh Persse, nephew of
Lord Olanmaurice and a host of other Irish titles, and in
spite of that a manly bushman, utterly free from “ wing,”
and with an eternal good temp r. ’ Future home —the
Auburn—and later, of course, “ Tabragalba.” Both the
elder Persse sisters married their cousins, so it’s quite
refreshing to find one of the clan marrying out of the
family.
Ere this is in print Miss Christine Forrest, daughter of
member for Brisbane E. B. Forrest, will have wedded
Arthur Wood, of the C.S.R., Childers. The wedding takes
place in your sunny Sydney. The same day another of
Brisbane’s belles, Hilda Hood, marries her western
squatter under the paternal roof, “ Auchenflower.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENNHI.


YHE PLIANT CORDS of FEATHERBONE
* impart the graceful, undulating charm
so effective in the SMART BALL GOWN*
REFUSE | fmSiITUTES.
WARREN’S.
Depots at NEW YORK, CHICAGO,
SAN FRANOSCO, SYDNEY, HELBOURNE.
: I.
iYiae&.
3 Ni *
eryiD
m
ggggpg
r ■
ET
*8 %T
'D
mm
81?
liiilii
APPOIN^
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (SL Co.
Lombard Chambers)
, 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 15, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Brave Dr. Norris, and braver Mrs. Carrie
Crozier, have voiced a gallant war-cry on behalf
of the helpless infant who is “ boarded-out”
(just as a preliminary to being “ boarded-up ” only
too often). The Dr. says that “Maternity is
honorable under all circumstances ! ” and Mrs.
Crozier stands by and nobly says “Hear, hear,'’
aloud. Both look for a way to give some tangible
indication of its honor to unfortunate mothers.
Here is a notable opportunity for those dames
who profess patriotism. The most fierce
antagonists the iconoclasts are likely to encounter
are woman’s belief that a censorious exterior goes
a long way towards proving innate virtue, and her
hatred of those sisters who have capitulated to the
enemy without first using every wile to entrap
him into wedlock.
Colonel Burston’s pretty daughter Elsie was
married on Wednesday to Mr. James Douglas
Cooke, F.R.C.S., in Christ Church, Hawthorn.
Kew and Hawthorn have had the pick of frilly
weddings lately. There was a tremendous display
of dress. The bride’s gown began with ivory
satin (just like a million other brides’ dresses), but
this particular creation had panels of lace, panels
of ninon, and still panels of embroidered satin,
and a great court train carried more wonderful
decorations. It was a most billowy dress, and
but for the fact that the girl-face was unusually
fresh and sparkling and sweet, it would have
seemed all dress and no girl. A fluttering crowd
of bridesmaids followed, with array of imposing
garmenture. Miss Kathleen Cooke, Miss Elsie
Turner, Freda and Molly Burston (pretty younger
sisters), Eileen Clendinnen and Vera de Bavay
made up the flock.
Our poor Bishop Clarke (who, by the way, has
added afi' “Arch” to his titular structure) has
been having a troublous time with some-
thing very small and ordinary, in the way of a
cutting-up. The morning papers were very
mysterious. Vague paragraphs would appear
about “the operation,” and would break off
abruptly, and in a whisper. The reverend epis-
copal inner parts are presumably non-existent in
an official sense—like the Queen of Spain’s legs.
A popular Melbourne pen-woman has been
taken in by kindly friends, homeless and frock-
less. She was burnt out of her cosy little rooms,
and the present extent of her wardrobe is a par-
airy kimono and a smile that has not
suffered in width and brightness. The fire was in
the eerie hours. She woke to find blazes burning
holes in the floor of her up-stairs bedroom, and
the stairs and hall a cave of suffocation. Fortu-
nately, she had had bush-fire experience,
and managed to get through without fainting.
Then she and her German landlord did a half-
clad sprint for the police station and fire alarm.
The firemen did their best, and a poor, barefooted
woman sat perched on a fence, in the cool embrace
of a kimono, with her dog in her lap and her
parrot on her shoulder, watching her dearest
belongings going.up in smoke or being drenched
to doneness by the hose; all the time thanking
her lucky stars that she was not personally con-
tributing to the volume that wreathed heaven-
ward.
The accident shows the death-traps many
buildings are—with no outside staircase or other
escape from fire. This house was three stories
high. If the alarm had been delayed for five
minutes, the household’s escape would have
had to have been made by jumping from
windows into blankets—that is, if the windows
were negotiable. And perhaps the blankets
would not have been there.
There are wide smiles at the fan-fare and blare
and frill preceding the publication of the “ Emmie
Robb ” book. Folk looked for something impos-
ing-some clever society novel. It is a little bit
of fluff—a microscopic collection of trite sayings.
Fluff has a tendency to stick, or it would ha.ve
been blown out of existence by its publisher’s
puffs.
Even funnier than Mrs. Willie Robb’s book of
wit and humor is the type-written announcement
of it from the publisher’s office :
This daintily-produced volume is published at one
shilling, and is on sale at all the bookshops. It is written
by Mrs. Robb, of Toorak, well-known leader of Melbourne
Society. She has often been asked, at her famous parties,
“ Why don’t you publish all these clever things you say
to us?”_ She has at last done so, and awaits the decision
of her judges. May it be favorable. Her husband re-
cently won the Melbourne yacht race, securing victory
after a hard tussle over Sydney’s speedy representative.
This last clause in the recommendation of Mrs.
Robb’s book opens up a new field for advertise-
ment. For instance, why shouldn’t a new poetess
be introduced to the world as the sister, or
Jiano6e, of a famous cricketer who lately scored 99
not out, or a renowned vegetable raiser whose
enormous pumpkin won a gold medal ?
Dorothy Frances McCrae (of the sweet, pathetic
Bulletin verse) was married on Saturday to the
Rev. Charles E. Perry, an Anglican parson of
up-to-date tendencies. Archbishop Clarke,
helped by the Dean and Rev. Herbert Taylor,
attended to the dry details of the ceremony,
whilst the bride’s sisters, Helen and Winifred,
and Miss Frances Perry managed the more im-
portant business of carrying the bride’s gloves and
flowers. The maids looked sweet as picture post-
cards in frocks of pink chiffon, flared out at the hem,
and big white feather hats, whereas the bride’s
gown was simplicity itself—soft, airy-fairy silk,
but with a marvellous scarf of old Limerick lace
trailing its beautiful pattern over it. The recep-
hon after was at “ Anchorfield,” Hawthorn, where
Mrs. Perry presently arrayed herself in a grey
coat and a hat all roses, and set off with her new
husband for the hills and Healesville. The turtle
doves leave for England towards the end of this
month.
Miss Roberts (niece of champion billiardist
Memmott) and Miss Kemp, another clever ex-
ponent of “hazards” and “kiss cannons” and
+ a? 8 ’ a ma tch, on Wednesday afternoon,
at Alcock s rooms. It was a quite exciting game;
the girls were well matched. Miss Roberts
earned off the win by 90 odd. They both went
about their game in a very business-like way,
with no attention or eye glance to spare for the
bevy of applauding Johnnies who crowded round
following the play keenly, and making faintly
audible comments on the physique of the per-
formers. Particularly noticed Miss Roberts’
hands, a fine shape, beautifully modelled, with
slender, very long fingers. Wondered what other
use she makes of such hands besides playing
billiards. One would take her to be a violiniste.
Conjecture has been battered about until it is
exhausted, trying to place the identity of a re-
markable woman who frequents the opera o’
nights and the Vienna Cafe at supper-time.
“ A man dressed up for a wager ” is one wide
conjecture. Yet the much-discussed and name-
less one has all the vanity of a woman,
and the decided, rugged, dark features of
a man. Her hair is golden, and her dress
runs to subdued colors, such as scarlet and yellow
in severe contrast. She is an amazon in build,
and her arms, bare from the elbow, are covered
with bracelets blazing with jewels (not: Brum-
magem either), every finger covered to the
knuckles with rings. The Impressive One in-
variably has four men in line —just ordinary con-
ventionally clad men (strangers also). It is quite
a point in after-supper time to see her swirl on her
opera cloak, plant a cigarette between her
lips and puff her way out of the cafe with
the attendant swains following. Her dresses
are many and gorgeous and flounced and satin
—always yellow and scarlet—and invariably
a huge scarlet poppy droops from her hair to
her delicate neck, and another nestles at her
breast. The beautiful Incognita goes by the
tender name of “ The Lampshade” to wondering,
fellow-supperites.
Such an earnest young mummer has recently
welcomed back a busy, long-absent hubby. The
star and her twin star had been wont to munch the
breakfast roll together, also to study the lunch
and dinner card at'the same cosy table. But in
due course the platonic twin-star withdrew to a
lone table, and sent covetous glances at hubby’s
devoted head.
Miss Jean Wallan, late dispenser at the Gene-
ral Hospital, Launceston (Tas.), has resigned her
post, in view of her approaching marriage to Mr.
Henry, brother of Alice Henry, the veteran
press-woman, formerly on the staff of the Aus-
tralasian. Launceston hospital, which was the
first institution of the kind to employ a druggist
in petticoats, has engaged as its new dispenser
Miss Mary Sandford, a Melbourne girl, trained
at Queen Victoria Hospital.
Like Victoria, Tasmania has lived through its
lean matrimonial years, and across the Straits
brides are no longer rare as roc’s eggs. Flustered
by the bridal boom, Hobart is fating brand-new
couples in batches. Latest contingent of fashion-
able ex-honeymooners includes the Hudspeths,
the Archers, and the (Rev.) Gordons.
A new Melbourne engagement is that of the
only daughter of Mr. Maurice Kernot, chief
engineer of Victorian railways, and niece of Prof.
Kernot, of Melbourne ’Varsity. The bridegroom-
elect, whose name is Mansfield, is connected with
shipping in Sydney.
“ Carmen ” attracted the more usual Melbourne
“First Nigh t” crowd on Saturday. The German
element was quite scarce. It was a very heavy,
flattened “ Carmen ” —a “ Carmen ” with all the
Spanish mad warmth left out; yet the house got
ap and roared its delight all through, and yapped
gushingly over ices and coffee during the entr'actes.
There was no apparent reason for such fervor—
may have been because they “ knew the music.”
The Consular Vons kept their dress-circle post
to a man. Big Madame was in a wonderful
shimmering black gown, with tiny, baby wings
sprouting from the shoulder-blades. (They’ll
have to grow some before they can waft the
weighty dame heavenwards.) The Janet Lady
was also in the circle; she wore bright red flowers
in her black hair and gown. Wonderful! Is the
widow lady taking notice ? Miss Nellie Stewart,
in a box, was just in line. She and the Janet
dame had a back competition. Can’t quite
determine which showed the most, but can easily
say which was the prettier and more dimpled.
Dorothy-Vane-Menzies spent part of the time
in the Musgrove box. She does manage the most
fetching Roli-poli-San effects in the way of
kimonos; silk so wrought with gold and silver
thread that it could hold her easily if she leant on
it. The dark-eyed, half Spanish song-bird, Poppy
Conn, was with a party of visiting Sydney-siders
watching the German “Carmen,” and Mrs.
Ernest Raleigh spread a soft dress of lilac chiffon
velvet in the best row.
“ Carmen ” was over betimes, so the cafes got
their haul. Poor cafes are feeling the length of
the operas sadly. Guess the management might
cut the many intervals somewhat shorter. New
opera is being put on so thickly that the re-
hearsals are limited. One wearied supper-longing
man wondered if rehearsals take place between
acts.
The Melbourne Turn Verein has seized this
favorable Wagnerian musical opportunity to
start a new wing to its German Club. Last
November the brotherhood bought Mr. John
Grice’s tine domicile, with its big garden
and shrubbery (in Victoria-street), but they
are now building a concert hall, a gym-
nasium, and other club rooms as extras. This is
to eventually turn into a real German Family
Club —in continental style—where not only the
father, but the mother and all the family flock
may “of an evening” listen to songs and sit about
and discuss beer.
Is there any reason why the man part of an
opera chorus should not be chosen leg-fully, or, at
any rate, with some attention to physique? A girl,
however fine her voice, would be hustled to a
shadowy corner of the backmost row if she looked
very scraggy or weedy or had an unmake-up-able
face. But the men ! So long as they possess a
mouth and a strong throat for singing and drink-
ing purposes, and any old thing by way of a body,
they are thrust on to spoil the general beauty of a
fine stage mounting. How they carry their
drapings ! Clothes-props would be better. And
some of the faces deserve to go back to the
laundry to be washed and ironed again. As for
the expression in the feet, it is usually beyond
words.
From “ Tryphena,” at Ceylon :
The Australian star-frivoller goes a-gadding in a most
knowing way. She’s a study from the porridge lap of
breakfast till the lights go down on her deck heart-to-
heart talk with The Latest. Her chiffons are
glorious. She’s in white for the day’s start,
from collar to toe —pure, unspotted, uncreased white.
Her perforated stockings are white like her shoes.
A faint dash of blue gleams through her blouse insertions.
Her large shady hat (she wears a different one every day)
flies a few yards of snowy chiffons. Sometimes they are
blue —sky blue. All the morning she lounges in a capa-
cious deck-chair in an attitude of lovely languor. A large
white brolly (green-lined) is poised above her top quarters
—as a sea-screen. It enhances considerably the exposed
view of the siren. At her hand is a Bridge table. On
it are ranged playing cards, scoring-cards, most
superior candy, a scent-spray, a betting book, and a
couple of worn-looking novels. She lends the hot-looking
novels to the best-looking men, and sends one along now
and then to a pet officer, with a note enclosed, praying
that a black overcoat may be ready for her at the bridge
on such an evening, at such an hour, when she intends
to steal over. It is her only chance of breaking a ship’s
commandment, and after being a week or two at sea the
siren always yearns to break something. (Generally it’s
the captain’s head.)
For lunch her chiffons are changed. She appears in a
taut blue muslin and a sky-tinted head-rig, at sight of
which all male appetite is stimulated. Some magical
powder has been puffed on the visage before tiffin—
puffed so discreetly that it sticks, and the cheeks wear
the cool bloom of peaches.
In the afternoon, through the languid hot hours that
bear the heat of the tropics with sullen grace, she plays
Bridge. The. men players, disturbed by her tantalizing
Sirenisms, throw the game away ; and she upbraids them.
She plays a cool hand, and is blessed by her delighted
partner.
For tea, she has a special service. It is her own brand
of tea, her own choice biscuits. The brew is served on
an initialled teacloth. Afterwards, she takes a fantastic
blue sachet (a small pillow-case, in fact) up on deck and
sews a rent in something, providing a picture that makes
even the Lascars look and yearn with a sooty sigh. Her
manicured hands, her flashing needle, her rings, her
dainty blue trappings, her flying streamers draw the men
from bull-board, quoits, books and bar.
For dinner she gets herself up as the piece de resistance.
She alights on the sight of the diners in diaphanous
apparel, in cool trellis laces that leave the neck and
shoulders in their own ivory loveliness and cover the rest
of her shapeliness with a graceful cloud effect. She is
Aphrodite, fresh from the foam and drest in wave-blue.
After dinner is her hour. She floats about the decks to
the anger of every stodgy or ineffective She, and to the
delight of the male eye. She is sought for Bridge, for a
song, for dominoes, for a strut, for a dance, for frivolity
d deux. She does all, and ends by sipping at a “ stinger,”
which is ship word for whisky and soda. She has earned
it. Her day means incessant effort.
A large and lovely lady departs to the Cold
Country, overshadowed by the knowledge of im-
minent divorce proceedings. Hubby turned—
like the proverbial worm—and awful revelations
are promised as a sequel to his daring movement.
Died in London, last month, Mrs. J. H. Clough.
She was the wife of one of our pioneer wool-mer-
chants, and the sister of John Thornton, of
Camperdown, another very old inhabitant. The
late Mrs. Clough acted as a mother to her
brother’s two daughters (who became Mrs. Harold
Grimwade and Mrs. Hood respectively), her own
family being boys, who have all done pretty
nicely for themselves as engineers and wool
specialists. Mrs. Clough will be remembered as
the charming chatelaine of a delightful house—
Forest Hill, in South Yarra—beside leaving a
lasting mark by good works, much charity, and a
special gift of mothering nice girls, to their own
lasting advantage.
In New York city is a young Australian who
not only does well for himself, but diverges from
his primrose-grown path to lend a helping hand
and weighty influence to every struggling com-
patriot who needs it. His name is M. Evergood
Blashki, Sydney-born and Commonwealth-
spirited. He found success and a large income as
some sort of commercial artist. His favorite
hobby is to talk with a new arrival about
home, its bush, its girls, its sunshine, and its
future. The price he asks for his assistance is in
curious coin. It is an Australian advertisement
of his achievements in ’Murka. For he feels that
“no success is worth having, no fame’s worth
striving for, if your home-place feels no pride in
you, and your home-folk aren’t pleasured by you !
And here in N’York I feel that ’Stralians are my
own brethren, every man—and woman—of’em.”
I’m rather hazy about M. Evergood 13.’s attain-
ments ; but obviously he has a sunny heart, and a
handsome soul.
Love leads to strange rendezvous. In Prince’s
Park, which surrounds Melbourne General Ceme-
tery, one sees youthful couples who stray, hand-
in-hand, under spreading trees and infrequent
incandescent lamps. The more ardent make
their blind way to a little reserve beyond the
boundaries of the burial ground. There they kiss
and coo, shadowed by a forest of cypress trees
and tombstones, with a soft breeze blowing
towards them the subtle smell of newly-turned
earth and the song of many crickets. Those
crickets sing a song of love—the love that cometh
of the flesh which is all grass, saith the preacher.
And they kiss and caress each other with new
fervor as they listen to the sigh of moist earth
sinking slowly. So it is in Prince’s Park—so it
is through life perhaps.
Good R.C.’s take a huge delight in Mrs. Minnie
Tittell Brune. All Ada Ward’s assertions, they
say, have a comely contradiction in their pet.
Every morn, “at early Mass,”may be seen Tittell.
She attends her church with a regularity that
would be respected in a novice, and she says her
incidental prayers as though she liked ’em.
“Yes,” say Orange-tinted cats, “but she sups
late, and she’s a Christian Scientist. Mrs.
Blank, who’s a professor of the science, tells
everyone that’s where she gets her moral strength
from—as well as the ability to stand supper and
early rising consecutively.” Results known so
far of the Brune controversy are two chipped
friendships, the destruction of a chum’s photos,
and augmented interest in Tittell. Every little
thing helps to advertise a “star” in this com-
munity,
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
Lady Le Hunte was “ presented ” the other day, which
looks as though she has finished concealing her small
daughter in a German school, and may soon be hack to
take up again thff exciting job of opening fairs. She is
little given to the vanities of ribbons and laces, but the
garment in which she curtseyed before the throne was
everything that the occasion and the Lord Chamberlain
could demand. An impertinent cable, discoursing upon
the event, juggles familiarly with satin duchesse (which
please don’t confound with mere duchess satin), old
Venetian rose-point, and diamonds.
Pretty Olive Godwin was taken ill a week or so ago
during the run of the “ Spring Chicken,” and has had to
drop out of the Williamson Opera Company pro tern.
Otherwise the “Spring Chicken-” has'been a very gay
and sprightly young fowl while jt i\as been in these parts.
Appendicitis has robbed us of genial Abraham Shannon,
one of the most popular of the S. Australian squattoc-
racy. He was a comparatively young man, chairman of
most things in-his neighborhood, generous oind kind-
hearted, and everywhere his death is iamented.
The marriage of pretty Alice James (daughter of a man
who happened to be about when Broken Hill was being
found) and Dr. Deravin occurred on the lOthatKapunda;
but, owing to Mrs. James’ delicate health, the voice
breathed in comparative seclusion. Relatives only upheld
the.pair through the ordeal, Benedict’s people having
come from Melbourne for the purpose.
An engagement of much Adelaide interest is that of
Miss Annie Coles (one of the numerous daughters of
Speaker Jenkin) to George Gunson, who decorates the
Sirofession particularly designed for the confusion of
uries,
A clever Conservatorium maiden, Oarlien Jurs, whose
piano gymnastics won her an Elder scholarship some
years ago, gives a recital in the Town Hall banqueting
room on April 23. An elder sister will provide violin
interjections; and his Ex., and Vice-Chancellor Barlow,
and music-professor Ennis, and Adelaide’s Intellect in
general, have announced their intention of being on
hand to applaud.
The ice rink has once more frozen itself; so the
Adelaide Skating Club (which consists of a number of
exalted persons, who slither on Monday nights only,
when the common or garden public is not admitted)
has achieved an opening. His Ex. was cajoled to the
damp and chilly scene, and Sassiety cut figure-eights for
his benefit.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and- other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
:{:}/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/v. Fine
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
\
VERY, LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opv. Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sydney Telegraph has a leader on “ The
Coalition Hitch.” Anti-Sosh always wasweakin
the matter of aspirates. Of course it means
“Itch’’—Office itch.
The general opinion in Queensland seems
to be that blundering Bob Phil'p has put up quite
a record this year at endorsing the wrong
candidates.
Seems to be pretty clearly proved now
that Jap money largely helped the revolutionary
party in Russia during the late Monkey-Bear
war. The Brown Man plays “ all he knows.”
The design of the Commonwealth trawler
has been approved. A good first task for the
vessel would be to dredge up out of the sludge the
Stinking Fish party and burn every squid of it.
According to the Anglo-Chinese papers,
the agitation about the Japs in Californian schools
was partly a Monkey trick to bluff off a discussion
re the position in Korea, where the Brown man is
steadily squeezing out the Yankee.
The State and Federal trippers to Bull’s
city number 12 —Deakin, Lyne, Wollaston, Thom-
son, Hughes, Clarkson, Colquhoun, Talbot, Tait,
Tate, Hake and Meakin. This going to see Bull
is a costly business, and when there is no longer
any Bull to see there will be at least a small saving.
GRANNY'S RIGHTEOUS INDIGNATION.
Frankly, it is difficult to imagine anything more shame-
lessly selfish than the aims of" unionism to-day.— Mel-
bourne ARGOOSE.
Stated by Knox of the Hat, at the Chamber
of Commerce conference, that Australia’s losses
of sheep and cattle in 1902-3 exceeded £100,000,000.
True, all the sheep, cattle, horses, pigs, goats,
tame bees and such-like beasts that the Com-
monwealth possessed in 1901 were only valued at
£85,000,000, but what is a small discrepancy like
that ?
Being asked a question straight out by an
officer of the department, the telephone attend-
ants at the offices of the Sydney Herald, Tele-
graph, News, and Star had to admit that their
telephone services were satisfactory. But they
don’t let the information leak up to the editorial
rooms ; there the “scandalousmismanagement” of
the telephones is still a proof of Federal tyranny.
“D.K.”: Talk about the pride of race.
Here in Northern Queensland the Japs are filling
their brothels with young white girls, many of
them under 21 years of age. The police are too
busy watching publicans for Sunday and after-
hours trading to take an energetic hand at
removing this reproach from the race. Some day
an army of white men will remove it with axes
and shot guns, and the sooner the better.
The lack of formality about the meetings
of the Carruthers Cabinet disturbs Granny
Herald’s serenity, and she reminds readers of
the vast official ceremony with which the late
Parkes always surrounded such proceedings.
Parkes invariably summoned Ministers by circular,
the Herald recalls, whereas Joey merely rings
them up on the telephone. Parkes invited them
to the Executive Council Chamber, and Jody sits
down anywhere. The time seems approaching
when a N.S.W. Premier will just whistle to his
Cabinet and take it into a pub parlor or an arcade
tea-room.
The Australian Women’s Association is
calling upon the Bent Government to pass a
measure compelling every capable mother to nurse
and suckle her own infant till it is ten months old,
the State to make provision for unfortunate and
homeless mothers. This is a very fine notion, and
when some Australian State has a Parliament
composed of honest men with an intelligent
appreciation of the importance of babies, such a
.measure may become law. But there will be a
notable howl about the “ liberty of the subject ”
before that healthy Act climbs into the Statute
Book.
The Wyalong district
(N.S.W.) is calling at the
top ,of its voice for a pro-
gressive land tax. Subject
though it is to periodical
droughts, with no river
within 70 miles, and with
most of the surrounding
country locked up in big
pastoral holdings, still appli-
cants from N.S.W. and other
States are rushing over each
other to secure areas within
easy distance of the mining
population. Pioneer farmers,
who know what the country
is really worth for farming,
are selling out at prices that
are far beyond the value of
the land ; yet they can easily
get those prices, because the
available land is so little and
the demand so big, and the
throwing open of Crown land
is so slow, and the rush of
applicants is so swift and
numerous. The demand for land has also brought
along the land jobbers, many of whom are reaping
a far better harvest than the “ backbone ” of
the country ever got out of a threshing machine.
W. M. Hughes, M.H.R., got in one good
interjection at London Navigation Conference.
Maorilander Belcher’s motion to exclude colored
labor from vessels trading with the Common-
wealth and Maoriland was being discussed, and
H. B. Cox (Colonial Office Under-Secretary)
suggested that “there were other means of attain-
ing the desired end.” “Yes,” Hughes flashed
across, “an eduction test, for example. And it
was the imposition of an education test in the
Alien Immigration Restriction Act that created
the calumny that Australia wished to exclude
whites.”
They apparently grow brains in Canada as
well as wheat. Quite recently the Yankees
started selling cream separators in the Dominion
at less than cost price, the object being, of course,
to close up the Canadian factories. Just as the
fact was being nicely advertised, a Bluenose Rep.
arose in the Canadian House of Commons and
moved that a dumping duty be imposed, even on
articles that were on the free list, if it was dis-
covered that they were being sold at less than the
fair retail price in the country of origin. There
was no long-winded fight, merely a little “de-
sultory talk,” and then the “ Dumping Duty ”
was carried almost unanimously.
r i It seems that the return to his islands of
Tommy Tanna is more likely to enlighten the
heathen in his blindness than a liner-load of
missionaries. The gunboat Prometheus brought
news the other day that Tommy and Co. were
demanding Queensland rates of pay from the
island planters ; also, ,that the “ boys ” seemed
happy to be home again. Possibly the next thing
will be a Kanaka Cane-Cutters’ Union ; also writs
for defamation of character, by Tommy’s relatives,
gainst the cheap-labor dailies for continually
depicting them as waiting for the wandering ones
with a toothy smile and knobby club, and a big
fire and gridiron in the background.
“Phil Tar’s” brief for the North Coast
cow-cocky :
A fly In The Bulletin’s cream-can was for long the fact
that the Hindoo finds occasional employment in the
North Coast cow-yards. Tub Bulletin has long warred
against the pernicious habit, and its diatribes anent the
matter have been sufficient to purge the Northern rivers
—where everything reeks of the cow, the whole cow, and
nothing but the cow—of the evil. And, now that the
evil has been purged by the farmers themselves—aided
and abetted by The Bulletin— why in the name of jus-
tice doesn’t Tiie Bulletin give the dairy-farmers credit
for having accomplished what they have, minus any other
extraneous force than a moral obligation to themselves
and to White Australia ! If the Northern farmers had
been forced by law to deny themselves the pleasure of
cheap Asiatic labor, then there would be no need to pat
them on the back ; but when they, solely on their own
initiative, come to a unanimous decision to eschew the
colored horror as a human milking machine, they are
certainly entitled to some acknowledgment.
SMELLING THE BAIT.
John Forrest suggested Dalgety for the Capital site,
with the inducement of a Commonwealth railway line
thrown in.— Vide Sydney Telegraph (10/4/]07).
Having set apart 12 selections in the
Exford Estate,, at Melton, just acquired for closer
settlement, the Victorian Government is going to
plough, manure and sow 1000 acres, so thsit any
new-comers from England and foreign parts shall
not altogether lose the coming season, the cost to
be repaid by the ingoing settlers. Bent’s is an
eminently paternal and thoughtful Government,
but the ordinary Australian farmer, who wants
land and can’t get it, is apt to ask why the same
Government can’t do a little, per land-tax, towards
supplying him with the bare soil without the
manure.
MORE “FAT" PATRIOTISM.
However the feeling against immigration arose, it
certainly exists, and it has manifested itself very unfor-
tunately for Australia....It showed itself in the con-
tinued and persisteiit hostility to assisted immigration.—
ARGUS.
FAT: “ Yer won't drop this panel , eh?"
AUSTRALIA: “ Nope! ”
FAT: “ Well, all I ses is, I don’t b'leeve yer want
no bloomin' immigrants !”
Transpires now re the Jamaica earth-
quake and the little unpleasantness afterwards
The Home Office peremptorily ordered the Governor to
apologise to Rear-Admiral Davis. He did so, and imme-
diately afterwards resigned.
Governor Swettenham was, in the main, right in
his attitude, but it’s a standing principle of
British foreign policy that Uncle Sam must be
conciliated, and Uncle is an insatiable beggar to
■conciliate. Also he talks more fight than even
Germany does if he wants something from
Britain and it isn’t handed down immediately.
“D.K.”: I have come to the conclusion
that the Anti-Sosh crowd is a very
depraved push. Its papers are for ever-
complaining that the Socialists aim at
the destruction of the marriage tie, the
abolition of the home, the shutting down
on the birth-rate, and all the rest of it.
But it seems to me that this gang is
accusing the Socialists of wanting to do
the very things it has been doing itself
for heaven knows how long. Among
the rich, marriage is practically abol-
ished, for divorce is now so easily ob-
tained that any rich man can buy his
freedom by arrangement with the lady.
The rich are notoriously unfruitful. Has
anyone ever heard of a millionaire hav-
ing a- family of, say, 10. Not much !
Carnegie and his wife hatched one
small baby between them, and, if I
remember rightly, it died before it was
fledged. The rich man is. in the
majority of cases, a polygamist, and the
sanctity of his home is of a very draggled
order. And, not content with all these
iniquities, these scoundrels want to make
things so bad for the white workers
that they will have neither the means
nor the energy to marry and have fami-
lies. If Anti-Sosh can get its way, it
will crush the vitality out of that por-
tion of the white race that does in-
crease and multiply, and thus pave the
way for Yellow domination.
From London Daily Mail :
As for Australia, that country is much exposed to
foreign attack because its population is so exiguous, but
even here a contribution in cash is undesirable. Far
better would it be for the Australians,to form a Navy of
their own or to train and equip a strong land force, which
would be of infinitely greater service to the Empire than
any tribute of, gold.
Even Vic. shire councils begin to protest
against Tait’s method of “making the railways
pay.” They were in no great hurry to say any-
thing, but when Rosedale Council recently found
that the local station-master’s hours had mounted
up to 100 per week, it reckoned it was up to it to
mildly rebuke the Commissioner with the burning
cigar in his features.
Victoria’s Premier Bent is now close on
69, and it is currently reported that his admiring
colleagues are trying to gently butt him through
the door into obscurity, on the ground that, - at his
age, he needs rest and peace and cabbages. It is
also alleged that the carrot they dangle in front of
Father Bent is a Parliamentary vote of £5OOO, in
recognition of his services. That is three years
and seven months’ pay, and reads like a broad and
gruesome hint about the probable duration of life
when a man reaches Bent’s age. The rumor also
has it that Peacock and Swinburne are both will-
ing to totter under the load of the Premiership if
Bent thoughtfully lays it down.
Rev. W. E. Godson, of Wollongong
(N.S.W.), pronounces the exclusion of colored
aliens as unchristian, but at the same time says he
is opposed to their indiscriminate admission. He
thinks the educated nigger—which is mostly
another name for the affluent nigger—should be
allowed to enter. But if it is unchristian to ex-
clude, it is unchristian to discriminatingly exclude.
If Christianity is fractured by the exclusion of the
educated and wealthy piebald gentleman, it is
surely fractured by the exclusion of the im-
poverished and ignorant piebald cove. Clergymen
do no good by drawing the fanciful line that the
Rev. Godson draws. They merely, under the
name of religion, add to the church’s already
dreadful reputation for greasing the stout pig.
The Abgus is very cross because Bill
Lyne and W. M. Hughes have so much to say at
the Imperial Navigation Conference. It remarks
(9/4/’O7): —
The majority of Australians think that navigation is
conducted in the interests of those who produce things
and those who travel, but their strangely chosen repre-
sentatives would make it appear that navigation is con-
ducted entirely in the interests of those who work on,
ships.
In the same article the Argus says Long Bill is
playing to the gallery, “as usual.” How Lyne
can “play to the gallery” by saying things that
“ the majority of Australians” don’t agree with
is not explained by the Argus.
It was noted in Wellington (M.L.) on the
recent visit of the Jap training ships there, with
what eagerness the Brown men sought information
with regard to coaling facilities. As the Welling,
ton Post remarked :r
The eagerness of the visitors to secure statistics of this
kind is likely to make New Zealanders think vigorously
Another of Bent’s promises that is
going the way of pie-crust is the one to reform the
unwieldy Melbourne Board of Works, reducing
it from 39 to nine members or less. If Parliament
once got its knife into this cumbersome body it
would probably prune it into a commission of
three experts; but no sooner was Thomas’ back
turned than interested parties got to work, and
now Commissioner W. J. C. Riddell is appointed
salaried Chairman for four years. For the rest
the unwieldy Board remains just where it was.
And Riddell is in no sense a water or sewerage
expert; he isn’t even a municipal authority as
Fitzgibbon was. Meanwhile, Chief Fireman
Stein complains for the 87th time that the city’s
water supply is quite inadequate for his purposes
and that Melbourne loses thousands yearly
through his inability to control fires promptly.
But the incompetent Board of Shirks babbles and
potters along and does nothing, and doesn’t look
as though it ever will do anything.
The non-unionist has again discovered
that when the row is over he doesn't count. After
the slaughtermen returned to work in Maori land,
the process of emptying out the non-unionist
who had done his best to fill the breach started
with a bang. Only in one case, at Fairfield, did
the employers make even a show on his behalf,
There the foreman butcher said he would not
allow the “blacklegs” to be “barracked,” and
promptly sacked some of the unionists who were
amusing themselves by doing so. The whole of
the union men immediately retired, and the
business of the place was hung up. After waiting
about two hours the foreman approached the
unionists and asked them would they kindly re-
sume killing pending the arrival of the chairman
of directors and the manager, who would confer
with them. They turned to, and when the pair
of potentates arrived they cordially agreed that
unionists should have the preference, and as fast
as union men could be brought along the non-
unionist was emptied out with contumely. The
blackleg doesn’t count nowadays.
THE SAME OLD OBSTACLE.
The Acting Prime Minister has struck a snag in Syd-
ney.—AGE.
Wilkins, member for Colling wood in the
Vic. Assembly, met the local mayor and coun-
cillors, Donald MacKinnon, and “a numberof
other gentlemen ” (including Jack Wren), at his
private house the other day. Wilkins, in his
speech, practically attributed the recent outcry
against unlawful gambling to “sectarianism,”
after which “Mr. J. Wren also spoke briefly.’
Anyone who watches the game will find that the
policy of John Wren, who lately announced his
retirement from the business of law-breaking, is
to charge all the public enemies of his gambling
hells—snuffiebusters, Puritans, or otherwise-
with having been animated by “ bitter sectarian-
ism.” But considering that the Judkins crusade
was directed impartially against Betting and
Beer, it is impossible to take the “sectarian"
-allegation seriously. The hotelkeepers are not
all of them members of that religious denomina-
tion to which Wren has artfully pinned his
advertisement.
Sydney Evening News, in a leader full of
scorn, because Lyne and Hughes have been hold-
ing up the Australian end of things at the Mari-
time Conference: —
Messrs. Lyne and Hughes are emphatic and aggressive
in their demands that Federal legislation shall control
British shipping in Australian waters.
Well, if the Australian Parliament isn’t to control
things in, Australian territory—and our ports,
and coasts, and the waters within three miles of
our coasts, are Australian territory—-who would
the News propose as the right person to control
them? The Englishman who lands here is subject
to Australian law; if he were not, he could smite
the News proprietary on the nose with impunity,
and the News proprietary wouldn’t like that.
The fact that the News people own rags instead
of ships, is no adequate reason why the English-
man who is subject to Australian law in oneway
shouldn’t be in another. Other people own ships
if the News people don’t.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is pleasant
to take. Children like it. For sale everywhere.


TALKING MACHINES
aKs.
dTscS.«
f® *l/*?
• s>
Our StocK of TalKing Machines comprises—
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS,
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES
and GRAMOPHONES
In Both DISC and CYLINDER Systems.
We sell TALKING MACHINES at all prices from 12/6
to £4O, and, should it not be convenient to pay all
cash, give you easy terms. Write for particulars.
CATALOGUES FREE.
RECORDS. —We hold over 25,000 Records in Stock
and receive fresh supplies monthly. We have all
the best Records: Melba, Parkina, Caruso, Sarasate,
Kubelic, Crossley, Andrew Black, Besses o' th' Barn
Band, Coldstream Guards, &c.
WRITE FOR LATEST LISTS POST FREE.
W. H. PALING (a CO., Ltd.,
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
IMS
S of me
oi
y
PJ&SftVKAYV MELBQMRMEjgI
i/I
The
Ee “SUN-” Grain and Fertilizer*Drill
DISC and HOE
Tne * Plough.
2lto ftiFurrowSr
,/ t S e
k " >s*r
E
TEeJ“ SUNBEAM’"PIough
2.'.3. and'4 Fiinow!>
TEo T
\ 3&3&HlSjror Farrow* \
'SUNRAY*Di^CiPIOUyh
2;s.^:3Tife!^Furr.oys'
SSP®
USyNDfAL'^bisc.HirTOWD-
W
SUN RISE’ y Stump-J urap Harrows.
MAXuP Cteffcotter
Sy>'- :
Horse AVorks
&.’3'h.p;
Kg?.
<y*K
man.
Sunflower disc cuiftv&fo*
Doej rvW rtdyc
Field ah-sizes
AVMiWAU
Melbourne .Sidney, Adelaide
SaivJovertC9-Perth, D&lqety t (2 -Brijtarve
“Yours and
(Old Scotch)
is THE WHISKY of the DAY.
The DEMAND for it is POSITIVELY
PHENOMENAL. Pore, Wholesome, of
agreeable Aroma, and gratifying to the
Palate, it is a Perfect Tonic Stimulant.
Call for “YOURS <a MINE.”
Always
BecK’s
Raiser Lager
has won THE ONLY GOLD MEDAL
at the New Zealand Exhibition. .
Eight, Stimulating', and Refreshing'. Absolutely
Pure, of GUARANTEED EXCEEDENCE, and un-
questionably THE MOST POPULAR EAGER ON
THE MARKET.
* SOLE AGENTS s
LOHMANN <a CO.,
7-9 Bridge St„ Sydney.
Representative for N. S. Wales - JOHN RANKIN.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and," First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class 0. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date ol
birth, postal note or stamps for l/» and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of the public.
A few permitted extracts from last week’s letters
1. “ Delighted with Test.”—C.S., l/4/’O7.
2. —“ Test is wonderful, and of great service.”—J.A.,
1/4/07.
3. Thought Astrology dead. Test proves me wrong."
—L.M., 2/4/07.
4. The first genuine Test I have had.”—G.W., 3/4/07.
5. —“ Your advertisement is true. Test proves it."—E.B.l
3/4/07.
6. Since Christmas lam £3OO better oflf, and you art
the cause. Gratitude.”—J.B., 5/4/’O7.
The above writers have asked that they may testilf
their satisfaction, otherwise all letters are destroyed.
Money Returned If HOROBOOPE Ineorreot.
R» HERSCHELL (of London))
•• Woodville,” Mont Albert*
Melbourne,
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE * LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to TTia Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbeweby and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The sculling championship, like the Monarchy
profession, seems to be an hereditary affair. George
Towns hands over the title to his littie brother Charlie
just as if it were a piece of hardware. Charles Towns
may be a good sculler, but he has no public performances
that entitle him to label himself champion of the world.
The rowing authorities, if there are any, after a voluntary
retirement of the champion, should fix a day and place
for a contest, and invite oarsmen to prove themselves by
the sweat of their bodies.
* * * *
Just after George Towns’ abdication act, he
received a challenge from English sculler Ernest Barry
to row for the Sportsman Cup, of which hO is the present
holder, the Championship of the World, and any sum up
to £5OO a-side—all in one breath. He has won the Cup
twice, and the trustees are inclined to abrogate the rule
that it must be won three times within two years, as it
seems impossible to get that number of matches between
top-flighters. Although Towns is no longer champion,
he is, of course, holder of the Cup,,and may, in the event
of a decent allowance for expenses, go to England and
row for the bauble. But the fact that George is no longer
champion of the world may cause Barry to reconsider the
matter.
Charles Towns struck a challenge before he got
the championship nicely fitted on to his marble brow.
Webb, of Wanganui, whose belt is adorned with Stanbury’s
scalp, sent along a polite message that he would like
Charlie’s beard to complete his coat trimmings, and had
deposited £lOO at the office of the Wanganui Herald as a
guarantee. Both Dick Arnst and W. Fogwell are anxious
to row Webb, and offered either £lOO or £2OO, just as Mr.
Webb piv' ; rs, as a side wager. But Webb brushes the
small fry aside, and leaps straight for the championship
of the world. In the meantime, Towns is expecting
challenges from several other quarters.
* - * *
That amazing proposal to run an automobile
test race from Paris to Pekin has actually got into the
realm of things arranged for. Only' it is to be the other
way round, and the contest will start from Pekin and end
at Paris. Come to think of it, it is much better so. Paris
is the sort of place that a man likes to strike after bat-
tling over 8000 miles, much of which is a roadless desert.
To struggle through all that, only to arrive at the
pig-tailed city, would be just plain Sheol. There are to
be no rules, regulations, or anything else. You just start
and get through anyhow you can, except on the trans-
Siberian railway. The barring of that is the only condi-
tion. The supplies of petrol will be placed at depots
along a line that runs through th e Manchurian battlefields.
After that, there is a fair road right away to Lake Baikal,
over which the cars will be carried in the ferry steamer,
and then proceed across the Urals to Moscow, down to
Warsaw, thence to Vienna, on to Berlin, and home to
Paris. Oars and passengers are being shipped to China
this week, and will leave Pekin about the end of May.
Ho less than 18 cars have been entered, and more are ex-
pected. One of them will be driven by no less a person-
age than Prince Scipio Borghesa, who will uphold the
Italian end of the log in the great contest. It is not the
safest journey in the world, but is as safe as Piccadilly
compared to one through Western China, across Chinese
Tartary, and down through the Khanates into Europe
through the Caucasus. That would be an exciting
journey.
• * » •
N.S.W. Automobile Club donates £25 towards
the expenses of the Brisbane-Adelaide motor-car relia-
bility test. Somebody will have to stump up more
liberally than that, or the required £7OO will never
materialise. The big Dunlop Co. heads the list with £lOO.
* • * *
Australia has exported one motor-car. It was
bought by Maoriland Premier Joe Ward, and sent by his
order to London, where he will show John Bull the sort
of cars we turn out in the blawsted kawlinies, don’tcher-
know.
* ♦ # *
R. Lenney and A. Warren, cyclists, who left
Perth (W.A.) on February 24, rode into Adelaide quite
unadvertised on April 10. They came through on light
racing machines, weighing 221 b. and 22Jlb. respectively.
These machines were of “colonial make,’’ says the Adelaide
Register, with unpatriotic surprise. (It is just like the
Register to talk of “ colonial ” instead of “ Australian ’’;
to be “Australian" is to be Mr. Smith, and to be “colo-
nial ”isto be Mrs. Smith’s husband.) The tyres of these
Australian machines are ordinary thick Dunlops, and the
frames Davies-Franklin, of Ballarat. The two men had
splendid health all through, except on coming out of the
hot desert into civilised S.A., which they struck in a cold
and wet week. They picked up Birtles—who had made the
mistake of getting up into spinifex country—but left him
at Eucla. The machines behaved perfectly, three punc-
tures each being the only troubles through miles of
prickly-jack country. The men intend to ride right
through to Sydney, Warren’s former home. Lenney is a
Maorilander.
* * * *
The handsome bronze and enamel medallions
issued by the Dunlop Co. for covering the distance
between Warrnambool and Melbourne within the set
time will be issued again this year. They make an
elegant pendant, but must cost the Dunlop co. a lot
more than the old-time honor certificates. There will be
a change of color in the enamel for each year, so that the
man who wins half a dozen of them can wear them all at
the same time without being monotonous.
♦ * * *
The Motor Cycle Club, of Victoria, will hold
its annual 100 miles run over the out-and-home course on
the Sydney Road, on Eight Hour Day, April 22. As the
prize list is specially attractive and most of the machines
are good, a fast and exciting contest is looked forward to.
* * * *
The secret of good bike riding is to train the
ankle properly. This explains how some women are such
excellent pedallers. Their ankles are simply perfection.
* * * *
Kingscote (S. A.), a little township on Kangaroo
Island, has had a race-meeting, and, being remote from
other sporting centres, was able to use the totalisator.
Only £49 15s. went through the machine on seven races,
and (Adelaide Register report) there were some funny
results. One race ended in a dead heat and a division.
The tickets on the two winners were equal in number,
and each successful backer got ss. 3d. for his five-bob
investment. ' In another race there were only three
tickets out, total 155., and all were on the winner. The
tote solemnly deducted its 10 per cent. (7£ to the
promoting club, and 2£ per cent.—4£d. in this case—
to the Government), and the winners got back 4s. 6d.
each. Next race there were three starters, five tickets
out, and none on the winner ; that time, all investors of
ss. got 4s. 6d. back. And in the last race there was
nothing in the tote at all! The machine does not shine
except where there is a great volume of betting to make
up the odds automatically; but it seems to have been a
public benefactor in the third race above mentioned. Can
anyone fancy the Man with the Bag returning to losers
nine-tenths of their money because nobody had backed
the winner ?
It is said that there is only one unregistered!
racing club in the Wellington (M.L.) district (run by
white people, that is), and, according to the Free.
Lance, it is a hummer. It boldly advertises that all dis-
qualified horses and jockeys are welcome there, and that
it has its own specially licensed bookmakers. There is
great competition for the right to field at its meetings, as.
the business is lucrative. Quite recently, when a horse-
the ring had laid heavy odds against was seen leading the-
field home at a terrific pace, a man deliberately jumpedt
over the fence on to the course and waved a big umbrella,
at the coming steed. It ran off the course and lost a lot.
of time, but eventually it came again and won. As it.
streaked past the winning-post the Ring was seen to.
streak for the railway station, and while the flag was
being hoisted the crowd was streaking after the book-
makers. History does not say how far they all streaked.
* * * •»
Tom Wigley, a local lawyer who has acted as.
starter for S.A. Jockey Club and Tattersall’s ever since-
it was found unnecessary to bring Godfrey Watson over-
from Melbourne at £25 a day, is expected to resign his.
position—so far as concerns Tatt.’s at any rate. The
false start at Oakbank was followed by an exactly similar-
affair at Morphettville ; the barrier was raised, and some
horses galloped the whole course on a false start—and!
of course were quite useless in the race proper. Mr..
Wigley then asked to be relieved of his duties for the-
afternoon on the ground of “ nervous inability.”
« * » *
Judge Cussen, in declining to issue a “quaran-
tine ” order against the two places where Wren used to defy
the Law and wink his eye at the authorities, acted on.
the argument that the quarantine clause in the new Vic.
Gaming Act should be enforced only for the purpose of’
killing an unlawful business, and not for the vindication
of the Law after it has ceased to be broken. The business!
of Wren’s tote and club having been discontinued, though,
not until three months after the new Act had become
law, the Judge decided that there was now no reason for-
hoisting a yellow flag over the premises as a punishment,
for the landlord’s pocket. The Crown’s rejectedl
application for a quarantine order was merely
one more addition to the Crown’s long list,
of expensive abortive proceedings against Wren..
The man chose his own time for surrendering his camps
to the Chief of the Crim. Investigation Department. Chief
Secretary Peacock, also the Acting-Premier, refused to say
“ Amen ”to a treaty of peace. Moreover, Chief Commis-
sioner of Police O’Oallaghan complained that he didn’t think
the police ought to “make bargains with any offenders,
against the Law,” the O’Callaghan being seemingly one-
of the few well-informed persons in Melbourne who,
doesn’t know that some of his detective officers were to,
be seen in close confab with either Wren or Paddy
Boardman at any time, and in sundry places, during the
past few years, and that a very prominent Melbourne
detective had a conference with Wren and one of hisi
employees on the night of the day when the long-deferredl
prosecution of City Tatt.’s Club had been started. These
official condemnations of the treaty with Wren might as,
well have been unspoken, for they made no difference to-
the result. They were, in fact, worse than useless,,
except as advertisements of the Law’s latest failure to.
assert any majesty where Wren is concerned.
• * « •
The man who works the totalisator on short;
races has to be as cool as a glass of liquid air and as sharp,
as a land-agent. At Masterton (M.L.) recently the man,
in the machine thought he had discovered an error by
which £25 too much had been rung on a starter. So he-
changed it. Then checking the tickets he discovered!
that the error was imaginary, and immediately rang on
the £25 he had deducted. Unfortunately, the race was;
over by that time, and the horse on whom the changes
were being rung had won, and the crowd was outside
waiting for its money. It saw the new number go up and
began to shout. It reckoned that someone inside was
putting on £25 for himself, and threatened death, blood-
shed and stoush. The stewards came along and tried to-
quell the fast rising riot, but the mob refused to listen.
At last the hydra-headed multitude agreed to a sugges-
tion that it should appoint a committee of four to
investigate the matter, and the four fiercest-looking men,
went inside and investigated. They came out and said
that everything was fair and square, and then the hydra-
headed multitude yelled : “ Yah 1” “ Squared 1 ” “ How
much did they give yez ? ” “ 800 1 ”
« « • •
Old rivals Martini and Skuthorpe are running a
cut-throat competition at Cobar (N.S. W.) just at present,
and, judging by reports, the weary Cobarite is finding a,
new zest in life.
• • • *
Sydney first-grade cricket clubs, with the
exception of Paddington and Central Cumberland,
Burwood and Glebe, and Gordon and Redfern, closed
their season on Saturday, being hopelessly out of the
hunt for the championship. The clubs will play the final
round as grouped above, next Saturday, and on the out-
come will depend the ownership of the premiership.
Paddington leads the lot with 13 competition points, and
nearest rival is Burwood with 9 points. Gordon, Glebe
and Central Cumberland are all level with eight each.
The only thing that can block Paddington winning the
title is a defeat by Central Cumberland, which
would reduce their competition score to 10, while
a first innings defeat would bring them down to 11, after
which several things may happen. It is quite possible
that a deciding match will have to be played.
*** - •
Trumper is only fourth on the list of this year’s
batsmen, with a total of 733, and an average of 73-30.
Payne, Macartney, and White are all above him, White
being the boss of the roost with 77’55. Although he only
made 698 runs in the 10 innings he carried his bat on one
occasion; Macartney and Payne did that on two occa-
sions each, which made their averages 74'66 and 74-16
respectively. For all round cricket Macartney is easily
first. Second in the batting averages, he heads the list of
bowlers, having taken 40 wickets for 391 runs, an average
of 9-77. Bowden, Deane (L.P.), and Whiddon come next
with 11-62, 15-00, 15-03, respectively. Cotter is far down
with 20-08, and Noble is out of it.
* • * *
The “guarantee” is the principal feature in
sport nowadays. The Marylebone Cricket Club demands
an efficient guarantee against loss before a team of
English cricketers traverses Australia next season ; a
Canadian lacrosse team will visit Australia in July, pro-
viding the guarantee is sufficiently enticing. The Maori-
land Rugby footballers will also make a bid for the spare
“ bob ” during the coming winter if the guarantee is all
right.
* * * *
Forecasting of the next season’s English Eleven
has begun already, with only last season’s form to go on.
Picked on last season’s performances, Hayward, Hirst"
Tyldesley and Lilley, old-timers, are reckoned as good as
here, while new faces in Spooner and Hutchings, quite a
new arrival, are regarded as pretty sure of places. These
are professionals, and practically every professional is
sure of a place if his performances are good enough. Of
the amateurs, Jackson, Fry, Maclaren, and Crawford, the
new bowler and batsman, are all uncertain, and next
season’s doings have also to be reckoned with.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association badly requires a
benefit, or a legacy, or something. Altogether £496
12s. 4d. is required to take it out of pop. Of this amount
£2OO is owing to the University Club and Wentworth Park
Trustees. The park liability is all right, but it is not good
for the Association to be in debt to individual clubs.
That was what gave the Melbourne Cricket Club swelled
head in the first case.
Fremantle gains a good, all-round cricketer in
the person of J. N. Buzolich, who was for years head of
the Traffic Department of the Howard Smith shipping co.
in Melbourne. He used to play with Essendon Club, and
was considered among the best of them. He goes to
look after the business of the firm at the Westralian port,
and will continue to wield the willow and twirl the
leather in his more hilarious hours.
* •* * *
The “benefit” of little Syd. Gregory totalled
£637 Os. 9d., after deducting expenses which totalled
.£ll3 Os. Bd.
* * * *
The contest for the championship of the Motor
Boat Club of N.S.W. has developed into a contest be-
tween Relph’s Invincible and Davies’ Fairbanks boat.
No others have nominated. The distance is 10 miles,
over an inside the harbor course, and, provided the after-
noon is fine, should be a great sight. Both boats are
being tuned up to the last twist, and as they represent
altogether different systems the contest will be most in-
teresting. The Fairbanks boat is much newer than
Relph’s, and has the advantage of the most up-to-date
improvements. Even in the matter of smoothing the
bottom of their boat these two men represent rival ideas.
'Mr. Davies is using some patent composition paint, and
Mr. Relph sticks to the good old blackkad.
* * * •
The Prince Alfred Club’s race for the Petrel
■Cup was a splendid finish to one of the best sailing
seasons Sydney has ever had. The Cup, it will be remem-
bered, was raced for at the beginning of the season, but,
owing to some misunderstanding, quite a number of
.yachts put themselves completely out of it. Rawhiti
won, and Rawhiti owner Brockhoff, like a good sports-
man, was adverse to holding any trophy that had not
been won fairly and squarely. So the club re-sailed the
race on Saturday in ideal weather with a light nor’-
easter. This time there was no mistake, and Rawhiti again
won. There was hardly a ripple outside Sydney Heads.
At the flag, Kulcuburra led by lmin. 49sec. from Scotia,
which was followed by Rawhiti. Behind the big yacht, Cul-
wulla and Fleetwing fought to avoid the task of whipping
in. Barring Culwulla, all hoisted spinnakers for the run
back to the Heads, and a great and splendid picture they
looked, silver etchings on blue enamel. As a stubborn
race, it would take a lot of beating. Inch by inch the
Rawhiti closed in, but Kukuburra bowled away in front.
Herreshoff interfered with Kultuburra’s chances some-
what, and then the little boat was temporarily hung up
under Bradley’s, but as the great pursuer drew closer,
she reeled away again. But the delay under Bradley’s
was fatal, and within less than 100 yards of the line
Rawhiti forged past the Kukuburra, winning by 36secs.
“ He hath put down the mighty from their seat,
and exalted the humble,” is.the song the Sydney bowlers
are singing. When City went out to Burwood to meet
Ashfield on Saturday it went prepared to kill, and Ash-
field’s name was already considered Mud. But the unex-
pected happened, and City went down, beaten by 97 to
to 92. At North Sydney the Unexpected was also stalk-
ing abroad, and Petersham, which was confidently ex-
pected to play off the final with City for the pennant, was
also relegated to obscurity by Mosman with the decisive
margin of 33 points, Mosman making 118 to Petersham’s
80. This leaves the final, which will be played next
Saturday on a green which at time of writing had not
been selected, between Mosman and Ashfield. Mos-
man has an unbeaten record, and Ashfield has
lost one game. There is a sort of suppressed
jubilation among bowlers at the downfall of City
—that club being a sort of bowling Cave of Adullam,
a camp into which all the discontented players
of the metropolitan area are gathered. Consequently,
being composed of the eccentric and cranky elements of
the bowling fraternity, it is the most formidable com-
bination of the lot. The eccentric and discontented are
generally good at the things they are contented with.
The City has had a sort of mortgage on the pennant, and
the people who go down Boomerang-street to Woolloo-
mooloo and Darlinghurst will miss an old and familiar
landmark when that blue streamer has ceased to float
from the pole of the pavilion in Phillip Park.
* * * *
The races for the alleged pedestrian champion-
ship of the world between Australian champion A. B.
Postle and Irishman B. R. Day, at Boulder racecourse,
Kalgoorlie, last week, ended in a hollow victory for the
Australian, who won the 200 yd. and 440 yd. trials, so that
the 300 yd. wasn’t necessary to decide the event. There
were no records eclipsed in the match, principally
because the management decided that the track should
be slightly uphill.
• • * •
N.S. W. Amateur Athletic Association is search-
ing for a rough piece of land over which this year’s cross-
country championship will be decided. For a number of
years the event has been decided round a racecourse
track ; but the lily-white amateurs are afraid of the race-
course atmosphere ; and anyhow, a flat course does not
provide a fair test.
* * * *
Reported that the Athletic Association of the
public schools of N.S.W. will send a team of toe-
bailers for a three weeks’ trip round Maoriland on or
about June 15. The Maoriland colleges it is proposed to
include are Auckland Grammar School, Te Aute,
Victoria College (Wellington), Nelson and Canterbury
Colleges, and Otago University. To this writer’s mind
Canterbury College and Otago University teams are quite
out of the class of N.S.W. public schools, and much more
fitted to meet first-grade teams.
* • * *
Soccer football is on the up-grade in Sydney,
and N.S.W. generally. ‘There are 20 first-grade British
Association clubs going in N.S.W. And yet there are
people who tell you that Rugby is the only game thought
anything of in N.S.W. If it keeps on growing as at
present, the Soccer game will be competing with the
Rugby Union for the crack grounds in a few more seasons.
* * • a
Perhaps there is something in the Australian
air that makes fast swimmers. David Billington, after
being in Australia a few months (a considerable portion
of which time was spent in a private hospital undergoing
and recovering from the effects of an operation), on
Saturday last, unassisted by pace, broke his own and
all previous records for the 1320yds. Last year the record
for the distance was Billington’s own 18min. 40sec., put
up on August 4, 1903, at Leicester, England. Then it
was broken twice in a few days, Reg Healy reducing it
to 18min. 7 2/ssec., and Queenslander F. W. Springfield
chipping off the 2/ssec. On Saturday, Billington reduced
the time to 17min. 30 2/ssec.
From January 13, 1906, when Daniels,* in a
25yds. bath at New York City, covered the 100yds. in
57 3-ssec., that time has been regarded as a world’s
record. Cecil Healy, on December 2nd, 1905, at Bris-
bane Dry Dock, made the same time, but as the watch-
holder wasn’t officially appointed, or something of the
sort, the figures were not allowed to stand. But in the
Rushcutter’s Bay bath (Sydney), on Saturday last, he
went one better, and, in competition, covered the
distance in 57sec. neat ; but, although he broke the
world’s record, he did not win the race, which fell to
Alick Wickham, who took 58 seconds.
Clocking a race is a fine art. It is a rare thing
for any two watches to agree. F’rinstans, in Cecil
Healy’s smashing of the record, two of the official
watches made it 57sec. exactly, one made it 57 1-5 ; while
of three unofficial watches one made-it 57sec., another
563-ssec., and the other 57 l-ssec. In the face of all this
testimony there is not the slightest doubt that the
Yankee record was thoroughly smashed.
* * * *
Unless somebody harks along with a big side-
wager, English swimmer Billington will return home by
the Armand Behic. Unless he can get on some match
his visit to Australia will have been a grievous waste of
time.
* * * *
Wrestler George Hackenschmidt, with a mighty
list of victories over all colors, sizes and shapes, and
weighted down with a vast swag of wealth, has decided
to abandon the mat. He does not feel old age coming on,
neither is he alarmed at the sight of any of the young
men on the horizon, but he is tired of it. For long
monotonous years he has been standing his fellow
man on his head, doubling him and bumping his shoulders
•f°K rn Y an< * es Pfte the excitement of the struggle,
it has become monotonous. As it is no longer necessary
he mil merely complete current contracts, and then quit.
When in Australia he talked much of going on the land,
and growing sheeps and cattles. Writer once went a
little trip inland with him, and at every mile Hacky
would inquire the price of the land. So in all proba-
bility the next news of the great wrestler will be that he
has retired to some sylvan dell, and taken to cultivating
whiskers on the earth. Hacky' loved not the roar of the
city, and hated the eternal gape of the man on the
street.
* * * *
The sooner James Brennan gets his hall of
stoush going the better fight patrons will be pleased.
The noble art is in a pretty deplorable state in Sydney
just now. On Saturday night, at the awful Gaiety, Ted
Green struck id Sullivan. Ted is champion bantam, and
Sidney is a feather-weight who is considered to have
more than fluff in his stuffing. The first 10 rounds
engendered a suspicion that Ted Green was getting
a devil of a hiding, but he managed to keep
going, and then the slogger went to pieces, metaphoric-
ally. This was Verdant’s opportunity, and he waded in
to chip hunks off his late tormentor. He had it all his
own way for four rounds, after which Sullivan got going
again. No serious damage was done, but the disturbance
was what is described in the classics as “ willing,” and at
the end Sullivan, upon being declared winner, received
an ovation. Two ovations, in fact.
* * » •
Mally Jackson, matched to fight big Jack
Johnson, owes his streak of color, not to African
origin, as generally supposed, but to Australian. Mally
is a quadroon aborigine, a native of the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) district, though long located in Tasmania. His
knowledge of boxing is infinitesimal, but he has a punch
capable of making seismograph records, and his capacity
for taking punishment is that of the South Head. If
Mally gets a hit in all the science of the world is un-
availing. Tom Fennessy, who put up a better fight
against champion Squires than any other fighter extant,
was limp after the first contact with the dusky Aus-
tralian’s left, and the fight was practically over before the
first round. Mally’s only defeat was by Lang, who won
on a foul ; but, on the occasion, the Victorian was
obviously beaten when the breach of the rules occurred.
The remarkable thing is that Jackson, clumsy, lumbering
fighter that he is, has never been matched against Squires,
Mike Williams, Kernick, Felix, or any of the leading
heavyweights in Australia.
* * * •
The scrap between “Gooner” Moir and
“ Tiger ” Smith, of the 11th Hussars, was a wild scramble,
and unfit in any way to the title of a glove contest. Both
stood in and hit with all their might ; and the “Gooner,”
hitting the harder and quicker, and being favored by
Heaven, inasmuch as he was graciously permitted to get
his heavy wallop in first, won in 2 minutes 25sec. The
Gunner now aspires to meet Jack O’Brien, of Amurka,
for the championship of the world. He may meet John
the Beautiful, but he has no hope of the world’s cham-
pionship.
The Bulletin has a good journalist offer-
ing for a post on a country paper, and would be
glad to hear of an opening.
There has been a curious fight in S. Aus-
tralia. Though the Laborites and Liberals share
office, both sections put up a candidate for Stan-
ley, in place of farmer Cummins, deceased. The
Laborites did that, too, in spite of the fact that
the Liberals have held the seat for many years.
And they still hold it: Duncan beat Labor nomi-
nee Daley, though only by a handful of votes.
Says London Medical Press : “It is high
time the medical profession spoke out upon the
modern craze for physical development. The
confusion that has not unnaturally arisen in the
mind of the populace is to take big muscles fora
strong constitution. As a matter of medical oljser-
vation, it is often exactly the other way about. The
great athlete with the build of a prize-fighter and
the muscular strength of a gladiator throws up
the sponge and dies forthwith when attacked with
influenza or some other malady that would be
readily surmounted with ordinary precautions by
the plain man of average stamina.”
“Sailor” writes: —■
“ Belaying Pin ” (B. 31/l/’O7) on Australian sailors is
fairly correct, but might have shown cause for his state-
ment. On inter-State steamers an A.B. gets £7 a month.
He has a strictly eight-hour day in port, with Is. an hour
overtime (he averages £3 a month out of overtime). The
deepwater man only gets £3 10s. or £4, and is worked from
six to six. He gets 6d. an hour overtime, and very little
of it. Seeing the comparatively good pay and condi-
tions, the Australian sailor-man ought to be good. He's
not Australian, though. Australians don’t go to sea in
any quantity—at least, not on deck. They are more in
the stokehold. In my -present ship there are two Aus-
tralians born, out of a crew of eight—the only two we’re
had in 12 months, and there have been many changes.
The sensible foreigner, with an eye to the future and his
navy, carries many boys at small wages. Said boys,
getting to Australia, and finding they can get double
the money for less work—also that the Australian
maiden looks with kindly eyes on sailor boys, even
Dutch ones—run away and get berths on our coasting
steamers. The few Australians who want to go to sea ham
difficulty in starting because so many mates have a erase
for boys who’ve been to sea before—even though they’ve
only done a passage out from Sausageland. I often
wonder why Sobraon boys are not more in evidence. I
know training-ship boys are generally little devils, but
why not encourage the local devil ? At present we are
too much like English ships, which seem to be run to pro-
vide work for the square head. Praise the gods we are
clear of the Lascar and Chow !


Amusements*
HEATRI
Direction ..
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Evening' at 8. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
BAFFLES, The Amateur Cracksman.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as RAFFLES.
Other Characters by Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
latie Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
P&ntomimists and Specialty Artists, car ' f, ’lly selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Carlton Wallace’s Romantic Domestic Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
PETER’S MOTHER.
Box Plan at Elvys. PRICES AS USUAL.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
•fHE LYOEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art am? Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d,
POSITIVELY LAST WEEK OF
WIUTH BROTHERS’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Location : PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF NEW PROGRAMME.
FAREWELL MATINEE—SATURDAY.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plans at Paling’s and Circus office.
Doors open 7, commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
Adults, 6d. | ADMISSION | Children, 3d.
CLOSING WEEKS’ OF PRESENT SEASON.
PROGRAMME OF NOVELTIES AND SENSATIONS.
SOMETHING DURING EVERY MINUTE.
OPEN-AIR NOVELTY CIRCUS.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES : Miss Len Ore White,
Mr. Ernest Fitts, The Musical Gardners, &c.
WORLD’S TOURING CAR.
FUN AND FLIGHT DEVICES UNENDING.
JOURINQ QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE, supported by
a high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
CHARTERS TOWERS—APRIL 15 to 29.
TOWNSVILLE—MAY 2 to 7.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
KING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BIMNN.
Miss IDA INGERSOLE. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
Mr. JACK WILLIS. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
MISS FANNY POWERS. THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
FRED RUSSELL, Ventriloquist.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scottish Comedian.
THE BICKNELLS, Whirlwind Dancers.
CASSIE WALMER, Song and Dance Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. J3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 sharp.
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in the Great Romantic Symbolio
Mystery Play, entitled,
PARSIFAL.
Miss BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Mr. THOS. KINGSTON as PARSIFAL.
Plan at Allan's. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. .. BLAND HOLT.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY WELCOME THE
Re-appearance of BLAND HOLT and his Popular j
Dramatic Favorites in the Romantic Military Drama,
REVENGE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Business Announcements.
New Cure
For Rupture.
New Scientific Appliance, Always a Perfect Fit—
Adjustable to Any Size Person—Easy, Comfort-
able, Never Slips, No Obnoxious Springs or
Pads-Costs Less Than Many Common
Trusses—Made For Men, Women,
and Children.
I Send It on Approval—You Wear It—lf You Are
Not Satisfied, I Refund Your Money-Brings
Immediate Relief to Sufferers.
I have invented a rupture appliance that I can safely
say, by 30 years’ experience in the rupture business, is the
only one that will absolutely hold the rupture and never
slip, and yet is light, cool, comfortable, conforms to every
movement of the body, without chafing- or hurting, and
costs less than many ordinary trusses. There are no
springs or hard, lumpy pads, and yet it holds the rupture
safely and firmly without pain or inconvenience. I have
put the price so low that any person, rich or poor, can
buy, and I absolutely guarantee it.
C. E. BROOKS, The Inventor.
I make it to your order—send it to you—
you wear it, and if it doesn’t satisfy you
send it back to me and I will refund your
money.—C. E. BROOKS.
That is the fairest proposition ever made by a rupture
specialist. The banks or any responsible citizen in
Marshall will tell you that is the way I do business—
always absolutely fair and square.
For several years my appliance has been used in all
parts of America, with a wonderful record of success. It
has come to be recognised as the only sure, unfailing re-
lief from all the tortures of rupture, and the most reliable
method of cure. Thousands of reputable, honest, thank-
ful men and women testify to the great good the Brooks’
Rupture Appliance has done them. Since its introduction
into England, my appliance has brought perfect relief
and comfort to many who had suffered for years from
rupture.
Mr. R. Hartwell, 95 Holly Hedge Lane, Walsall,
Staffordshire, writes as follows :
Walsall, Aug. 9, 1906.
Mr. Brooks. Sir,—l received the appliance all right
on July 27fch, and must say it answers the purpose
intended. It is very comfortable. I see men around me
in the same form as I was, and I think very likely when
it is more widely known that some of them will adopt
your plan. I have now worn it two weeks and can walk
about much better, which is a good advertisement.
Yours truly, R. HARTWELL.
Mr. T. W. Straw, 23 Park Road, Blackpool, has
found relief. He says :
Blackpool, May 12, 1906.
Dear Sir, —I received the appliance on the Ist ihst.,
and am very pleased with it. It adapts itself to the body
in a marvellous manner and serves its purpose perfectly.
I have never felt so safe or so comfortable before since I
was ruptured. I cycle and take a lot of exercise, but the
nad always stays in place, whatever position I get in.
lam, Yours truly, W. T. STRAW.
If you have tried most everything else, come to me.
Where others fail, I have my greatest success. Write me
to-day, and I will send you my book on Rupture and its
cure, showing my appliance and giving you prices and
names of people who have tried it and been cured. It
is instant relief when all others fail. Remember I use
no salves, no harness, no lies. Just a straight business
deal at a reasonable price.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd. postage.
Write your name very plain, and be sure to give your full
address, so there can be no mistake in delivery. Address,
C. E. BROOKS,
3367 Brooks Bldg., Marshall, Mich., U.S.A.
CREATE STRENGTH, ENERGY and VIGOR.
some time now these PILLS have been restoring to HEALTH
when all other REMEDIES and METHODS OF TREATMENT
HAVE FAILED ....
YOUNG, OLD and WEAK MEN and WOMEN
who are suffering from Weakness. Want of Strength and Vigor,
Varloocele, due to some forms of INDISCRETION, DISSIPATION,
MENTAL ANXIETY, or the RESULT OF OLD AGE.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY GIVE
STRENGTH, VITALITY, VIGOR.
Sole Agent—
NO HUMBUG
or QUACKERY.
10/6 a Bottle.
COMPLETE
Two Bottles, £1
COURSE.
POSTED FREE IN
PLAIN WRAPPER.
S. H. HENSHALL, chemist, 2 46 Clarendon St., South Melbourne, Vic.
KUGELMANN’S
:■
fiß
©
m
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Concerning a girl who doesn’t know who
she is:—
There Is at present in a home at Yeronga (Brisbane) a
girl of whom three women—two white and one half-
caste—claim to be the mother. The child, who is white,
with fair hair and blue eyes, was living with a number of
blacks and half-castes near Dalby (Q.). Among them was
a half-caste gin named Clara, who stated that the child
was hers, the father being a white man with whom she
formerly lived on Eurella station, near Amby (Q.). The
child was, a short time ago, taken from her by the
Aborigines Department and placed in the home at
Yeronga. Her case was mentioned in several news-
papers, and two white women, who read the descrip-
tion, each claimed her as a long-lost daughter.
Mrs. Liddle, of Cobar (N.S.W.), alleged that
the description coincided with that of her child,
who was supposed to have been taken by a tribe of
nomadic blacks some years before, and who had the
mark of a severe burn on one foot. An examination of
the Queensland waif, however, failed to discover the
mark. Mrs. Smith, of Erskineville (Sydney), alleged that
she was certain from the description that the child was
hers. She had been in the wreck of the Elingamite four
years ago, and was taken off the vessel in the boat
which w'as never heard of afterwards. (The other
Smiths were also on board the Elingamite, but w'ere
taken off in one of the boats which afterwards reached
land.) A photo, of the child made Mrs. Smith more cer-
tain that it was her daughter, though how a child last seen
in a boat on the Maoriland coast should have turned up in
the interior of Queensland, especially as the boat and the
rest of the people on board never turned up anywhere, it
is hard to say. As the story told by the half-caste has the
corroboration of people residing on Eurella station, the
Queensland Police Department has decided, despite the
fact that Dr. Dods, Government Medical Officer at Bris-
bane, does not think the child has aboriginal blood in
her veins, that the weight of evidence lies that way.
There will be an interesting fight for the
S.A. Assembly seat for Flinders, vacated by
Inkster, deceased. The candidates are ex-Metho-
dist Parson Foster, who was a Minister under
Jenkins and Butler; and Donald McKenzie, a
canny Scotchman, who believes in house to house
canvassing in a broad Caledonian accent. Both
have sat for the electorate before. Foster was
overwhelmed by the Franchise wave last year,
while Donald retired to look after his farm. The
Price Ministry pins its faith to the Scotchman,
who has blossomed as a wholesouled democrat.
Maoriland has discovered that the land
speculator runs in many shapes. The incidence
of the graduated land-tax being too light, there is
a considerable earth-hunger, despite the resump-
tion of big estates. So there has arisen a class of
speculator who neither toils nor spins, but goes
round lodging a crowd of applications for every
block of land that is thrown open for settlement, and
passing the property on, if he wins, to one of the
disappointed applicants at a considerable profit.
The genuine man has one marble rolling for him,
the professional selector may have a score. The
other day, when 420 applications were received
for one small block, the Minister became deeply
interested. He started to probe things, and has
now announced that he will take drastic steps to
suppress this kind of speculation. One of the
best ways to wipe out the new class of parasite
would be to quadruple the incidence of the gradu-
ated land-tax. That would make land fairly
plentiful.
[sS3°P§i&
teSss-..'
?un/
&*'cien
SK
Mo
.Wo
novsC'
«e
WO
H\il*
Do
LO»
es
,dPrv«
«Of
WO
\\\uat fat£<
Hinfi
*>ur,
IttrtvC
*W or
or
«*»d
fast-
•^ears
for
I
K!
W/ilOp
itKe
B^/V0
.tea
"MSSfjp
»tt
**3222??'
wafer
Dunlop
Rubber
Goods..
*//
%
d
3/8*
•On
fVvv
“0/
or.
?«Ai
_j/>££o
1
/ed/^
f l'-Sw
<?e/ s
ya'
C*>
no e %
JLITY
*ur
non
put* 3 .
fA**
Safes®
«rs
frf
fT»“S
no
qTvS
i»“
G« ar
X*"
l l *
V«vV
!*•<;
2//
*«r
e*
The Dunlop Rubber Co.,
All States and New Zealand,


A. SAUNDERS.
oct. Gold Scarf Pin,
Bet Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10a;
16ct. Gold, 15s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 6s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
.A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 60s, 60s. Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6 10s £7 10s.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s Od.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
raUE
,'U
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4fin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dot. Gold. 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c, Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10b.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
.£5 6s. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire. 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Wi
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 8s fid, 10s 6d:
Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s fid; Gold Filled, 17s Bd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm. 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s- 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,,
Seal Leather, Blacks and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, ,10s 6d y
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6<?.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 16b.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 16s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
"W 1
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver; Hair Brush, richly embossed,
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Ivy Leal Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 15s.
extra
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3Jin, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNbERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond 'Spark, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Luck”
Shoe Charm, 5a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9dt. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d;
smaller 8s 6d. Other Styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDER&
Shaving Brush and!
Soap Holder, Solid*
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d„
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
'9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20s: 15ct. Gold. £2:
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
SB
SH$
.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
S>ct. Gold, £2 10s;
18et. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bueicle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18et. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDEK&
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid' Silver Till tidies, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6Jin
long, 3s 6sL Other Styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
' > '■ . '
A. SAUNDERS. J.
Book Marker, Solid Silver-mounted. New Zealand Greenstone Handle, 3*in
long, 4s 6d. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s 6d.
Sydney’s Leading’ Jeweller,
Silversmith and 0] dician,
A.
809,811, 813,815,817 George-st.,i
Opposite New SYTWftY S.W.
Railway Station, Dll/iN XJI I * u ’ fl '


. ■ •
•\
Q
<-^SSh>
\ 7
„
?** . . y
fK_
IS
IS!
S; 7.
W»
iw^
*
c
■•"a*
- • •• 1
(
J
&
>5
B
y-T
■I
. ■
■^J
!
Jjt
x
ifcfcr
&
,
x
X
WSftkJ
D
•*
Throughout Australasia lndian Hpot Pills ate the
Popular Housed %n\edy, for there are Pew qoi
these Pills eannot be administered without beneficial
You fill find neighbours, friends, and relatives everywhere testifying to
the marvellous Blood Purifying and cleansing properties of these
Fills. They get at the cause. Tfiey aw a safe, sure, aij& reliable renjciv
for all voiftoab arisiig to»disordered sNtad^.li*r


is«B
Si Sji;
iff
wsmmm
i®»
■'•-H'BS'
/.
/
mm
s■ ■ ■ ' •
||| •
% •;
i.
85
IB*SS
!
S*
'
ssg
AS*
S 3
m
SS
IS
£• 4
as
. ■
-■ *
- >.. .
. • '
m
, - , ; •
. V.
44s
JJSigsliiSfi
SSI
.
fM
SJE
•,r :
mm
•s.HRSSK
Vk.t
cr $
fe'afs
.
|vM|
'f:£
,
vtV
;
■Wi
■
.
?Vi
r tv%.saSS
1
m
■:
§Sg§j
R5-|
Sfi
fesg
m
■'. iS.
>.a;fc-.SS
iiapc-««»a<BaK»
■ •ai:s'
m'mm
\ SS -S
S.'aV J
*s&%>
9
©P*
■
iliS
iEi
S-SS'a.tfa
■s
MRS
; 'Sf
®@s
K&fS
'
C .
&27. J
£SSS
ini
■
■
jsa
23
;; v.
is
n
sst
When the wind drops- taKe a pull at CAPSTAN TOBACCO.


Wanted.
FIRST-CLASS FRENCH POLISHERS.—
Wages £2 12s. 6d. per week of 48 hours.
Permanent work for gwd men. Modern
factory. Plenty of air, light, space ; healthy
conditions of work.
Apply— BEALE & CO., LTD..
PIANO FACTORY,
ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is.; Packet'of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of WILLIAM
LISTON, formerly of Wurruk, Gippsland,
last heard from in Western Queensland, he will
hear of something to his advantage by commu-
nicating with
Mbs. A. BLACKER,
Wurruk, via Salk,
Gippsland.
BOLGER.— HENRY THEOPHILUS
BOLGER, late of Isisford, Queensland,
send address to O’CONNOR,
c/o Gordon & Gotch, Melbourne.
9
*9
m
aw
K
lvleifc
Jsp.<wc
James "Wal'd,
501 Geo. st„
Sydney*'
Brains Rule
This World—
* M
) ./ . ■■ •
Not muscle, but brains governing muscle.
The quality of brain can be s changed by
certain selection of food. -
A food expert perfected a brain-building food
by preparing certain elements in wheat and
barley in a way that nature would make use of.
That food is
Grape-Nuts
In it the Phosphate of Potash, obtained from
nature’s grains (not from the drug shop),
is retained in minute particles. r i his has an
affinity for Albumen, and these two with water
make the soft grey matter in the brain and
nerve centres.
A solid fact you can demonstrate by the use
of Grape-Nuts.
In lO Days
you can see the difference in yourself, and know
“There’s a •Reason.”
Government Notice.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be triven as to whether experienced hands or beginners are required, and also as
to JKLaSeriSr number of capable men are reaching New South Wales weekly from the agricul-
districts of G7eat Britain. H. 0. L. ANDERSON, Director Intelligence Department,
tural districts oi ureas uriuau Phillip and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISIONAL
The Section Includes 33 Choice Dairy and
Agricultural Farms from 72 to 344 Acres.
AUCTION SALE (6000 Acres) OF
THE NORMANBY ESTATE
20,000
ACRES
ON THE FASSIFERN RAILWAY, 40 MILES
FROM BRISBANE, Q’LAND, WILL TAKE
PLACE AT HARRISYILLE, AT 2 P.M. ON
SATURDAY, June Ist
NEXT.
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES*.
The Oressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (1J
miles away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
RAINFALL—B 6.66 inches; average for 18 years.
Close to Market and Railway Station.
Settlers oan visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or Residential Conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material, and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land —Ridges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks. _
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks,
and has been used for many years past as a
“ Topping ” Run for fat stock travelling to Bris-
bane markets.
LIBERAL TERMS
One-tenth Cash;
Balance in Ten
Annual Payments
at 5 per cent.
PLANS AND PARTICULARS FROM
ISLES, LOVE & CO
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
H.B. —Conveyance meets train every morning.
JpOR
THE-
LONG EVENINGS
THERE IS NO HOME ENTERTAINER
SO WELCOME AS THE ...
COLUMBIA
GRAP fi-O-PHONE
Will you not introduce this source of brightness,
to YOUR home ?
COLUMBIA CRAPH-o-Phones, both Cylinder and Disc,
embody a number of scientific improvements not
found in other Talking Machines.
Columbia Disc Records
Are made by a process recently discovered by our
experts. They are now by far the most DURABLE
Records manufactured, and their.quality has been
so perfected, that they reproduce the voice in
EXACT fac-simile, unmarred by the rasping sounds
produced by other Records.
Our New Machine Catalogue and Lists of Records
FREE on application.
COLUMBIA PHONOCRAPH CO., Cen’l
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
imJim
jisn
All Talking
Machines
Accommodate
COLUMBIA
RECORDS.
Post Free to Any Part
of Australia.
SEE THAT RAZOR
Your Shaving’ Troubles will be over when you begin with
a PLUM RAZOR. There will be no sore face—no
irritation—nothing but pleasure and comfort.
SEND POSTAL NOTE OR MONEY ORDER for 10/6, and
we will Send the Razor Direct to Your Address.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
0.
li
0
i
IK
!l
'7
TTP
e-'a
•s*
Sn
<s*
V
ill
\
FROM
411.5.
_ FROM
15,11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING BOOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock&C 0 ., 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
J*
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.


Affected Whole System—Could Not
Sleep Nights —Lost Flesh and
All Run Down Advised By a
Friend to Try Cuticura and Now
Gladly Recommends
CUTICURA REMEDIES
TO ALL SUFFERERS
“I write you to say I am cured of
eczema, and can say that I owe it to
the Cuticura Remedies, and I gladly
recommend them to all suffering with
any form of eczema. For four long
months I suffered agony and an itching
and burning feeling which affected my
whole system, so as I could not sleep
nights, and I did not care to go into
public, as I would have no ease. I
lost flesh and was all run down. I
tried everything I could think of and
also everything that was advertised,
but got no relief, until I was advised
by a friend to try Cuticura, which I
did, and can truthfully say I got imme-
ui&te relief. I would gladly recoru-
mQnd Cuticura to any one suffering as
I did with eczema, and can verify my
statement by members and also inti-
mate friends of my family. I trust
that this testimonial may be of some
benefit to persons suffering with any
skin diseases.” Chester A. Bailey,
Oct. 17, 1905. Somerville,'Mass.
CORED AT SMALL EXPENSE
‘ When an. infant I had a bad humour
OI ? my head, for which I wais treated
j Cuticura Soap and Ointment,
and now I have a good head of hair
and the humour is entirely gone. It
only required one box of Ointment
and one cake of Soap to effect a cure.
,^ s with my permission to
publish. Miss Iza McNaughton,
June 13, 1905. Milo, Me.
It® above testimonials are on file in the
office ot the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
C« e External and internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Asre
Pins'tCWn/ n tlCl i r !i ? oap .’ Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocola.e Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
rwf, g Q B i single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
n»-Mailed Free, “ All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, K. Towns & Co., Sydney, K. S. W.
is the new face cream that will bring
natural beauty to the plainest face,
and will prevent the hot Australian summer
from spoiling your complexion.
Soap and water removes surface dirt only
and leaves irritating waste matter in frhe
pores of the skin. Oatine, the new face
cream, removes this waste and leaves the
skin fresh and clear, soothing and healing all
sores and blemishes.
It is made from fresh clean oats and con-
tains no animal fats nor injurious mineral
salts. No matter how hot the weather, it
will not go bad. It cannot grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Try Oatine now. It will remove all freckles
and prevent the dry heat of the Australian
summer robbing your complexion of its bloom
and loveliness. In dainty white jars, 1/3, or
larger size, containing four times the amount
2/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Suh-Agsxcihs :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas
VARLEY BROS.,
Hinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Cp-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
S YSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SI STEM for Storekeepers.
A ustralian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sot,k Australian- Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
Tlie Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ! ! /
and keeps laughing. I
No. 3.
Red Harry Is
California
Syrup of Figs
is a positively reliable and
at the same time the most
agreeable family medicine for
Constipation/ Biliousness, In-
digestion, Headache, etc.
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
is strengthening, invigorating and energising, not
weakening and lowering as most ordinary pili s and
purgatives are. Thereisno discomfort or inconvenience
It simply aids and seconds nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous im-
purities in the system. S lm
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and i/n.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32Snow Hill, London, Enir.
Australia: 7 barrack Street, Sydney.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
This Very Fine
Gerat.’s Lace
Balmoral for
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather—all at
the one price. You 11 find no boot in Australia
give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles—in this and all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Postage Charges— When remitting add these charges to eovei
postage—Victoria, 1/-; other States, 1/6.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK.—We have a booklet called “ Shoeliirht”
that illustrates and describes ail our footwear for man woman
and child. We post it free anywhere—write for it. '
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 iSwanston St., Melbourne;
And at .... VIC
1 O. 3 Errol St., NtH. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Lrakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Lf DlE s ** prpmipd ujuDnoceciMn ...... Between Bliz&bcth Casblerea<rh Streets.
t4i f D rh^h,i! B „Sf'!!i“ , f E 8 BALO ® N -”*®. TIIANSFORMATIOXS made on the latest,
pS tktt re’ s "table to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FIlIXi; KS, TAILS, TOILET
I.LQUIMIKS and ‘^accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combing made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tk'lki-iionb 9ns
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS CN GROUND FLOOR
SsSS
r*V ¥1
»
• •
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. ao KT
ALL SIZE® and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
1513
as
STAG'S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTHS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
BUCKLE-Y & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed'
and bound ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size-
Frice, 21s.
The Inky Way.
J° Urn^ st James Smith, of Hawthorn (Vic 1
ofhU enll B tme S nt < in n t'h eddinB:and the 67fch adversary
HU hf a V and i Stlll acfclvcl - y truf l"es along- the Inky Wav
W ™ . l : omance > “ Secret of the Sph"nx " has
Shakspeare’s sonnets (surely she is dead also 1) '
Asher, a Sydney Moaning Herald reporter irons tn
me years, Stumm, who has been in charge for thn oast
12 months, goes back to the night-sub’s chair r™K
about that the paper’s directorate is desperately dTek
mined to stir things up next State electfon in the hone of'
extinguishing- Kidston, and restoring thp nu-f„i bP*i
0,1 — pour
News—Laborite Murphy’s paper-hast in the course of a
the the r Exi d ess!''and,'“a'week igo,
"j into liis heart i£-J JjJ
his own. bo as soon as a few pounds are saved ud aloft
goes another signboard, and the Way-Up Ba^nerAo^
Z‘^Z?y‘ Mpr ° Ceed ' to w "° 0-™ S“
* * * .
tail did that pome have, and how many columns did M
Bvmr
an apologetic sort of note with the 6s. 3d saring tint
!f s w rate ° f 7s - bd - a column was small, but' V \" a s all
it was able to hand out—until Freetradp name i,,,,
presumably. I simply don’t believe “ The Hack ”
**» * ‘
„ ,3J le r e is trouble in Westralia, and the Murchison Advo
cate has taken up a firm attitude. The Geraldtov
express found fault with the Advocate’s report of a Cue
municipal meeting, and the latter paper has made a
quiet, dignified protest. It says 1 P
“ It is sometimes necessary, in the interests of
ism, in the interests of jukice and Tn the cause oi
humanity that contemporary newspapers should engage
in conflict on subjects of the day. But behind alAlns
togethe’l-T 11 'thp er ’ th6le sh ° uld be ' a camaraderie binding
togethei all the component units of what is genericallv
termed ‘The Press.’ It has remained, howfver foT a
Geraldton branch of the organisation referred to’to en-
deavor to destroy, either wantonly, or, as we charitable
assume, through Gargantuan ignorance, that bond of
stailmd bro U the?hood.'' Ceable “““ relati ° llS ° f the ink '
All that tremendous and scholarly remonstrance re i
deTd deldlv Cue eP r)r °Toh meetinj ;' of aldermen at dull,
oo“fa.-S v .°£„ &Sssu*»« * «-»-»•
* * * *
.Hexham * “ Melb ” on (9\
When the late Wemyss Reid took over th e P editorship of
(Eng.), the Yorkshire Post 'was
struggling, not \ ery hopefully, to get a footing in the bio-
county against the old, well-managed and prosperous
daily. Under Reid “exclusives” were abohshed ,p
porters of the two papers worked together, and if one
paper accidentally got hold of an item w’hich it knew the
other had missed, a proof was sent over as soon as the
stuff was in type. This was an “ orlright ” game for t „
Yorkshire Post, which, in a few years, devdoped in
powerful rival of the Leeds Mercurt, but for P he latter
it was next door to suicide. Had the Mercury hTL
run on business lines it micdit havT XLin
crushed out the Post, as the Scotsman crushed out the
Cohrant and Daily Review in Edinburgh. In Sheffield
reporters, though personally friends and even chums’
fought like tigers for “ exclusives ” enums,
* * » *
“ P.S.”; I lately came across yet another defining,
of a good time.” It was at the central station
Sydney. A stout homely old lady w T as exoitpdlv .. i. .i > *
mg around the luggage sheds after four gin casfs. Thev
had been lost, but eventually came to light The old
ady gave a sigh of relief. “ I’d sooner a-lost anythink but
them, shegasped. I’ve got the Family ’ERALDsincelxT
in them cases.” It turned out that ko „ C T.
lady, and had always taken the Family Herald 'hot Ti*
the course of a busy life had only Cl timp rt \ mfc ,n
over ’em casual.” Now she the
with a pension, and with four gin eases full of lorH^ ntl ß
ladies, baronets and squires fair wTmen hI.-v* and
THE DREAMERS AND THE DOERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 St0 S o p d ace P *° n a distant star . athwart the straits of misty
S6e T d Hke 3 mi£rhty Car > dra^ed on a » d °n
with dogged pace.
“•SXr ' vo,w ’ * nd ** “»
With shoulders bent the Team trudged on towards a far-
oft, shining star;
1 h riders’ *’* “ d ,ro “ SOme bored
inters on the Car.
I saw one Dreamer rub his eye, and heard him grumble
and complain h
Because his slow globe did not fly to that bright star an 1
back again I
What fools are they, I thought, who let, these lazy
fellows growl and whine
A " d of b wn em ’ th< f th6y frroan a,ld sweat, with whips
of words on neck and spine?
A ' ld to°me' oneon an aBteroid called out across dim space
“ Th p^ : )!f rag the earthl y Car > th e other chaps write
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
IMPROPER FEEDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A bard I knew in days of yore
(His ghost above now proudly sings),
Once caught a wild, wild editor,
And fed it up on odes and things.
He gave the best of all his store,
Iresh dainty cantos and quatrains
But, strange to say, that editor,
Seemed racked with fierce internal pains
In desperation then the bard
From his high garret wildly fled
For remedies, but (Fate is hard I)
When he returned the thing was dead !
And while he wept and loudly wailed,
Un to him came the leech and said, ’
On tripe it should have been regaled,
And you— you gave it odes instead 1 ’
“ Thrice curs&l fool! You'll rue this day
Until your eyes in death are dim 1 ”
The bardlet sobbed and murmured, “ Yea 1
I know 1 It was too rich for him I"
VIC.
KODAK.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
DRUNKENNESS.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
,# T*HIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
I otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or coffee, or in
food, its presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so quietly,
■and with such certainty, that the patient undergoes no
inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. If you mention this paper, we will send book of
particulars and samples of Eucrasy, free sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
f=m
Gm
tW
7
if
□q|
ran
a
</
SsZT
The Dr. ricLaughlin Co.,
100 W. fIARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Men’s Weakness
Cured to Stay Cured.
DURING the past five years in Australasia we have restored
ten thousand weak men to perfect health and vigor. These
men were, in many cases, complete wrecks of their former
selves—“ Weak ”in every sense of its meaning. They are, to-
day, splendid examples of manly strength and vigor.
Let any weak man come to us and follow our advice for three
months, and we will restore all his former strength, and in many
cases give him more vitality than he ever had.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
does more for the health and growth of this sunny land than
all Legislation, Public Resolutions, and Pulpit Exhortation
combined. It has only to be given a fair trial to be appre-
ciated. It positively cures the worst cases of Loss of Vital
Power, Varicocele, Enlarged Prostate Gland, Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and
Derangement of the Digestive System. It is guaranteed in
every case undertaJcen. The cure is always permanent.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Call and consult us about your condition. We charge no
fee for advice, and if you call we will give you a free test to
show you what our Belt will do. You only buy if your judg-
ment directs you to do so. Write or Call To-Day.
SEND THIS COUPON TO US TO-DAY.
FREE BOOK.
Send ns this Coupon and
we will post our hand-
some Free Book to you
free of charge. Our Book
is worth its weight in gold to chronic sufferers. It points the
true and only road to health and vigor, and give the prices of
the different grades of our Belt. Send for it AT ONCE.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES- IV., V. t , VI-
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE.lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post,ls 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests f or ni i nerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciuniquy’s Priest, Woman
AND THE COXF'ESSIONAL, Is 6d. TllK ART OF JUI-JITSU,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about'
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters:
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, ts 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own ScuooLMAjsneK,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of 3cgiab.
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6d..
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,.
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the Fire/t
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and;
save your cash. HAT" Established. 30 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, 'MONEY .ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY .OQUNIRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide.to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks wimi Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical .illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. 'Clog Dancing Made .Kasy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Hove and Parentage, 8(d.
Secret History Courtof England„ls 3dpost. Loveu’r ,
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d- Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to .all Degrees* 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s,Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOWCTOcREAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d 'posted. Ghevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. ,G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted-
Sapwio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post.. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
/
Bienger*s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ Melbournian ” writes on the drinker-
ies of his city:—
It is no use quarrelling with Bonifaces for lack of in-
vention in naming hotels, because they will say the
familiar are best, as with pantomimes. Next to the in-
terminable playing on the name Royal, it will be found
that, in this city, there are 26 Railway Hotels. Then
come the Commercials and Victorias, each with 17. The
Albions and Unions each have 13, the Prince of Wales
stands for 11, Bay View 10, Exchange also 10, London
nine, Junction eight, George, Post Office, and Rising Sun,
each seven, Red "Lion and Town Hall each six, Harp of
Erin five, while the Britannia, Greyhound, and Imperial
each have four.
The oldest unaltered hotel is the Crown, in Queen-
street, built by Alderman Mortimer in 1845. Not far off
as the Beaufort—a new name for the much changed pub
attached to theQueen’sTheatre. John Thomas Smith, seven
times mayor of Melbourne, was landlord here, and also
owned the playhouse. It was the greatest yore-time pub
for reaping the shekels, but is now pretty quiet; the old
theatre has been successively a coach factory and a
billiard table factory. What a marvel it was never burnt,
sharing the immunity of the old wooden matchbox
Princess’s.
There have been four liquor licenses voluntarily aban-
doned in Melbourne—namely, the famous Criterion (with
its Bridal Chamber), in Collins-street, between the Com-
mercial and Union banks ; the Rainbow, a whilom profit-
able house, on the corne.' of Swanston and Little Collins
streets (the removal of the police courts knocked it out) ;
the Prince of Wales, in Flinders-lane, nearly opposite St.
Paul’s Cathedral; and the British Admiral, a tiny house
on the site of the magnificent Federal Coffee Palace,
corner of Collins and King streets. Ah, what a bitter
regret has been that abandonment! The Federal, so
near Spencer-street station, would have been a fortune
with a license. And now Jimmy Mirams, its entrepreneur,
is said to be selling milk (wholesale).
The Prince of Wales Hotel, standing back from Flin-
ders-lane, was the great squatting rendezvous. Its busi-
ness went to the Port Phillip Club. Menzies’ Hotel began
in a small way in Latrobe-street, now the Empire Hotel.
A fellow who has been twenty years from Melbourne will
look in vain for John Cleeland’s Albion, with its monster
window. The license has retreated right into the cellar,
the upper part of the building being occupied with other
business. The old Garrick’s Head, Bourke-street East, is
carried on under the principle that a rose by any other
name will smell as sweet. The Garrick’s Head was the
noted Thespian resort, from Brooke’s time to Dillon’s.
Another Melb. hotel that has changed the old name is
the Austral, Bourke-street, formerly Tom Nunn’s Hum-
mums. Nunn had been a performer at Rowe’s Circus.
The greatest hotel transformation under way is that of
the Queen’s Arms, Swanston-street South, built by Tom
Monahan, once groom there. It is turned into a palace
by host Champion. The best sites in Swanston-street are
now only second to the best in Collins-street for value,
and lead Bourke-street by a trifle.


Si Britisb’flustra!asian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
-FOR-
£3
%
> /
£3
TPHIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping 1 , and
1 is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case .s made of Cie finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
counts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lolos.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“DUNKLING, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne,
with 4 months
Medlcatar. afze
3i laches loeff.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders'the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and Stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note xos. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGrIiS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS Of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE MISERIES OF
indigestion
Indigestion attacks old and young, rich and poor, and
terrible are the consequences of neglect. You must eat to
live, and the disease that robs you of the power to eat
and to digest robs you of the very source of life itself
Slowly your strength ebbs away, you are tortured with
pain, and life becomes a misery. Be warned! Take MOTHER
SEIGEL'S SYRUP, the real cure, and end your suffering
ALL YIELD
'For years i was cursed with a weak stomach, which was
a source of frightful suffering to me I was frequently
laid up with severe attacks of indigestion; retching and
vomiting till 1 could hardly stand. I saw several doctors,
but nothing did me any good till I got MOTHER SEIGEL'S
SYRUP That cured me It also cured my wife of sciatica.’*
Mr Wm. Jones 55, Wilton Street, Strawberry Hills, Sydney
Hew South Wales
T ° MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
“HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
OATALOO.
MARTIN’S £>■
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
.... op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Go.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
S*5K
PRICE 271 Q
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
“ has an elegant appeara ce, white and granular, like sifted sugar and is
certainly one of the daintiest and most highly prized articles on the & table. In
warm clima.es it is useful on account of its not readily clogging.”
Agents—Harrison Attwood. Sydney ;
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
r —SHW
.rw?
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene.
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS ?
IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
WELSBACH LIGHT C?
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
230 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. 4. M. FERGUSON, LTD.,,PERTH, W.A.
OSTRICH PLUriES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.,
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The ByttETra.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
It is difficult to get on the land in N.S.W., and it
is sometimes a hard job to stay there when you
arrive. A man in Dubbo has lately emerged
from a long struggle with the law, which wanted
to drag him off his selection for alleged non-
fulfiment of residential conditions. The point
was this : The cocky was pledged to live on his
selection, and he did; about that there was no
dispute whatever. His wife wasn’t pledged to
live on the selection, and she didn’t; she would
have done it, but there was no doctor at hand,
and she was a chronic invalid, and so she lived,
under compulsion, in Dubbo for the sake of medi-
cal attendance. So the law sought to provethat the
cocky technically lived in Dubbo (though it knew
he worked and ate and slept on his land),
because he had a home there for his sick
wife, its theory apparently being that, unless the
selector’s wife dies on the property for lack of
medical attendance, the residence conditions aren’t
complete. The law, being knocked out on this
villainous joke, threatens an appeal to the High
Court. Considering the stolid wall eye with
which it has looked at so many huge land swindles
—with which, in fact, it is looking at them to-
day—it is marvellous to consider the earnest
attention with which it sometimes gazes at the
concerns of an obscure cockatoo person.
♦
The A. W.U". meets a familiar nightmare :
The Shearers’ Union in S. Australia has at last pulled
up against something that has been worrying it for years;
and, though the snag doesn’t look big from the surface,
it is large and formidable underneath. Adelaide isn’t
much prouder of anything than of its School of Mines ;
its school, in fact, is so much bigger than its mines that
the mining part of the school business can be put into a
small corner nowadays. Among other things it teaches
wool-classing and handling, and it gets so many pupils
that presently there threatens to be about one pupil or
ex-pupil to everj' sheep. Between lessons the students
are trucked off to the country for practical experience,
and the practical experience consists mostly of doing'
rouseabout jobs, with no pay at all or none worth
mentioning. Nearly all of the pupils are very Nice boj'S,
whose respective Pa wouldn’t approve of their joining the
Shearers Union ; and, anyhow, if they did join the union
and require union pay, they generally wouldn’t get the
experience, because they wouldn't get the billets. These
young gentlemen have been gradually working them-
selves on to the union’s nerves, and at last it has broken
out into a vigorous damn, and announced that the
squatter can choose between its members and the School
of Mines jackeroo. Until this trouble the bush worker
hadn’t met the “ apprentice ” nightmare which has pur-
sued the city unionist for years, and he is now bent on
either choking the apparition dead or putting him on a
proper footing promptly. The trouble so far is that he
can’t agree with the School of Mines people as to what
the proper footing is.
+_
“ J.G.” : The champion Circumlocution Office of
Victoria is not in the Mines Department, as stated
in The Bulletin of March 14, but in the Lands
Office, at the top end of Collins-street, Melbourne.
I called to inquire if there was any unoccupied
State land in a certain parish, and was directed
to a place branded “Inquiry Office.” “Damfino!”
replied the affable officer; “go upstairs, second
door to the right, and they’ll tell you.” Inside
the second to the right was an affable officer who
thought they had some land in the parish I men-
tioned. “Go downstairs to the third door on the
left, and get a parish plan. Bring it back here,
and 111 mark the vacant allotments ! ” The third
door on the left was marked “Plan Room,” and
the officer in charge was shoving the country
along by reading a lending library book in
front of the fire. He inquired languidly what I
wanted. I explained. “ Righto! They cost a bob
each. I placed the coin on the counter. “We
don t take money here. Go across the passage
through the door, climb the little stairs, and keep
along the passage till you come to the cashier.
Pay him the money, and bring me the receipt.”
It took me 25 minutes to find the cashier’s den,
and he gave me a receipt on a sheet of paper as
large as an illuminated address, and with almost
as much fancy printing on it. Then I got the plan
and retraced my steps, and duly arrived at the
second door to the right upstairs, where the polite
official marked off the vacant allotments in less
than half-an-hour. Now, what I want to know is
—why does it take. four hours and five miles of
walking to get 30 minutes’ marking of a plan done ?
Fbom Manchuria:—
Those British traders in China whose interests are in
Jap hands, “ temporarily for military necessity,” hardly
feel relieved at the assurances that all will be handed
back in time—everything will be the same as before.
They say the war is over more than a year, the Japs are
increasing their garrisons, and they are rushing in mil-
lions of pounds’ worth of Jap merchandise free through
the Chinese Customs. Newchwang used to be essentially
a British port. Now it is Japanese. Even the posts and
telegraphs have been seized, as in Korea ; and merchants,
rather than trust information, which would be useful to
Jap merchants, to the Jap Government post, pay men to
travel over to Chefoo, Tsingtan, and Shanghai, where the
post offices are so far free of the yellow pest. The
same is true of Korea. Nearly every foreigner that
leaves Chemulpo for Shanghai carries a bundle of letters,
all stamped lest the Customs seize them, to post in a
British post-office, and many special messengers are sent.
These are outlays which business men are not likely to
incur as a mere matter of sentiment. The British Repre-
sentatives only say, “Have patience, give the Japs a
chance, just as they did ten years ago in Formosa, where
several business houses had large interests. And to-day
what is left of the large foreign business that was carried
on in Chinese-governed Formosa? Just about nothing-.
The Jap merchants, backed by the Jap Government
froze them all out in about one year, and to-day Japan
is trying to repeat the same experiment in Korea and
Manchuria. The same old, doddering British Government
is there waiting to be fooled, but the merchants have a
living to make, and they have been fooled once and don’t
want to be fooled twice.
The average agriculturist who embarks in the
precarious enterprise of share farming in the
Riverina is tied down pretty tightly, as a rule, in
his agreement with the landlord. On one large
holding in the N.S.W. border district, extra
special care is taken that the shares men are pro-
perly secured ; and in the agreements which have
to be executed there appear such items as the
following: The tenant to pay £1 per annum
towards maintenance of gates used by him
for egress and ingress; a further “quid”
is payable annually to cover maintenance of
fencing surrounding the share cocky’s farming
area. If the share cocky keeps a cow he has to
part with a sovereign annually for the privilege,
and a similar amount per head is payable for each
horse over six months old. Share farming must
be a lucrative game to stand that sort of thing.
It is recorded that a tenant recently dropped
across a bee’s nbst in a tree and had to seek per-
mission to “rob the nest.” Permission was
granted—conditionally upon the honey being
divided. The folk who own the estate are well
in for worldly goods. They seem well qualified
for entry in a mean family competition.


MONEY to LEND
—on-
PASTORAL LANDS A L L r BT
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
Te». 4552.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
&W ay you*
THROW
6)
You can cure dealness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write for booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
* •
m
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
Ey es
+
MAKE MONEY WITH THE
EDISON CINEMATOGRAPH.
Price s
£27 lOs.
%
4>>
-ft"- - -
We are selling them all over Australia and New Zealand to enterprising showmen
who want the finest projecting Kinetoscope in the world.
For Brilliancy of Pictures, accuracy and
portability, the EDISON is at the top.
It can be operated without any previous knowledge of the art. It gives brilliant results, and
is equipped with reels that hold from 1,000 to 12,000 feet of film. It is fitted with a
stereopticon attachment for showing standard size lantern slide. It will outlast any other
machine on the market. It does its work perfectly all the time.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
50,000 FEET OF NEW FILMS IN STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
OPTICIANS AND
ELECTRICIANS.
393 George Street,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYIDNEY.
IQO Cigars *>«• 1716
KING OF ALL K & B HIGH LIFE CIGARS
will open your eyes with their quality and flavor when
you know they cost only 17s. 6d. a BOX OF 100.
Those who smoke them agree
that they are the best Cigars
sold at the price.
&
Sample Box
of 4,
Is
POST
FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
1
&
Do you find it Hard
to Entertain
a mixed company of people?
You probably do, unless you possess a genuine
Edison Phonograph
and a supply of Gold-Moulded Records.
Write now for a free booklet, giving full details o
this—the best entertainer of all.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH GO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
IfYouWantTheßest
Ask for a
Briar Pipe.
ODtainabte
from all Tobacconists
w.
v\>
t, .--
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CL A VIOL A, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME.
THE ARTISTS' MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim’s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer's reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Po not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
OURNE
Ml
ROR
LI
D
c
o
&
Z 76
S
a
COL. LI IMS
SYDNE
Y
w
H
PAL NCfeC
Lj
O
G
E
OR
E
G
S


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
ReserveflnGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro,'Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [jeii Z ea l and *
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
fiDAMTC nPACTC
UllnnlO Unftria
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank of |)eui South QJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital -. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... ... 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... ... 5,475,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, lit.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... <£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Mead Office—96 Beshopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Ade-
laide
2 p. m
Apl. 26
May 24
June 21
July 10
Aug. 16
Sep. 13
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMIT Kit.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuNj>(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 .0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aect., E; H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE anJ FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
"MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson .. I Noon, April 26
N. Allan .. ..I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. ' Noon. June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalget/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON Via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 17tb MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. •• 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only Orte Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Qteamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
frated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL
' MAY 13, JUNE 10, JULY 8*
The Best Route to Europe.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF M.Z. LTD.
Manatritisr Auents, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
$
*
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury;
2sr.s."w.
(ljontdepiBteD.fi I. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, EBq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Eeq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G.. J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. yC
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES,
-tT comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and
card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail Trick, The Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character), the Joker’s
Love Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic
Caricatures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
New York Novelty Co., 710 George St., Sydney.
The Bulletin
sfo
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. .SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.’’ From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - -10 d.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21U George Street, Sydney.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australians
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
May 1.
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday,
May 15.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Gabo, April 20.
S.S. Wollowra, April 27.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tha
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon 3field Put ads
ST. HILDA.
rTVHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
Clareiidon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 1013. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABUS FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Mogt
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
j APIES’
Costumes
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SBRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
HOPE FOR SUFFERERS
Clements Tonic
MAKES ANOTHER RAPID RECOVERY.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
The public will be interested to learn how it came about that Mr. Jacob Tye threw off a serious
illness that had overtaken llim, and full details of the fortunate event will be found in the following
conversation, which took place at his residence, No. 19 Victoria-street, Alexandria :
“Two years last month I was laid up with rheumatism and indigestion, and if ever a man felt
that his term on this planet was just about ended it was me.
SUCH ACUTE- PAINS
as those which had entered my shoulders and arms you could not imagine, and I felt so stiff and sore
that it took me all my time to get out of bed in the morning, let alone work.”
“ Had you been suffering from those complaints for any length of time ? ”
“ Yes ; far too long for my liking,, and I earnestly hope that I shall never have such experiences
again. In one way I would rather be dead than go through the same agony ; for it was really too
dreadful for words. I tried all sorts of liniments for the rheumatism, but even temporary relief did
not come from them ; and as for taking medicine internally, well, it was not my fault that I did not
get better, for I took plenty of it. For months my
DIGESTIVE ORGANS WERE ON STRlKE—
wouldn’t do their work at all, in fact—and there is no doubt that the possibility of getting well again
seemed very remote. It was an extraordinary thing if for half a day my hesid was not aching, and I
do not think anybody could be more troubled with giddiness than I was. It was a peculiar feeling,
as if I was on the point of fainting, and what also assisted in adding to my physical troubles was a
sensation in my chest as if the breathing tubes were clogged up. Of a morning the taste I had in my
mouth was enough to turn one sick, but I had enough of that as it was, for my stomach would not
retain the food I ate and I was losing flesh as a natural consequence.”
“Perhaps you ate too heartily, and took more food than the weakened condition of your stomach
could withstand ? ”
“There was no fear of that, for my appetite was too poor. No; if I only took a couple of
biscuits I would vomit them up again, so you can see what a critical state I was in. One day I was
seized with cramps all over me, and I had to come home and lie up for a couple of weeks. Oh, I
THOUGHT I WAS DONE FOR
then, and the way iny loins used to ache was something fearful. I felt that I had no desire for any-
thing—no amusement, no work, no company—nothing at all, in fact, except to lie down and remain
as quiet as possible. Many a day I came home with a sinking feeling, which induced me to say that
I wanted some nourishment, but directly it was placed before me I d turn against it. But there was
something else that worried me a great deal. My heart, for the way it palpitated, especially if 1 had
been exerting myself in the least, was something terrible, and when I retired at night, after lying
down a little while, it would start fluttering in a most distressing manner. Naturally enough I
thought I had
SOME FORM OF HEART DISEASE,
but soon after accepting a friend’s advice, and starting on a course of Clements Tonic, all doubts on
that question were settled, for the heart’s action became as regular as it could be. That was a great
relief to my mind, I can tell you, and didn’t I feel delighted to know that at last I had got a remedy
that was really able to do me some good? Don’t for a moment think that I am overdrawing my
story, as I have no reason for doing so, and it is nothing but the plain truth when I tell you that
Clements Tonic
ACTUALLY SAVED MY LIFE,
for when I started on it I was almost too weak to move, and I had certainly nothing to expect from
any other medicine.. Nothing I had hitherto tried could lessen in the slightest degree my rheumatic
pains, but I can honestly say that Clements Tonic gave me relief in a few weeks, and by continuing
with the same remedy I was freed from those torments altogether. Oh, how thankful I was.”
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo this tenth day of November, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me, JOHN DUNNIN, J.P.
HIGH-CLASS
CLOTHING^
To
Measure
W E have an immense stock of
all kinds of fabrics from the
best mills of Great Britain and
Australia, suitable for making the
highest class of Clothing in all
styles for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
And we have a thoroughly ex-
pert staff of Cutters and Workmen
to make the garments, so that
gentlemen can rely upon complete
satisfaction regarding fit and style.
YOUR MONEY BACK IF YOU WANT IT
is our guarantee of the quality and
excellence of everything we sell.
501-
Sac
Suits
For Business and Ordinary Wear.
The Money we save you
on these pays for Shirts
and Collars.
We guarantee all garments made to order
to fit, whether the measurements are taken
in our Tailoring Department or the pur-
chaser sends them in ; if any alterations
should be necessary we will make them free
of charge, and guarantee satisfaction.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS AND
MEASURE FORMS TO-DAY,
And kindly mention this Paper.
Lincoln, Stuart Co.
244 TO 254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN , Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Weak Men
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility', Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the 3pine, Brain and Nerves>
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. U rinary Troubles, and' all Blooa
VI » W » V* w VJ. w riuarjr it cliiu (till UIUUU
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed. Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
Charles Neilson, one of the workmen who
n ause Sydney loiterers by dangling in mid-air at
the end of a stone-laden wire cable at new build-
:cgs, is a Norwegian ex-sailor, whose Norse nerves
! iven’t yet been spoiled by 21 years’ battling in
•he “enervating” Australian atmosphere. He
i dates a recent experience in Martin Place :
Giddy ? Not a bit of it. It is all the same whether I
I ok up, or down, or all round. I have never felt my
i ;rve go. People say that when steeplechasers, jockeys,
huntsmen, and others accustomed to risk their lives get
i ) middle age their nerves gradually break down ; but I
have never found them worry me. Sometimes 1 have a
it more trouble than people down below imagine. When
: •• is fairly calm on solid ground it is occasionally blowing
l ard enough to tear your whiskers off at the end of the
• able. I have to hang on then. But the stone is
;. Iways well-balanced, and even if it does start to
i se at one end I can always throw my weight
- ver and straighten it up. Two of us had a lively
* xperience the other day. The bolts are fixed up with a
■ all-bearing swivel so that hovvever much the cable
v wists the stone will always stay the same way. But
- ornehow the ball-bearings got jammed, and the two of
-is were about 100 ft. up when we began to revolve. The
' ugher they hoisted the stone the faster we spun. Every-
- hing went sort of whizzy, and the whole of Sydney
'ooked like a worn-out biograph. The Post Office tower
-vent past us 20 times a second, and the harbor was
; unning all over the pi ce. We just hung on till they
vteadied down, and it was none too soon, I tell you.
■“ Hexham ” writes :
Think you are mistaken as to how the big Boer would
regard the little York (B. 21/3/’O7). Saul Solomon, former
Premier of Cape Colony (and proprietor of Cape Argus),
was probably the most diminutive individual ever at the
head of any State, ancient or modern. He would not
have come up to the Yorklet’s shoulder, and used to
stand on a chair when addressing the House. First time
I met him in the street I took him for a professional
midget, looking for an engagement; and Anthony
Trollope, in his book on S. Africa ,said that Solomon was
the smallest man he had ever in his life seen outside of a
show. Yet he was fairly popular with the Cape Colony
Boers, who did not seem to reckon his lack of inches any
detriment to a statesman.
Not to a statesman, perhaps.
“San Remo” writes about a western (Q.)
township and its occasional river (B. 4/3/’O7): —
The Nogoa when in flood turns hillocks into islands,
where groats, sheep and cattle are marooned,_ and the
older schoolboys get fun and adventure rescuing them.
After a dry season, when the river comes down, covering
the railway bridge and blocking traffic, the schoolboys, in
my day, listened to the roaring waters and felt the spirit
of ihe river stirring in their veins. Our poets sing of
the voice of the Great West calling, but who will sing me
the song of the river—the song that calls the western
schoolboy w'hen the drought has broken and the flood
comes down? Wild horses wouldn’t drag him from the
bosom of it.
The Nogoa in full flood ran in places 300yds. wide —a
mighty torrent of muddy waters, sweeping down trees
and logs, with here and there a bullock, horse, sheep, or
goat. And innumerable creeping things—lizards and
snakes —wriggled in the turbid waters, or sailed down
glued to a log or a branch. I remember plunging out
into midstream to intercept a floating log, getting astride
it, and careering down to the first bend ; then swimming
ashore, and sprinting back again along the bank to repeat
the fun. And many a time we drew back in haste at the
sight of a great gaunt lizard or a slim snake keeping
guard on the floating timber. Once half-a-dozen of us
were seated astride a log, and careering down stream,
wdien a 6ft. black snake hailed that piece of timber as an
ark of refuge and glode on to it. Six shrieking lads
promptly struck out for shore.
Yet, when the flood grips living things and sweeps
them along, a sort of brotherhood exists even among rabid
enemies. I have seen on the one log a Cft. iguana and a
snake; and, stranger still, I recall rescuing- a nest of
young birds, with a carpet snake only a few feet away
on the same floating branch.
No boy was a swimmer until he had swum across the
river when it ran a banker. It was his red-letter day
when a lad dragged himself, spent and breathless, up the
muddy bank.
Over the river an old dame made a poor living out of a
few goats and fowls. Once a flood prisoned 30 of her
beasts on an island. The old dame was on the bank
wringing her hands and bewailing her loss, when some-
one called for volunteers to rescue the goats. Only six
boys of the entire class answered the school-roll at 2 p.m.
that day. We had a glorious time swimming those goats
across, and we landed in the academy in time for the last
lesson and a “ whaling." Someone told the old dame about
it. Next day she bearded that school-teacher in his den,
and, before the school, gave him such a tongue-thrashing
that the recollection of it is a joy for ever.


THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £i
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
j
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline, and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to the
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY AL L DEALERS.
£
Unrivalled for the Complexion. «
5
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Grand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
So/c fluents; LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne anti Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand jpgr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager ana Actuary : Richara Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
H OMCEOPATHY
The
Secret
0f...
Health
HOMOEOPATHY
MFANS Health^
k
Be
r fe
K r
ii *
>- >
WEAK MEN!
Do you realize the -value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism; (St, Allied
Complaints, Prostatic
Aff*edions, Etc., are completely and permanently cured by
The Irving
Homoeopathic
Treatment.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital, stated :—“ Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities,
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.”
VVe would like you to know more about our method, so in
order that you can make a study of our system, we will send to
your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OF WISDOM” to any man who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
The Australian Widows' Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE 1 OR N.S.W.
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY,
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus, V. H. BAXTER. Pies. Sec.
r Maizes the SKIN
CLEAR & POSY
TRY IT
AT OUR EXPENSE.
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar ol Crerao
Simon, Bor of Powder and Cake ol Soap, rent on
receipt o 3d in aumpt to cover postal
JOUBERT a JOUBERT. Melboimni CLAUDE MEAL! S CO.. «» fttl »«,
Sydney: or LOUIS JOUBERT. 5I» Wellinylon SL. hrtb. AGENTS.
m
m
W)
7/
n
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BS-LT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free ‘° o „'“ h ri E" g
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
It only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by K. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London),
“ Woodville,” Mount Albert,
Melbourne.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
.
i
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the "Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIIRVS Ltd., LONDON. * Bridsre Sts., Sydney
0
t
f
r
r BALSAM or ANISEED i
. < w -fc Am m r w—< w w mat a V at i ■ V • I. _ A. m a aa-C a mm /I M A.' 15 A 1 A
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable
remedy for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Throat
Troubles. Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
The Rev, Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle“ For the past twelve years I have been in
the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if I said
I had never known it te fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and
again it has cured me.”
Mr. Lionel Brough, the eminent actor, writes:—“l think it an invaluable medicine for members of my
profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and sister artistes.”
Mr. A. J. Woodhousb, Fern Lodge, Oley-next-tne-Sea, Norfolk, writes: —“Last year Powell’s Balsam of
Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate cough of some months’ duration, which X feared would lapse into a
pulmonary affection.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE,
k Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
■L SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES and QUEENSLAND:—
fUk ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street. SYDNEY,
k and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
V
a. I' O M
UINE.
J
► £
WP
0
£
©
sf&IKiO
@DJH§2Pifi
vm
aar^i


VICTORIA
IS
Collins & S wanstonS 1 !? Melbourne
WEST. AUSTRALIA
I
Hay St Perth
QUEENSLAND
Queen £ Edward Brisbane^
NEW ZEALAND
H6S-148 Queen St. Auckland
1&3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 8-23 3 HighS 1 ;
Princes 8- DowlingS* Dunedin.
t
ST.SYDH^J
If its from
Stewart Dawsons)
its good.
, r Write the
SI store nearest
you.
C->
o
LjLpss/
/
m
s
W 4.
9,
I
k
\
0?
i
-
THE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “It’s an Honest
■ Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you never find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch we can recommend for your
perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest Watches, prices for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of which we will send free and safe by post, together with cur written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch
S. D. & Co.’s Gentlemen’s Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the very best make, highest possible finish throughout. Finest
f-plate movement, Chronometer Balance, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
by jumping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action, Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Cases, suitable
fbr merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. These
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Cases, £27 10s.
n
The “Derby”
Double Chronograph.
Our “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop, and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled in
rubies, is fitted with
Breq u e t spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunting.
Of 7
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels. Brequet spring, and compensation balance. The
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £6 10s.
The “ Premier ”
Watch .
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is finished
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high grade watch, and it will be as good
after 20 years’ wear as it was when new. The Hunting
case is a solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequet hair-spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
justed. Tjie price is
A Special Dust
Protected Watch .
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
MAKERS PRI
The Lady's
Gold Filled.
The ideal Watch for a Lady. Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key
less, of course, and fitted with a real good qualify Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tion, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches. Price only
. <"•
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14qt, •Gold-Filled Cases, £5,
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
s
The Famous
“ Nonpareil ”
Lady's Gold Watch .
These Magnificent 18-ct. Gold KEYLESS “NON-
PAREIL” WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch. The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Cases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable.
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
§
The Steel Lever.
We can recommend this watch for Country wear, the
Steel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Key-
less, f Plate, with exposed winding wheels. We find them
to be most excellent timekeepers, and they have a large
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Establish-
ments throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255.
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
The Old Reliable
Key wind English Lever .
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given general satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one. and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra jewels, £4 10s.
Open face, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
An Ideal
Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Oases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
m
€»
Special Gold
Waltham .
For a gentleman nothing can be more suitable Aan the
Met. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky—is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are | plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
Brequet Spring.
Price
Price, with Best
Movement and
18ct. Cases, £2l;
lOct. Gold Cases,
£lO 10s.
%
Get a Gold
Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure; buy
it now, when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
f u 11 case and move-
ment guarantee,
for
Special Circular
on application.


MICK SIMMONS
Hay market, Sydney, N.vS.W.
LEADING
HOUSE ™
iW
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS'.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
12 or top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt,
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved, weight
of 12-gauge, Gf to 71b. ; of 10-gauge, G| to GJlb.
Post Free, £3 lOs
HEARNES
Tlx© Famous Remedy For
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, lloatseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cuie. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The ere at success of HEARN E’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE*S and to see that you get i+
HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .u y .
NOTICE) Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure IMo. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. it is equally for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
for>
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
THE DEAFHEAR
DEAF persons need not despair.' Out of the mass
of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured and deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were
deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery, based
upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity,
that will assist all persons suffering from Deafness,
fully described.
FREE,
By sending name and address to THE
L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-
street, Sydney, you will receive a description of
this method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing- at a very slight expense ; and you will be
delighted to learn how easily you can obtain relief.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
POLICY foe the COMMONVV EALTH
Price, 6d.
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
niln n , e , correct way solvin S this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
l 1 REE Watch, and for the benefit of those \Vho fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live aw’ay from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
nmg\ Study, therefore, a,nd exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
W L Sh r t ,°o-! Spa T I ° f \ thu ® ' yo , u £ et double the value for the ,none y you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Match. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs.' or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
5
NO CERTAINTY without
"RISKS "OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lager beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS. - *!
Pure and Wholesome.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Uf>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, lOd.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Truths the Sick.
For those DEATHLY BILIOUS
! SPELLS depend on Sulphur Bit-
ters; it never fails to cure.
DO YOU SUFFER with that
tired and all-gone feeling? If so use
Sulphur Bitters; it will cure you.
The lof a fair face is a beauti-
SECRET| fu l slci n. Sulphur Bitters
—makes both.
If you do not Wish to KamMMManß
suffer from RHEUMATISM, use a
bottle of Sulphur Bitters; it never
fails to cure.
Are you CONSTIPATED? If so,
Sulphur Bitters is just what you need
Poor, weak, and weary mothers
RAISE PUNY, PINDLINC children.
Sulphur Bitters will make them
strong, hearty, and healthy.
Cleanse the vitiated blood when
you see its impurities bursting
through the skin in [“
I Bely on Sulphur
Bitters and health
will follow.
Pimples,
Blotches
and SORES.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jFrm
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse*
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
I Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Kemeinber, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetn*»«».
Write to-day. Address —
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


-*^95!
NS
JSfe
e#
ss
§fj
ISs
°U
Sim
FStf a ■ ‘^•rc*
iii
•\Ni
?
c 0
l&J
Su
<$ ■■ m*
\—■ ■:
r, . . •..~
- • . - *£tir -.. -■• - ? - ' • *, ■
" v y ■ " ',-• .
rV' ■-
.rf - ..'..:&■&*, * « ...t: ./sCs. ;
ZIC ZAG.BUIC MOUNTAINS N.S.W. '
i<
(Si '■ ro?
■E3
s
h
A
pa.
ALWAYS FIRST,
niCHEUN TYRES were the first
Hotor Tyres made. They finished
first in all the big motoi ing contests
of the last few seasons, and to-day still
easily hold first position for speed and
reliability. The Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th cars in
the great Vanderbilt Cup race were all on
nichelins ; and the Ist, 2nd, sth, 6th and Bth
cars in the Grand Prix owe their success to
the same make of tyres.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
Oity Depot,
226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
may have been suffering, even for years, from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anosmia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Trouble
General Debility
Sick Headache
and you will continue to suffer unless the disorder is treated, as it ought to be treated, by striking
direct at the cause. All the disorders mentioned are due to one cause and one cause alone ; namely,
the inability of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
to perform the work allotted to them in Nature’s Scheme. Nature will tolerate no irregularity.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from any
of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital organs is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel.
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver. —ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two'or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousnecs,
Ansemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of t,he kidneys and
hver wms rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner's
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a
curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs.being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many dis-
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels,
ot the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheu-
matism, Gout, A euralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion,
Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility.
arner s Sate Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected, even when
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE AUDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEPOSIT accounts were understood to
be an invention of Assistant-General
. Manager Hannay. Looking back on the
irunber of swindles and the mass of general
villainy that could be traced to the system, one is
compelled to believe that they were a special inven-
tion of the Devil. He certainly raked in more souls
over the deposit accounts than over anything else
in the system of railway book-keeping. Lots of
men who would never dream of touching the
regular cash started on the downward track by
dipping into these funds, and were amazed to
wake up one morning and find themselves in gaol
(i.-, at best, out of the service.
The deposit account was a method by which
farmers and others who lived some distance from
a station and a bank, and were not in a suffi-
ciently large way to have a credit account with
the department, could paydown a lump sum of
anything from £1 to £25 or more, and freights on
their inward and outward goods could be charged
to it. The station where the deposit account was
opened would make a monthly statement to the
depositor, showing him how he stood. This was
a great convenience to the farmers and others
who wore always getting small lots of goods and
did not keep much ready money about them.
They were also a great convenience to the rail-
way officers, who knew “ dead certs” on the stock
exchange and the racecourse, and writer can lay
his finger on several highly-respected gentlemen
who are now spending a blameless old age in quiet
comfort through lucky speculation with amounts
borrowed from the deposit accounts.
The reason why deposit accounts were so con-
ducive to dishonesty on the part of the officers
was that they were the only form in which money
was received without the Department having a
check. When a station-master received money
for a passenger’s fare he issued in return a printed
and numbered ticket, which was collected by a
guard and checked against his daily ticket re-
turn. When he received money for goods he
charged by either weight or quantity, and the
station to which they were going would check his
calculations and charges. But when he received
money from a farmer for a deposit account there
was no check on him. The farmer got a receipt,
but he kept it himself, and did not send it to
tlie head office or the Accountant’s Department at
far-away windy Wellington, and there was
nothing but his own honesty to prevent an officer
who had received £5 entering only £2 in the books,
and having a flutter with the other £3. If there
were a dozen or twenty accounts a man could
borrow enough among them for a pretty good
flutter.
Ponsonby, at Ocean Head Station, was one of
the most unworldly young men who ever found
himself at large on this planet. He never felt at
home here, and fully expected to wake up some
morning and find that he was either dead or
dreaming. He had been madesnb-S.M. at Ocean
Head at the age of 17—it was a place of small re-
sponsibility—and when old Trunker, the S.M.,
retired on his pension, Ponsonby took his place.
The traffic had decreased so that there was no use
for a sub-S.M., and Ponsonby ran the show with
the assistance of a porter who could telegraph.
Most of the time he spent reading newspapers,
with the telegraph sounder clicking at his ear,
and when the papers were dull, which was often,
lie would lean back and smoke contentedly while
listening to the telegrams that clicked along the
wire, which was a busy one. It was a perpetual
echo of the great world outside, of which Ponsonby
had never known anything. He heard the cypher
wires from sharebrokers on the goldfields rushing
through to their managing clerks in Romahapa.
Sometimes it was an “ urgent ” that broke in
through the ruck to tell someone that if they
wished to see father alive again to come at once.
Then, when the ordinary business had resumed
again, there would be a sudden flutter, and the
instrument would click, “T R,” “T R,” which
meant Train Running telegram, and the Railway
Office would take possession, clicking out a mes-
sage to the effect that Number Odd South would
cross Number Even at somewhere, and end with
the usual “repeat and acknowledge.” Then
there were messages that breathed of new-born
passion addressed to a girl, and Ponsonby would
keep bis ears wide open for the more subtle
sweetness of the girl’s reply, which usually came
along inside the hour.
One night he sat in the chair smoking, wonder-
ing, thinking. He had just got married, and had
discovered that the girl who can keep herself
most comfortably on 15s. per week at home with
mamma requires a deuce of a lot more to keep her
“ in that station of life to which she was brought
up,” when she gets a home of her alleged own.
Ocean Head was a small place, and his wife
wanted to be queen of it, and it costs a trifle to
queen it even in Ocean Head. His wife had
sulked that day because he had been unable to let
her have a couple of pounds to get something in
the dress line on which she had set her heart,
and Ponsonby felt half sorry and half irritated.
He was trying to forget the unpleasantness listen-
ing to the messages clicking over the wire.
Jones, out at Puketapu Junction, was struggl-
ing to carry on a conversation with Knutsford at
Romahapa Railway Office, and every time he
would get a start someone would break in with an
official wire. At last Jones managed to say :
“ That you, Knutsy ? ”
“Yes,” replied Knutsy.
Well, I’ll call you up about ten, when these
cows have done barking. S’long.”
i.rs OVV " m °° click ed some unknown listener.
Oo to ” clicked the sounder in the quick,
peremptory tone that bespoke Jones.
As things were unpleasant at home, Ponsonby
stayed on in the office. The fire was burning,
and the office was snug, so he waited to see if his
wife would come across to ask him if he was coming
home to supper. The clock chimed 10, and then
‘' e heard the Traffic Office called. When the
1 Office responded Jones clicked.
“ I hat you, Knutsy ? ”
“Yes.”
Then the galvanometer oscillated wildly, which
showed that Jones had earthed the wire and
shortened the circuit.
Ive earthed. Don’t want these other blokes
to hear. 1 here’s only that fool at Ocean Head
ett on, and he’s cuddling his russet-cheeked
peach long ago. They’ve struck a patch in Nen-
tnorne Consolidated. Keeping it dark till they
cam buy in. Snavel all you can, and I’ll go you
whacks. Have you any splosh ? ”
Only about twenty pounds. What are they
now?” r J
Sellers three bob. I’ll send you a cheque to
° r r , er , kyN°- 3 morning. Get in early and
»p ash. I hese fellows will nibble slowly, so as
not to scare the market and raise the price ; so if
you go in with your mouth wide open you ought
to get as full as it will hold in an hour, and damn
the! rest.”
“Right-o. Anything startling ? Mack’s drink-
ing again, and old Fulton, at Strathclutha, got his
toes crushed. Villiers relieved him, and found
out he had snavelled £75 of the deposit accounts.
His wife has property, and she’s making it good.
He lost it to a Chinese cook at Yankee grab.”
“Well, I’m eternally lost!’' clicked Jones, in
great excitement. And then the door opened,
and Mrs. Pousonby came in with a timid smile.
Ponsonby waited a moment to listen to the yarn
between the two crack officers of the section.
“ Are you going to hang on to those shares, J. ? ”
“Holy smoke, no. Sell’em like winkey when
they rise.”
“Well, if you flutter things, I guess we’d better
sell on the flutter. What price shall I let ’em go ? ”
“ The best you can get. Don’t be too greedy,
and let everything go when you can make 100 per
cent, profit. There’s nothing in being greedy.”
“That’s so—loo per cent, in a few hours ought
to satisfy any man of moderate appetite. Greed
is horrible,” clicked the conscientious Knutsford.
Jones started to say something, but Knutsford
stopped him.
“Pull out the peg; I want Oamaranui,” he
jerked.
Then Ponsonby went home thinking hard. He
wanted a few pounds, and if he could only buy
£2O worth of these shares in the morning, and sell
them for £3O in the afternoon, he would have £lO
profit. He wondered if it would be possible to
borrow the money. Then an evil thought came
into his mmd. He had only some seven depos c
accounts at the station, and Mr. Sylvester, who
was building a new house, had paid in the exact
sum that afternoon to cover the freight on the
bricks that were coming from Ohalgrove siding.
He had said the bricks would not be there for a
few days, so there would be plenty of time to
make the rise and pay the money in. What a
fortunate thing he had not entered the cash in
the GB4 book !
At 9 a.m. he asked permission to go into
Romahapa on private business, mentioning that
the porter could carry on till his return at 4.30 p.m.
By 11 a.m. Ponsonby found himself hovering
around the door of the Stock Exchange. A
hungry-looking young man, in a light check suit
and broad-welted, porpoise-hide boots, swooped
down on him, and Ponsonby explained the situa-
tion to him. The young man informed him that
he was a broker, and mentioned his name, but
Ponsonby had no memory for names, and two
minutes after it had escaped him entirely. The
broker offered to see him through, and Ponsonby
handed him over the £2O, with strict instructions
to buy Nenthorne Consolidated at 3s. The young
man took full particulars on a tablet of Ponsonby’s
Christian and surnames, his exact position in the
service, and the name of his station. Then he
went off.
Ponsonby strolled round waiting for the young
man to come back with the shares. He lit his
pipe and leaned against the lamp-post just at the
corner, but a policeman came up and hustled
him away. He popped into a bar and had some
beef tea, listened to a man telling a funny story,
and then went back to the Stock Exchange door
to see if the young man had returned with the
shares.
For two solid hours he waited, walking up and
down, chafing at the delay. Then he began to
grow suspicious, and inquired from a plump gen-
tleman, in a tall hat and silk waistcoat, check
pants, cut-away coat, patent-leather boots and
spats, as to how long it generally took to buy
shares.
The stout gentleman eyed him with some
astonishment, and made a few inquiries. In
about a minute he had grasped the situation.
“ I am very much afraid,” he said, scratching
his whiskered chin sympathetically, “ that you’ve
been rooked.”
Ponsonby rushed to the policeman who had
moved him on nearly three hours before, and
barked at him. The constable listened atten-
tively till Ponsonby’s breath gave way, and then
remarked bitterly :
“Lord save me sowl, some on yez ought to be
led round town on a string.”
When Ponsonby arrived home that evening he
was positively ill with worry. He cursed his
wife’s love of finery as the cause of his downfall,
and that anguished little woman alternately wept
and tried to reassure her husband by pointing out
that the policeman would be sure to catch the
thief. “Rogues never prosper,” she assured
him, quite oblivious of the fact that the saw cut
both ways. She was also quite sure that the
police always caught thieves in the long run.
Ponsonby contradicted her savagely—he knew
that the police never caught a d- d soul. And
then he just let himself go, and as long as she
lived his wife never got that picture quite out of
her memory. It was awful.
Next day Sylvester’s bricks began to arrive. It is
wonderful how early bricks arrive when you don’t
want them. Four truck loads came, and he had
to let them go without accounting for the freight.
He glanced at the paper and saw that Nenthorne
Consolidated were unprocurable at ss. 6d. By
mid-day a fresh lot of bricks arrived, and had
disappeared by night. Ponsonby kicked the
empty trucks down to the far end of the yard
where they would be concealed as much as pos-
sible, and entered them up as still loaded. He
was now a full-blossomed swindler, and half Ins
station books had been faked.
He sat in the office, dejectedly wondering what
he could do. If he only knew how to borrow
money. He had it—he would write to some of
those men who advertised that they loaned money
without security. He knew they would charge
him heavy interest, but what matter ? His
liberty was at stake. Then he cursed himself for
not thinking of the money-lender before—better
to have borrowed the money and gambled on the
shares. Well, it was too late now. Whit he had
'to do was to pay up Sylvester’s deposit account,
or at least a few pounds of it, enough to cover the
freight of the bricks that had already arrived. So
he sat down and wrote to a Christian Gentleman
whose object in life was to assist and not to
crush. As he folded his letter he heard some-
thing on the wire that made his blood turn sud-
denly cold.
“Look out, lookout, Raven !” clicked the wire.
The demon auditor of the Maoriland railways
was on the section. The perspiration burst out
on Ponsonby. In a moment he was the dampest
official in the service. Anyone but him ! The
Raven would lay the whole affair as bare as the
palm of his hand in one act. He slipped the
letter into the mailbag. All depended on
getting a reply from the Christian Gentleman
who didn’t crush before The Raven arrived.
Next morning he heard that The Raven was at
Hakatara, 50 miles away. Hakatara was only a
little place, and the auditor would finish it that
day easily, and perhaps come right on that night.
Night came, and The Raven was reported at
Marathon, another one-horse show which he would
(Continued on next page.)


eadache
And Stomach Troubles
A CONSTANT SUFFERER CURED.
HEADACHE sufferers often fly to desperate
remedies for ease. The surest, safest and
speediest cure for this painful complaint is
Bile Beans. Bile Beans banish headache, as they
do all other symptoms of digestive disorder, by
correcting the liver and stomach in a natural
manner and by natural means, for Bile Beans are
compounded solely from Nature’s finest vegetable
remedies. Bile Beans will cure a sick headache in
a day, and a regular course will permanently
remove the cause, banishing sick headaches from
your life altogether.
“ I have been a sufferer for a number of years,” says Mrs.
S. A. Clare, of 23 Phillip-street, Alexandria, Sydney, “ with
splitting headaches, and wind on the stomach. Sometimes I
have been obliged to lay up for days together, unable to do
anything but wish I were dead, and at times I have really
thought I was near my last days. I tried many remedies
advertised to cure the complaints I suffered from, but my
money seemed to be thrown away, and I was at a loss to know
what next to do, when a friend who had benefited by the use
of Bile Beans, advised me to try them. lam glad to say that
the very first dose had such a beneficial effect that I continued
to use them, and now, after having used only one box, I am
quite a different woman. Instead of the periodical splitting
headaches, which I dreaded, I am speedily losing the old troubles, and am pleased
to say lam in much better health, and prefer Bile Beans to all other medicines. I
find myself growing a new woman, and cannot say too much in favor of Bile Beans,
which I consider are a certain cure for headaches.”
THE WORLD’S FAMILY MEDICINE.
BILE BEANS do not force unnatural or artificial action of the stomach and liver,
but they strengthen and restore the natural functions of the body, and restore the
balance of health. Bile Beans are a speedy and permanent cure for Headache, In-
digestion, Biliousness, Liver and Stomach Troubles, Constipation, Piles, Bad Blood
and Bad Breath, Anaemia, Loss of Appetite, Insomnia, and all disorders of the
Liver, Stomach, and Digestive Organs. Obtainable from all Storekeepers arid
Chemists at Is. l£d., or 2s. 9d. large family box (containing three times Is. l^d).
:
9
m
00 •
run through in half-a-day. The last train brought
a letter from the Christian Gentleman, who said
that if Ponsonby could get two brother officers,
who were known to him—the C.G.—as responsible
persons, to back the bill, he could have the money
right away.
Ponsonby tore his hair. To ask such a thing
with the auditor on the section was to accuse
himself. That was quite impossible. He wrote
a frenzied letter to the Christian Gentleman,
and begged him for the sake of his Redeemer to
let him have the money on his own promise to
pay. He would pay it back at so much a month,
and would agree to any interest. But, for the
sake of human pity, let the Christian Gentleman
send the money next mail.
By next mail the Christian Gentleman re-
plied :
I am afraid that you have been tampering with your
cash, and as it would ruin my good name to be mixed up
with any such proceedings, I must decline to do business
with you. I have considerable experience, and have
always found that when men write as you have written,
they have been misbehaving themselves.
That night the news came that S.M. Marathon
was suspended for irregularities: “Something
wrong about the deposit accounts,” said the
guard of the last train. He also reported that he
had dropped the auditor at Puketapu, only 20
miles away, and the next station but one to Ocean
Head. _
That night Ponsonby meditated suicide, but
didn’t know how to go about it in a painless
manner. After two hours’ consideration of the
subject he decided that suicide was too horrible,
and realised that his only chance was to burn
down the station.
A few minutes’ consideration showed that was
impossible. There was nothing to burn, the build-
ing being of brick, and unlined. Then he realised
that he must get the money or make a clean
breast of it immediately the auditor arrived—
unless something tragic could happen to the
auditor. Could he be accidentally shot, or
poisoned, or anything ? Ponsonby had never shot
an auditor and didn’t know how to set about it.
Suddenly he rushed out of the office, borrowed
the lengthsman’s velocipede, and pulled away
to Puketapu, and inquired for Jones. It was
at the cleaning shed he inquired, and the head
cleaner told him that Jones lived at the North-
Western Hotel, but he rather thought he was
making a night of it with some blokes from the
goldfields over at the Imperial.
To the Imperial Ponsonby went. Jones was
not there. Away to the North-Western. They
hadn’t seen Mr. Jones since dinner. He hunted
round but could get no trace of him, and as the
velocipede would be wanted early in the morning,
he went back to the station to make a start for
home. A light was burning in the office. Pon-
sonby looked through the window and saw the
auditor deep in the books. Then his heart sank,
for he realised that at the latest he would be at
Ocean Head by the morrow night.
He went back to the North-Western at closing-
up time to see if Jones was there, but he had not
returned. So he sat down on the rustic seat on
the verandah, and every time a man came up
and fumbled at the door with a latch-key he
asked him was he Mr. Jones. For two hours the
procession shook its head.
Suddenly out of the mist appeared the form of
a man running. He trotted up to the verandah,
felt all his pockets, cursed loudly, and then
started up the verandah post. This burly, undig-
nified man could certainly not be Jones.
The burly man reached the top of the post, and
gripped the nearest upright to lift himself by.
There was a crack, a sudden snap, an awful oath,
and then the big man struck the ground with a
considerable amount of balcony railing in his
hands.
Then a female voice started to scream. Lights
gleamed, and a man came out on the balcony with
a gun and hoarsely desired to know who was
there.
“ Put that blasted blunderbuss away, you goat!
It's only me, and I’m coming up that blank post
till I either get in or bust.”
“ Wait a minute, Mr. Jones, an’ I’ll come down
and let you in.”
“ Go to blazes—l’m coming up the post.”
And up the post he went, and disappeared with
a whoop over the edge of the balcony. Ponsonby
did not attempt to stop him. He had formed
quite a different idea of Mr. Jones, the notori-
ously affluent and influential man of the service.
That ruffian was not the sort of man to whom
he could lay bare his heart. He walked back to
where his velocipede stood and saw that the light
was still burning in the office. The Raven was
working late. He pulled leisurely back to Ocean
Head. Nothing mattered now. He had done his
best, and he could do no more. The infernal
auditor would be with him that evening, for it
was now morning, and the east was beginning to
pale.
He let himself into the office, and remembered
he had not sorted the mail. He stamped the
letters, sorted them out into the pigeonholes, and
saw that there was one addressed to himself.
Nothing else remained to do, and he was dog-
tired. He put the letter on his desk and turned
to go.
Suddenly he clutched it—perhaps the Christian
Gentleman had relented. He tore it open. It
contained some printed form attached to a letter.
The printed form was a cheque—for £42, and
signed by someone whose name seemed slightly
familiar.
The letter was brief. It explained that as Mr.
Ponsonby had not waited till his return, he con-
cluded that he had left the whole business in his
hands, and he was happy to say it had turned out
fairly well. He had sold out at the undermen-
tioned prices, and enclosed cheque in final settle-
ment. If at any future time Mr. Ponsonby should
feel inclined to indulge in a flutter, his services
would be at the disposal of Mr. Ponsonby.
Ponsonby did not wait to read the statement of
accounts. He staggered across to the house, and
laughed and cried in turns.
With the morning came another anxiety. That
infernal auditor would be there before he could
get the cheque cashed. On the platform, old Mr.
Sylvester was walking up and down.
“ Mr. Sylvester, I wish you would do me a
favor. We are not allowed to cash cheques pay-
able to ourselves out of office money. I have
been dabbling in mines, and have a cheque here
for £42. Would you mind giving me a couple of
yours for it ? I happen to want the money badly
to-day.”
Mr. Sylvester drew out his book, and wrote one
for £2O and the other for £22.
Then Ponsonby entered up the £2O to Sylvester’s
deposit account, and made that right. As there
was no denying the discrepancy between the date
of the cheque and the date of the arrival of the
bricks, he charged Sylvester demurrage for fail-
ing to take prompt delivery of his building
material, paid it out of the other cheque, and put
£ll into his trousers poeket.
Two hours later the train steamed in from
Puketapu Junction, and a tall, black-whiskered
man, carrying a fashionable top coat and a heavy
hand bag, strode into the office and announced
himself as “The Auditor.”
It was The Raven, and when he left he wrote
in the book kept for the purpose :
Station inspected and found correct. S.M. Ponsonby
is one of the few officers who conserve the interests of
the Department by rigidly enforcing the demurrage
charges. Signed, J.H.K.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Moods.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’VE a mad mood on to-night,
For if I think I cannot write.
And if I write the wretched ink
Blurs and blots the things I think.
For thoughts ring round me like a flock
Of winged elves that laugh and mock,
Invisible, unheard, and stil
Torment the blindly-groping will.
I’ve a mad mood on to-night.
Who’s the friend will come with me
Where over some tremendous sea,
Mad-foaming, the strong cliffs lean down
With rigid Promethean frown.
And shrill winds howl unceasingly,
Whirling the sea-spray’s stinging ghost
In vain against an iron coast?
Suppose we were there ? Sea and land !
I want some new thing to command.
I’ve a mad mood on to-night.
Where’s the friend will leap with me • •
O’er the lean moon’s shining horn
To hunt the tiny stars that flee
Into the darkness, ’neath the lee
Of far to-morrow’s doubtful morn ?
Stirrup and bridle and in a trice
Saddle the moon-mare’s ribs of ice
With a cloudy saddle and reins of light.
Galloping, galloping over the white
Milk-paved heaven, whose stones have eyes
That hide their fire as we tread them deep
Under the moon’s hooves ; how she flies
Over the ebony gates of sleep,
Cloudy-veiled and ivory-barred,
Into a dreamland flowery-starred !
What’s that to a fancy winged and fine?
I won’t have it for a dream of mine.
Confound these moods the devil sends
To fill his coffers and find his friends !
The faintest twist of the dancing brain,
And good turns evil and evil good,
And each is an old thing understood,
And here am I wearied once again.
What’s the use of a world, or two?
It’s only a world, and it’s hardly new.
If I were religious perhaps I’d think
This worrying scramble along the brink,
Where thoughts hang baffled and Fancy props,
Were a hint at a Something when this life stops ;
But being a rhymer who follows his pen,
I think it, and so, why unthink it again?
And here in the Now that escape I can't
Confound it, I don’t think, I leant.
What are you that hear with me
This mad mood’s tuneless melody,
That sets the very cells a-quiver
Till all the blood’s a surging river,
Hurrying blind, wild mad demands
By tautened nerves to where she st..nds,
Poor thick-clogged brain, confused and null,
Brute plasm within a bony skull.
Who aye you ? Have our spirits met
In an idle dreamland flowery-paved,
Where we many a shuddery shadow braved,
To pluck some poppied thought half-shown
Through the dreamland forest, overgrown
With bearded, gnarled, gigantic stems,
Thick-knit with creeper-burdened gems,
Where velvet grasses knee-deep met
The dappled toadstool’s table-top
That quivered ’neath the startled hop
Of the gaping, gold-eyed toad-guard, set
To watch the deep wood’s outer rim
And warn his masters (what were they ?)
That sit in silence and the dim
Shadow of shadows, far away
Where no drop falls but is a tear,
And no leaf flutters but is a breath
Of old, long-sworded, keen-eyed Death,
That saw us there and sees us here ?
Who are you ? Have I seen you yet ?
What color is your hair ? I know
The breath of it against my lips,
And then your shadow’s shadow slips
Into the nothing that it was.
And I grow wakeful, just because
I try to dream so deep I’ll find
The way to you through my own mind.
And when you dream, do your eyes grow
Another color ? And are they grey
Or brown, or black or blue ? Some day
I’ll stare into them till they close.
And then ? If you don’t, no one knows.
Slim fancy of a vagrant brain,
Whose children have such life for me,
That sometimes I must pause again
To sunder dream from memory.
(And since I think it, is’t not true,
If I am I, that you are you ?),
I think if I should hear you speak
In dreamland or Trafalgar Square,
I'd know my fellow dreamer there,
And risk an arctic glance as bleak
As some Siberian afternoon
In Autumn, when the chain gang’s ranks
Plod slow, with dull unechoed clanks
Over a hillock, to behold
Long barren plainlands, and a moon
Withered and dead in that grey cold ;
Or, likelier, mere puzzlement
At what this stranger’s glance had meant.
And yet, the most I ever heard
Was, not one glance and not one word ;
For alw'ays in that far-off land,
That never was, and may not be,
You’d beckon, beckon, silently.
As if to say, “ At word the first,
Flash ! and our elfin bubble’s burst.”
So tiptoe crept we, hand in hand
By coiled roots that squirmed beneath
Each lightest footstep, holding breath
While still expectantly we sought
For what, still undiscovered, lay
A footstep nearer, day by day,
And found, and lost, had we but thought.
And still, though waking, I forget
The face I know, the thing we sought,
Deep under this dull brain some gleam
Like a star’s shadow, lingers yet
Beyond the circle of slow thought,
So far, so faint, it scarce doth seem
A whisper’s whisper in a dream,
And may be all, and may be nought.
HABBY SULLIVAX.


Boils, Pimples, Rashes —all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given.
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.”
J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A.
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla —AYER’S. A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills area purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
'■ :
l*J # *1
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of Crur colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at fid. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
ofour cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. OW post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD
!
ip., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
PATERNOSTER’S
■■ PILLS Mi
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists la
Australia and New Zealand.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc,, and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi*
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me. ,
ADDRESS :
PROF : HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History. ‘
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confassions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Sind Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use »f
nsftj CORO’s
t SSEN ce f u \ F £ ,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Do., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fault!mg & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and producs premature deoay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney-
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until ydu have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address ! HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
YOU WILL BE
DEAD A LONG TIME
before your time unless you wish to live. As a race we are living longer
than did our grandfathers ; but not yet so long as we ought to do, or could
do 'f we acted aright. To let one’s self die before one’s time is tantamount
to committing suicide. It is usually put down to the “ rush of modern life,”
which is only a familiar excuse, not the reason, for dying young. Is it too
much to say nothing worries the healthy man, and work never killed any-
body ? The ordinary man could be a healthy man and live longer if he
wished ; and what is more important, he could really live every day of a
longer life; that is, be always physically fit and keen for work or play. To
know what life is let him take
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
and he will rarely be ill. Thousands let themselves die every year because
they don’t know how to live. They let themselves “slide” until they are
actually, perhaps incurably, ill, and put it down to “ business cares,” and
the “ worry of life.” Inmost cases it is due to not having the common-
sense to draw a safe line. Attend promptly to every little ill and be sure
“business” will never kill. Nature always lets a man know as he goes
along. A Headache, Constipation, and like warnings, are red lamps along
the line. Disregard them and the end is disaster; proceed cautiously, and
the running is both safe and smooth and may be rapid.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are the best medicine if you feel out of sorts.
They maintain your vitality at highest business pitch. With their help you
can work hard, live strenuous days and yet long days. In a word they
PROLONG LIFE.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM,
St. Helens, England.
8®“ Sold in boxes, price 10Id., Is. ldi., and 2s. 9d.
[3.]
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your ...
Rabbit skins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
»"■"»■ figiMi m** ggj BBKS3BSEF* f »."wiM.n-wn—
HILL, CLARK <&, CO.,
SYDNEY.
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ot. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 0/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
c*
Superior to
COPAIBA ~
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name
v;
MEN
AND
WOMEN
DR. MARTEN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and IVomerr, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 0 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW' BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men ant! Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Psg-es
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 lllueti ations, with Beautiful Four-Cclci etl
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with lon
standing:, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored pinto,
giving a very fair idea 01 what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “MIND OVER MATTER” and “BEHIND
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. _ . ... v „„ v
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). £3?' /Vote Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D., ‘
Please mention this paper when writing.
E SCENES” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin g|rd his
. Martin’s Five lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
Note Address :
E/ndey House/ 1 jsf ElizabethS?, .
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


OILSKINS
For Yachting, Fishing, Camping, &c.
“ oi, c*ad ” Brand (Single through) .. 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double through) 12/6
“Dugong” Brand (Double through),
extra light
Sou’-Westers , g
(Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON REQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber Co.,™
270 George Street, Sydney.
m
ss& ‘'asssaafc »»",sit
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
OVftr nthprs Vnn cm i>n n ,>v,— a . • . •
~ l, tv IJ.ACI.gAV HJUTUOUUC
—■°, v . er °™ ers - You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
±he acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
>■ Ti, ] “ t( : - write f° r the book entitled,
Ihe Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
3IMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
- f ''' ■
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
®@ss3m
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WO~F
m
Abb
OT
Max
ie >o
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J* & J. Maxfield, Ltd*, Sheffield
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Limes or Quarries. Weight about TSlbs. Operated by. eoinwessed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE ACENTS:
: iftf o a
-W. & J.
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Sol
all first-
class stores
in Australasia
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2j6
V
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAlPfl’
POCKET
KNi i/ES
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR
NORTON EMERY WHEEL COMPANY,
WORCESTER , MASS.
E ftp
'9:l
&
is
TER
MARSHALL’S.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK—
SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SHOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Bod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
GOLF BALL
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
4)
Order from Your Professional
° r THE
Sifvertouin Rubber Co.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W .
Mr, f
R
POLISI
Will give you GREATER
Satisfaction than any other.
SUPPOR T HOME INDUSTRIES.
WE DON’T KEEP IT WE IT.
<•
pri aoai'aHxno n
m
S/O
<»V
o
m
A TRIAL
PROVES
THESE
Because it R3moves Tarnish Quickly
Requires Little Labor
Brightens with Dazzling Lustre
Gives Durable Results
Saves Frequent Renewing
Resists Damp Salt Air
Has an Agreeable Odor.
SOLARINE is manufactured in Australia
from the
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
486 COLLtNS STREET, MELBOURNE.
