

A Word to the Wise is sufficient-" DEWAR 3 S-”
R. G. WATK.IMS & 00-,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
... AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
""""
Ijadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
RUSKIN’S MOTTO WAS
WORK! WORK ! WORK !
WEE MACGREEGOR
BUTTER SCOTCH
PURE! PURE! PURE!
qM . x &£Aj&uf /Muj4(u u fy&t.
m
vr»:
m
39
m
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit’Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
ħ
h
is the Queen of all Cocoas
I
. Aroma,Stra^ht'Purity:j
THE
ONLY
ROOFING
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY
Dampcourse
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
Id
, am*
44
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
\ AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' ana Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA supplies any functional
in k;4r» OV c
GOLLIN
A
&
CO.,
The Bulletin
VV01.29.— N0. 1489.]
[Thursday, August 27, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper:


new books George Gobertsoo & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLERcAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Robinson, The 20th Century American, 7s fid, post Bd.
May Sinclair, Kitty Tailleur, cloth 3s 6d, post fid.
Bayliss, Force in Education, 2s fid, post 4d.
Randall Parrish, The Great Plains: The Romance of
Western American Exploration, Warfare, and Settle-
ment, 1527-1870, 7s fid, post !)d.
Art in _ England During the Elizabethan and Stuart
Periods, “Studio Special Number,” illus., many in
color, 6s, postage Bd.
Smith, The Story of Iron and Steel, illus., 3s Cd, post 6d
Frank Hird, Victoria the Woman, illus., 12s 6d, post 9d!
Ward, Climate in Relation to Man, 7s, postage Is.
Holder, Big Game at Sea, 9s, postage Bd.
Coolidge, The Alps in Nature and History, 7s 6d, post Bd.
Snowden, Socialism and the Drink Traffic, ls9d, post 4d!
Sternberg, Barbarians of Morocco, 7s, post Bd.
Tookey, The Gas Engine Manual, illus., 4s, p. 6d.
Stevenson, The Trees of Commerce, 4s <3d, post 6d.
ħ
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
SMgT- AN IDEAL REMED/.
N
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing' No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “Proved to be effective bactericidally,
as is creosote.”
Unlike coug-h medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on receipt of
in Stamps.
1/6
G. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist , 5 (Si 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney
The Red Page
Galsworthy.
JOHN GALSWORTHY retains his
position in the front rank of the
living writers of England. His
latest volume, A Commentary (Richards,
per Dymock’s Library, Sydney), is slight
in conception—merely a series of studies
of modern types—but the volume is one
of remarkable interest and undoubted
literary art. Herein Galsworthy has
summed up for us, with humor, with
pathos, with uncanny insight, with acrid
irony, with bitter realism, and with a
strange, unquenchable,, disillusionised
human hope, the botched, pathetic civil-
isation of England. His types range
from the poor to the comfortable middle
classes. He has sympathy for the work-
ing slaves of modern civilisation ; but dor
the upper strata he has a deep,
ironic pity. His studies of the poor
are admirable; but his analysis of
the souls of the middle classes is
almost diabolically subtle. And Gals-
worthy is fair; he allows for all points of
view : he sees English civilisation as a
hopelessness underneath and a dry-rot on
the surface—and he knows the impossi-
bility either of lighting the darkness of
the depths or of sweeping away the scum
at the top.
Take his story, “The Lost Dog,”
in which to all the imaginary argu-
ments that pass between the well-dressed
man and the man out of work, “ who
smelt, not indeed of whisky, but as
though bereaved of it,” the silent outcast
replies with his eyes, “I am a lost dog.”
The hopeless iteration of this phrase
creates an atmosphere that cannot be
dispelled. In “ Demos ” and “ The Care-
ful Man,” Galsworthy shows the indivi-
dual merely as the representative of the
type.
In the unmoving fish-white face his dead
eyes, straining in their sockets, began to glow
again with that queer yellow glare, as though
alive with the spirit that dwells where light
has never come; the spirit that possesses those
dim multitudes who know no influence but
that of force, no reason, and no gentleness,
since these have never come their way ; who
know only that they must keep that little
which they have, since that which they have
not is so great and so desirable; the dim
multitudes who, since the world began, have
lived from hand to mouth, like dogs crouched
over their stale bones, snarling at such as
would take those poor bones from them. . . .
He took up the handles of his barrow, and
slowly, with a sullen lurch, wheeled it away.
And behind him, down the road with its
gardens and tall houses, moved the millions
of his fellows ; and, as they passed in silence,
each seemed to say :
“ One day I’ll meet yer, then, for all yer
money, and—l’ll let yer know ! ”
“ The Careful Man,” the man who did
nothing but compromise, is delightful
with its pungent satire.
There was in him a sort of terror of being
bound to anything ; and when he was re-
turned to Parliament he felt a natural un-
easiness. Was he committed ; if so, what
was he committed to ? Could he still get
down on either side ; and suppose he did get
down, could he at once get up again ? And
he was happy when he found he could. It
was remarkable how national he was. . . .
His leaders on both sides had learned from
long experience the daintiness of his diges-
tion ; how very sensitive it was to motion ;
how, if jolted, it revolted ; and so they did
not try too hard to jolt it now. They ap-
preciated, too, his sterling worth—without
him they felt the country would improve
too fast.
And those leaders of him would look at
him. . . Behind his grey and unobtrusive
figure they saw the masses of grey, unobtru-
sive, careful men, and a little shiver would
run down their spines. /
Too often had they awakened from their
dreams and seen him sitting there, under a
tall grey tower with a clock that faced all
ways, bench upon bench, row after row, by
day, by night, one eye of him on one side,
and one eye on the other, and his nose
between them on the middle.
One cannot forget, either, his scathing,
yet pitying condemnation of the fashion-
able lady, with that clanging, recurrent
phrase, “You never had a chance ! ”
No one is to blame for this—you least of
all. It was settled, long before the well-fed
dullard’s kiss from which you sprang. Forces
have worked, in dim, inexorable progress,
from the remotest time till they have bred
you, little blind creature, to be the master-
piepe of their creation. With the wondrous
subtlety of Fate’s selection, they have paired
and paired all that most narrowly approaches
to the mean, all that by nature shirks the
risks of living, all that by essence clings to
custom, till they have secured a state of
things which has assured your coming in
your perfection of nonentity. They have
planted you apart in your expensive mould,
and still they are at work—these gardeners
never idle—pruning and tying day and night
to prevent your running wild. The Forces
are proud of you—their waxen, scentless
flower !
v)/
So in his story of “ Money,” with its
grim finale, he pictures the old rich man
in bed, sleepless every night between the
hours of two and four, when all his mone-
tary ghosts would come and visit him.
They took, fantastically, the shape of owls,
clinging in a line and swaying, while from
their wide black gaps of mouths would come
the silent chorus : “Money, money, you’ll
lose all your money ! ” Beside his head
there would come and perch the spectral
bird of some unlikely liability, such as a
law-suit that would drive him into bank-
ruptcy ; while, on the other side, touching
his silver hair, would squat the yellow fowl
of Socialism.
Perhaps the most delightful of all his
character studies is that of the official
who is devoted to “Pacts.”
On Sundays he
played golf a
game in which,
armed with a fact,
he hit a little fact
long distances
until he lodged it
in a hole, when he
would pick it out
again and place it
on a little fact and
hit it off once
more.
So, throughout
the book, Gals-
worthy touches
this quaint civi-
lisation of Eng-
land with subtle
humor, or with
deep ironic real-
ism. Grim is the
picture of the
apathetic child
“ that imper-
sonal, imperial
thing —-the
future of the
Race;” and the
child’s sole re-
mark when a
pigeon croons :
“ ’Ark at that
b y bird!”
is in the best key
of Galsworthy’s
pitying irony.
And the end of
his study of
“The Mother” is
frankly, yet in-
evitably and
ahfiost unquot-
ably horrible,
This is a book
that cannot be
overlooked. Per-
haps, however,
it is expecting
too much of the
polite novel-
reader to pro-
phesy that it will
be read. FI.
The Bulletin Poets: 1.
Bernard Patrick O'Dowd. Born any-
where but in Ireland. Forty-two thousand
years old. Habitat : Melbourne Supreme
Court Library. llecreation : Hunting the
big, bounding Word through the-trackless
thesaurus. Favorite authors : Saleeby,
Euclid. Favorite drink : Distilled H2O.
Some Thoughts are what a person named
Bruce Smithkcmp entitles a recent pamphlet
to the Anti-Socialistic-Liberal members of the
Federal Parliament. It will come as a
surprise to Australia to learn that Bruce
Smithkcmp has thoughts.
TO BERNARD O'DOWD.
Where sobs Levant her listening shores along
Great Homer sang —and men alternate wept
For grief or gladness while the Blind Bard swept
With lightning syllables the peaks of Song —
Till song and soul from life’s poor prison leapt
Like "flame beyond the dark —and earth’s pale
throng
Knew that no more, dove-toned or thunder strong,
The gods would speak to mortals —Homer slept.
Dumb centuries fled, but back to men's desire
The old gods turned, relenting, from the wan
Dominions of the Boundary—and to Earth
For benison, by gates of mortal birth,
Sent their interpreter to ivake for man
The muted chords of the Olympian lyre.
VIC.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Popular Novel
Let us, from our heights, deign to peer
down upon The Popular Novel. There is an
American magazine which takes the trouble
to find out from the booksellers throughout
the States the “ best sellers ” of each month,
and, tabulating these lists, it deduces the
“best seller” of America. These fortunate
ephemerse are never novels that are remem-
bered six months after their appearance ;
they are designed for immediate consump-
tion, and will not keep even in cold weather ;
yet a few of these books manage to retain
the precarious leading position for several
months. The Lady of the Decoration —a
book that cannot be called a novel—which
was a complete failure on its. first publica-
tion, revived some months after, and,
gathering popularity, steadily rose to the
dizzy heigut of the “best seller” in
America, and remained there many months,
establishing a record. It is hardly known in
Australia ; and in the latest Bookman list it
has dropped to fifth place. It may interest
Australian readers to learn that the six
novels upon which American novel-readers
have gorged their sentimentality for the past
month are, in this order : The Barrier
(Beach), The Black Bag (Vance), The iShuttle
(Burnett), Old IVives for New (Phillips),
The Lady of the Decoration (Little), and The
Fair Moon of Bath (Ellis), inquiries at the
Sydney book-shops show that only one novel
was named by all the librarians-— -The Barrier
(Beach) ; while The Shuttle, The Heart of a
Child, The Great Amulet (Diver) and Mr.
Crewe's Career (Churchill) followed in that
order. But it must be remembered that The
Heart of a Child has been popular for months
past. The other books—all American, be it
noted—-are new.
vt/
The Heart of a Child, by Frank Dan by
(Hutchinson, per Sydney Book Club), is a
useful example for study by the novelist
who wishes to make money at the game. It
is not a bad book; it is distinctly well
written, with the craft that comes from
much novel-writing; and, above all, it is
quite moral. The popular novelist must
always be moral. But equally the popular
novelist must be conventional. Most readers
are conventional, and if not moral, : like
to think they are. But the popular
novelist must not omit the unpleasant sides
of life; you must merely idealise them,
skate lightly over the thin places where the
reader is in danger of being precipitated into
realism. Vou must have a happy ending—
if possible you must be original and
daring enough to marry your heroine to
a lord. All these ingredients Frank
Danby has skilfully mixed in her popular
pudding ; and it is everywhere being
devoured. Sally Snape, the gutter-snipe,
after various adventures as dress-model and
variety actress, wins her real live lord, and
lives happily ever afterwards. But she
comes unscathed through the lire, not by
possessing the heart of a child—the heart of
a child wouldn’t have retained its innocence
long in the circumstances amongst which she
found herself—but because she was inher-
ently stupid and did not possess the instinct
of sex. She was never tempted, because in
her sexlessness she never felt tempta-
tion. “1 can’t abide being touched.” .. .
“As for marryin’, I ’ate the very name of
it; ” these pronouncements indicate her
aversion to ordinary sexual feeling,
and pre-decermine her safety. Mere
chance, too, enables her to rise to
the heights of a society marriage. If
Sally had not been run over by an aristo-
crat’s motor, Sally would never have escaped
from the gutter.
But the book is interesting partly be-
cause of the charm of the heroine, partly
because of her adventures, and partly
because of the attitude of the men who
come into contact with her. There are
two who are admirably drawn—the Bond-
street man-milliner, and the theatrical agent
who divined Sally’s fitness for the variety
stage ; and both these men have made their
way in life by their faculty of regarding
women as sexless. To the man-milliner
Sally is never anything more than a
ground-work for the display of his
creations in costume ; and to the theatri-
cal agent Sally does riot exist except
as a machine for making money for him.
This attitude of man to woman, though
common enough in modern life, is usually
ignored by the novelists. In a novel the
employer invariably falls in love with his
typiste, simply because she’s got untidy, hair
or purple eyes. But in real life the employer
who finds hairpins in his ink dismisses
purple eyes, and gets a scraggy thing in
spectacles who wear's flannel, and hair sandy
and fiat as a sea beach. But Frank Danby
can be complimented on having introduced
the modern business type of man into the
popular novel. She makes up for it by
making the rest of the novel incurably sen-
timental, incurably romantic. Hence its
success. F 3.
Sydney Public Library
Some six years ago I drew attention,
through your columns, to the chaotic state
of affairs in our Free Public Library, and I
wish again to enter my most emphatic
protest against the gross maladministration/
of a valuable public property. A few days
ago I found it necessary, in connection with
an article I was writing for an English
magazine, to consult Ellis’ “Studies in the
Psychology of Sex.” Reference to the cata-
logue informed me that these volumes were
to be obtained only on application to the
Librarian and on tilling up the prescribed
form. Difficulties were at once raised. An
obviously shocked young man told me that
the Chief Librarian was the sole arbiter as to
who should or should not read such books,
and that that functionary was then out.
Assurances that half-an-hour’s reading would
suffice for my purpose elicited the cheering
iinformation that ‘ ‘ he supposed I must get
them,” and my benefactor, conducting me to
another room, handed my slip to a brother
philanthropist with the remark, “get this
chap these books.” It appears that, some
ten or twelve years ago, certain well-meaning
but more or less illiterate gentlemen were
appointed a Commission to purge the shelves
of our Public Library of allegedly improper
books. These persons acted with much more
zeal than knowledge, and though it is possible
that their task might have been done better,
it is quite impossible to conceive by
what species of stupidity it could have been
done worse. Martial, Catullus, and other
Latin, and British, authors were consigned to
oblivion, but, strange to relate, a large quan-
tity of grossly indecent literature is still in
evidence. Round up with an innocent-look-
ing Cornelius Nepos is the horribly obscene
“ Satyr icon ” of Petronius Arbiter. An
English translation of Suetonius, with the
spicy parts left in the original Latin, is open
for perusal by the young person of either
sex, and our old friend, the Bible, is repre-
sented by several ponderous tomes. Con-
cerning this latter book, it is a curious fact
that pious people always assume that Tommy
Jones peruses it for his soul’s health, and
that he has no acquaintance with the soul-
searing obscenities of the Old Testament.
On the other hand, they argue that the
reader of Catullus or Petronius must of
necessity be an abandoned person who care-
fully picks out all that is indecent in these
authors. Surely the man who is sufficiently
cultured to read a Latin author is also cul-
tured enough to appreciate the beauties and
to resist the evil tendencies of his author.
Such a state of affairs as that now obtaining
at the Free Public Library is simply mon-
strous, and the sooner another and abler Com-
mission than the last investigates matters,
the better. In the Melbourne Library, the
scholar, the student and the journalist have
free access to all that the shelves contain,
and are not hindered and hampered by the
absurd regulations prevailing here. Apart
from a slight lack of civility, it is evident
that the staff of our library—with one
brilliant exception—are not literary men ;
and this perhaps accounts for some of the
existing confusion, though, of course, they
are not responsible for the wicked locking up
of public property. Still, a future Commis-
sion might take the service of the library
into consideration. Round holes cannot be
fitted by square pegs.
N.S.W.
C. C. C URWEN.
_ Chatto and Wiridus are bringing out, in
the St. Martin’s Illustrated Library of
Standard Authors, the works of Jane Austen
in ten volumes with illustrations in color
(3s. 6d.). To those who have not been
seduced from Jane by the best-sellers from
America this charming edition can be com-
mended.


A.
No. 1088.— Single Jam Jar, Electro-plate
on Britannia Metal, Crystal Glass Jar, 16/.
No. 1019.—New Design Tilting Kettle and
Stand, Electro-plate on Britannia Metal, 35/=
TERMS—
-SPOT CASH.
No. 900. Single Pickle
Jar, Electro-plate on Britan-
nia Metal Frame, Cover and
Tongs ; Glass Jar, 14/=
Other Designs, 10/6 to 20/=
SBTISraCTIQH IH SILVERWARE
AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Wo. 906.— Dinner Cruet, Electro-plated
on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut-Glass Bottles, 20/=
No. 1024.— China Biscuit BarreJ,
floral design, Electro-plate on
Nickel Silver, 10/=
No. 998.— Dinner Cruet, 6 Cut-Glass*
Bottles, Electro-plate on Nickel Silver
Frame, 48/6.
No. P 1724.— Flower Vase, Electro-
plated on Britannia Metal,
. Engraved Glass, 8/=
Iso. 1067.— Handsome Salad Bowl, Painted
Porcelain, Electro-plated Mounts, with
Service to match, 24/=
No. 1020.— Sugar Basin and
Scoop, Electro-plate on Britannia
Metal, handsomely engraved, 18/6
No. R9351.— Pickle Fork, Electro-plated, with Sterling
Silver Handle, 3/=
No. 1064. — Salad Bowl, Oak, lined Porcelain, Electro-
plated Mounts, with Servers to match, 28/=
Various designs, from 28/» to 35/6.
Salad Bowls, Cut-Glass, Electro-plated Mounts, with
Servers, 27/6 to 75/=
Salad Bowl, China, Electro-plated Mounts,
22/6, 24/=, 28/=, 45/=
No. 1056.— Napkin Rings, two in case, E. P: or Nickel Silver, 15/=
Similar designs in Silk-lined Oases, 10/=, 13/=, 14/=, 16/6 to 21/=
Napkin Rings, in. Silk-lined Case, variety of pretty designs,
6 Rings, 27/6, 32/6, 36/= case.. Two in case, Sterling Silver,
20/= to 30/= case.
HP
85*3
as-iV.v& ■
K. . ... '/
• ■ '
m !
fg'TO |
a
•;i , • ■ ,-s , v
ff i | r : -/I
4
c r 'o\ v } 4/
\ i vl "4
f ■ i&' ksf
* •>, vfoVijjfoyg
No. 1036 —Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, in Silk and
Plush-lined case. Electro-plated on Nickel Silver, 14/= case.
No. 986.— Double Pickle Jar, Electro-plate
on Britannia Metal Frame, Covers and
Tongs, Glass Jars, 18/6.
No. 14759.— Biscuit Box, Electro-plated on
Britannia Metal, chased design, 44/=
No. 1022.— 0ak Biscuit Barrel' Mounted Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver; Chased Lid, 21/-
No.. 10211— Oaki Biscuit Barrel,
mounted.Eleotro-plate on Nickel
Silver, 16/^=
No. 976.—Pretty Biscuit, Butter and Cheese
Stano, Painted Porcelain, Kleetro-plated
Mounts, with Knite and Fork, 17/6.
No. 14758.. —Diuiblei Jami IllfiJr,, Bltotro-yilaterl on Nickel
Miter;, 2: Gfjjstall Glass Dishes,' 15/-
m-j.
:' 1 i .'
: #■ 4 J
, » i a
sum
No. 1037.—Fish. Knives and Forks, Electro-plated
Blades, Xylonite Handles, Silk and Plush-lined
Case, containing 6 pairs, 27/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


h
and other
SKINS;
A'so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S "5T X 3 UNT lEIS "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPEftTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
-Exceptional facilities are offered bv this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Ag-ents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
ĥ
Hit. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
lMSillA, latest, edition, 1248 payes, 400
colored plates and enpravimrs, 7/6
Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Hook of Nature, 1908 Humus, 4/-.
Up-to-date Oomic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Oomic Reciter, 1 -. Hilliard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Ivoko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/S. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Read v-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
Hr.w MoDougal'. Topped tiik Scour, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writi r. 1/-. Boccacio's Decameron, 2/0.
]I p’i tav.krcn. 2/0. Bride ok the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal uustave, 1/3. Love Under tiik
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Him. Edwards, 1/3 Percy Ramaok, 1/3. Frek-
MASONRY EXPLAINED, 1/3. NEW TRICKS WITH COINS,
]/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-To-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordaye, 1/3. How TO Mesmerise, 1/-.
Astrology, 1/-. Furors op Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 90 illusrrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. TTovv to Be-
comk a Clairvoyant, .1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen Of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture,' lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
10d. Krkutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/- ;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise,’arid all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, I/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, if- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, fid. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3 Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3.; Smilnr Hale’s
Novels, Sd. each.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
iNViGORA TfNO
OT)
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
9 as you like 16,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COaiF>ETITIOT\r.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
J
B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
NS
«8J C
>j jin o oßSt^s
ever created.
C.B. Tailor Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant coi’sets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to ConYinco every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other tvpes.
!
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flindar’s Lane. MELBOURNE.
»* „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House.
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
ħ
The Universal Remedy for Acidify of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
h
&
S-K
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 190$.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calandkr, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINC.
1 Results of Drawing' will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
: results will be posted. Tickets maybe had from Agents in all towns,
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALE, Secretary-
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
DEBILITATION,
NERVOUSNESS.
HOW HEALTH WAS RESTORED.
“ When I first made the acquaintance of
Clements Tonic, some twelve years since, I was
living in Croydon,” said Mrs. Edith Browne, of 63
Mount Vernon Street, Eorest Lodge, “ and my
memory is so clear concerning the details of my
illness that it seems only yesterday that I threw
all my infirmities away.”
“ If you don’t mind, I’d like you to give me an
outline of your sufferings,” remarked the writer.
“ How long were you ailing?”
“Quite eighteen months, and during that time
I was treated by several doctors, besides being an
indoor patient of a hospital for six weeks, from
which institution 1 returned home as bad as ever,
and it really seemed to me that I was never going
to get well again. For a mother with a young
family to be in such a plight as I was in is enough
to break one’s heart to contemplate, and my prin-
cipal reason for giving my experiences for public
circulation is that I hope to assist other women in
throwing off their ailments, as I did. My nerves
were in a shockingly bad state—fairly jangling
together.”
“Did the doctors say what was wrong with
you, Mrs. Browne?”
“ They said I was dyspeptic, and greatly debili-
tated, and well I know it. I might say I was
so fea'sorne that even my own shadow frightened
me. Oh ! it was a wretched condition to be in,
with nothing but worry and trouble, and suffering
for my daily cotnpanions. But I believe nervous-
ness to have been the most awful bane of my life.
You’ve no idea how I was. The imaginations
that filled my brain were simply hideous. They
actually made me shudder. If I slept at all, which
was very seldom, I would wake up from dreams
that were ugly in the extreme —always fraught
with circumstances and happenings of a dreadful
nature, and I’d find myself shaking from head to
foot. I’d be afraid of falling asleep again, because
those dreams were too terrible to bear repetition.
During both day and night I always had an idea
that somebody was standing at the back of me,
with some evil object, of course ; and to tell you
the truth, my life was unbearable. For six
months I could take only the lightest of food, and
very little of that, so you may eonjectwre that I
diminished in weight a good deal.”
“Do you require to exercise discretion over
your food now ? ”
“No, indeed ; not since Clements Tonic cured
me years ago, have I had to bother about what I
ate, or what I left alone, for it made my digestion
so sound that it doesn’t matter what I take, as I
can digest all foods readily, and that means every-
thing to a person’s health. If you can eat well, and
digest your food, there is nothing wrong. That is
my experience, at any rate, and so long as I can
do that I shall continue to be the healthy and
contented woman that Clements Tonic has made
me. Up to the time of starting with that remedy,
I suffered from sharp pains, which ran from my
chest right through to my back. I was never
without them ; also headaches and giddiness, and
I don’t suppose a woman ever lived who was more
fretful than I used to be. Often, without any
cause, I would go and shut myself in my room, and
cry for hours. And I was given to fainting bouts
as well. All of a sudden a quivering sensation
would pass through me, and off I’d go. Oh ! often
I wished myself dead, and away from my afflic-
tions ; but now, thank God, I want to live as long
ss I can, to enjoy the many charms in this world
that are visible only to those in good health. Mv
gratitude to Clements Tonic for raising me up
when nothing else could, will last as long as there
is breath in my body, and so till then shall I
always advise other sufferers to use the same
remedy, for I am firmly convinced there is no-
thing to approach Clements Tonic for curing the
ills I have mentioned. To me it was perfection.
It drove away those headaches, it completely
abolished the pains from the various parts of my
body, the fits of giddiness and faintness have died
years ago, my nights became restful, and—yes,
happiest achievement of all, my nervousness was
entirely banished. So publish these facts in any
way you prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDITH BROWNE, of 63 Mount Vernon Street, Forest
Lodge,in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
*1
T. D. GLASSCOCK J.P.


mm
%
A
There’s nothing so
bad for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
or when there
is inllamma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
'Gkerrii Sectoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
g spared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & On., Lowe!!, Mass., 11, S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
H
We despatch direct from our
to an' one, on ten days*
highest grade MEAD
Coventry factory
approval, our
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.30 t® £S
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
F ree to any port in the World.
AGTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larce profit.
easily made. Write u, once, using sufficient postage,
for fr e Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO- w 2so LIVERPOOL.
IF you don’t road THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Sydney.
I
** Other preparations having failed to do
good, I gave SCOTT'S Emulsion to my
son Harry, who was completely
HARRY LISTON
and had be-
come pale and
thin through,
sleeplessness
and loss of ap-
petite. After
the first bottle I
noticed a great
improvement;
he was able to
enjoy his food,
and looked less
delicate. He is
now full of life
and energy and
looks like a
different child. He likes SCOTT’ ST
8 Princes Street, Dawes Point,
Sydney, N.S.W. 29/8/07.
W. LISTON.
Abovo is tha Proof in the Pacts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why:
It is not what we eat that does us good, but
what we digest. The superb quality Lofo-
ten cod liver oil, of which SCOTT’S Emul-
sion is always made, is full of nourishment;
yet this nourishment would be of little avail
to the sufferer were not the oil made per-
fectly digestible by the original, perfected
SCOTT process. This is why
Emulsion
is able to stop wasting diseases, rickets and
lung trouble, when every other form of cod
liver oil and' every other cod liver oil
emulsion fail. Therefore, when purchasing,
don’t ask for “ Emulsion ; ” ask for and
get SCOTT’S Emulsion the difference
between them means a cure for you!
See that 11 the Fishman with the Fish ” is on
the package. Of all Chemists and Dealers
in Medicines.
IRISH
ĥ
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption*
&>>**»•»
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
AUcock^
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Golds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &o.
INSIST UPON HAVING
Al Shock's
For Rheumatism, or
Pains in Shoulders,
£lbows, or elsewhere,
or for Sprains,
Stiffness, etc., and for
Aahing T?e©t. Plaster should be cut
size and shape required and applied to
part affected as shown above.
REMEMBER —Allcock’s Plasters have been solil by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
i For Sale by Druggists throughout the World.
Brandreth’s
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Pills
Established 1758.
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
Tmr"ocrzsT
qCARBq
$
gANDO
$
<o
1
gRGtt
K?
Ml
iH
m
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To a Dutch Picture.
You mild-eyed mystic, with the smile
Of gentle, ghostly mockery,
Now vanished, and now guessed to be
Beneath the light beard faintly curled,
Gazing so steadfastly the while
With deep, wide eyes wherein doth pass,
Ordered and still as in a glass
The face of this disordered world !
Some ancient Fleming loved to draw
That broad black cloak and collar vast,
Queer milestones of the vanished past
Wherein you worked and had your dreams,
And, fleshly made, put none in awe ;
But, like us all, drew mortal breath,
And, like us all, at last mot death—
How shameful and how strange it seems !
For these men in the city’s drift
That jar my elbows every day,
Faces and voices far away
Are but the frame wherein I move ;
Pale images that blurr and shift,
A shadow’s shadows ; friends and kin
But little farther enter in,
Nor know I anything of love.
In all I do I have small share ;
In and about the busy day
Only my brain and body play
At a strange game with a strange art;
Old friends I have, but even there
To the outward and the inward eye
So little rests to know them by,
And of the shadows they are part.
But in my study, quite alone,
Composed and severed from the,maze
Of this day and the other days,
Now, for a moment, I am I;
Soon in confusion to be gone,
But centred now, an atom, kin
To that you have your being in—
Two portions of eternity.
Nay, one ; for undisquieted
Of all those outer thoughts and things
That a great winnowing as of wings
Has sifted from your self and mine,
So, gazing, the intense thin thread
Shrinks short between us, till at last
This time and that time overpassed,
Our very essences combine.
Behind those broad and level brows,
In the mild light that shines serene
In tolerant justice on the mean
Trouble of stirring energies,
This atom that is I doth house ;
What you were. I am, and I know
How the times turned so long ago,
And see that they were e’en as these.
But how could this calm essence drive
Along the wide ways of the world,
Unchanged and real through the hurled
Drifts of infecting shadow-play ?
Lo, now the earth hums like a hive,
And Being is but Vision solved ;
A shade unto the shades resolved,
I vanish, being nought but they.
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.
The Day of the Damp Golosh.
This is the day of the damp golosh, and the moist
and mournful gamp,
The day of the track that’s left behind by the hoof
of the door-step tramp ;
This is the time we Melbourne folk forget the
farmer-man,
And fail to bless the gentle rain that raineth all it
can.
In these grey days we leave our bunks with a sad
and shuddering sigh,
And stare at the leaden window-pane with a
dreary, dubious eye,
And, though we should arise with smiles to hail
the slimy morn,
And revel in vast seas of slush, our manner is for-
lorn.
Our morning manner is forlorn, when the morn-
ing’s sharp enough
To make you growl of the summer past with a
voice that is grim and gruff ;
To make you think, as you leave the train, of far,
fair, sunny days,
As now, too late, when you’re cooped in town,
the pale sun starts to blaze.
This is the time that violets bloom beside the open
drain—
When the Dago kid stands on the kerb and yells
in the drizzling rain ;
And the hurrying passengers slosh along on the
sidewalk, flop and flap,
And go for the germy violets, wet with dew from
the corner tap.
This is the day of the load o’ wood that has lately
left the stump,
That arrives at dusk with a plaintive bloke who
has got the bloomin’ hump,
An’ it’s ’arf a ton fer five-an’-six, an’ the bloke has
toiled till he
Can ’ardly walk. It’s a good, cheap load—y’ kin
look verself an’ see !
This is the day when the answered prayer is away
down under par ;
When, Sunday morn in the drizzling rain, the
church-gates seem too far ;
When the man who owns no fat wheat-land to
wallow in lots of rain
Stands on the step with his gamp, and growls
“Wot? Bless me! Wet again '!■ ”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


/
a
o
£
$
v
C
6
£/L
838
WUNDERLICH
agjfOART METAL
CEILINGS
Originated by expert Designers • • •
MODELLED BY FIRST-CLASS ARTISTS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists •
Erected by competent Tradesmen • •
Decorated by skilled Colorists • • «
Modelled by first-class Artists
skilled in the interpretation of the
Designer's intentions, thus pro-
ducing the excellent modelling
lor which our work is famous.
ZVrite for JllusSrated Catalogue.
56 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
POSTAL ADDRESS: 80X474G.P.0. SYDNEY.
243 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
SOWS I S 3 SSI lAI ®MJ.
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
®*“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
ħ
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full .Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
d
urjts
f
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures jj
robust health.
sfc
K'MV
rh%
*Joy
of Living i
BAINS’ WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price
- 5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “EXTRA EAR ”
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATUS, which can he
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under Aoz.
The “EXTRA EAR” is not “ invisible ” or 1 1 electric,” nor will it cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing- is defective.
Price 215., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
OUR GUARANTEE.—Money refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted back to
us in original wrapper within seven days of receipt. [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD The Surgical Supply House,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals. BRISBANE, Q.
Reference : English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd. —All Branches. N.B. —We publish no testimonials
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE TJ..S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop i
the most
vicious
dojr (or
manjwith-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
Ifc creates great amuse-
h
ĥ
for both young' and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free anywhere for 3/-.
The Chinese Ring' Bar Puzzle.
The object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rinps. You
pet it out of
one rin p,
SBBBSBBi
you may get it out of two rings, but can you tret it
out of ali the rings? It is sufficient to say that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions, 7/- post free anywhere..
The “Joker” Trick Matchbox.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. post free.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake.
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anywhere.
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxfobd Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
The Carrington Hotel,
KATOOMBA.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.-
TAND 0
HD
I
st;? I»
9i -
STROfW DURABLE
■,■ ■ •
k. . w
AHO 0.«
.
i...
.... ■■■
*v;
■
A
—...
I
cs
L
DRY FOUNDATIONS
When the founda-
tions of a building
are laid with
Ruberoid
THHHHBDIHanHHHBHBBXa
Dampcourse
the walls are PER-
FECTLY and PER-
HANENTLY DAiIP-
PROOF.
Wholesale Agents:
E. Rich & Co,
Limited,
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1489.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 1908.
PiiiOK 6d
WELCOME THE COMING, SPEED THE PARTING GUEST.
PKotf; u
(6^)
h
J>y
stJdY 1
CAUSE JjO PS
/
4ooK AT V/CTOK/A /VOW,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oF
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 O
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty muling direct to Tim Bulletin Ofiice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tine Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
It oil' to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paoer
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin,” is the 1 mopes
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to 'persons instead or
ujlicials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read aud, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin Will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inaten r.s in. Itlucle mill White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but. unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
dutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., llong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A i/cuts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6iin. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TT&f^zzZZeZztfi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 190 S.
THE INSUFFICIENT BRITISH NAVY.
Colonel Foster, the theoretical gentleman who
looks at all defence matters from a purely
British standpoint (and not by any means the
best British standpoint at that), lately finished a
long series of articles in Sydney Telegraph, and
left everybody who doesn’t look at things from a
purely British standpoint (and a mighty bad
British standpoint at that) no better satisfied than
when he began. But the Telegraph was really
proud of its Foster, and this was how it summed
up his case :
All must stand together. The power of any enemies to
attack Australia must be measured, not by their total
strength, but by their power to carry on war with the
British Empire. The defence of Australia rests primarily
on the fact that she forms part of that Empire. Here we
have the root of the matter. To make a homely parallel,
anyone who purposed to deprive Sydney suburbs of water,
and went about that malevolent business intelligently,
would not go round turning off taps or breaking mains,
but-would endeavor to put the head works out of action.
Great Britain is the head works of the Empire. Colonial
commerce must flow to and from it—the more surely
because the British market is open—consequently the
concentration of naval force there simply means that the
safe and sensible thing is being done.
It is a uice-loolcing argument, but there is no
immediate joy for us in it. The statement that
“ all must stand together ” is good enough in its
way, but it doesn’t fill the bill. The Foster
argument, boiled down from acres of verbiage into
a sentence, really amounts to an assurance that in
any conceivable naval war Britain will ultimately
win. That may be so, but “ ultimately ” may be
a long way off, and while waiting for “ulti-
mately ” to arrive, Sydney and Melbourne, unless
Australia has its own fleet, are to be exposed to
destruction, while London isn’t. Therefore
London looks at the matter from a point of view
that brings neither Sydney nor Melbourne any
comfort worth mentioning, and the London point
of view is the Sydney Telegraph’s point of view.
According to the same view, a general rebellion in
India wouldn’t matter because Britain would
“ultimately”recouquerthecountry. Butßritainis
so dead sure that a rebellion in India would matter
that it keeps a huge garrison there as a precaution.
And that is the lesson which Australia needs to
take to heart, with this variation : that as all
its big cities and most of its wealth are
on the coast, it requires a sea-garrison as
well as a land one. Of course its sea force won t
be able, for a long time yet, to tight a big Power
single-handed, any more than the permanent
garrison of India could tight a Russian invasion
single-handed, or the 98 militia men on the Falk-
land Islandscould hold thegroup without assistance
against Argentina. But that is no more a reason
why the sea force shouldn’t be available in one
instance than it is why the land force should be
abolished in the other. In the case of a naval
war, with effective British support nearly two
months away, there are two distinct possibilities
to be considered. The enemy might send along a
marine force just large enough to inflict enormous
damage on our coastal cities, and Australia even
now could easily afford to maintain a fleet capable
of knocking out that kind of squadron, and saving
some cities that are of value to us, however un-
important they may seem to the Telegraph and
its purely British defence theorists. Or the
enemy might come in full force, and then
the Australian fleet—all the fleet we are
likely'' to have for some years —would pro-
bably have to retreat and join the advanc-
ing British squadron, which is just what a
hired British fleet would do in like circum-
stances. That would make the British squad-
ron stronger and more capable of delivering
a knock-out blow when it really got here, so either
way Australia would be better off with a fleet than
with no fleet at all.
* * * *
It must be remembered that it is possible, at
this distance, to put a great deal too much re-
liance on the British navy. Let it be assumed
that the Anglo-Jap league had expired and had
not been renewed, which will certainly happen
some day; that Japan had become an open
enemy instead of a dubious friend; that its
naval forces had kept on growing during the
intervening years just as they are doing now ;
that Russia had recovered to some extent; that
Germany was the same old Germany ; and that
the recent spasmodic ententes had cooled down a
little in course of time, as such things do —all mat-
ters that are fully possible. Further, let it be
supposed that Australia was still the same
Australia that it has been, and the same kind of
Australia that unpatriotic and anti-National pub-
lications like the Sydney Telegraph would fain
always have it—with no sea-defence of its own
and no prospect of any. Britain could, without
doubt, easily find and despatch a force which could
wipe up the sea with the Japanese navy, yet it
would have to be a very big force, for when a
country ventures its fleet 12,000 miles from its
supports, it can’t afford to take any chances of
defeat. The despatch of such a force would mean
that for perhaps six months or a year Britain, in
its own waters, would come down to something
like a one-Power standard of naval strength, and
that would be a desperate risk to take. The
temptation to an ambitious power like Germany
to try conclusions right then and there would
be enormous. And the odds in the gamble would
be terribly against Britain. Germany would
risk its fleet and not very much more ; if it lost
the scrimmage it couldn’t be invaded to any pur-
pose by any military force that Britain possesses,
nor could it be starved out, and though it might
lose its colonies they are of no very great value.
Britain, on the other hand, would risk its fleet, its
marine supremacy, all its immense over-sea empire
and its national existence, for it is a country
that is liable to be starved out in two months if it
loses the command of the sea. With these possi-
bilities in view it is a question whether Britain
can be relied upon to defend Australia against
Asiatic invasion, without the aid of an efficient
Australian fleet, and it is dead certain that it
would be an enormous, incredible act of assurance
on Australia’s part to ask for such defence. The
British navy is equal to any other two navies on
the sea, but to cut that force into halves,
and send them so far apart that there would
be no chance of one supporting the other,
would simply mean the complete abandonment
for the time—for a long time, in .fact —of a policy
which Britain holds to be essential to its safety.
In fact, the British fleet has been gathered close
round the British shores solely because the
authorities feel that it is unsafe to do the very
thing they would have to do if Australia was to be
defended by them against a powerful enemy with
headquarters in the Pacific. Unless Britain
had some very firm and reliable friends in Europe,
an Asiatic war—when Japan had grown a bit
more, and assuming that Australia had no fleet of
its own —would find Britain up against three
possibilities : (1) It might let Australia slide ; (2)
it might take the enormous risk of sending an
insufficient fleet against the enemy, and in that
case the fleet might be defeated with an incal-
culable loss of prestige to Britain, and after the
defeat Australia might slide after all ; or (3) it
might send against the enemy a fleet strong
enough to wipe him out for certain, with the
dreadful risk that Britain might itself be wiped
out while the adventurous squadron was away.
A country to which even the temporary loss
of supremacy at sea may mean surrender to avert
starvation is a warrior dressed in armor of glass.
* * * •*
It seems absurd, at the first glance, to talk of
any possible enemy in the Pacific attacking the
great sea-leviathan, but doubtless all the possible
enemies know the leviathan’s weak point. Just
because of the vast distances, which would make
it impossible for Britain to send an adequate force
against the Monkey-Chrysanthemum country, or
any other Pacific power, without leaving its own
coasts inadequately guarded, Asia, when it
grow somewhat stronger, and provided it care-
fully selects its opportunity, might take the risk
and not lose much by it. Of course, if
Australia had a fairly . efficient fleet, the
position would be wholly different. Britain will
no. doubt maintain its two-Power standard
whatever Australia may do, for that standard is
required to secure its ovvn coasts and commerce
and food supplies, and the Australian fleet would
be an extra. If it was the kind of fleet that it
should be, then the British force (or reinforcement)
that would be necessary to re-assert the imperial
supremacy of the Pacific would be a comparatively
moderate affair —one that could be spared without
reducing the naval strength in European waters
to a point at which Bull’s sleep would become a
nightmare. Of course it may be urged that an
isolated squadron out here would be liable to be
cut off in detail, but the same statement would
apply to the isolated fleet that Britain must send
out to defend us if we continue to rely wholly on
Britain. No empire which is made up of many
widely-scattered fragments can avoid the risk of
something being cut off in detail—ships, garrisons,
or colonies themselves. That danger is a per-
manent element of the situation.
• * * *
The British naval position is a new one—
so new that none of the old precedents apply.
There was never before a time when the United
Kingdom was so wholly dependent on foreign
countries for its food, or when so vast a propor-
tion of its fleet was tied permanently to its
own coasts to protect its food supplies. In
Nelson’s day Protectionist England practically
fed itself—that was before Corden and the big
landlords combined to destroy agriculture and
its fleet could go chasing an enemy all round the
Atlantic regardless of whether the command of
the Narrow Seas was temporarily lost or not. Eng-
land grew its own corn and laid its own egg, and
could take risks it dare not face now. Then, also,
its military force was much greater in proportion
to that of continental countries than it is now, and
it didn’t really need to care so very much whether
an enemy landed in force or not; so again it could
take chances at sea which are impossible now.
To-day the British fleet is the greatest in the world
if it is a question of facing with the country’s en-
tire force, enemies like France, Germany or Russia
—enemies which itcan fight without breaking away
from the defensive attitude which its food problem
eternally forces upon it. But for the defence of
the Pacific thq British navy is quite a small affair
except at times when it is increased by reliable
foreign alliances. It consists only of such ships
as can be spared from the defence of the perpetu-
ally precarious food-situation in Bull’s own
country ; in fact, while Germany remains above
ground and prosperous and wildly ambitious
in a naval sense, it is questionable if the
British navy, as it concerns us, will be
equal to that of Japan a few years hence.
Subsidies won’t help the situation unless
they are large enough to pay for the construction,
upkeep, and constant replacement of perhaps
half a dozen ironclads, and unless it is agreed that
the money is to be spent on extra ships—not
merely regarded as a contribution towards the
ships that exist already; for our trouble is the
haunting fear that the British fleet isn’t big
enough, and subsidies won’t of themselves make
it any bigger. And if Australia pays for iron-
ciads it would be absurd to have them in British
waters without a shadow of a guarantee that we
would even see our own ships in the hour of need,
when we might as well have them in our own
waters and be assured of such aid as they could
give to us—and to Britain if necessary.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney “Telegraph” Makes a Discovery.
The Sydney Telegraph made a discovery re-
cently, and gave it to the world (17/8/’08) in these
words :
The Parliamentary Labor party finds itself at funda-
mental variance from the extremists or revolutionary
Socialists.
Which is refreshing reading. The N.S.W. Par-
liamentary Labor party has been protesting for
years past its disagreement with the principles
and measures advocated by the “extremists or
revolutionary Socialists” of this or any other
community/ But the Telegraph declined firmly
to take the party’s word in the matter. Not
once, but many times, it told the party it was an
unscrupulous prevaricator for denying that it
hankered for revolution ; and, to prove its
contention, it quoted against Labor, as typified
by J. C. Watson and co., the latest shriek
of somebody in Germany or Austria, or
the most recent dynamite explosion in Russia.
It was the Telegraph that led the Anti-Socialist
campaign in the N.S.W. press a year or two ago.
The whole of that campaign was broad-based on
the theory that the members of the Federal Labor
party were the extremes! possible exponents of
the doctrine of revolutionary Socialism. The
Telegraph announced on three mornings out of
five for months before polling-day that the return
to power of the Parliamentary Labor party (or for
that matter the DEAKiN-ites, since “ the Deakin-
ites were under the control of the Socialists”)
would mean ‘ ‘ confiscation.” When the Telegraph
was impelled, as a matter of ordinary newspaper
business, to print the publicly-spoken protests of
prominent Laborites against the astounding views
they were credited with, it countered the latter’s
arguments in another column with a quotation
from Tom Mann or Ben Tillett dealing with
“blood” and “gyves” and the urgent neces-
sity for the doing of something violent to
some moneyed person, and doing it “with
a sword.” Elsewhere the paper explained
that the Federal Labor party, for all its
hypocritical softness of speech, was composed of
Socialists; that Tom Mann and his awful com-
panions were Socialists ; and that it was ridiculous
and disingenuous to draw distinctions in the
matter. And if one of the current English or Con-
tinental revolutionary sheets happened to contain
anything particularly outrageous, the Telegraph
threw a slab from one of them in as ballast, so to
speak. Mingling with it all were vague accusations
against the Parliamentary Laborites of an ambition
to destroy the marriage tie, introduce an era of free
love, and upset the Christian faith. Remon-
strances on the part of the, for the most part, reli-
gious fathers of legitimately-begotten families, who
make up the Labor party, brought the firmly logi-
cal reply from the King-street organ that certain
European insurrectionists advocated these views,
and that ended the matter. As election-day ap-
proached, the paper got beside itself. The members
of the Parliamentary Labor party and the Deakin-
ites appeared indiscriminately in the eyes of Tele-
GRAPH-credulous citizens as so many Ravachols.
Then came polling day, and a swsft slump. The
alleged Anarchists won. The Telegraph went
off the boil, as though some one had destroyed
the gas-meter. And now we have the disrepu-
table old Telegraph, the paper that raised all the
fuss in the first instance, volunteering the news
that Australian Laborites are not the “ ex-
tremists ” that for election purposes it said
they were. In fact, it owns that the Par-
liamentary Labor Party, which represents the
huge majority of the class the Telegraph stigma-
tised as “revolutionaries,” is actually at war with
extremists and revolutionary Socialists. It is
cheering to see the Telegraph take so just and
sane a view, even at this late hour —and it is to
be hoped the paper sticks to its new attitude long
enough to tide it over the next Federal election.
o
About a Defence Poem.
Sydney Telegraph printed on the morning after
the arrival of the sixteen U.S. ironclads a column
of spirited verse by John Sandes, entitled “The
Writing on the Sky.” It is interesting—in view
of the Telegraph’s frequently expressed con-
tempt of the Deakin Government’s aspiration for
an Australian navy—to strip away some of the
poetic garniture from this contribution and get
down to the bedrock idea it expresses. A Child
(who is Australia) is pictured on a “ a rock-strewn
shore.” A “Warrior seamed and scored” ap-
proaches. To him the Child admits with pathetic
frankness the futility of its past goings-on—it is
Unlearned ...
Busied with castles piled
Upon the sand-strewn beach.
Says the Warrior, with pardonable sternness:
Listen, and I will read
The Writing on the Sky.
Thereat he proceeds to hand the Child (who is
Australia) in rhyme the identical warning and
counsel Alfred Deakin has been bitterly de-
nounced by the Telegraph for giving the same
Child in prose ever since the National Defence
scheme was first projected. The Telegraph’s
Warrior urges Australia to “lay by the toys
of a golden past.” The Commonwealth is told
that “its childhood has ended,” that it is now
“ master of its fate ” :
Long hast thou sported, and none hath dared to hinder
thy pastime. No ;
For they feared the flag and the long black ships that
have saved thee from thy foe.
The stainless flag and the long black ships still guard thee
as of yore,
But the world is changing, Child, to-day, and the days of
thy youth are o’er.
In fact, the time has come for Australia to defend
itself. The Warrior is a believer in the Asiatic
menace. He accepts it, in fact, as the one serious
menace that Australia has to guard against :
. . . behold, the day comes fast
When the globe shall be girdled, and West and East are
face to face at last.
Thou hast heard ere now of the wakened East, and hast
turned again to play,
Yet the tale was true.
And the Child (who is Australia) is asked
. . . How long shall thy peace endure ?
And the Child has sense enough to remain shame-
facedly silent. Follows this hopeful prophecy :
Thou, too, Australia, shalt one day come to the pride of
manhood’s might,
Holding thy home by thine own strong hand in the day of
the desperate fight,
And adding thy strength to the larger house that shall
lift its ramparts then
Not less the son because standing at last a man in a world
of men.
The queerest thing about these admirably patriotic
and sane sentiments is that they should appear
on the editorial page of the Sydney Tele-
graph. The Telegraph has scoffed at the idea
that the Asiatic peoples may constitute a menace
to Australia. It has explained, time and again,
that Japan is the good, kind ally of Britain, and
hence harmless to British dependencies; and that
China is impotent. The motive running through
all the Telegraph’s prose defence songs has ever
been the invincibleness of the British navy, and
the consequent foolishness of the Child (who is
Australia) when he thinks of leaving his pleasant
beach where the money-sand and the gold-rocks
are, to “blew ” hard-won cash on expensive war-
ships. The most inspiring counsel the Telegraph
had to proffer in this regard was not that
Australia should aspire to “hold its home
by its own strong hand in the day of desperate
fight” (that is what DeakiN suggested), but
that it should continue to play about futilely on
the sands (castle-building:, importing, and so on),
and pay the United Kingdom a fraction of a
subsidy to keep the “wakened East” away.
Possibly the Telegraph holds that a paper may
say in rhyme what it violently contradicts in prose.
But as that view is rather too insane for any
newspaper outside an asylum, there is just a,
chance that something has caused a gleani of
patriotism to penetrate the intellect of the King-
street publication.
♦
How to Get an Australian Fleet.
One day last week there plodded into Sydney
harbor 16 United States ironclads, worth, probably,
about £16,000,000. All this floating hardware
made an imposing spectacle, and Australia
cheered, and waved flags and hats, and admired
and marvelled. The foreign armada—strong,
silent, imposing, formidable, and keeping rigid
order —represented the attitude of a self-respect-
ing nation, which relies on its own resources for
its defence, and looks to no one else. It repre-
sented something that Australia’s unpatriotic
Tory press has always declared to be hopelessly
unattainable in our case, for, according to the
dreadful Tory press, Australia must always be
dependent and helpless, relying wholly on its
mother for assistance, and acquiescing humbly in
Britain’s Asiatic policy as the price of that
assistance. Yet it is a small, ordinary fact
that if Australia, for four or five years—no more
than that—put up as much money per head for
defence purposes as the United Kingdom does, it
could build a fleet quiteasgood astheUnited States
armada, and after that, bv putting up no more
money per head for defence purposes than the
United Kingdom does, it could maintain a fleet of
that size and build new vessels to replace those that
had become obsolete. Australia has heard so much
from its Tory press about Britain’s freedom from
the curse and cost of “ bloated armaments,” that
it surely couldn’t regard this payment as excess-
ive. Also it has heard so much from its Tory
press about the duty of bearing our share of the
burdens of empire that it surely couldn’t object to
humping the same load per inhabitant that the
mother country does. And that is all that we need
do in order to acquire, within a mere handful of
years, a sea force as serviceable as the one at which
our people gaped and flapped thqir headgear in
admiration last week. If Australia raised its
defence taxation to the same amount per inhabi-
tant as the people of the United Kingdom pay, it
could have a navy as strong as that of Italy,
which ranks as one of the great Powers of Europe,
or as strong as the navies of Austria, Norway,
Sweden, Denmark, and Holland put together.
And instead of that—well, when the Common-
wealth was established Victoria threw into the
partnership the ancient iropclad Cerberus, two
first-class torpedo boats, two second-class torpedo
boats, and a torpedo launch ; South Australia
contributed the steel cruiser Protector, and a
second-class torpedo boat; and Queensland handed
over two steel gun vessels, a second-class
torpedo boat and a torpedo launch. N.S.W.,
Tasmania, and Westralia had nothing. This
aged and superannuated fleet of 12 vessels
costs something for maintenance and repair,
and men and officers, and there is no great
value in it. Yet the fact that these 12 venerables
are kept on the surface of the waters suggests that
Australia has some kind of ambition to be a self-
respecting country, which provides for its own
safety. The trouble is that so far the ambition
has led to nothing. For the sake of logic, Aus-
tralia should either get a real fleet, or else sell the
twelve venerables to a bottle-oh. There is nothing
to be gained by a half-and-half policy.
The Victorian Perjury Industry.
A scandalous official silence has befallen the case
of John Balchin, a retired sub-inspector of Vic.
police who was lately charged at Melbourne City
Court with the theft of £2OO, also some small
articles of jewellery belonging to a woman with
whom he had giddily abided. Balchin, a married
man, seemingly became infatuated with this mar-
ried woman. Grace Lee, when he was stationed
at Ballarat, and as the result of his amour he had
to retire from the police force, getting £9OO
compensation. For a time afterwards he lived
with Grace aforesaid in Melbourne. Then
he decided —wisely, as it would appear—to break
off the unlawful connection, and escape from his
charmer. She, finding that he had given her the
slip, was prompted to take out a warrant for his
arrest, apparently not because she hoped to land


him in gaol, but'in order to get him back to live
with her, and thus triumph over an alleged
“ other woman,” of whose rival attractions she
had been told. Having brought Balchin to
Melbourne Police Court on the charge of
levanting with her money and trinkets, Grace
Lee, in the first place, swore to the truth of
her affidavit. Her testimony in court was
not convincing, and Balchin gave it a flat denial.
Nevertheless, had the prosecutrix persisted in her
accusation the ex-policeman must have been com-
mitted for trial. But she didn’t persist. On the
second or third day of the hearing she declared
herself a perjuress and a conspirator of the deepest
dye. She said that a private inquiry agent had
persuaded her to trump up the charge of felony
against her absconded ex-cop., that he came to her
and worked on her jealous feelings and put the
words of her accusation against Balchin into
her unreliable mouth. She and the private
inquiry agent were, on the second edition of her
ovidence, a pair of conspirators, the male partner
being the greater criminal of the two. The magi-
strates and the police who conducted the prosecu-
tion were now left to choose among three
suppositions: (1) Grace Lee had told the truth in
the first instance, and had been induced, later on,
to accuse herself of perjury. (2) Or Grace Lee
had lied about the £2OO, and had subsequently
lied in her story of how she came to be such a liar.
(3) Or her confession of perjury was true in every
detail, in which case the private inquiry agent
was a dangerous scoundrel, from whose plottirigs
no citizen is safe. With these three suppositions
to select from, and with no excuse for ignoring
their responsibility in the matter, the Collingwood
Bench and the police authorities merely allowed
Balchin to go free. The self-confessed perjuress
was not committed for trial nor was there any
application for a warrant for the arrest of the
woman’s alleged cO-conspirator. Cases of auda-
cious perjury and abortive plots to procure the
conviction of innocent persons have become
matters of no consequence in Melbourne. The
law has notoriously failed to suppress lawlessness,
whilst it has just as notoriously been employed to
frighten Truth away from the law courts. Years
ago, the Law in Vic. used to consider itself
insulted when anyone pulled its leg with felonious
intent, but of late it is a poor degraded creature
that coughs apologetically at the contemplation
of perjury, and retires backwards from the
presence thereof.
■ ♦
Another Wild Cat Imported.
The “ premium bond ” foolishness has broken out
in still another form in Australia, and regular
offices have been set up, to which the public is
invited, by huge advertisements, to send in their
“fivers.” “Five pounds,” declare the advertise-
ments, “can be invested to obtain a minimum
profit of 100 per cent., and, in addition to this,
hundreds of opportunities every year of earning a
fortune.” It isn’t explained, except in a large,
loose way, how at the least 100 per cent, profit
can be obtained ; in fact, nothing at all is ex-
plained. except in a large, loose way. Some-
times the explanations are worse than loose.
“Like our own stock,” says one Aus-
tralian advertisement, “these bonds pay regular
interest, usually 2 per cent., per cent. ... or
5 per cent, per annum, and the premiums range
from £40,000 to ... a few pounds.” Now, as a
matter of fact, almost, if not quite, the majority
of the premium bonds which the pushers of this
sort of gamble trade in don’t pay one Cent of in-
terest. The Congo Free State, City of Milan,
Panama, and others whose names infest
the advts., carry no interest whatever ; while the
Egyptian Foncier “ 3 per cent.” bonds, for which
£1? 10s. each is demanded, bear interest at the rate
of about ss. per year, and that makes them 2 per
cent, bonds to the purchaser, anyhow. The
statement that “these bonds pay regular
interest ’’ is, therefore, a dangerous half-lie;
and the same' sort of perversion runs through the
whole wretched business. At the best, and when
dealt in first-hand, the most select of them are no
better than a Tattersall’s sweep ; when they reach
the Australian public they are for the most part
almost as wild and foolish a speculation as
“marking a ticket” in a Chinese gambling shop.
And the security may be no better than Hang
Fat’s. The statement that “ the bonds are guar-
anteed by the deposit of high-class Government
securities”is rather more than half-lie. One or
two of them are —and they serve as bait. In
other mases the issuing authority is stone-broke
or thereabouts; and in cases where the
few fair securities of the premium-bond
sort are offered the prices asked are out-
rageous. The much-advertised Panama bonds
are a fair sample. They were issued by a co. that
was going to build the Panama Canal. After the
co. had wasted a great deal of the loan, the work
was given up as a bad job. Part of the money
was, however, paid into a fund to purchase French
Government securities ; and it is the interest on
this fund that provides the premiums. The loan
carries no interest, so the accumulated interest
goes in prizes, or premiums, and at some time or
other the loan is to be repaid at par. That, in
short, is the whole system—instead of everybody
getting interest, as in the case of investments,
most people get no interest at all, or but very
little; and the money that isn’t paid in
interest is paid in the shape of prizes,
less heavy expenses. It is admitted that
in a few cases the gamble is fair ; but the bonds
are mostly dealt in by harpies who inveigle the
public into paying outrageous prices on the
strength of shameful misrepresentations. In one
or two cases the reputation of the European
harpies has been so foul that the Post Office will
no longer carry letters to them. Yet it is doubt-
ful whether any of them ever ventured further
than those people who are pushing the business in
one part of Australia, and who advertise that
“ £5 can be invested to obtain a minimum profit
of 100 per cent.” The Bulletin doesn’t want to
suggest to Postmaster-General Mauger that he
should invite these people to explain how the
£5 can be invested in these things to obtain 100
per cent, profit, besides numerous chances
of great prizes ; for the Postmaster-General isn’t
the right person to judge these matters—he may
be a whale on mailbags and sealing wax, but he
doesn’t necessarily know anything about other
things. There ought, however, to be somebody
whose business it is to inquire.
♦
Fish—and it Smells Like It.
Following the example of the Commonwealth
and the Ma State, Premier Bent is taking an
interest in the fish that haunt Victorian rivers
and wear themselves out trapesing round the
coast when they would be much better occupied
in lining the aggregate Victorian interior. He
has asked the Scottish fishermen to take a near
view of the possibilities of snaring the finny
denizens of the deep (copyright); he is putting
that gaudy mansion known as Osborne House,
Geelong, in order as a State hatchery ; and he
has got a Commission at work inquiring into the
fishing industry as carried on at the Gippsland
Lakes and at the Melbourne Fish Market. This
Commission has only poked the tip of its finger
into the business so far, but it has learnt that
there is the usual gaping discrepancy between the
price paid and quantity consumed by the retail
purchaser, and the number caught by, and the
price paid to, the producer. Also it is trying hard
to find out how it is that, though there is'Said to
be no scarcity of fish in the water, yet fish are iio
more plentiful in Melbourne now than they were
before meat and some other articles of food be-
came too dear for universal consumption. Cer-
tainly, some fish that used to pervade the Vic-
torian coasts have been wiped out (Melbourne now
has to get its crayfish from Tasmania and its
whiting from South Oss.); yet there are still a fair
number of sea beasts at large around the shore.
But there won’t be if things are allowed to drift.
Inspection and supervision of prohibited grounds
are a mere farce at present; poaching proceeds
merrily, and when discovered is punished by a
trifling fine. Quantities of undersized fish are
sent to market every year ; they are mostly con-
fiscated by the market inspectors, but nothing else
happens. The chief difficulty, however, that the
Commission has struck so far concerns the fish
when he gets to the Melbourne market, and a
couple of instances given explain the trouble. A
recent heavy catch of kingfish sold at Id. per
lb. wholesale, while the price in the retail
shops was from Bd. to Is. per lb. ;
and a phenomenal haul of haddock at Warrnam-
bool was sold in Melbourne market at from 2s. 6<).
to 3s. 6d. per basket (equal to Id. to 2d. each), and
retailed at 9d. and Is. per fish. The question of
keeping poachers off prohibited areas is merely a
matter of appointing a few more inspectors and
fixing the minimum penalties for transgression so
high that the honorariums can’t make a fool of
the law ; but the bridging of the gap between Id.
per lb. wholesaleand Is. per lb. retail is a different
matter. Yet it has got to be done, else are the
Commonwealth trawler, the State hatcheries, and
the Scottish'fishermen allmere vanity and a wasting
of valuable time and good coin. One idea is the
entire abolition of the private fish-auctioneers,
who are mostly traders and exporters as well, and
the appointment of three or four municipal officers
to sell all such goods as come before them. Also,
some advantage might accrue if the various coun-
cils would temporarily subsidise a few shopkeepers
to sell the daily crop at fixed rates, say 50 or 100
per cent, advance on the wholesale price ; and when
the municipal milk depdts come along, the two
varieties of goods could be handled under the one
roof. The fishermen have a co-operative society
at present, but it seems to confine itself to selling
wholesale only, and it isn’t the wholesaler who
wants correcting, but the man who buys fish at
Id. per lb., and sells single rounds at Is. each.
Re the Gambling Industry.
With the idea, probably, of distracting public
attention from the need of more workers on the
surface of the land, the Bent Government pro-
poses to set apart £50,000 for advances to such
Victorian companies as have already sunk large
sums of money in mining—quartz or alluvial
—without success. Victoria is already full of
holes where a lot of unhealthy labor has been
wasted in fruitless endeavor to recover the cost of
operations, and of other holes where business is pay-
ableonly as regards the workers, and the bulk, if not
the whole, of the original capital is pretty certain
to lie buried evermore. Yet the Government is
ready to throw £50,000 of good public money after
the bad money of sanguine shareholders what
time millions of acres of fertile land are groaning
for a tax on their unimproved value, in order to
make them available to productive toilers. With
the surface of Victoria in its present useless state,
and the population of the large cities paying
high prices for food because the land at large
is neglected, Bent’s grant of £50,000 to
impecunious mining companies will be an
outrage on the mass of the people. What
they want is a Government which will honestly
endeavor to increase the wheat yield, the meat
yield, the wool yield, the vegetable yield, and the
manufactured goods yield, whilst leaving the
costly gold yield to take care of itself. With
more people on the land, a superabundance of
private capital for gold mining would follow as a
matter of course, together with an increase in
horse-racing. Neither of those national gamble
industries is a matter for Government benefac-
tion. But seeing that the gold-mining industry
gets a lot of direct representation in Parliament,
whereas the need for a land-tax gets no represen-
tation worth mentioning. Bent’s £50,000 —or,
rather, £lOO,OOO in all—is pretty sure to go to-
wards developing the bowels of the earth and
dumping some more mullock on the face thereof.
The Finances of Adolphus.
One always has some doubts about Victoria’s
Adolphus Bent ; even when he says he has
£lOO,OOO in the bag, one always has an uneasy
feeling that quite likely he has £99,000 of unpaid
bills there as well. Yet if Adolphus hasn’t done
respectable work in regard to the finances he
hasn’t done respectable work at all; and in this
department trickery is easier than in most, and-so
an inquiry into the matter looks worth while.
The Statistical Register (1907) which has just
been published, affords the best means of checking
Bent’s pretensions as a financial reformer ; and
the means are all the better because Statist
Drake is responsible for the publication,
and Statist Drake, besides having the ad-
vantage of being able to get at the inside of
things, is a very competent auditor. One table
shows Bent’s loan expenditure. Beginning at
July, 1903 (Bent became Treasurer early in 1904),
this is what the official list shows in the way of
totals :
Total Loan
Year Ending Expenditure.
June, 1904 £447,244
„ 1905 373,191
„ 1906 932,966
~ 1907 .. .. .., .. 595,658
Total (four years) .. £2,349,059
Thus of borrowed money Bent spent in the four
years just about as much as the Reformed Wade is
spending in twelve months—the N.S.W. loan
expenditure in the past year was £2,252,914, and
this financial year has begun ip an even worse
fashion. Moreover, a little over half of Bent’s total
was put into land for closer settlement, and in the
whole four years there isn’t an item under the head-
ings of law courts, Parliamentary buildings, public
offices, drains, culverts, and other similar unpro-
ductive etceteras ; while the total put even into
schools, and charged to Cohen, amounts for the
four years to only £659. It isn’t, however,
claimed by Adolphus that he has not spent much
loan money; he has seized a large-sized halo on
the ground that he has actually reduced the
public debt. And bearing on. that subject the
Statistical Register has a schedule showing the
debt, both funded and floating. Out of that list
this comparison can be extracted :
Funded Debt. Floating Debt. Total.
1903 .. £51,097,900 £2,741,663 £53,839,563
1907 .. 52,954,989 1,228,898 54,183,887
Inc. £1,857,059 Dec. £1,512,765 Inc. £344,324
Thus in Bent’s four years, to the end of the finan-
cial year 1907, Victoria’s net debt was increased
by £344,324 ; but a trifle more than the whole of
that growth was due to the first year of the four,
and during that first year Adolphus was Treasurer
only part of the time. In the other three years
the net reduction was £39,377. While, however;
there has been an increase of £344,324 in the debt
for four years, there has, as shown above,
been a loan expenditure of £2,349,059 ; so
that practically Adolphus has paid Cohen
£2,349,059 for new works, and then out
of revenue has repaid Cohen £2,004,735
previously borrowed to pay for works or to cover
former deficits. Some of this repayment has been
charged up with the ordinary expenditure ; the
bulk of it has, however, come out of the more or
less real surpluses which Bent has achieved. The
Bulletin can only regard the surpluses as more
or less real, because, though the fake isn’t so
colossal in Victoria as it is in N. S. Wales,
still even in Victoria £996,845 received in
four years on account of land sales hag
been passed into ordinary revenue; and a
surplus manufactured out of the sale of a
country’s assets is to that extent a bogus surplus.
Moreover, when Bent’s surpluses haven’t been
applied to reduce the old deficits, about two-
thirds of the total has bee^ expended “on works
usually paid for out of revenue”; and', when
Bent pays for something out of surplus that
in ordinary circumstances would be paid for out
of revenue, then it simply amounts to this —it is
revenue if it is paid away on June 30, and it is
surplus if it isn’t paid away till July 1. So
another part of Bent’s surplus is bogus ; yet,
when allowance is made for all that, the fact
remains that in three years to the end of June,
1907, the Victorian public debt, of all sorts, was
reduced by £39,377, in spite of the fact that about
one-and-three-quarter million’s worth of loan
works and other undertakings were carried
through in that period.
♦
Sharks, etc.
The amazing case of Jane Grey Murray, who
recently sued John Murray Prior, money-
lender, in the Sydney Courts, should be a warning
to people (and communities) that float loans.
Jane Murray had an interest, said to be worth
£BOO or £lOOO, in a property in Scotland. She
went to one of the most remarkable money-
dealers in Sydney to raise £2OO on it. To begin
with, she signed a quantity of documents, but
apparently she got no cash atthetime. Later on she
got £l6 or so. Then the Prior firm began to make
“inquiries” (at the expense of Jane Murray) as
to the value of the property. This was in Sep-
tember, 1903. Time rolled and rolled and rolled
on, and inquiries were apparently still being
made, and the lady got no more money. Ex-
penses kept growing, and time rolled con-
tinuously, and the £BOO or £lOOO worth of
property was still locked up in the money-
lender’s hands, and there wa§ no progress or
satisfaction. After four years and four months
came the news thatthePßiOßfirm had sold the whole
affair on its own authority to a lady for £lOO.
The amazing money-lender, who didn’t seem to
lend any money worth speaking of, admitted
quite cheerfully that he put the property up for
sale in Sydney—where, presumably, no one knew
anything about its value—and instructed the lady
to bid £lOO for it. (The lady afterwards declared
that she had no interest whatever in the matter,
so apparently she was the money-shark’s dummy,
buying with the shark’s own funds.) The
intangibleness of it all apparently stunned Jane
Murray. She had tried to borrow £2OO on a
property worth £BOO or £lOOO. She had got
£l6, and had worn out her feet and
boots hovering round for over four years,
and now everything seemed to have evapor-
ated. Then she took a resolution, and rushed
the astonishing cash-vulture into the law
courts, and met with great success. But the
whole proceeding was so vast and impudent that
something much more drastic that mere recovery
of the property is called for. There is great need
for the abolition of the Murray Prior kind of
financier. An expedient that might meet the
case would be a law requiring every person who
lends money at more than, say, 7 per cent, (or,
say, 9 per cent, including all “expenses” and
“ bonus ” and everything else), whether he
lends in his own name, or in some one else’s
name, or as a partner in a firm, or in any other
way whatsoever, to hold a license renewable
annually. And when the money-lender becomes
too remarkable the Judge should have power to
cancel his license right there. If he becomes
only moderately remarkable, a Judge or Magistrate
or the Attorney-General should have power to
order him to appear and “ show cause” why his
license shouldn’t be cancelled. Also the licensing
authority should have power to refuse a renewal
of the license if he sees fair and sufficient reason.
And the penalty for being an unlicensed money-
lender charging over 7 per cent/. (9 per cent, in-
cluding expenses) should be £lO a day, and lengthy
gaol if the fine isn’t paid.
Maoriland Government borrows for most things,
good and bad, these day. It borrowed so hard for
things in general that there was a universal boom,
in the midst of which, on a still night, rents could
be heard as they whizzed upwards. To counteract
the evils of its own mad borrowing policy, so far
as rents were concerned, Maoriland did two
things—it passed the Workers’ Dwellings Act in
1905, and in the next year it put through another
Act to do for city workers with regard to houses
what the old Advances to Settlers Act has done
for country people with regard to farms. The
Workers’ Dwellings Act hasn’t been a prodigious
success ; still, something like 120 places
have been put up and let under it. The
other Act has caught on better; the busi-
ness of lending money to workers to build
homes started early in 1907, and by March 3T last
1310 applications had been made for a total of
£351.610, and 1179 had been granted for a total of
£296,305. It’s good business for a working man
if the private landlord happens to have left him
with a few pounds; for the State will advance
him three-fourths of the value of land and
house —up to £3so—and the interest at the
most is 5 per cent., and at the least per cent,
(it is tne lower rate if he pays promptly). As to
repayment, he gets the same terms as the settler,
though the period for repayment is shorter ; the
settler can dawdle along for 73 years if he
wants to (£5 10s. a year for 73 years will
pay interest and principal on £100). But
the State blocks out the affluent worker
by limiting the benefits of the Act to men who get
£2OO or less a year ; and the man who comes up
for help must alsb be prepared to swear that he
hasn’t got another block of land anywhere. It
doesn’t look as though the Act even wilfully allows
him to peg out a cemetery allotment.
There is no doubt about, it—poor Ma State is
being most shamefully crushed and ruined by the
Commonwealth. Consider this little list'showing
the growth of deposits in the two savings banks,
starting from the year before the Commonwealth
began to grind the soul out of the people and
reduce the State to beggary
Government Savings
Savings Bank Total
Bank. of N.S.W. Deposits.
1900 .. £6,045,623 £4,855,760 £10,901,383
1901 . 6,647,289 5,161,421 11,808,710
1902 7,100,108 5,325,356 12,425,464
1903 .. 7,475,058 5,326,198 12,801,256
1904 . 7,952,885 5,268,677 13,221,562
1905 .. 8,883,650 5,545,367 14,429,017
1906 .. 9,322.923 5,997,609 15,320,532
1907 .. 11,128,495 6,401,662 17,530,157
And in the same period the poor down-trodden
State has been piling up its deposits in the private
banks also, and has likewise bought a million or
two of Treasury bills and bonds. Poor Ma as
depicted by her Wades and Hectors —she
is like nothing in all the world so much as the
15st. woman who, after a nine-course meal, de-
clares that she has no appetite in these days, for
which (she adds piously) she ought (sigh here) to
be very thankful, because, if she did feel like
picking a bit, her brute of a husband wouldn’t
provide her with anything to pick.
“ Honorary Sentry-box” writes
The invention of new war material goes on at a pace
that leaves imagination far behind in a footsore condi-
tion. According to the daily press there is at the,
present time in the U.S. an inventor with aii automatic
gun capable of firing a million bullets in half-an-hour at
a cost of £2 or 2d. or something. The awful contrivance
doesn’t make any row or flash or smell, and the only,
danger about it is that the general, in a fit of forgetful-
ness, may wander round in front of it while it is hosing
the countryside with lead, and be shot in 509,000 places
before the gunners can turn the thing off. Then there
is the gun of the Scotch Simpson, that can bombard Paris
from London. Serving such a weapon will be a dreary
business. The bored gunners will work away—aiming by
instructions—and never hear anything but the report of
the gun when the shell is sent on its journey. If the gun
doesn’t possess a report—and it probably doesn’t—they
will only know it has gone off by the flash; and, if it,
hasn’t got a flash either, they’ll have to go by the un-
pleasant smell. In the absence of a smell they will have
to wait for a telegram. Which will be about as exciting
as being a dustman. The news about Simpson’s in-
vention seems to have stung some Frenchmen into
activity, for W. T. Stead, of London, says the French
Government has been making wonderful experiments
with a new armor that will stop everything but the Day
of Judgment. All the Frenchman needs to do is to buy
himself a fancy vest made of the stuff, and he can stand
on the coast and let Simpson play like a boiler manu :
factory on the front of him. Warfare seems to be get-
ting safer and safer and further away from itself every
minute.
Hector (late Joseph) Carruthers has had a look
at the English land question, and his views thereon
made some useful copy for a S. M. Herald
correspondent:—
The trouble is that there is not enough land in England
for all those people. They are crowded out, too, by
wealthy people, who buy up large estates for shooting
preserves, deer forests, etc. A few judicious lecturers,
touring farming districts, and telling people about Aus-
tralia, would do us vast good. The greater opportunities
Australia unfolds to the willing worker identified with
primary production could be urged with tremendou
effect.
Certainly; let there be lecturers, and let the
lecturers" tell the English “workers identified
with primary production” that there is plenty of
land in Australia—three million square miles of
it, in fact. Also let the lecturers explain, with
diagrams and maps and moving pictures if neces-
sary, the exact proportion of the three million
square miles that is occupied and reserved against
settlement by gigantic monopolies, such as the
V.D.L. Co.’s estate and the Bibbenluke estate,
etc. Let the lecturers be particularly lucid about
the fact that every 300-acre block of Australian
land thrown open by the State for settlement is
rushed by abouts 79 applicants. And further, let the
lecturers urge, with great clearness, that Hector
(late Joseph) Carruthers, during some four
years of power as N.S.W. Premier, and some
more years of power as a N.S.W. Minister, did
nothing (beyond resuming a scrap of land here
and there at exorbitant valuations, and selling it
at huge prices, so that only the rich man could
buy any of the scrap) to deal with the big estates.
Also, that there are other State Premiers like
Hector (late Joseph) in that respect; and
that these State Premiers bitterly oppose
any suggestion that the Australian Government
should effectively deal with the big estates by
means of a Federal Progressive Land-Tax. After
all these things have been explained to the English
farmer, the English farmer may decide to chance
it ; he may resolve to come to Australia and get a
vote, and deal with the big estate subject himself;
but, in any case, he will get a fair estimate of
Hector (late Joseph) Carruthers.
The Un-Australian Native.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was born here, he was bred upon the soil,
Has not strayed beyond the country of his birth,
He is fashioned of its corn and wine and oil,
But, alack, he is a man of little worth.
For, of all the ticks and troubles that we know,
The plagues with which the Commonwealth is
cursed,
The rabbits that so numerously grow,
And the thistle, and the sparrow, and the crow,
Still, the un-Australian native is the worst.
He has not a true opinion of his own,
But his father’s and his mother’s and his aunt’s
In his craven, Old World arguments are shown.
And they stutter in his mawkish list of can’ts.
“ Australia can’t’s” his gospel and his creed,
She can never even hope to hold her own,
She can’t fashion any engine she may need,
Nor construct a locomotive nor a bead,
Nor entwine the simple fibres she has grown.
He declares himself a loyal Briton first,
And to think Australian thoughts he holds a
cri me,
While his boast implies a strange, unhealthy
thirst
To be something un-Australian all the time.
Not one tendril of Australian fancy clings
To his soul, and there no echo of the tones
That infuse a nation’s ' /lies gaily sings;
There is nothing of the sentiment that springs
From the soil that builds an honest native’s
bones.
In his patriotic fervor he exalts
What adorns some other place, another day,
And the system that is wholly free of faults
Must be foreign, and be far enough away.
The imported person’s jingoistic blow
Is instructive and a human kind of burst.
Many quaint exotic follies come and go,
But of all the hybrid nuisances that grow
Still the un-Australian native is the worst!
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


Why Remain
DEAF
Or Suffer from Head Noises, &c. ?
when you can cure yourself quite conveniently of
the most serious Aural Diseases. No Medicine, No
Electricity, and No Eardrums, but Nature’s own
remedy of pure Aural Kinetics, applied by your elf
at your own home. Endorsed by the highest Medi-
na' Authorities. Cal 1 or write for FREE particulars.
Tlie TAROSCOPE CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne recognises that it “is up
against it” to try and equal Sydney’s brilliant
welcome of Admiral Sperry and his gallant tars.
But as Melbourne citizens are lending as willing
an ear as did the Sydneyites to the gentle
whisperings of that Spirit of Wisdom—D.C.L.
Whisky—the best may be hoped for. The wise
emulation prompted by D.C.L. has no limit to its
happy achievement as The World’s Wisest Know.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The British Freetrader, who is wont to exploit the
alleged unhappy lot of the worker in Continental
Europe as a horrible example of the effects of
Protection, endured a stunning blow last month.
The Statistical Department of the Board of Trade,
which is presided over by Freetrader Churchill,
published a Blue Book early in July, showing by
a wealth of figures that the condition of the toiler
in Germany was appalling as compared with that
of his brother in the United Kingdom. British
Protectionists who had personal knowledge of
social conditions in the two countries wondered,
pondered, and then started figuring things out.
As a result, the Blue Book was withdrawn from
circulation within 12 days of its publication—a
happening unique in the history of such works.
The discredited volume’s figuring—regarded mere-
ly as figuring—was correct ; but the bases on which
the Freetrade statistician whocompiled it had built
up his calculations were shown to be grotesquely
wrong in every case. For example, this ingenious
anti-Protectionist figure-expert proved that net
rents paid by workers in Germany were as
123 to 100 in England. But he omitted to include
in the cost of rents the urgent item of rates, which
are from three to four times higher in the United
Kingdom than they are in the Kaiser’s dominions.
The cost of food in the Fatherland was repre-
sented as 118 to 100 in Britain. But “the
priqe of bread in six of the chief German towns
was represented at four times the real figure.”
Also the price of meat in Germany was quoted
without bone and fat, whereas in England the
price included bone and fat. And again, no account
was taken of tobacco, beer, etc., which are vastly
dearer in Bull’s Own Country than they are on
the continent. There is nothing easier than to show
Freetrade as an “inalienable blessing,” and Pro-
tection asa “ blighting curse,” by that brand of logic.
It is the sort of disingenuous pappycock the
Freetrade daily paper ladles out at short intervals
for the benefit of its undiscriminating patrons the
world over. But it is not the stuff that may be
safely inserted in an official report like a Blue
Book. The fact that? such a thing should have
been attempted suggests that the wilting doctrine
of the late Cobden is in an even more parlous
plight in the Cold Land than the series of Free-
trade reverses at by-elections there indicates.
«•—
Snowball, the tragic ass who “leads” in the
Vic. Orange vaudeville show, has unearthed a
new argument against Dalgety as a site for the
Australian capital. Snowball doesn’t object to
the climate, and he reckons the Snowy is a grand
river. But he has it, “on good authority,” that
“Rome” holds land on Momssp, and is running the
Dalgety site for purposes of prpfit. So he will
see the Bible burned with Kentish fire before
he ceases his jeremiads concerning the undesira-
bleness of any part of this district as a site for the
Australian capital. Snowball adduces no proofs
that “Rome” owns any property about Dal-
gety. He just says she does; and as 90
per cent, of the information people like
Snowball offer concerning “Rome” is pathetically
uninformed nonsense, the betting is the City of
the Popes doesn’t possess a shovelful of earth
within 20 miles of the proposed site. Assuming
it does, however, it is a maniacal objection to
level against any site that a religious denomina-
tion holds property near it. That would bar most
habitable places in this cleric-ridden community,
and leave the choice to spots like the interior of
the Never-Never country, or the outer rim of
West-o’-Beyond. But reasonableness is thrown
away on the Snowball type of politician. He
would disown his grandmother on the baseless
rumor that she had been seen lighting herself to
bed with a Roman candle.
*
Sydney Chamber of Manufactures lately deputa-
tionised Premier. Wade on the proposed Pure
Food Bill. Its principal objection was to clause
13, which provides that every packet of food
offered for sale must be labelled with the address
of the maker. The trouble is all over the preju-
dice against local goods so carefully fostered
by the local importing liar. The Chamber
didn’t so much object to the name of a
Victorian maker being displayed, for there
is some chance of selling' Victorian goods
in N.S.W. ; they are imported in a small way,
and even being imported in a small way is better
than not being imported at all. But to put on a
label, showing that the goods were made in
N.S.W., was practically to damn their sale in
N.S.W., so deeply has the importing lie eaten
into the popular mind. Wade promised to brood
over the lamentable mental disease that his party
has brought upon the Ma State, and there is room
to brood quite a heap.
The Melbourne City Council has solemnly pro-
nounced the doom of the barrowmen on the
bridge. There were objections to the Dago who
whooped for the “Fiji-a banan’” and flourished
the scarlet lobster in the face of the wayfarer on
this spot, for they were howlers and splitters of
the atmosphere ; but the man behind the barrow
met a widespread and emphatic need in bringing
fish and fruit right to the hand of the hurried
house-parent chasing home for the evening meal.
As a set-off to the barrow-market’s atmosphere of
boiled Cray, pink shrimp, fresh ling, pineapple,
and carbonic acid gas from the flare lamps, it must
be admitted that the institution provided a fine
splash of color in the Melbourne night. The coun-
cil, having hustled the hawkers off the accustomed
pitch, refuses to take any steps to enable them to
continue in contact with customers, and lets
the fact that the city shopkeeper is the chief con-
sideration become as obvious as a policeman’s
footmark. Retailers complained bitterly that
they couldn’t pay their burdensome rents and yet
compete with the barrow Ishmaelite, and the
council listened with tears, and submitted to the
prayers of the overburdened tenants, because its
sympathies were with the landlords. So the
hawkers are booted out of the precincts to enable
the shopkeepers to pay exorbitant rents, which
they can only do, even when the barrow Ishmaelite
is gone, by under-paying the grower and over-
charging the consumer, and giving wretched wages
to their employees. So the landlord scores every
time, and if the man on the land at Boobiack
can’t sell his pears, and the little clerk’s
family at Albert Park has to do -with
50 per cent, less fruit next summer, they will all
be buoyed up with Christian consciousness of the
fact that the owners of ten-foot frontages in
Swanston-street can still wring out of their
tenants the wherewithal to maintain luxurious
homes and run expensive motors that smell of
more evil than a whole army of barrows.
■ ♦
The landowners who make up the local-governing
bodies of Victoria are an incredible crojvd. In a
general way, their business habits in their muni-
cipal capacity are so loose that a Choctaw might
well be shocked at them, and, compared with their
promise to pay, a Confederate bond is very fair
security. The Lilydale and Warburton Railway
Construction Trust is a recent case in point. It
borrowed £12,000 at 4J per cent, with which to
acquire land that only cost £4244. But it managed
to fool away £7500 in law costs and expenses, so
that it got through £11,744 with only £4244 worth
of assets to show for them. Apparently, how-
ever, the burden didn’t trouble it much. In 1906
the blessed Trust struck a rate which should have
brought in £1260 towards the principal and
interest of its debt, but the landowners
mostly didn’t pay, and the Trust didn’t
attempt to make them pay, so the rate only pro-
duced £461 in cash. Next year the Trust varied
things by striking no rate at all. Of course, all that
meant that it made default on its obligations, and
appeared before the country as an institution
whose word, in a financial matter, was of no value
at all; but a huge proportion of rich Victorian
landowners are so utterly devoid of shame arid
decency that the local bodies of their State are
constantly doing things of that kind. It is almost
a dead sure thing that when a Victorian country
local government body—the kind in which the
landowning class is supreme—gives its solemn
promise and guarantee to pay its just debts, it
won’t pay them; and that, instead of being
ashamed because it is a liar and a defaulter,
it will send an indignant deputation to the
Premier asking him to charge the bill to the com-
munity at large.
<»
John Darling, who used to lead S. Australia’s
Tory Opposition, but retired so as to give more
attention to the “horrible understanding ” out of
which wheat-buyers make some of their profits,
returned to politics the other day, and delivered
an address at Crystal Brook. Having announced
himself as a State insect, John of the Horrible
Understanding buzzed at length about the in-
iquity of handing the Northern Territory over to
the Commonwealth “for about 2d. per acre, the
amount of the debt ” ; and he announced that lie
would like to be one of a syndicate to buy it at
the price. Well, that’s just what John is to be : —
the Commonwealth is the syndicate, and John is
a member of the Commonwealth. So, thanks to
some people being mere politicians while others are
statesmen, John is going to have his wish gratified.
No doubt, however, the arrangement doesn’t
quite suit John — his idea probably is that he and
perhaps 50 other Fat gentlemen should form the
syndicate, and sweat the Territory ; the Common-
wealth’s idea is that, besides John, there should
be, for a start, about 4,000,000 members of the
syndicate, and that the syndicate, instead of
sweating the Territory, should put its hand in its
own pocket and develop the Great Lone Land.
“0.K.” about murderers and such-like :
A criminal of the worst type practically brands himself
with his gratuitous hypocrisy. He protests too much.
At the trial in Melbourne of the black burglar King, it
appeared that, after leaving a house where he bj.d brutally
treated an old lady, he met her grandson, or other rela-
tive, who was going for the police. And when the young
man had innocently stated his errand, King couldn’t re-
frain from saying, “ The man who would attack a woman
ought to be hanged.” Criminal hypocrisy is irrepressible.
An undetected murderer will sometimes go out of his
way to assume a horror-stricken aspect and heave a
sympathetic sigh. Deeming, of old, destroyed what-
ever chance of salvation (from hanging) he njight
have had' by talking “guff” to the detective
who arrested him in Westralia, under an alias,
on suspicion of being the husband who had murdered his
wife in Melbourne. “What a foul murder!” said the
humorous Deeming, “I wouldn’t like to have that man’s
donscience.’’ When, in due course, the murderer’s counsel
pleaded insanity for him, and argued that he'had no
moral sense of the difference between right and wrong,
the Judge squashed the argument with a reminder of how
Deeming had turned his eyes to Heaven arid talked of the
awfulness of having blud on one’s soul. It was in quite a
Deeming spirit of humor that burglar King remarked
“The man who would attack a woman ought to be
hanged,” he having attacked many women without fatal
result thus far to himself.
At Rockhampton (Q.) lately Patrick
McHugh was tried on a charge of owning a
horse that didn’t belong to him, and was convicted.
Then the Crown Prosecutor opened out with
great earnestness and said that “Prisoner had,
long been known as the leader of a gang of horse
thieves, and his character couldn’t be worse.”
Considering hpw bad a character can be (vide the
Borgias, Deeming, Nero, Henry VIII., the Devil
and other well-known persons), his Honor natur-
ally tottered a trifle on his throne at this and asked
for particulars. He got these :
Tried (for what wasn’t stated) at Mount Morgan in
1902, and acquitted.
Tried at same place in 1904 for illegally using a horse..
Convicted at the police court, but on appeal conviction
was upset on the ground of insufficient evidence.
Tried in 1905 for “ unlawfully procuring transfer of a
cattle brand.” Jury disagreed. Case dropped.
Tried in 1906 for horse-stealing. Jury disagreed. Case
dropped.
There were two small fines for assault while under
the influence of whisky, but these had nothing to
do with the horse-stealing record. Apparently a
man only requires to be acquitted often enough to
become a very dreadful criminal in the view of a
Crown Prosecutor. The Judge fiercely told
Patrick McHugh that he was liable to seven
years. Then he assumed the front of Draco
and gave him three years. Then he told
P. McHugh that if he entered into £lOO
worth (paper value) of his own recognis-
ances to be of good behavior the senteifce
would be suspended, and he would be thrown out
into the atmosphere of freedom ; and the accused
was outside almost before he knew what had hap-
pened to him. For a man whose character was
said to have reached the last possible limit of
awfulness, £lOO worth of recognisances was a lame
ending. But they do (and say) weird things at
Rockhamptom. Nearly a generation ago, B
company of volunteers was disbanded there, be-
cause there wasn’t much of it, and what there was
hardly ever turned up at drill; and the very large
ex-clergyman who ran the smaller of the two
morning papers started his leading article some-
thing like this: “Last night, at the drill-shed,
was witnessed a sight which for cruelty and in-
humanity had few parallels in the world’s his-
tory.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage
Patch.”
Theatre Royal. “ Peter Pan.”
Criterion “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Queen’s Hall “For the Term of His Natural
Life ” (Living Pictures).
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hali Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Welsh Male Choir.
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEF,Iv.
Theatre Royal “ Les Cloches de Corneviile.’*
Her Majesty’s “ The Thief."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Princess’s “ The Red Mill.”
Wirths’ Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg (Thursday and
Saturday).
“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Batch”
arrived in Sydney (at Her Majesty’s) the same day
as the Fleet, and in its way was as great a success.
It seemed to bring America nearer to us. We
haven’t got any great white Connecticut or
Wisconsin, but we have got Mrs. Wiggses, and,
away out in the backblocks, we have pretty much
the same atmosphere as that of the Cabbage
Patch. Change the phrases ever so little, take
from the great lumbering Stubbins the expectation
of a war pension, and almost any Australian
township might be the scene of this simple,
appealing comedy-drama of character. Stubbins’
pension we are trying to avoid. It came through
the Slave War—Stubbins served in the commis-
sariat department on both gides—and Stubbins is
another reason for sheering off from a danger that
the U.S. didn’t see till it was too late. Australia
might do a lot worse than spend ss. on a “Mrs.
Wiggs” ticket, and present it to Bruce Smith.
But for the rest the Cabbage Patch might be
in Riverina, or better still, on the Darling
Downs, or away back near one of the German
farming settlements of S. Australia. On tbe
Downs or at Hahndorf you can find Mrs. Schultz
selling eggs any Saturday.
» * * «
The story isn’t really of so much conse-
quence. There are, in fact, several stories; and
that is one of the charms of the delightful piece.
Everybody has a story, and you can’t draw a true
picture of a month or so in the life of any Cabbage
Patch if you pretend that there is only one story
in progress all the time. Mrs. Wiggs has hers
and Lovey Mary has hers, and Stubbins and Miss
Hazy have theirs. So the various people are not
continually being dragged on to prop up and de-
velop a plot. All of them, with their own lives
to live, are necessary to the picture ; and so they
are all given a chance to be their natural selves.
The result is half-a-dozen character sketches of
extraordinary power. There is Mrs. Wiggs, whose
life has been full of misfortunes which she hasn’t
noticed, being too busy observing all the
other misfortunes that she’s glad she
hasn’t got—she might have had a hare-
lip, for instance, as she tells Lovey
Mary. And as for wealth, if she hasn’t much—
well, it’s so much easier to share it with those who
want it more. Also there is Stubbins, slow, lum-
bering, sly. He comes from the land of whips of
time, where they have hours and days to think ;
and when the smart city man has a deal with him,
he is liable to find out in a day, or week, or month
or so that the fool wasn’t such a fool as he looked.
And Miss Hazy, the ancient spinster whom
Stubbins marries on the strength of some pies,
and then he takes to drink because they weren’t
Miss Hazy’s pies at all. And Mrs. Eichorn, who
has gone sour; and Mrs. Schultz, the gar-
rulous, fat German lady, who sells eggs quite regu-
larly in Toowoomba. There is Lovey Mary, too,
mothering the baby boy she has run away with
from the orphan asylum, because she had heard
somebody was going to take him away, and she was
afraid the somebody mightn’t be good to him. But
Lovey Mary, like Miss Lucy and Mr. Bob, don’t
so completely belong to the picture ; and, though
the more you think about it the truer Mr. Wiggs
seems to be, he doesn’t hit you at once as just the
sort of man who would do what he is supposed to
have done. Besides these, there are three or four
others who have to do very little, but are real
people while they are doing it. In that respect,
this co. will remind younger Sydney of Waldron
and his “Squaw Man” co., though this piece will
make a wider appeal.
* * * *
All but two or three of the players are new
to these parts. Of those two or three, Miss
Jennie Reifforth —who played in “Trilby” with
Edith Crane —is the present Mrs. Schultz. Miss
Dwyer is Mrs. Wiggs, and John F. Webber is
Stubbins, with Miss Lowell as Miss Hazy, and
Miss Raymond as the acrid Mrs. Eichorn ; while
G. Bryant plays the part of Wiggs better than
first impressions will probably lead you to think.
** * *
“Semi-Colon,” a member of The Bul-
letin staff who has risen in insurrection against
the dramatic critic, writes :
“Mrs. Wiggs” isn’t a play; it’s an album of family
portraits—and a depressing- assortment tff out-of-date
daguerrotypes. It is also a nightmare, a freak, and, in
addition, a Jim jam. It was evidently meant to be a
pantomime ; but the man who was writing the music fled
when he saw the seven-foot lady with the crosscut-saw
voice and the vibrating bonnet. But the stage-manager
remembered some of his music, notably the staccato
entrance of Stubbins with the heavy foot and the crash
of the brass as he flops on the sofa is a triumph of Wag-
nerian liet-moti’fs and assiduous rehearsal. The night-
mare has no plot to divulge. It is composed of scenes
from two books which the present scribe hasn’t read,
and which not even the personal exhortation
of the seven-footer could make him read. The
scenes are dragged in and dragged out, just to
allow Mrs. Wiggs to say something sentimentally funny.
A perfectly superfluous prize-fighter, masquerading as a
lover, and a much-corseted lady drift in and out in a
quite uncalled-for manner. The only bit of plot occurs
when Mrs. Wiggs learns that her returned bigamist hu—
band has not been idle in his absence, and mentions that
one of the many children on the stage is his by a tem-
porary Mrs. Wiggs. But, in the middle of the pathos,
the freaks invade the stage, and the point is forgotten.
Just as in a lobster nightmare, the stray freaks are always
appearing at windows and frightening you. The only
real thing in this host of jimjams is the pump vyhich
produces real water instead of jimjams, and gives you
the uneasy feeling that after all you may be awake.' At
the end of the second act the dramatic climax is ruth-
lessly shoved off the stage in order to bring- in the panto-
mime finale of putting a drunk into a departing lug-
gage van. The best character-study in freaks is the
impossible bride. She is unforgettable, just as
a jimjam is unpleasantly remembersome. Every
night after I’ve had lobster and liquid for
supper that bride in lace-curtains will appear and worry
me. I have taken precautions, and requested my best
girl to send back the ring ; but 20 years hence the memory
of that bride will blithely arise and smite me. There is
also a vague, fat lady who says, “ Aien’t it? Don’t it?” ;
but the humor of “Aien’t it? Don’t it?” does not appeal
to an Australian. Most of the other freaks speak equally
incomprehensible American. Mrs. Wiggs is the only sane
person, beside the pump, in this collection of freaks. She
wouldn’t have stood them for a week ; and they wouldn’t
have stood her for an hour. Ezra, the returned husband
of Mrs. Wiggs, is also impossible as a repentant bigamist.
—chiefly because he is all teeth. You can’t pump up
THE COMING OF THE FLEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ere the first seagull woke from fishy dreams,
And yawned and'stretched upon his windy ledge,
Enthusiastic shadows saw the gleams
Of masthead lights on the horizon edge.
The Wind of Dawn on cold feet stole among
The shiv’ring crew that cowered upon the cliffs,
Laying its thoughtful hand on throat and lung,
And moving all to sneezes, coughs, and sniffs.
Haggard and cold, they waited for the sun
To flood with light the mist-enshrouded sea,
Thinking, with sneers, how later ones would run
And crane and peer and stare in vain. Ah, me !
Ere the house-father laced his heavy hoots
And chopped the gay greenwood, so tough and
cheap,
From seaward came the hoarse and nervous hoots
Of ships that ply for hire upon the deep.
Rattled the dealer’s cart, heaped high with youth
And fat relations, making for the sea;
It was a joyous group—except, in truth,
The horse. He seemed a pessimist to me.
The trams, like laden fruit-trees, moved along,
Dropping rash people on the paven way ;
The prostrate forms amused the gaping crowd
(Such things all help to make a holiday).
The autocratic infant swiftly towed,
Or carried by the lady known as “ Mum,”
Yelled like a fiend upon the public road,
While its relations looked extremely glum.
THE BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC CO. IN THE “SLAVES OF SIN ,” AT
SYDNEY STANDARD.
So, till inspired. Auntie with gladsome cries
Urged it to gaze upon a loaded wain.
Whereat the shrieking demon dried its eyes
And the whole caravan moved on again.
On to the coast ! Age leant on weary Age,
And tottered by with almost childish glee,
Till all the world had made its pilgrimage
And munched bananas by the misty sea.
Like ants upon the hills they stood at gaze ;
On vacant lots of land they lay and puffed ;
A loud, indignant yelling in the haze
Told that the infant had been soundly cuffed.
For miles they’d bribed him with the richest food
From the vast hamper they had dragged from
town ;
Till on the cliffs their weary forms they strewed,
Then Vengeance overtook him—upside down.
A sound of frantic clapping and wild shrieks—
“ The Fleet ! The Fleet!” the waiting thousands
cried,
And roared and waved. (For many weary weeks
They’d read about these ships upon the tide.)
And so they roared. But suddenly a voice—
An angry voice—shouted, “I said I would !
I told th’ bloomin’ kid t’ take ’is choice —
T’ come or get a ’idin’! You be good !”
And then the cheering ceased. A silence dead
Fell on the brooding hills and distant sea ;
And they in carts, that argued as they fed,
And watched alway, seemed steeped in misery.
Always the infant on the scene obtrudes ;
Loud, red, immense, he dominates his pair
Of sheepish parents, makes unceasing feuds,
And publicly degrades them in the square.
I love to see the Family abroad ;
Laden with food, they trudge upon their way,
Howling their sorrow that they can’t afford
To do the same on every holiday.
On this occasion they stood still and stared
While sixteen ships—the wondrous Yankee fleet —
Came into port. Then one and all declared
The time had come to Have Some Food To Eat.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts
»nd accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
™ PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE, confining' its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. 6. HOWARD POPE, Manag-er.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
sympathy for teeth. Altogether, “Mrs. Wiggs” is the
worst advertisement of America ever sent out of that
country. If America is like that, it will be a long time
before the Australian fleet returns this visit.
** * *
Colossal musical programmes—classical
and popular, vocal and instrumental—were pre-
pared for the Fleeters, and colossal crowds came
to listen. On Monday night, at the Continental
in Sydney Domain, there were five platforms, at
which five separate concerts were happening.
Mr. Southwell, who managed the whole musical
box of tricks, estimated there were 75,000 persons
present—ls,ooo at each platform. Think of it —
75,000 wet melomaniacs, their wetness aggravated
by a cold southerly. For with the impartial in-
difference with which Providence regards a colossal
Continental or the fall of a sparrow or an empire,
rain and the five programmes began together. It
was the intention of the management that the
audience at each platform should
join in the singing of the final
American airs. But a wet crowd
doesn’t put on—or give out—airs.
The final and fourth concert at
the Town Hall was an American
night, and packed to the last
foot, enough money being taken
to pay all expenses. And this
although the Americans, who
filled the galleries, came in on
their uniforms. Andrew Black,
Marie Narelle, Mrs. Slapoffski,
Lemmone, Lawrence Campbell,
and others of the best Sydney
talent, were backed by the wori-
derful young voices of some hun-
dreds of boys from the Cleveland-
street Public School. An officer
of the Vermont, on behalf of his
Jackies, made a brilliant oration
of thanks. It wasn’t merely a
good speech or a few words—it was
the real oratorical goods delivered
in the convincing way. And he
invited, all those present to visit
America, and then upsprang one
of the blue uniforms and roared
“Three cheers for this beautiful
city.” Swift came the Cleveland-
street school boys’ “Three cheers
for you.” Their trebles and bari-
tones flung back the greeting in great style, and
all was congratulations and bustle.
« «
Quite regardless of the feelings of a paper
■which has to go to press early in order to dump
itself on all the towns between Melbourne and
Brisbane by Thursday, “Peter Pan” was an-
nounced for Wednesday night at Sydney Royal,
with Tittell Brune in the forefront of the battle.
More coherent remarks will be made on the sub-
ject next week.
sfc * * *
“Miss Hook of Holland,” about which
there is little that is new to be said these days, is
in its fifth week at Sydney Criterion. West’s pic-
tures, at the Palace, are now going strong with
the United States Fleet views, and so is the
Lyceum. The Burns-Squires scrap is being bio-
graphed at the Stadium, where the original biff
took place. That hard-flogging drama, “ For the
Term of His Natural Life,” is still being pic-
torially represented at the Queen’s Hall. Other
shows—amphitheatres, bronco busters, Buffalo
Williams, male choirs, concerts, human and dog
scraps, and the like—are past counting.
*
The next show the Tait brothers are to try
on Australia consists of the Welsh male choir;
and it ought to produce some enthusiasm even
from a Fleet-wearied city like Sydney, where the
Australian season opens at the Town Hall on
September 1. Everybody who has lived in a
mining camp where Taffid prevails, knows a little
of what Taffid and Rhys can do in the matter of
part singing; and a choir that consists of the
pick of the Taffids and Rhyses ought to be worth
hewing a way through a crowd to hear.
* * -X- *
“ 10-2-4 ” goes to a little-known show :
A remarkable show was the benefit which was accorded
to W. H. Ayr of the Hippodrome at Sydney Standard last
Week. Never has the writer seen so much gore shed
3n so short a space of time. Five of the beneficiary’s
favorite plays were selected, and from each of them his
most corpulent act was hewn ruthlessly, and staged.
People died, during the evening, in all positions, and by
every lethal engine known to criminology. They passed
over singly, in pairs and in clusters. They expired in
uncomplaining silence, noisily profane, and also with
faint groans. The stage was now a shambles, now a mere
death chamber. And, through it all, W. H. Ayr towered
splendidly upright—except once, when the fatty degenera-
tion with which the rdle of a Dago gambler was afflicted
drove him to assume a mustard-hued velvet bicycling
suit, and be thoroughly bad for 15 minutes.
The third act of “ The Slave of Sin ” gave the company
its finest opportunity. A delightful girl is discovered
protesting her confidence in the innocence of W. H. Ayr.
A doctor—a villainous dog, from his lowering, dusty face
and shouting red shirt-front to his immense immoral-
looking boots—casts aspersions on the absent one—who
blows in suddenly like a Westralian willy-willy and con-
founds his detractor. (Cheers.) As a fact the medico is
himself the guilty party. An indigent friend attempts to
blackmail the physician on the score of past crimes. The
two talk in hundreds, but no money changes hands. Mean-
while the world (always barring the maiden aforesaid) is
against W. H. Ayr. Even his male parent spurns him.
And now a strange thing occurs. A lady enters in a
decollete evening dress of scarlet plush. Her hobbies are
American cigarettes and assassination. W. H. Ayr is
flattened out with her full approval, by a resounding
crack on the skull, and his father shortly' afterwards ab-
sorbs, at her instance, six inches of cold steel in the
stomach or thereabouts. Throughout these ghastlinesses
the mother of the crimson-clad lady hovers around looking
deplorable. If there was ever a more appalling-seen?-
ing human being presented on anv stage than the
female progenitor of Ida the Bloodstained, the writer
would like to make that horror’s acquaintance.
Ida, senior, baffles description. She gets word-
portraiture down, and jumps on it, and kicks
it to death. She is a parent whom none could respect or
feel one throb of pride ini connection with.
Partly owing to her, partly to her daughter, and partly
to the medico, a boy constable hurries in and arrests the
wrong people, the while shouts of horror bump against
the falling curtain.
It is not an entertainment for the sophisticated play-
goer. But there is a big section of the community to
which it makes a sure appeal. The actors know their
trade for the most part, even if they don’t always know
their lines. W. H. Ayr is the last word in oppressed
heroes. After watching his impersonations last week
and the way they were received, this scribe came to the
•conclusion that, if any mime has a chance of going suc-
cessfully into actor-management in N.S. W. to-day, W. H.
Ayr has. It seems a hard brick to throw at the Ma State"
yet it is probably a merited one.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli’s advertisements always
read like an invoice or a Customs declaration.
£°L i £ stance * " J us * ; arrived from London per
R.M.S. Ormuz, Mr. Tod Kalman, Eccentric Patter
Comedian.” It suggests a case on a wharf and
an anxious manager with a hammer and chisel
extracting the latest importation from his packing
of shavings and straw. However, T. Kalman is
up to sample, and is going well. Other importa-
tions still showing are the Meymotts with their
smart sketch, “Semi-Detached;” Austin Rudd of
the English comic song. Mignonette Kokin, and
the Miles Stav'ordale Quintette. Regan and
Ryan, Fanny Powers and Irving Sayles render
valuable assistance in the good cause, and Baby
Watson—that surprising young person of eight
alleged summers—is as winsome as ever. Galetti’s
dogs and baboons continue to amuse by their in-
tense solemnity.
*# # *
From Adelaide :
“ The Merry Widow ” runs its triumphant course—its
course seems to be always triumphant—at Adelaide
Royal, and the present writer appeals vainly to cods and
men, saying “ Whaffor? " It is well enough—say, equal
to “ Florodora,” and rather below “ The Country Girl
but why the world-wide enthusiasm ? The plot, of course,
THE BURNS-SQUIRES KNOCK-OUT.
is—well, the heroine is seemingly the only woman in it
whose character it would not be flattery to call
“ dubious,” and the men (including- the hero) are their
fitting mates. The whole deplorable episode of the
summer-arbor and the kej'hole has evidently been
watered down for Anglo-Saxon inspection—Heaven knows
what it was like in the original, at Vienna and there-
abouts ; but even now it is the strongest thing of its kind
since “ MaMie Rosette.” Surely that cannot account for
the furore ? The music grows on one at a second hearing,
but is badly damaged by the English words that have
been forcibly made to fit it; so that
“ I must put them off somehow —
Yes, I must put them off somehow ”
has to figure as a spirited couplet. The mounting, the
dressing, and the dancing are magnificent ; so is some of
the singing. The cast is much as in Melbourne, save that
W. S. Percy, replacing Fred Leslie as the valet, gives his
celebrated imitation of George Lauri in similarparts. Carrie
Moore makes the Widow an intense and soulful person ;
she is veryattractive, yetone can imagine the part played
quite differently. Higginson takes the hero as a boyish,
Harry Bronson type of character. The gaiety of Adelaide
has been increased by Kubelik, by Professor Jones (a
lofty-minded lecturer with an odd personality), and by
some noted wrestlers ; but the Widow eclipses everything
else.
** * *
Much has been already said by The
Bulletin in praise of Miss Margaret Anglin’s
performance, and in respectful criticism of “ The
Thief,” the play from the French, which intro-
duced the lady to a Melbourne audience at Her
Majesty’s last Saturday. ‘ ‘ The Thief ”is not a great
play as regards either the mechanism of the plot
or its characterisation, but inasmuch as it refrains
from cheap effects—with one exception—whilst
maintaining an intensity of dramatic, interest, it
is a work to be extolled in comparison with
the tawdry melodramas that provide too large
a proportion of theatrical entertainment for this
country. In Bernstein’s clever acting-di;ama we
have original situations with new ways of arriv-
ing at them. The originalities are more striking
than the inconsistencies, and though one be not
really persuaded by the dramatist one gets a sur-
face impression of conviction that lasts for the
time being. Such plays don’t improve on
acquaintance like “Mrs. Tanqueray,” perfectly
reasonable and rich in subtle suggestion, but they,
are even better adapted to stimulate the public
taste for intellectual stage-craft because the com-
position is not very delicate, and the flavor of
ginger is strong in them.
* * * *
To the present commentator it seems that
the characters in the English version of “The
Thief” should have English names, as in the
London production of George Alexander. The
French atmosphere of the original has not been
translated : why, then, does this American version
preserve the French names, and lay the scene in an
alleged French country house instead of “Ray-
mond Leyton’s country house,” and present the
detective as a Frenchman with a typical beard
instead of a Brition, named Garrett, with a
moustache, and state the amount of stolen
money in francs ? Of the present company Henry
Kolker has a foreign American accent, but no
French vivacity ; the detective is passably French
in all respects save his diction ; the others are un-
compromisingly English characters — i.e.. their
style is consistent with the language they speak.
The pictorial effect is clouded enough without con-
tradictory details. Better that Miss Anglin should
have been the wife of “ Richard Chelford,” and
have stolen English money in the Anglo-Saxon
tongue, instead of impersonating the wife of one
Richard Voysin, whom she addresses as “Rick.”
Is “Rick” a French abbreviation also? It is
certainly English.
• * *
Nothing happens in “ The Thief ” but
what would be likely to happen under two sets of
suitable conditions. These conditions, however,
are not all found in the play. It has only one set.
Marise Voysin is madly in love with her husband
“crazy about him,” she says—and to keep his
fondness at fever heat she steals money from the
desk of her friend and hostess in order to buy
charming gowns, inspiring under-garments, and
delightful millinery. Also, she is a liar and a
cunning deceiver, naturally enough. And her
devouring passion for her husband’s admiration is
the motive of the story. She would sacrifice every-
body and everything (save sexual “honor”) ito
keep her dishonesty secret. Had her husband not
bowled her out she would, probably enough, have
allowed a boy of 19 to bear the blame of her theft,
and indeed her only admitted reason for saving
the boy’s character is her desire to convince her
husband that she isn’t quite base enough for any-
thing. Granted that in all this she is very like a
woman. But the dramatist needed a tremendous
act of self-sacrifice on the part of the 19-year-old
boy, and to get it he invented conditions utterly
inconsistent with the woman’s conjugal feelings.
She is represented as allowing the boy to chase
her with amorous importunities for four months —
to write innumerable love-letters which he plants
in ridiculous places, exposing her to the risk of a
terrible row with the husband she worships, and
all for nothing. She doesn’t care tuppence for
the boy “in that way.” She laughs at his persist-
ence whilst commenting on the danger it exposes
her to. A light-minded woman, incapable of
deep affection for any man, might carry on
such a flirtation. But to this woman it would
be against nature. The husband is her first and
only love. The virtue of a young matron’s passion-
ate first love is intolerant of unlawful advances.
Marise, priding herself on her grande passion,
would be a prude, and a repellent prude at that,
as regards any outsider, young or old, who cast
aspersions on her character by secreting love
letters in her room. The dramatist insults the
eternal verities for the sake of his plot. It is
necessary to show reason for the boy’s self-sacri-
fice, and a reason for his having been seen
dodging about on the staircase leading to
Marise’s room, and a reason for the woman
being able to go into the garden and
find him at a critical moment —and so
the dramatist devises an impossible “flirtation”
to meet the necessity. Perhaps things were
different in the French original. Another weak-
ness in the plot is the presumption that the wife
of a man whose income is small can spend £l5O or
so on finery, and wear it all at once, without ex-
citing any jealous suspicions in the breast of her
dear, dear friend, the other woman, more espe-
cially when the other woman has been lately
robbed of £4OO in cash and bank notes. Could
Mrs. Jones persuade Mrs. Brown that an outfit
worth 40 guineas cost only 35s ?
* * •* *
Miss Margaret Anglin brings to the part
of Marise Voysin a splendid talent for identifying
herself with it. She has no eccentricities of style,
no obvious mannerisms that can be called theatri-
cal, but of the art that conceals art in histrionism
she is a born exponent. Of the few great actresses
Australia has seen during the past 25 years—they
could be counted on the fingers and thumb of one
hand—Miss Anglin is perhaps the most simply
natural. In her pleadings to her husband, Marise
puts her case with a flowing eloquence and force
of concise reasoning that no barrister could
equal, yet it seems the spontaneous utter-
ance of a distressed soul. Other actresses
have shown greater power to move an
audience, perhaps. None have been more con-
vincing. Henry Kolker is impressive rather
than pleasing in the part of the husband, which
might be made more masterful. George Titheradge
reproduces himself in his good old form as a
rather soft-headed father of a foolish boy, which
boy is cleverly presented by Tith the younger.
Miss Yaughan makes the best she can of the
colorless character of a young wife ; and Sydney
Stirling—formerly of the “Sweet Nell” co.—is
the high-toned ’tective who is so easily induced to
denounce Titheradge’s son. These five characters,
plus a well-appointed servant in livery, comprise
the whole of the cast, and they want no assistance.
If a seventh person were to drop into the imbroglio,
he, or she, would be an interloper.
** * *
“The Prince Chap,” at the Princess’s, is
looking stronger in the third act than it appeared
on the opening night, when Miss Justina Wayne
and A. E. Greenaway were less easy in their
places. Greenaway has a small, unthankful job
which requires careful handling, and Miss Wayne
(supposed to be the grown-up realisation of a child
who has had two different identities in the
previous acts) is the all-important heroine of
this closing scene. Friday night brings the short
run of “ The Prince Chap ” to a conclusion. On
Saturday comes “ The Red Mill,” late of Sydney.
The “ Dutch musical play” will restore a number
of the Williamsonian people to Melbourne notice.
Miss Alma Barber, Olive Godwin, Fanny Dango,
Fred Leslie, Pat Bathurst, and others, together
with Chas. Loder, from America, are concerned
in the song-and-dance conspiracy aforesaid, and
their united endeavors are expected to paint the
mill very red indeed.
->& *
Miss Florence Baines and co. are to break
out again (on Fleet Night) at the Bijou, where
they had a long innings earlier in the year. The
bill for their reappearance is “Mrs. Lee’s
Lodgers.” The further announcement that the
landlady and her boarders will be musical and
farcical goes without saying, nevertheless it may as
well be said. Nothing that goes without remark
is ever left unmentioned.
** # *
Melbourne King’s is concerned with a six-
nights’ revival of “ A Life’s Revenge,” the drama
in which Walter Howard sees contemporary
Russia through a haze of crimson. It is much
the same old pageant of barbarism, except that it
seems to have had some recent attention from
the clothes-con tractor. The princely Strogo-
roff, not to mention others, is, apart from
the amusing unpleasantness of his character,
a personage sweet to look upon. One or
two of his uniforms are indeed exhilarating,
though his pants do run to the decadent baggi-
ness of a past age. Also the Princess Ivyala
and Marcia Vittoria, the bad, bad female, appear
to have studied the spring fashions. The Prin-
cess has two notable frocks —one a pale blue
felicity; the other a monologue in white satin ;
while Marcia always speaks interestingly in
thunderous scarlet. Such festivities distract
the attention from the persecution of Paul
Staraovitch, who, by the way, aids the real-
ism of his own knouting by affecting a white
sweater, the back of which is nicely illus-
trated with stripes of stage berlud. Staraovitch,
one of the few who are not attired like a coronation',
gets the somewhat exacting treatment of George
Gross, and Laurence Dunbar plays the Strogoroff
as a dismal person whose sin leans a little to im-
becility. Miss Duggan, who has used up most of
the Milky Way in her hair ornaments, is the
pretty-pretty princess; while Miss Guildford
occupies herself with the vices of Marcia
Vittoria. Some good work is done by Miss
Lena Langridge and by Max Clifton, ar.d some
hilarious idiocies are perpetrated by Bert Bailey.
Indeed, the third act is hog-fat with the Baileyan
sort of humor, and is mostly a razzle of nonsense
all the time. What is said is merely turkey lolly ;
but the Punch-like visage of the esteemed Albert
gives it a curious distinction. Next Saturday
night “Bobbery Under Arms” will present the
romantic Starlight and co. for the edification and
instruction of the Fleet visitors.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the National Opera
Co., organised by George Musgrove for John
Wren, makes a first appearance on Saturday in
“ Les Cloches de Corneville.” Planquette’s opera
has been produced by amateurs from time to tune,
but this will be its first revival by a professional
company in many years. Miss Stella Gastelle,
Miss Hodgson, and some of the male principals
are strangers to Australia. The Bailie will be
our old friend Snazelle, and the chorus promises to
reflect due credit upon the land of its birth.
Moreover, the prices—35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is.—
are a popularly attractive feature of the new
undertaking.
* * *
West’s Pictures, at Melbourne Olympia,
continue to move with the times and draw a large
following of the public. This week’s films include
the latest pictorial views from Sydney, and a short
performance of “ Hamlet,” with variations, in the
course of which Ophelia jumps into a river and
gets drowned whilst bathing. Next week a
fresh assortment of events will be submitted
on the screen. At Prince’s Court, adjoin-
ing Olympia, a profusely illuminated show
opens on Saturday, a menagerie of animals
having kindly consented to perform on this and
subsequent special occasions. Also the Glaci-
arium, in the same district, will assume a gala
aspect on account of the warships in Hobson’s
Bay. Many other things of Melbourne’s highly
excited moment are too numerous to particularise.
But two musical matters which stand out boldly
from the mass of advts. are the Kilties’ Band at
the Exhibition Building and Mark Hambourg at
the Town Hall. The Kilties arrived on Monday,
and will make their presence heard during the
week. Hambourg is staying on for two more
recitals, in spite of his having already appeared
for the last time.
** * *
A monologuist from ’Murka —one Burt
Shepard—started to talk and sing through his
nose at the Opera House on Saturday. Also, he
played the piano somewhat indifferently, and was
generally unsuccessful in his efforts to give a
“drawing-room” entertainment in a smoking-
room manner. A piano is a conventional box of
music, and a man who sits down to monologue at
it should be quietly humorous or strikingly
original. Tod Lowen invites comparison with
Bluett as before, and the Arabs are still whirling
themselves around under engagement to Biekards.
(For “Poverty Point ” seepage 36.)
Bill Lyne’s declaration that the tariff isn’t
a fully satisfactory instrument, and wants a heap
of improvement even yet, can be proved by refer-
ence .o dozens of different items. Take the
trade in women’s ready-made garments, for in-
stance. There is a pretty high tariff on the
fabrics which are at present not made here—
they’re mostly cheap bu,t good-looking shoddies —
and practically the same tariff on the made-up
goods. The Australian manufacturer only gets 5
per cent, ad valorem preference over the British
manufacturer, and not having the slum labor of
London* to draw upon he can’t compete. The
probable result will be the loss to Australia of an
industry which employs some thousands of
workers.
THE LATE W. P. CRICK , OF N.S.W.
Gathered into the Haven of Rest, Rev.
Duncan Mclnnes, who has been shepherding on
the Clarence (N.S.W.) for the past 40 years. He
belonged to the remnant—dwindled to about two
or three—of the Synod of Eastern Australia,
which body fell out among itself 20 years ago,
and did it to such an extent that the Synod
meetings were pandemonium, and the congrega-
tions were no better. Once Duncan proposed to
join the Presbyterian Assembly of N.S.W., but
his brother Synoders were horrified, the chief
reason being that the Presbyterian Kirk used
music and sung hymns. So the Rev. Peter
Macpherson, of Maitland, visited Duncan’s church
to discuss the matter with the flock. Duncan
was, of course, in the chair, and opened proceed-
ings by an address, commencing at 2.30 in the
afternoon. After a couple of hours the Rev.
Peter Macpherson began to fidget and interrupt,
but Duncan waved him down, and proceeded.
He was chairman, and maintained the fort till the
tea hour. When business resumed Duncan re-
sumed his oratory. The congregation mostly got
tired and left for home, and there v r ere so few
present when Duncan subsided at 10 p.m. that
Peter Macpherson, who had to catch the steamer
for Sydney next day, didn’t get a spoke in the
wheel worth a cent. It was a great stonewall,
and for endurance it got pretty close to Jawbone
Neild’s best effort.


Our New Cataloft'ue Free.
It is a big book of 120 pages for the woman who buys by post.
Not only is there to be found all that is wanted under the head ot
Dress for women, girls and boys, but Drapery, I urmture and
Kitchenware are also included.
The object in publishing such a book is to faithfully illustrate our
goods, so that Postal Buyers may see exactly what we have to sell.
All our goods are sold under the condition that should they not be
entirely suitable and just as advertised they may be returned and the
purchase money will be refunded.
Every Country woman should possess a copy of this book. Write
to-day for it, remembering we pay carriage on all _goods, throughout
the Commonwealth, excepting only Furniture and Floor Covering, so
that from your home anywhere in the Country you obtain goods at
our marked Sydney Prices.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Joseph Sandwith, Scott’s Parade, Ballarat:
—“I am pleased to let the public know that
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy cured me of a
severe cold, after several other remedies had
failed.”*
SOCIETY
Of all the people who have not received
invitations to the Fleet celebrations, about the
maddest are the representatives of some of the
Melbourne suburban councils. These overlooked
magnates, who pass violent legislation about cul-
verts and street sweeping, reckon that they are
entitled to some recognition, and, because the
Commonwealth has chosen to ignore them, they
are fiercely gnashing their whiskers. They are
careful to explain that they don’t care 2d. for the
fowl and drink to which an invitation might
entitle them free of charge. It is their large
volume of dignity that they are considering, and,
if the Commonwealth is not very careful, the
present fracture of the same will be beyond repair.
Representatives from Prahran, St. Kilda and
Stoush Melbourne have had a fearful meeting, and
have declared their firm intention to take no part
in the official reception of Admiral Sperry. He
will look for them in vain, and when he cries
“ Where are they ?” echo will answer “ Dunno.”
Geelong, which has been suspected of
being in Victoria ever since the Nash extrava-
ganza began its season, has just had the surprise
of its life—at least, that is what the Geelongers
call it. Some ass, with cheerful unwisdom, went
and whispered that a fleet of warships would visit
Port Phillip Bay some time this century. Where-
fore Geelong is in a turmoil, and is commencing
to walk about. Indeed, it is in such a state of
violent astonishment that people are stated to
have been seen in the streets on several occasions.
Rather doubtfully Geelong made the tremendous
suggestion that its own treasured municipal flag
should be hung amongst the flags of other cities
in the scheme of the Melbourne decorations. The
proposal, however, was regarded as a bit too
previous and revolutionary for Geelong, and
was rejected with scorn. bo Geelong, denied
the possibility of distinction, has gone back to its
old pastime of arresting funerals for furious
driving. *
The people who fared worst in the crush
on the morning of the arrival of the United States
fleet were those who got up early to avoid the
rush. The idea of getting ahead of the crowd
appears to have been very general all over,,Sydney.
When the first tram came out for Watson’s Bay
heights, the tram men gasped at the sight of at
least 25,000 people waiting for their one vehicle.
Then before they could recover from their aston-
ishment the human flood rolled over them. Tim
service was swamped.
Mankind in a crowd is very like the Law
“a hass.” The Bulletin is moved to make
this original remark by the things it saw people
doing in Sydney last Thursday. On the King-
street line there is very little space between the
rails. Cars ran in both directions with people
holding on to the sides two deep. Of course the
first time two cars tried to pass these people were
brushed off like flies, and fell in shouting heaps on
the street. Not only did frantic Fleeters crowd on
to the footboards, but the more sublime of the
idiots actually got on top of the cars, where there
was nothing to hold on to, and sat grinning among
live electric wires and other deadly apparatus.
The fact that scores were not electrocuted was
only due to the fact that there is a special division
of angels told off to look after fools.
* * * *
This advb. was about the last bit of U.S.
Fleet literature that appeared in the Auckland
papers :
DEPARTURE OF THE AMERICAN FLEET.
Members of the General Committee and their wives or
substitutes who are desirous of witnessing: the departure
of the fleet are requested to assemble at the Northern
Steamship Company’s wharf, Quay-street, on Saturday
morning-at 7,30 sharp to accompany them as far as the
North Head. All members are requested to be present.
H. G. PALETHORPE, Secretary.
Perhaps, after all, “substitute” was about as
good a word as the case admitted of. It might
have been brutal to say “ Members of the General
Committee and their own or other people’s wives.”
THE FRUGAL MIND.
MELBOURNE CLERK: “I want to get away for the Fleet, an I’m hanged if I know what yarn
to spin the boss.”
HIS PAL : “ Why not kill yer grandmother ?”
M.C .: “Oh, I can’t spare her. I’m saving her for the Cup.”
The Wronging of the Innocents lias begun.
This appeared in the S. M. Herald (22/8/’08)
PATERSON. —August 20,1908. at their residence, Or-
veito, Lawson-street, Waverley, the wife of A.
Paterson—a son (Sperry Lincoln Garfield).
* * * *
“Bloggs” (who knows his United States) :
Rome has been running- the U.S. Fleet during the past
week in a way to make the quaint soul who conducts
Dill’s Orange organ rage justifiably. On the Sabbath the
Scarlet Female hired Sydney Town Hall and ban-
queted a couple of thousand men. The Cathedral was
filled with United States tars for High Mass. All the
Admirals (R.O. and otherwise) turned up at this
ceremony ; likewise all the pressmen. Five thousand
children with names like O’Brannigan, Muldoon, and so
forth carolled “The Wearin’ o’ the Green” as the pro-
cession swept by St. Mary’s on Friday, and never
a Yankee answered with a stave of ‘‘Boyne
Water ” They just smiled and waved ; and stout-hearted
Protestants* m 'the vicinity nearly dropped dead at the
spectacle of Sperry up-hoisung himself, as his carriage
passed the Cathedral dais, to salute the Cardinal. Gome
to think of it, the whole things natural enough. Sperry
and his brother mariners are in these parts on business
more than on pleasure. They have their eyes on
the U.S.A. all the time. America doesn t give a soli-
tary “durn ” for the British Empire League section of the
populace. (The local Leaguers asked 300 tars to feed
with them on Friday night, and only seven turned up—
though, in the words of Sydney Telegraph, as the
evening wore on, men began to come in by twos ana
threes, including a sprinkling of colored seamen, until
there was quite a respectable number present. ) 11 bperry
and his merry men made the biggest hit on record with
the British Empire element of the population, the achieve-
ment would cut no ice in Hamland. On the contrary, ihe
true-blue Britisher is cordially detested and loudly laughed
at from N’York right through to ’Frisco. The Englishman
who exploits the “crimson ties” argument after per-
sonal exploration of the land that breeds teddy-bears is
as rare as an intelligent Freetrader. But the attitude ot
the man of Irish descent to the United States and the
States’ attitude to him are different things altogether.
The United States looks to Ireland to supply her with
policemen, aldermen, political “bosses,” prize-fighters,
and that element of discord which is Attic salt to a com-
munity given up over-much to a dull business routine.
And she does not look in vain. The news that the
Admirals of the U.S.A. squadron and their subordinates
have been junketing in large numbers with the Austra-
lian Irish will give more genuine gratification to the
numerous and politically influential American-Irish on
the other side of the Pacific than any other social item
could. The information, on the other hand, that their
representatives had been going out of: their way to listen
to boys of the Bruce Smith and Willie Kelly breed haver-
ing about the gorgeousness of Hingland and its undying
love for the Eagle that jumped on it with both claws 125
years ago would merely arouse a pained smile.
Sperry and bis brother-tars enjoyed the company of the
Cardinal and his friends, doubtless, but this scribe is open
to wager that they enjoyed still more thfe quiet, satisfy-
ing- bliss of feeling that they were playing the national
game in a way calculated to give general satisfaction to
their homeland folk.
As the U.S. Fleet procession passed up
Queen-street, Auckland, on the Monday when
that city couldn’t get its hat on without a shoe-
horn or get it off again without dynamite, an
incident befell which wasn’t in the programme.
From the scaffolding in front of an unfinished
building, the workmen gently suspended two
banners with some crude but business-like verse
on them :
Banner No. I.
Welcome, white hand across the sea,
America our ally, Japan our enemy.
Remember the Maine,
Japan must follow Spain.
Banner No. 11.
The Monkey grins and shows his teeth,
Call again, white man ;
By-and-bye he’s going to bite,
By-and-bye we’ll have to fight.
We’re far from horiie and all alone,
He’s the dog and we’re the bone.
Cali again, white man.
The proceeding was regarded as undignified, and
the strong arm of the Law climbed tip with large
feet and its mouth open, and interrupted the
show. But it was a good show while it lasted.
* * * *
One of the numerous and unnecessary
sectional societies which exist in Australia to per-
petuate little old-world stoek-yard fences, and to
try and prevent their little section of the new
Australian nation from getting boxed with other
mobs, cabled an invitation to the U.S. Fleet at
Auckland inviting 250 of the sons or descendants
of Ulster to a smoke concert. The invitation was
accepted by cable ; but when the letter of accept-
ance followed it related that, after a long and ex-
haustive search, not one single son or descendant
of Ulster could be discovered. The prospective
hosts were referred to three gentlemen of the
crew whose names began with Mac, as they might
possibly be proved to be “sons or descendants,
etc.” There is a large dinner still awaiting 250
persons unknown, speeches are prepared, the
chairman has a peroration in each pocket, and the
soup is getting cold.
* * * *
“ Kodak ” writes
Williamstown (Vic.), where the liberty men from the
United States Fleet will land, is a maze of windy docks,
quiet, grass-grown streets, and a general atmosphere of
having suspended animation in the year 1854. I don’t
think Williamstown has breathed since about 1854. In the
period designated the “ early days,” it thought it was
going to be Melbourne’s seaport, and in this respect it
has a good deal in common with Geelong. (There is an
ancient legend to the effect that Geelong once dreamed
of being the premier city of Victoria, hut Providence
had placed a sandy bar before it, and Geelong fell
back into the abyss of sleep.) Williamstown’s chance
of being Melbourne’s outlet to the sea was killed
by the improvements to the old coffee-colored
Yarra and the invention of Port Melbourne. “The
Port’’wasn’t much of an inspiration. Even now it is
only two piers, a railway station, and a lot of cinders.
But it was on the right side of Hobson’s Bay, so what
shipping couldn’t slide up the Yarra tied up at either
the Port or Town piers. Then Williamstown fell into a
trance and grew grass on its head, and now it only wakes
once a year when the grain ships call for the wheat bag.
lam rather sorry for Williamstown and Geelong the two
sleepy towns brooding by the sea. I think of them
always as two old-fashioned salts of the Cap n Cuttle
and Jack Bunsby order rolling gloomily along 50 years
behind the rest of the world.
“ K.” : Sydney, as it appeared last week
in its carnival rags, suggested to me a city of
drapers adorned to welcome some Alexander-like
member of the craft—some inspired draper who
had conquered the planet in one vast riotous bar-
gain sale, and was coming back in triumph to
haberdash gloriously in his native town and plan
the marking-down of the entire solar system, with
a remnant table for small planets and asteroids.
Martin Place, with its canopy of colored muslin,
only wanted a few cards inscribed “ 4Jd. per
yard” and two counters to make it complete.
With a few accessories and a shopwalker or two,
business could have commenced at a moments
notice. A biograph fiend of my acquaintance
told me yesterday, in a hoarse whisper, that he
had taken a series of pictures of the Place, and
that he had entitled it “The Draper’s Dream.
He expects to sell the English and American
rights for an enormous amount.
* * * *
Sydney’s chimney-tops never had such a
curious dressing as they had last Thursday, when
the fleet came in. There were thousands who had
to stay home and cook fhe dinner, and thousands
more who were crowded off the trams and
wouldn’t face a walk to South Head or any-
where else; so when 11 o’clock arrived they
started to climb, and by 11.30 there weren’t many
roofs on the harbor slopes of the city that didn t
have something crawling over them. Hotels like
the Metropole, with capacious roof-gardens over-
looking the harbor, had fixed up terraces of seats;
and from there you could see cooks, in their white
caps, letting the roast duck take its chance, and
clambering up on to chimneys, and sniffing down
now and then to smell if the mutton was burning,
and wondering why in the eternal cussed ness of
things fleets can’t arrive at some other time than
iust while the billy is on the boil.
J *' * * *
The case of the much-convicted negro
burglar King, of Melbourne, is a striking satire on
the working of criminal law. King was lately
released from gaol before the expiration of a long
term of imprisonment for burglary, and the
absurdity of his release, even presuming that he
had been a well-conducted prisoner, was shown by
the fact that he was promptly re-arrcsted on
further charges of burglary, with violence m at
least one instance. His conviction on the first of
these.new charges brought out the police state-
ment that “ he had been insubordinate while m
prison, and had been sentenced to various
terms of confinement ‘in irons.’” It appears,
therefore, that when imprisonment has very
obviously failed to act as a chastening influence
the gaol authorities are none the less empowered
to set the convict free ere the nominal term of his
punishment has been fulfilled. Exceedingly had
conduct is not less effective than good conduct in
procuring a remission of a prisoner’s sentence,
although the Law’s professed object in locking
him up is to convert him from evil courses. ISegro
King, whose many sentences had already
amounted to 18 years in the aggregate, was
turned out of gaol before his time on account of
his insane and disorderly conduct. The authorities
of his Majesty’s jug felt that it -would be a
pleasanter, Quieter gaol without King, so he was
fired out to‘prey upon the public. Now he is
back for 15 years with an indeterminate sentence
to follow that, and the gaol people have a long
job ahead of them.
. * *• *
“ Kodak ” complains bitterly
During the life of the late lamented Sydney train strike
I tried to avoid seeing the weary ’buses that had jogged
out of their retirement to earn a few coppers for axle-
grease on the other side of the Styx—or wherever they
reside in the t,rammish times of peace. The dull rumble
and jingle of the ancient vehicle put me hack at
once into the early’eighties, and made me feel that the
bustling Present is a noisy nightmare from which I will
presently awake. The ’bus is not of our period. It is the
grand-aunt of the venerable cable-tram, and the great-
grandmother of the whizzing electric. The fellows who
rode in it on long-vanished Sunday afternoons are now
pottering round suburban gardens, and the girls they
went to woo are getting the dinner in the kitchen ami
burning the steak, just as they have been burning it
for the last 25 years. They themselves are middle-
aged and faded,' and the furniture they bought
when they were first married is gone in one 1 : and lets
the unwarv visitor down with a wallop. Yet the gradual
shay in which they travelled as a bashful engaged couple
stili rattles wearily about the face of the earth. I hate to
see it. The sight of a ’bus trying to earn its living shocks
me as much as the spectacle of a grandmother chopping
wood.
“ The Victorian Traders’ Guide,” published by
\V. J. Cfesswell, law stationer, Melbourne, is a handy,
red-covered volume which more than justifies its title.
Compiled by a Melbourne lawyer, it is a book to be
bought and well-thumbed by every person who is ever
likely to need legal advice in any sort of way. The old
adage that “ a man who is his own lawyer has a fool fora
client” can be considerably modified in the case of him,
or her, who buys this book and brings intelligent under-
standing to bear upon it. The Guide, as stated on the
title page, provides “quick reference to everyday legal
questions, and commercial information invaluable
to all traders, farmers and others.” It is alpha-
betical in arrangement, and starts with a list of
legal definitions, and proceeds to a page of plain
statements re Agisting of Cattle, Then come the Artifi-
cial Manures Act, and a few pages dqaling with Assign-
ment or Transfer of Book Debts, Auctioneers’ Licenses,
Bailments, and Bills of Sale and Exchange. And so on,
up to letters V. and W., which bring one to the law of
Licensed Victualling and a dissertation on the making of
Wills. A farmer gets the gists of the Fences Act with
notes thereon. The town houseowner finds the relations
between landlord and tenant (and the subject of Eject-
ment) duly treated. A final few pages of summarised
information commence with the curt, reminder that A
contract made on a Sunday is void.’ There is not a
superfluous line in the whole 150 pages.
THE DREADED LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AyoungAustralian sa'lor, named Anderson, wascharged
with having deserted from H.M.S. Challenger. Accused
stated that he deserted the vessel because he was” g dug
td be sent to England, and didn’t want to go.
A young Australian seaman
He sailed upon the sea.
A reckless roving freeman—
And travelled wide was he.
The blood of Dane and Viking
This Southern sailor bore,
But not unto his liking
Was England’s murky shore.
Through storms his ship went steering,
From Gravesend to Guam ;
For mad typhoons careering
He never gave a d ;
A true saltwater rover,
A saltjunk seaman bred,
But ere he sighted Dover
He dropped his cards, and fled.
And did he fly from dangers?
(’Tis true, indeed, he fled)
Object to staring strangers?
Have doubts about King Ned?
Or was it but the climate,
The gloom, the damp, the fog
(He must have been aflv mate),
That did his ardor clog?
' Or was it Labor’s dark lane
That made this lad afraid ?
The noble Yids of Park Lane ?
It might have been Freetrade.
Was it some Bishops’ meeting
That filled his soul with dread ?
The Empire’s heart was beating,
And yet that sailor fled.
He fled from tower and abbey,
He fled from Rotten Row ;
From dudes, and dossers shabby,
Who tramp through Pimlico.
He fled from English classes,
From Bishop, Pawn, and King,
Who scorn the sweated masses—
He fled from everything.
VIC.
GANESHA.


When Bill the Burglar got run in
He’d close cropped hair and shaven chin.
“ Why groanest thou ? ” the warder said.
Bill pointed to his chin and head.
“ ’Twas just ray luck,” said he, “ to pay
For this short crop and shave to-day !
But all these troubles I’ll endure
If given Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ! ”*
" From the Old Dog,” by Frank Fox,
is at once a text-book on Australian Radicalism
and a bright, witty, interesting yarn. It deals
with the big and the humorously small issues of
political philosophy, from “Titles” to “White
Australia,” “The Good Man Candidate,” and
“The Disadvantages of Being Too Serious.”
Published, by T. C. Lothian. Melbourne. On saie
■at booksellers and at this office, post free 2s. 9d.*
For acute kidney ills, or tor chronic,
Unequalled are Pills Lijxo-Tonic,
Liver troubles they cure,
Make tainted blood pure,
And the nerves act in manner harmonic.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10*d. and Is. 6d.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
X
rs
. v
Decide on this
Shirt for Summer.
You will notice at once its comfortable qualities—it is
our cool Crepe Shirt that proved so popular last season.
We have them in a very large range of new and un-
shrinkable patterns, a great improvement on those of last
season, guaranteed fast, and each decidedly good form and
distinctive in designs.
We’d like you to see this Summer Shirt. You can have
it with gauntlet cuff and loose collar or soft front, neckband,
and stiff cuffs.
Please state size of your collar when ordering.
Any Size, 5/0 Each.
Posted, 9d. extra.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
Evidence in a Melbourne suburban police
Court: “I had to shave my whiskers off on
account of my wife, your Worship. I had a long
beard, but she always caught hold of it when she
got mad.” The Bench refused the wife the main-
tenance she asked, concluding most likely that
since the shaving she had no longer any hold
upon him.
“ Melb.’s ” wail over his jail :
Half the jail is knocked down, our beloved Tolbooth.
It suggests the Malakoff fortress after the bombard-
ment. The interior is exposed like the cells of a beehive.
There are the three tiers of white cubicles, so oft
designated as home, while men shivered about the hard
pavements. One thinks of the chaplain’s song :
Moses w T as six weeks in the stummick of a whale,
Not half so cozy as old Tassy’s gaol.
Old hands come up Russell-street and weep, like the
venerable Yids at Ezra’s rebuilding of the Temple, when
they remembered the glory of Sol’s edifice. The
nobly and faithfully built antique part of Mel-
bourne Gaol dates back over 60 years. Warm
were its 3ft. thick walls. And now they are gone like
Hans Breitmann’s party. Vanished like a cloud on the
mountain’s brow ! Vanitas vanitatum ! The inexorable
Bent decrees it. The old Supreme Court, now the Police
Court, goes too, to make way for Bent’s superb new
building, to be erected with a glorious reliance on the
perpetuity, growth, and luxuriance of crime. Judges,
barristers, warders, policemen, and D’s must live. So
must crooks and spielers. So must Nosey, the human sus-
pender, and Boniface, who sells the blue ruin, which isn’t
blue, but mostly brown.
There are about 960 alleged baronets in
the Dnited Kingdom. Two years ago an inquiry
was made into this heap of baronets, and the
gloomy news was published that about 70 of them
seemed to be sham—the descendants of enter-
prising persons who had created themselves, so to
Speak, or of careless individuals who had lost all
evidence of the origin of their greatness. The
Government has been in a state of anguish and
worry ever since. Some of the
dubious baronets are among its
Parliamentary supporters, and they
will naturally refuse to support any
longer if their dignities are torn from
them. At the same time a number
of real baronets declare that they
will become very disagreeable if
they are forced to herd with the
sham article any longer. The
Government, thus harassed on both
sides, has torn its hair and promised
that it will really do something. No
one seems to know what sort of pain-
ful ceremony is gone through when
a sham baronet and his “lady ” are
degraded to the status of plain Mr.
and Mrs., but presumably it will
be something like the degradation of
Walter Baker in “One of the Best,” and the
genuine peerage will trample the lady’s bonnet
under foot.
If certain people can have their way, it
looks as if the coming trial for manslaughter of
three subordinate railway employees in connection
with the Sunshine smash will close all inquiry
into the condition of the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment. Ever since the inquest the silence about
the prospective doings of the Commission of In-
quiry has been something stupendous, while the
other day the Crown coolly asked Justice Hodges
for a “ special” jury to try the three accused. A
special juryman.must pay a certain amount of
rates ; and apparently the Crown reckoned that it
was safest to let Propputy try this case. But
Justice Hodges couldn’t see it, and told the
Crown—which is Bent and co.—that it would have
to be satisfied with an ordinary jury.
» * * «
Adelaide is making a fuss. On August 21
the steamer Port Caroline arrived from London
and came up to Port Adelaide to the powder
buoys to discharge 50 tons of explosives. It had
also on board 460 tons for other ports, and Ade-
laide reckons that if the thing had gone off the
only trace left of the city might have been the
mangled remains of Sudden Solomon in a tree-
top. Adelaide pertinently asks, if it is
illegal to store within the city limits, in a
properly-constructed building, more than a
certain quantity of explosive stuff, why this sky->
rockety business should be allowed. Still the
sailors of the Port Caroline have to put up with
it, and their only security is the regulation which
says that gunpowder must not be stored under-
neath the furnaces.” Think of that. The man
who would store SQO tons of gunpowderunderneath
the furnaces would pour kerosene into a working
volcano!
MAY BE ALL A YARN!
SAM: “ Wal, is yer Dad’s fleet anything like that?”
AUSTRALIA: “ Dunno! He never showed it to ME!”
An Adelaide man, who made a cheap
grandstand for himself at a suburban football
match by standing.up in his buggy and looking
over the fence, was fined ss. and Costs (it came to
£2 11s. altogether) by the local Bench. The
offence was not moving on when requested by a
constable to do so, and the outraged lover of cheap
sport took the case to the Supreme Court. But
the Court decided that the proceeding was “ valid
and reasonable,” and the economist now perceives
that it would have been much cheaper to take a
season ticket.
NO SPORT.
“ Vot, me pay fife pounds to see two men Knock
each other aboudt? Vhy, I vouldn’t gif two-
an’-thixpenth to thee ’em murdered!”
“Sr.”: Bang goes another old landmark.
The bank at Euroa (Vic.) which Ned Kelly held
up, and in the kitchen whereof the bank manasrer
and staff were locked, is to be demolished. The
building, which is on the corner of Binney and
Railway streets, Euroa, has remained intact since
the raid. It now belongs to an unimaginative
Justice of the Peace, and he intends converting
the romantic old pile into prosaic shops wherein a
terrace of dull louts will probably sell pickles.
* * K- *
The campaign against the advertisement
fiend in suburban Sydney is growing. The North
Sydney Council has succeeded in removing the
hideous hoardings from Kirribilli, while Padding-
ton has followed Newtown’s lead in imposing a
rental of ss. per square foot on all hoarding space
in the municipality. The poster complaint now,
however, threatens to break out in a new place.
The N.S.W. Alliance is going to vigorously pic-
ture the evils of Drink by means of pictorial
shockers, and one suburban council has agreed to
paste the advts. over its spare hoardings. From
an aesthetic point of view, the advt. calling
upon people to shun the pub will probably be
rather less desirable than the average whisky
poster.
The latest idea of tittivating the defence
of Australia against the dread invader is the
yachtsmen’s Naval Reserve. Considering the vast
desire of yacht clubs to bespatter themselves with
royal titles, this show will probably beccfme the
Royal Y.N.R. The reservists will undertake to
do so many days’ training on the water per
annum. In return they will get a small capitation
fee and a badge for their tarry stomachs. Then,
when the dread armed interloper comes, they will
be There. Now, any idea of defending the country
is welcome if the idea is big enough to be worth
considering. This one comes from Victoria, and
quite (>0 men are expected to enrol.
But if it is a good idea, and if
scampering round Port Phillip
does lay the foundation of a Naval
Reserve, why restrict the move-
ment to the yacht clubs? They
are not the only people who brave
the perils of the raging bay, even
if they have a monopoly of white
ducks and brass buttons when they
are on show on St. Kilda Pier.
If the fishermen and steamboat
deck-hands and the men who bring
firewood in old ketches and all the
miscellaneous boat-shovers were in-
vited to join, Port Phillip might
raise quite a respectable Naval Re-
serve. But 60 amateur brass bound-
ers won’t sink anybody’s ironclad.
At the annual meeting of the Austin Hos-
pital, the other day, Chief Justice Madden, of
Victoria, told the subscribers something which is
calculated to make the somewhat cold spring of
Charity freeze right up. The fact he handed
them for their consideration was that no more
than one-half of their contributions reach the
sick and dying, for whom they are intended.
The people of the State annually give £300,000.
Of this, £150,000 is expended on the patients,
and the other £150,000 melts away in the man-
agement expenses of the innumerable “institu-
tions,” “refuges, “homes,” and what-not,
that hang their signs out in almost every
street and cling to Solvency’s coat-tails
only with the greatest difficulty. The public
has long been aware, in a sleepy sort of
way, that it costs more to run an army of small,
scrambling charities than it does to propel a few
big, efficient ones, but now that it has been shown
the size of the discrepancy, it will probably lock
up its cheque-book and tell the wandering col-
lector that there’s nothing to-day. Mankind
doesn’t mind being occasionally asked to put a
coin in the plate, but it hates to put its donation in
a sieve.
(Continued on page 33.)
LAY OF THE EVICTED REVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Kidston, the Queensland Premier, has secured the
Adelphi Restaurant for new offices for the Agent-General.
The building will require very little alteration to fit it
for its new purpose. The Adelphi Restaurant, which is
connected with the Adelphi Theatre, was remarkable for
its elaborate decorations, and has always been known
amongst theatrical people, who made it a place of regular
resort, as the “Marble Halls.” — Daily paper.
Stout and oyster, mayonnaise,
Hock and sherry, dry champagne !
Sing a song of Other Da3 r s,
And a parting bumper drain.
Here’s a health to gaiety !
(Drink it with a gentle sigh !)
Clink your glasses mournfully,
’Ti's Good-bye !
Walls that flung the laughter back
Echoed merry quip and crank
Now in silence brood, alack !
Like the walls of any bank ;
Where the lamb was roast and hot
Now is talk of lamb that’s froze,
Enter ledger-exit pot,
So it goes!
Commerce with a heavy frown
Orders Pleasure out of door—
Turn your empty glasses down,
Take your hats and pay the score,
Stout and oysters, mayonnaise,
Iloek and sherry, dry champagne !
Breathe a sigh for Other Days
In the rain.
N.S.W.
Kodak.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No nntic « (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Fame and
addiess must appear on MSS. .Xo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Sydney R. : “Manuka” and “After Dark”
have good points, but not sufficient of them. .. Dalkeith :
A neatly-written story, but wholly conventional. The
man who makes love by arrangement to Girl No. 2 in
order to pique Girl No. 1 (who has resolved to be a chronic
spinster and a lecturer on Woman’s Suffrage) into marry-
ing him is very old. And the fact that a horse runs away
with Girl No. 1 and the man saves her is older than that
eminent journalist, Noah Arkbottom Jeach : The old
trouble. “Dawn” and “born” won’t rhyme in this
world, whatever they may do in Jupiter.... George R.:
Your attempt to rhyme “undertaker’s daughter” with
quaiter is fatal.... Magdala: “Microbes” is acumber-
some lay and of little account... . .C.G.: “Hooked in
Holland was killed dead—at least moderately dead —by
the second verse... .Leiimas : A fraction
Your charming photo. I have here,
To me you did impart;
And when I gaze on it, Twill stir
The embers of my heart.
My mind your image fosters, but
When scenes are turning black,
A-gazing on your countenance
Will bring bright memories back.
It is the sort of thing that interests the lady tremend-
ously ; but, unfortunately, it interests no one else
Typo: Thanks ; also go and throw coal at yourself until
the process ends fatally G.H.F. :An unpleasant yarn ;
and the fact that it has only just struck Adelaide indi-
cates that S. A.’s capital is about four years behind the
times in the matter of indecencies Spider : Judgment
of your candid friend, viz., that you were better at milk-
ing than at, poetising, strikes us as correct. If there is
anybody worse at milking than you are at verse he must
have given up milking, else he would have torn the cow
in three pieces.. .Ba : No local interest in kava-making.
Waukaroo: You rhyme neatly, but the theme of the
kicked poet is effete E.S. : Your lines don’t scan, and
they abound in the malapropos word that slays pathos
K.O.S. : Fable misses. A fable has to be particularly
bright to do anything else these times C. Kav : Verse
prettyish—but too trite G.H.S. : Unquestionable
truths, nicely put; but the result isn’t poetry
Danton : Some horrible, others merely bad. All unsuit-
able ...A.B. : Photo interesting but too ghastly....
Jan Neitch : Its uncontrovertible, oft-told truth kills
it. Hark to four lines :
This sunny, southern land
Should hold a mighty nation,
And not the paltry band
That forms its population.
W. S. Card: “ B.” is probably right. There is no
evidence of Sievier having been in Australia for long
before his bookmaking and other exploits made him
famous. And those things happened well under 30
years ago Coff’s Harbor: Our artists refuse as
one man to draw a cartoon dealing with the troubles
of your butter factory. In their view, the matter
is of insufficient national interest J.H. : Verses
fairly good, but the phrase, “ Hot Air,” needs no
riddling in a community that boasts G. H. Reid.
G.T. : Well intended; but your meaning doesn’t
stand out clearly enough, and your characters talk im-
possibly. “Drat!” for instance, is an old woman’s
expression, ludicrously out of place in the mouths of
naval officers Edith G. : The idea has been often used
before and better Mooner : The bush “shivoo” has
been so often done that it requires genius to make any-
thing fresh of it Rus Lawler : One patch—“He looked
at her from under half-closed lids. How queenly and
beautiful she looked in her wrath, with her Violet
eyes flashing fire and her masses of red-gold hair
waving round her face like a saint’s aureola ! Saint !
a faint smile flickered across the man’s lips.”
Diction of that sort only' goes into this paper over
our corpse .. .Teddy Bear : Both are chestnuts. The one
re the little lad, who was no violet, has been arriving at
this office about fourteen times weekly' for the past three
months H.O.F. : Being maddened by the criticism _vou
invited, you say bitterly, “ Please return M.S. ‘ Australia
to America’ to address enclosed: your opinion is not
everybody else’s.” But as you sent no stamp or request
for return with the blessed “poem,” the basket got it,
and then the ashbin N.S. : Joke re “sleeping
partner” is one of the four Original or Basic Jokes...
D. Me I. : Much justice in your philippic against the
“ Local Rag,” but it isn’t worth all those words
E. O’M.: Her father didn't want Him because he had no
money. But He did the father a service—and so He and She
were married and lived happily', etc. The plot is a shade
too hackneyed Bonedust: Some humorous descriptive
touches, but the incident is too slight for the space..
J.G.8.: Doggerel re elderly yet amorous gentleman who
applied for a divorce is foolish, and has been
hurled aside W. McO. : Chestnutty' flavor about
all four; and none was wildly' diverting, anyhow.
L.W.W.: The sort of jokelets that were mildly amus-
ing when made, doubtless ; but are nowhere near robust
enough for publication Treb C. : The only reallv
estimable feature of “ The Yellow Leaf” is its moral, anil
a poem can’t live bv its moral alone in this paper....
G.W.G.M.: You are one of the most mysterious bards we
know Athos : Your conduct rules are estimable ; but
they rhyme indifferently, and their metre is as jumpy as
a back blocks fiickergraph I’. Ferrari: Orpheus,
Eurydice, Dido, iEneas—verse concerning those over-
poetised folk has to be surpassingly good to have a hope.
Yours is just ordinary....Brass-Buttons: Bob’s friends
brought him home drunk, and put his wife’s clothing on
him in mistake for pyjamas. If you are as youthful as
you say, this paper blushes for you Poleaxe : Sugges-
tion for picture of United States Fleet drunk arrived too
late, and was hardly suitable, anyhow.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.H.M. : Joke obscure, illustration grotesque Henry'
C.: No humor and not much art Thompson : Interest-
ing in a small way, but only a small wav Henry J. B.:
A very accidental style of art H. Gibbons ; What’s the
point in the joke, “Do you object to half an hour’s
work?” A.J.M. : Drawing rotten, and there is abso-
lutely no humor to be got out of boils.


Sparry :
'' before vv/e say
further
Is -#e Cayse
u \> y ?
Bent" to Sherry A
- Vey
to See. you
/ c\div > i>'xl is jj
Only tn'iiP l
been!” S
]t" i$ f>a l i'tic.uk>'ly
tfotTpied -f^aT'entree.
*l “st~ Toe.
lor canted
Jwcj of WooSvouiiy : T a u* lKr s)
" V* s«m«t sleef> If I '-r . .
TV* Se*mS A <*uietiorT o S|»oi •
u cii fr n 'f£u'i&<tic&iu) -‘Hvl ajl'ajl! Welcome'
>w w " Go * b)css u # , I, ..
■fl«» Key— "'Ere ! Where\ your fa*®*' ?'
This IS no time
/- 0 r fi»l.t,c S -
’frof yo«'»c r^ot'
-fa I
*ne!—
ID ' V
\
r frodi^sJ
’ f^^'P
& receives penitent-
. WA,*>*ie rfet-
AJ' requeststot'rA'el,
on o , ‘ , '"l e V|C -
I?akilv«/a l ys been
.
Wh^t" 1 LiH" Vo«r foor to -traye lon % >f^<2t ;'
you'r.gV if 1 fa K*f '.n% *k
•ffll Monday'
- C*,''
unto it's* if, At f>ne<?of fifo
Vic .- Wtyen I've Set” tse wtyole.
bloom in 9 wb C<yv
I don't" Up
one. bjeself I *
Bill (Surveying ' y ovl<J .’ —'Ujere !
I 'fftinK"3k'oy ir/orc Would Spoil it" ,
tleet" __
deco^to*^
- •> dT , ~
So„ ?4 r« Rif
•^^r^.'C^vypL l.
rfc c.
VICTORIA—PARTLY HISTORICAL AND PARTLY PROPHETIC.


or?
r-P
V
m
A Philosopher ?
No, I am not exactly —buc I know more
about “ The Philosophy of Dress” —I know
where the best values are in Men’s or
Boys’ Clothing. Send for a copy To-Day—
“The Philosophy of Dress**
will show you how to
"Pay Less and Dress Better.**
Sent Post Free on application.
Lincoln Stuart <£L Co. Pty. Ltd
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
h
Lucky Black Opal,
of which Marion Crawford wrote in “Soprano.”
“ I wish you good luck,” he said lightly.
“Thank you,” she answered. “ One can never have too much of it—-never. Get
a talisman, a charm, a ‘ Jadoo.’ .... A BLACK OPAL is the best, but if you choose
that you must get it yourself ; you must buy it, find it, or earn it. Otherwise it will
have no effect.”
WE hold the finest stock of this beautiful Gem in Australia. WE receive it in the
rough from the mines. WE cut it—we mount it —we set it in Sydney—we export
it largely. WE retain some of the best for our Sydney retail trade, and sell it at
half London retail prices.
Exquisite Black Opal and Pearls, in fine Gold, £7/10/- Exquisite Black Opal
and Olivines, £l2/12/- Exquisite Black Opal and Diamonds, £2B/10/-
PLAIN FIGURES'
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The allegation of “ Myrtle” :
A long-haired bushman smashed the dead religious
Sunday morning lethargy of sugar-Mackay (Q.), recently,
by driving into it in a light sulky drawn tandem fashion
by two emus. The bird-fancier explained that his normal
progress-rate was about nine miles an hour. Up to the
time he hit Mackay he had covered (so he said), in
successive days, 310 'miles. He claimed to have reared
and educated his sulky-fowls himself. Their food (he
affirmed) consisted of condensed milk, pigweed and
tacks, with an occasional nip of rum as a buck-up potion.
After each day’s journey the birds were hosed, and then
housed for the night in a tent carried specially for the
purpose. The emu-dominator disappeared next morning
at daybreak, unobtrusively, mysteriously, even as he had
come.
* * * *
“ Groper ” : “ Boronia ” (B. 2/7/’08) must
have been suffering from internal complications
when he read my par on the Westralian poison
weed. I didn’t say it could be eradicated. I said
it could be dealt with in small areas ; and so it
can. I know of sheep that have been running for
the last ten years in paddocks that once grew
large patches of the weed. It has to be grubbed
and burnt (stock will eat it dry, if you don’t burn it)
and the paddock heavily stocked for a week or
two. In this way any bushes that have
been missed will be eaten out with-
out hurting your stock, each
animal only getting a small
quantity. This process prac-
tically eradicates the stuff, for
only a fire over the country
will bring it up again. Don’t
agree with “Boronia” that it
springs from roots. The seed
is hard, and will lie a long
time. The fire germinates it.
I don’t think green roots
would lie for 20 years with-
out shooting, and a fire is
more likely to kill them than
make them grow. In the
eastern districts of Narrogin,
Wagin and Katanning, box
poison is by far the most
plentiful, and most easily got
rid of. Big bushes can be
knocked out with the back of
an axe, and the smaller ones
pulled. York Road poison
requires more careful grub-
bing, and the remaining
roots must not have access
to the air. It takes a fair
amount of weed to kill a
sheep or a cow. Have often
driven jumbucks along poison-
infested roads without losing
any. Horses won’t look at the
weed unless other feed i 3 scarce.
West of the line the death weed is
more plentiful, and more varie-
ties show up as you get nearer the
coast. Piesse, of Katanning, has
30,000 acres of poison land at
Kojonup, and is gradually getting it
into shape for stock purposes. The
land cost 9d. an acre. It originally
belonged to a company that put cheap
Chows on grubbing. The company died,
or got drunk, or something. Piesse employs
white men, and seems to be going to carry the
thing through.
* * * *
“ Moorabinda ” : There is a complexity in
the term “squat” which, in justice to the
“squatters” of the present day, should be ac-
counted for. The present-day squatters take their
seats among the Hite of Australia, with no more
heed for the origin of their designation than the
fashionable of Sydney or Brisbane would exercise
upon the Egyptian cradle in which their exodus
was rocked. How shocking to the modern
squatter to read in a record of March, 1836, that
a petition was going round the (then) colony pray-
ing the Legislature of the day to pass an Act
“for the prevention of ‘squatting,’ through
which so much crime is daily occurring, inas-
much as squatting is but another term for sly
grog-selling, receiving stolen property, and har-
boring bushrangers and assigned servants ! ” In
response to the petition, the Government sought
to prevent this “squatting,” though the Act
pressed heavily upon a better class than the
ordinary squatter. This latter personage was
a perfect nuisance in that day, and the
term was truly one of reproach. To be a
squatter was, in the eyes of the officials, and even
of decent people (often the officials were far
from decent), to be a Bedouin of the Bush, a
fellow who, on the pretence of running a few
sheep or cattle, stole the stock of others, and was
the accomplice of bushrangers. To stop the
marauding propensities of squatters, it was neces-
sary to prohibit their free use of grass, and that
was attempted by the Impounding Act. By the
old law of the colony, no land could be occupied
permanently save that belonging to the individual
by purchase or grant. A varying quit rent was
paid annually as an acknowledgment of the rights
of the State ; the land was not supposed to pass
absolutely from it, and was ever subject to re-
sumption. After a while, “ tickets of occupation ”
were granted for areas beyond the limit of ordi-
nary settlement. These tickets were given to per-
sons approved by the magistrates. They were not
allowed to graze cattle more than two miles from
their own stockyards, and were liable to removal at
six months’notice. So many disorders, however,
arose even from this sortoflicensedsquatting, t’natit
was ordered that all “ Tickets of Occupation ” then
in force should cease on a certain date. Persons
desirous of obtaining the temporary occupation of
land were required in future to pay a rent at the
rate of 20s. per annum for every 100 acres, and
further, to quit the land on receiving six months’
notice to that effect. The lordly squatter of
Queensland, who now rents his 200 square miles
for about £l5O a year, would, at the old rate, be
charged £l2BO ; and, instead of a 21 years’ lease,
be liable to expulsion any half-year. Returning
to “squatting,” Governor King wrote thus to the
British Ministry: “I cannot express myself too
strongly on the subject of squatters. The mischief
they do is almost incalculable. They harbor the
settler’s runaway servants; they steal his cattle
and sheep; they sell spirits on the sly; they
entice shepherds from the care of their sheep ;
and they shelter and feed bushrangers and afford
them information.”
* * * re
“Moreover”: Enough of this piffle re
cod-tethering. It is getting on my already some-
what drink-jangled nerves. Let the discussion
ember itself. The only humane and satisfactory
method of leashing cod is by a ring placed through
the tail. This scheme for anchoring the mud-
groper was devised originally by a codanthropist
so as to enable the old-man cod to swallow, with-
out impediment, the stories told of him by river-
side naturalists and mud-zoologists.
VERY SUCCESSFUL.
“ Oi heard you was out on stroike, Pat.”
“ Oi am; I sthruck for shorter hours.”
“ An ’ did ye get them?”
“Oi did not. Oi’m work in’ the whole 24 hours
now. ”
“ What at !”
“ Lookin’ for work.”
MISUNDERSTOOD.
“ Can I take charge of your baggage, sir? ”
“ Don’t let him call me that, Tom; I’ll smack him in the face!”
“ L’Fou ” : A special hob in Tophefc,
miles away from the ice-box, should be reserved
for the outrage who kills all wild creatures on
sight. Mine and I are mourning the loss just now
of an eagle-hawk (almost extinct locally) who did
no one harm. The bird died at the shooting-iron
of a visiting tourist. The same wretch has mur-
dered other wild things by scores about these
parts. The rapid decrease in the matter of
lyre-birds all through the country parts is
due to his type. A maniac of my acquaint-
ance is, as the result of many arduous
tramps and hours of patient watching, the
proud possessor of a large and grotesque fire screen
of lyres’ tails. But the brave slayer of the native
bear is the scone-winner. The bear is probably
the tamest, sleepiest, most harmless thing that
drowses. If you go to shoot it it will sit in a fork
at any nearness to you, its trustful, comically-
human face looking solemnly down your gun-
barrel until you pull the trigger, or it stares you
out of countenance. In spite of laws for the pro-
tection of native fauna, bearskins constantly
find their way into the hands of Melbourne
buyers. There are others. But this makes
me melancholy. I once knew a man in a nice
tweed suit and new yellow leggings who shot
three jackasses in one afternoon. And the jackass
will just about eat out of your hand. I believe he
knocked them over with a stick or kicked them to
death. Such people would shoot a brace of arch-
angels for stuffing purposes.
“ Kaiwaka ” : “ Groper ” (B. 2/7/’08) talks
prejudiced talk anent Westralia. lamaMaori-
lander, and I selected land west of the Great
Southern Railway since “ Groper ” alleges he took
up his block. I could find plenty more if I wanted—
and good agricultural and grazing land at that.
Unlike “Groper,” I kill my own mutton, kan-
garoo, pork and poultry, milk my own cows, make
my own jam and tomato sauce, and use “Piesse-
town” flour. “Groper’s” talk about the “old
days of easy distances being done” make me
suspicious of his bona-fides. “The old days”
were days when genuine “ Gropers ” carted sandal
wood from here to Fremantle, 175 miles, and
brought back their own stores ; they weren’t any-
thing like so convenient as these railway-carriage
times. “Boronia’s” view of W.A. tires me
somewhat also. I have been 14 years in the big
State. I gave away 3000 acres of poison plant
PAYABLE DIRT.
THE MISSUS : “ What are you swilling that water
about for , Bridget? ”
BRIDGET : “ It’s the new lodger’s wash-water,
mum, and his claim goes 10oz. to the ton.”
land some years ago because I was afraid of being
unable to eradicate the pest. I have since taken
up an even larger block of the same sort of land,
and have practically got rid of the poison on it;
anyhow, I have it well under control, and I lose no
stock from it. Poison plant is not ineradicable.
If properly grubbed no roots will be left to grow
again. Some roots may be overlooked, of course,
at the first time of asking, and give a certain
amount of trouble, but these are details to an
energetic man. Speaking for my part, though
born and bred in “God’s own country,” I
freely own to a preference for W.A.
THE GROVES OF BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has been proposed by a writer in the Argus that
Melbourne’s public-houses should be brought under
Saturday half-holiday closing restrictions.
In trim beer-orchards, fragrant, cool, I frequently have
strolled,
And eaten lovely beer that there was worth its weight in
gold
To me, new from the torrid Block—and I have stayed to
stare,
Entranced, at the amber glow on rich beer-frescoes there!
In places where the wild beer sings I, too, have wan-
dered oft,
And noted, in the summer time, what quantities are
scoffed 1
And dog-tired blokes, on blazing days when everything
was brown,
Have done a wander there with me to shake the ripe
beers down.
And this is where the son of toil at summer dusk appears,
And with his big beer-grasp surrounds a dozen beauteous
beers.
Ah, when, his week of toil put through, and Saturday at
last
Arrived, what joy it is for him to break his long beer-
fast !
How often have I gazed adown the crowded aisles of beer
And watched the busy toiler there among his brown good-
cheer 1
And oft in slate formation I’ve prospected earnestly
For beer reefs which, I grieve to say, have still eluded me.
And now, to think that these delights on Saturdays no
more
For us, who toil in harness all the week, will be in store !
The spreading beer-tree’s wasted by a heedless Vandal
band,
And never more the beer-branch casts cool shade upon
the land.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
THE SHEARING SHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They come and they go at the shearing-shed, all manner
and makes of men ;
Some are boys not out of their teens, and some are three-
score-and-ten ;
Whalers, bullies, and long-faced chaps, thrifty and devil-
may-care ;
Some of them tramp, and some of them ride, from any-
and everywhere.
There’s Hervey good for his sixty-six, and Quinn for his
ninety-nine,
And Jack, a regular butcherous chap, and Billy, who’s
neat and fine ;
There’s Irish Mike with his hairy face, and Claud from
a tony set,
And a hairless youth, with a seedy soul, in the clutch of
the cigarette.
There’s Nils, as strong as a Queensland steer; he hails
from a Finnish fjord ;
There’s a scurrilous, aitchless Cockney fool, who tries to
kid he’s a lord ;
A brace of hoys from the Western side, and half-a-score
from the South ;
And a runaway from a Yankee ship with a quid in his
ugly mouth.
There’s Tar-pot Dan, a lingering weed, who hasn’t an
ounce of grit,
And Sammy the Tug, with his well-scarred face, who
never admits he’s hit;
Last, if not least, of the rowdy boys is a good two yards
of lout
Who tallies the frightened sheep that pass, curses and
counts them out.
But I’ve felt the grip of the shearer’s hand and I know
that his heart is right,
And oft in a knot we’ve smoked and yarned till deep in
the starry night:
When the day is through, and the board is cleared, and
the sheds are dark and still,
The peace of the Bush has brought to us a lasting and
strong goodwill.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


EDUCATION BY POST
w
ĥ
High Salaries await our
students of Shorthand, Type-
writing, Bookkeeping, Ac-
countancy, Electrical Engi-
neering, &c. “Home Study,
post free. Stott &Hoare’s Busi-
ness Col lege, Moore St, Sydney
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE'S signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
The uncared-for cough, the cough you let
go on, hoping it will cure itself, is the costly
cough. It is the cough that annoys you, keeps on
hacking and tearing the delicate and sens.tive
membranes and tissues of the throat, until it is
impossible to cure. Take care of your cough now.
Take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It soothes,
relieves, and cures.*
In spite of what pessimists say,
Science holds all diseases at bay,
And nine-tenths of our ills
Can be treated by pills,
Laxo-Tonic is leading the way.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJcL and Is. 6d.
“ D.M.W.” tells of a deceased friend :
I used to own a male cat named Thompson. He was
originally a wild cat that had been caught young in an
Otago rabbit burrow. He was wont to follow me like a
dog, and was affectionate beyond belief. His song was
loud and clear as the drum of a threshing mill working in
Tuscan wheat. His enormous claws, employed in ele-
phantine play, destroyed a pair of stout moleskins everv
week. At shearing time I went down to Winnburn. Bob
McOroskie, the hawker, brought the cat along in his van.
There was no need to put Thompson in a bag. He sat up
beside the driver all the way, and sang like a bass-viol.
In the shed he took a deep interest in the wool-b.arbers,
and used to stroll up and down the board as if the place
belonged to him. When the shed cut out he disappeared.
I spent days hunting for him. He had vanished com-
pletely off the face of Otago.
Years went by. I left Otago, and followed in turn the
occupations of politician, parson, publican, and potato-
raiser. At last, rich beyond the dreams of aboriginals,
I settled down in the township of Piperville to await my
latter end. One morning Thompson arrived. His tail
was high, but he had one eye bunged up, and all the
marks of hoary age were upon him. Still there was no
mistaking the friendly tug of his immense claws or the
roar of his triumph-song. He had been searching for me
for 15 years over a length of 600 miles. Scant wonder
that he was glad to find me at last. He stayed with me
six months, and then, for my wife’s sake (he never could
stand my wife), I gently put him to sleep with six
penn’orth of chloroform. He was friendly to the last',
and knew that I was doing it for his good. I reckon
there never was a cat like Thompson. When I shuffle off
and take my first flight into the wide night spaces I ex-
pect to hear a noise like a chaffcutter running empty,
and to feel an old hard tail and a friendly claw reached
through the darkness. Yes, Thompson will be waiting
for me, and if Oerberus gets up to any of his monkey
tricks he had better look out. Some people may doubt
the truth of this story, but I can offer proof, for the
grave of Thompson is still green under the clothes-line in
the back-yard.
* W » *
From “ Cross Nibs ” :
Horny Henry, after many years of hard living as bul-
lock-driver, teamster and road-contractor, decided to
retire from active service. Possessing the habit of im-
prisoning almost every coin that circulated in his direc-
tion, he experienced no difficulty in disuniting himself
from the day’s work. Two weeks of leisure found him
receptive to the exhortations of the local Salvation Army.
A few days later, despite the badinage of his old mates,
he entered into the regiment of blood and fire. It was on
a Saturday evening when Henry, beaming with enthu-
siasm, first desired to give his testimony. Receiving an
encouraging nod from the captain, he stepped to the
centre of the ring, adorned in a new crimsau guernsey,
and in a sonorous voice began :
“ I’ve cut th’ road fr’m ’ere t’ Bumpalong, ’n’ I’ve cut
it fr’m Otazell t’ Slingaroclc ; but now, me friends, I’m
on a tougher track. I want y’r old pals o’ mine t’
struggle in ’n’ ’elp me, f’r there is room f’r th’ whole lot
uv us. F’r th’ sake uv ole times, jump along ’n’ 'elp y’r
ole pal ’Enry t’ cut th’ road t’ ’Eaven.”
“ I ’ope yew’ve ordered y’r flutterin’ gear, ’Orny ? ’’ in-
terjected a little man with copper-colored whiskers.
“ There’ll be no use f’r ’em, me friend, until th’ journey’s
over, V me waybill is checked,” called Henry, lifting his
eyes devotionally and displaying an unctuous smile.
“ You’ll want ’em orright, ole cock, f’r if y’r leave iz
many bog-’oles in th’ Testament track as y’r left in th’
road t’Bumpalong you’ll never bloomin’ well git there.”
Then it came to pass that the convert waxed wrath
when he heard the words of his traducer. He postponed
the saving of sinners, whilst he went forth to explain to
the vivid-bearded man the principles of road-making.
But the little man ignored the rudiments, and spoke
many passionate words relative to the bog-holes. Henry,
struggling with suppressed emotion, anathematised the
little man’s mentality and the color scheme of his facial
hirsuteness, and the next moment felt the impact of a
f >rceful fist against his features. The bystanders whooped
A CONTORTIONIST.
LONG DAN: “’ Ere , if you're gain' ter get on
I’m goin’ ter get orf."
delightedly. A ring was formed in an accommodating
citizen’s back-yard, and braising business was entered
upon, the ginger person conducting himself like a trades-
man. It took 12 rounds to convince Horny Henry that
he was up against a proposition that was bigger than it
looked. Then he surrendered. At closing time that
night, a little man, escorting another somewhat larger,
lurched off the local pub verandah and walked unsteadily
along the road. He was speaking :
“ Y’re ri’, ’Orny, ’twas (hie) stumps.”
“ ’N’ (hie) silly ol’ man, y’r kept say’n’ bog-holsh.”
A SIGN OF AFFECTION.
SQUATTER'S WIFE : “ Well, Mary,
do your Missus and Master
ever quarrel ?”
MART: “No fear, Missus. Him
berry fond of Missy.”
S.W.: “ Fond of her! Gracious!
He usen't to be, then.”
MARY: "My word, him berry
fond now, Missy. Hit her on
head wid nulla-nulla close up
ebery night.”
“Snell”: “It was the bitterest disap-
pointment iv me life,” said the tattered man sit-
ting against the boathouse, “ ’n’ I ain’t never got
over it, ’n’ don’t suppose I ever will. Which it
was all doo to a norrid cold in the ’ead. Ther
night was dark ’n’ stormy, ’n’ me gills was washed
outer me little burrer up
ther river, ’n’ drifted
inter town on ther
prowl fer er dry
doss. I mooched
round fer a nour
afore strikin’ er
likely shop, ’n’ then
I tears off a palin’
’n’ gets into er yard
where there’s a
stable. ’Twas jist
the thing. That
stable was dry ’n’
comfy, ’n’ there was
er bunch iv sacks
waitin’ fer little
Willie. Little Wil-
lie curls up in ’em,
’n’ dreams iv ma
’n’ Sund’y dinners.
’Long erbout one I
woke up, wet, cold,
’n’ disgusted, t’ find
er spout iv water
playin’ on me frim
somewhere out iv
the darkness. I’d
got it fair in the
brisket, ’n’ was
waterlogged frim
chin t’ middle.
’Twas still rainin’
’n’ howlin’ outside,
’n’ I guessed ther
stable ’ad sprung er
leak, coz I was soon
curled in a high ’n’
dry corner agin, ’n’
could hear that leak
spurtin’ like a cater-
ack. Willy went asleep
again, tormented with
his usual Saturday t’
Monday-week thirst, ’n’ dreamed iv
free brew’ries fer ther people, ’n’ ther leak
waa still sprinklin’ moisture over me boodwar.
’Twas daylight when I woke agin, ’n’ I was
thirstin’ as previous. There was a muddy pool on
ther floor iv ther stable, ’n’ standing agin ther
wall was a barr’l that had blown out its sprigot.
Ther muddy pool on the floor was Beer ! D’yeh
’ear what I’m tellin’ yeb ? Beer ! ’Twas Beer
what had been rainin’ on me in ther darkness.
Beer , ’n’ I’d run away from it ! Ther blow pros-
trated me. I took five weeks fer trespassin’ ’n’
undooly interferon’ with propputy without er
murm, ’n’l’ll never recover me natural ’orror iv
er cold in ther nose what so interferes with ther
human instincts that er man can’t reckernise beer
from water under cover iv ther darkness.”
« ■* * »
“ Itan ” : The minah, introduced some
years ago into North Queensland as an enemy of
the cockchafer grub, which destroys the sugar-
cane, has taken up a determined stand against the
cattle tick. The bird does not, in fact, bother
about the cockchafer grub when there are infested
cattle about. The hosts know this, and invite the
birds to dine by holding their heads to the ground
while the minahs proceed to business. They are
very prolific in the breeding season, but they are
such friendly little chaps that they won’t move
away from settlements if they can help it; where-
fore it is suggested that some of them should be
forcibly deported, and distributed in districts
where ticks are many even though dwelling-
houses are few.
“ Wang ” on pigs, which isn’t by aDy
means the same thing as pigs on “Wang ” :
Par in a recent Bulletin re the locomotive powers of
pigs brings to mind the pugilistic abilities of the porcine
tribe. I have never had the pleasure of being chased by
wild porkers, or of witnessing a battle between two of
that variety ; but I have seen a couple of the lean, or
common, or garden sort get into holts over some
such trifle as one helping himself too liberally at the
dining table, when the other wanted to fill up his bunkers.
A twenty-round human “go” isn’t in it for bang and
bustle compared with an encounter between a pair of
untrained pork squealers. The point aimed at in piggy
battles seems to be the ears. The first round isn’t
spent in sparring for an opening. They go at it from the
gong.
The bristles stand up on each in indignation at the
other’s gluttony or avarice.
One doesn’t call the other a blank ; they save their
wind for sterner business.
They bite and struggle till both are winded, and
then, seemingly by common consent, they take a
spell, standing hard against each other, head to tail,
their sides panting with their exertions or emotions or
something (it might be something for all I know).
The cause of the trouble is forgotten, or probably
eaten by this time, by the other denizens of the
sty. An invisible and inaudible referee calls time, and
then in a wink they’re at it again. Every round is a
repetition of the previous one—fast and furious while
it lasts.
I have seen a pig fight last for hours, and in the end
neither score a victor}’.
The fight, as a rule, ends suddenly and unexpectedly,
just as the betting is getting keen. Usually one notices
the busy and bloated appearance of a non-fighter, and, in
the rush to gather in the few fragments that remain, past
disagreements are forgotten.
I’d sooner watch a good pig fight than many a human
scrap that I’ve been foolish enough to pay 2s. 6d. to wit-
ness.
And the audience never rises up and with much blank
questions the referee’s decision. No, the said audience
gazes on the gladiators with a pleased and satisfied ex-
pression, and reckons it was a jolly fine scrimmage.
• •» * *
“ Dux,” from beneath the cold shadow of
Mount Egmont:—
The Maori may possess many virtues, but the careless-
ness with which he will run into debt, if you are foolish
enough to allow him, and the equal carelessness with
which he will not get out of it, would break the heart of
any business man.
Henare strolls into your boot emporium, answers your
effusive welcome with a nonchalant “Mornin’,” and sinks
into a chair.
Deep silence enwraps* the dusky one, and he gazes
thoughtfully at your piles of American shoddy the while.
You give him time ; his brain works slowly, and he thinks
before he speaks. “You got the foot for the leg ?” he
asks.
“ Yes, yes,” you say, and ask “What price you like
them? Ten, twenty, thirty shillings?”
“ O-h, I think-it I liketn the good foot,” he replies,
“the thirty shillin’.” You show him a pair, and he slowly
tries them on, feeling the toes, the sides and the heels. The
Maori is a careful man. He is apparently satisfied. He
says : “ By gorry, pboss, I think it you the best plurry
footmaker I efer see. You make it the good foot, the
good leather. Fit the leg heasy. I take it this pair.”
He laces them up and gazes round some more. You
are anxious to complete the sale, and hurry him up a
little. He rises slowly, stamping each boot firmly, ex-
presses his satisfaction, and prepares to depart.
You block the way, demanding your thirty pieces of
silver.
Henare seems staggered at your gross effrontery. He
says, “ Oh, don’t you worry, pboss. Ite big rangitira
from the Wairarapa. I pay you sometime.”
“ No, no ! ” you shout. “ You pay me now."
He sees you mean business, and requests : “ You wait I
sellem the kumeras. I pay you then orlri’.”
“No fear. You pay up or take them off at once I’’ you
shriek.
He sits down, and, seeing it’s no go, he slowly jerks
the laces out, remarking sullenly: “Ah, by Gri, me
think it bine-bye he pbroke there ” (pointing to the toe).
“Oh, Cri’, he too tight a-here” (at side). “ Pooh, he
hurt the heel. Me think it you no good the plurry foot-
maker ; worst foot I see pefore. I keep the money in my
pocket,” and flinging the boots on the floor with a deal of
energy : “ You the best worst plurry footmaker I don’t
think ; you can go to plurry h—l myself.”
The whoop of “ Palava” : Be long-distance
rides. Writer’s father left the lower Marthaguy
one afternoon at three o’clock and reached Dubbo
next day before noon. The trip would be
at the shortest about 150 miles. A little after
midnight he hobbled his horse out near Won-
bobbie. Instead of feeding, Taragon made back,
so the old man caught him and cantered on to
Dubbo. Same afternoon he rode same horse to
Arthurville (then called Gundy), another 20 miles.
The horse was, of course, a thoroughbred. You
can’t beat the thoroughbred for endurance. A
blood horse will go gamely on where a trotting,
roadster or hackney coot would shut up like an
oyster. Pub-stool stockmen may skite of jour-
neys done by mongrels, but the genuine stockman
never does. He knows better. An uncle of mine
left the Shingle Hut, one morning, with two
horses —riding one, t’other packed. He landed in
Wellington the night after (a matter of over 180
miles), and the horse he rode took first prize as
best hack at the local show the following day.
He deserved it. Both these horses had stud-book
ancestors.
■* * * *
“ Muelo ” offers some advice from the Hill-
grove district (N.S.W.): —
Go on the land, young man, but don’t be in’a hurry
Don’t think of fruit-growing. What with codlin moth,
cotton blight, fruit fly, aphis, phylloxera, red spider,
curly blight, scale, bad markets, hot winds, cold winds,
hailstones and drought, it won’t pay. And if it does pay
the worry of making it pay will fit you for a lunatic
asylum.
Don’t touch sheep. You will most likely be quaran-
tined for foot rot, scab, fluke, or anthrax. You will also
be regularly fined under the Thistle Act, the Rabbit Act,
and the Dog Act.
Don’t go teat-pulling. There’s money in it, but no
holiday. The kiddies will degenerate into “missing
links,” and you will soon find that the most intelligent
animal on the farm is the dog.
Don’t tackle chicken farming. Fowls are subject to
about 37 different diseases. They are also subject to
native cats, wild cats, tame cats, foxes and Chinamen.
Besides, no normal hen will attempt to lay until eggs
are cheap enough to use as fertiliser. Then, again,
you can’t keep hens without being tempted to enter a
pen for the egg-laying competition, and the strain on
one’s nerves in watching the exciting finish of an egg-
laying match will shatter anybody’s system.
Don’t try wheat-growing. It was bad enough with
smut, rust, caterpillars, grubs, cockatoos, locust, take-
all, and the rain that came too late. But now—well,
you know about the Chapman bag.
Take up a mineral lease—scheelite for preference.
Then you will have no worry about foot rot or dry rot,
red spider or black spider, fruit fly or blow fly. You can-
not be fined under the Rabbit Act, or Thistle Act, or Dog
Act, or Cat Statute. It won’t trouble you if wheat is put
in Gladstone bags or kit bags. Also you will not find it
necessary to take a live interest in country shows, or
read “On the Land,” or “Qn the Soil.” The rent is
nominal. No fencing, no tanks, no improvements, no
prayers for rain required. You have no need to work, and
no need to pay anybody else to work. All you require is
10 or 12 acres of “land.” If properly pegged, you should
have eight or ten scheelite lodes on your lease, and when
the market booms, you will be rushed by eager workers
wanting a tribute. In a condescending way you will
allow each party of two 50ft. along one line of lode, and
charge 10 per cent, royalty on all ore won. It is not
laborious work collecting a royalty, and not continuous.
I mean it only occurs on Saturdays', leaving you six days
a week to spend the earnings. When the slump comes
don’t pay your rent; wait until the market brightens up
again—your lease will not be gazetted as abandoned ;
they don’t do shabby things like that in the Ma State.
Then pay up the back rents and proceed as before. Yes,
go on the land, young man.
“Top Swamp”: Do foxes and dingoes
ever live together in the same district in amity
and peace? lam camped on the head-waters of
the Mitta River, about 21 miles N. of Benambra
(Vic.). When I first arrived foxes were very
plentiful. Then came the first heavy fall of snow.
It brought the dingoes in a serried mass ; I don’t
think one stayed away. Without a minute’s
delay the foxes cleared. The dingoes remained
for about a couple of months. Then they shifted,
and a day or so afterwards the foxes came back,,
and are now as thick as ever.
MORTGAGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These spotted trousers,
now too short,
Were once some verses
smoothly wrought,
The worn-out bluchers
on my feet
Twin sonnets
to My Lady
Sweet,
This “■ decker ” hanging
round my nose
The product ot an
Ode to Rose ;
The collar, tie and
underpants
Are still an Editors
advance
For some wild Bac-
chanalian song
The gods, I hope, will
send along . . .
To work a dead
horse off one’s
hand
(More so, of Pegasus’s
brand)
Is what a poet
• hatei to do,
Yet still is
what Fate drives
us to.
Ah me, I feel my soul is ripe
For forty couplets’ worth of tripe,
Three lines of beer, a verse of bread,
Biit 0 . . . I’ll have to pay instead
That d d old Editor ! !
HUGH McCRAE.


THE GENTLE ART OF "SCRAPPING”—ANCIENT AND MODERN.
(Suggested by Recent Events in Sydney.)
\
ih? / h J/r\i .' CCir f
f' c
.3 ; (/
d* s
fd
jAffcAz - eiA/
//<
mi
Ajaj Prfyb%
UJ Ur
dgh


Mr. William Wallace, Roto, N.S.W.,
says:—“l always keep Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy in the house, and have never found it
fail to cure a cough or cold.”*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ Woods’ Peppermint Cure appears to bring
Your trade amongst the snuggest,
I ’spose it won’t cure everything ? ”
“Well, no,” replied the druggist.
“ It won’t cure everything, at least,
Unless I’m much mistaken ! ”
“ What won’t it cure in man or beast? ”
Said he : “ It won’t cure bacon 1 ”
GAELIC
WHISKY
(Tho Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. F. G. Braithwaite, of Sydney, general
manager in these parts for the New York Life
Insurance office, was surgeon of the cruiser
Chicago, the first of the United States’ great
“White Squadron”—the squadron consisted of
four ships for some time. He was on it in 1898,
during the visit to Europe, when Mahan, the
naval historian, was captain. Sperry, now Ad-
miral, was the Chicago’s executive officer.
DOCTOR LIDDELL, M.H.R.
“ Six-and-Eightpence ” writes :
The race for the N. S. Wales Chief-Justiceship, when it
becomes vacant, is between Alexander Gordon (called
1882), W. P. Cullen (1883) and Adrian Knox (1886). The
last has great wealth and is able to maintain the posi-
tion. The objection is that all three are of the Equity
Bar.
But if it lies among these three what of Gregory
Wade ?
Maoriland’s Parliament is having
its last session, and next Parliament
will see many changes. Canterbury’s
big Liberal sheep-king, A. W. Ruther-
ford, is going a- voyaging; and though
Hurunui hinted that that needn’t mat-
ter, the mutton magnate replied that
he wouldn’t hang on to a job that
he only nominally filled. C. H. Mills
(for some years a member of the Sed-
don Cabinet) also quits Marlborough
for a gay time in Europe—for him
Parliament has never been the same
since Joe Ward “reconstructed” him
out of his Ministerial billet. Jock
McLachlan, now in his 69th year,
will also probably quit Ashburton.
He is liable to take off his boots in
the halls of Parliament, and deposit
them on the bench in front of his
legislative seat, but yet he has been
one of the ablest and keenest debaters
in the House; while his humorous, if
utterly irrelevant and irreverent, inter-
jections have relieved many a dreary
debate. Other likely retirements are
those of Wellington’s many-time Mayor
Aitken, and Lewis (Courtenay), D. Reid
(Taieri), Allison (Waitemata), Houston
(Bay of Islands), and Lethbridge
(Rangitikei); also W. Hall Jones,
whose health has been rather shaky,
may leave the job of looking after rail-
ways and public works, and go out of
public life altogether.
The tiredest Australian of the
last few days transpired at Elmore
(Vic.). He was in charge of a mob
of sheep ; and having let his muttons
on to the railway line to eat down Tait’s
grass, he placidly went to sleep on the
track with a rail for a pillow. The
“express” came along so gently and
noiselessly that he didn’t wake. In
fact, he isn’t awake yet.
The deadly North has had another victim.
Mrs. Creffield died the other day at Normanton
(N.Q.), after living there and thereabouts with her
husband for nearly half-a-century. The couple
celebrated a golden wedding last year, and the
old gentleman is still alive and doing well.
Except for the irremovable old gentle-
man of that name, there isn’t a Nick left in the
front of Australian politics. Nicholas Brown, of
Tas., passed out a year or two ago ; Nicholas
Hawken and Nicholas Fitzgerald have now died
within a month ; and the fourth Nick, whose
other name was Willis, seems these times to be
sleeping very soundly.
Gone over, at West Melbourne, Matthew
Waterstrom, a Victorian for over 60 years. While
the State was yet in short frocks, he precipitated
himself into the Cold Tea movement, and its
flourish was exceeding. He tore through the
different offices of the 1.0. R., was in advance of
the band in the establishment of the Good
Templars, and occasionally was guilty of seeing
the Scarlet Woman in his bad dreams.
Queensland’s champion marrying parson,
D. F. Mitchell, died a few days back. He didn’t
exactly make a business of the marrying, but as he
crept along on his record of 32 years’ meenistry at
the South Brisbane kirk he established a reputa-
tion as a patriarch to whom it was the proper
thing to go for a blessing. He reckoned his own
blessings as 12, the extent of his personal contribu-
tion to the birth-rate.
A very old inhabitant heard the bell ring
last week at Double Bay, Sydney—Mrs. Mary
Ann Ivory—alleged to have been 109 when she
answered the summons. It is said that she landed
in Sydney in 1807, and that her eldest son is still
alive, aged 86. A great gloom hangs round alleged
centenarians, and it is notable that the A. M. P.
Society, which verifies the ages of its clients, has
never been aide to raise one of the breed yet.
Still the late Mrs. Mary Ann was certainly a very
aged body, and she could allow 8 per cent, dis-
count and still be past her hundredth year.
Profound remark by one of Sydney Tele-
graph’s young lions who was out doing the U.S.
Fleet’s arrival :—-
Mr. Wade, the State Premier, meanwhile stood on the
bridge of the Newcastle, with bis colleague, Mr. Hogue,
in attendance, motionless and silent, surveying thought-
fully this peaceful invasion of Port Jackson by a foreign
fleet of battleships.
Well, it would have been a great deal more in-
teresting if Wade had started leaping in the air
the moment the fleet appeared, and had only
struck the deck three times till it was past, and if
he had shouted to Admiral Sperry to get his hair
cut.
“ Oby ” writes :
Nicholas Fitzgerald, of the Victorian House of Land-
lords, enjoyed at one period of his life a reputation for
stirring eloquence. There was a sweep about his oratory
which staggered the people who knew him in private life ;
and he quoted lavishly from classic poets and ancient
prose worthies which few imagined the good old brewer
had ever read. Wicked people often referred to the
quotations afterwards and asked where the words could
be found, but as a rule they got little satisfaction. The
period of the Hon. Nicholas’s oratory ended suddenly.
He shut down with a thud in a single night. All things,
of course, must end, but some evil-minded people
whispered about that a deepl.v-learned ecclesiastic left
Victoria on the very day when Nicholas in his eloquential
capacity dried up for ever..
Although he is 82 years old, Burgoyne,
leader of the Independent Country party in the
South Australian Parliament, is still extremely
regular in his attendance, and he follows the
progress of public business with wonderful alert-
ness. He has always been an ad vanced Liberal,
but during his 24 years in the House he has only
sat in two Ministries. The first was the Radical
Cockburn Cabinet of 1889-90. The second occa-
sion was when he mistook the way and wandered
into the Sudden Solomon fiasco of 1899. It was
on the latter occasion that Glynn, M.H.R., and
Legislative Council President Stirling had their
sole Ministerial experience—one week in all.
From the S. M. Herald (15/8/’08) :
GODWORTH—MARSHALL.—JuIy 15, 1908, at St.
Francis’ R. O. Church, Haymarket, by the Rev.
Father Morris, Walter Joseph Godworth, youngest
son of the late William Godworth, of Elizabeth Bay,
Amelia Villa, and grandson of the late Captain
Gottwerth (of the Army of the Grand Duke of
Hessen-Darmstadt), also nephew of the late Henery
Gottwerth (Professor of University), and great-
nephew of the late Judge, Colonel, and Dr. Gott-
werth, to Margaret Jane Marshall, youngest daugh-
terof James Marshall, Esq.,of Woodburn,Crookwell,
N.S.W. German and American papers please copy.
It is a tragic thing to reflect that all that pomp
and circumstance was wasted in a dusty little
church within easy smell of Paddy’s Markets.
DELILAH AND THE DESERTER.
Albert Bruntnell, one-time N.S.W. poli-
tician (the stalwart Dacey knocked him out
at Alexandria in 1907) and formerly a wearer
of the flaming jersey which makes the
Salvationist look like the husband of the
Scarlet Woman, is drifting back this way,
and hopes to be in 'Maoriland in time to hit
Drink with a dirty left at the coming election.
But Debt wants a much harder spank than Drink
in Maoriland these days.
Captain Greenstreet, in command of the
Maoriland Shipping Co.’s steamer Rimutaka, has
just created something of a record by completing
his 72nd trip round the world, having thus tra-
velled over 2,000,000 miles. He went to sea in
1866, and after 10 years salt-horse he joined the
M.L. company’s service. He has remained there
ever since, passing from sailers to the old single
screw steamers with square yards, and thence to
the twin-screw liners of the present day. He
hasn’t climbed to the turbine boat yet. He has
never been wrecked, and his career has been sin-
gularly devoid of incident. Once, when first mate
on a sailer bound from Melbourne to San Fran-
cisco, the anchor fell on one of his legs and broke
it in two places. The captain and another sea
functionary held a consultation, and, with the
help of a little book on surgery, set the leg so that
it mended satisfactorily. The doctor who was
consulted on arrival at San Francisco said he
couldn’t have handled the case better himself.
Captain Greenstreet intends sticking to the ocean
for a further 10 years, by which time he hopes to
be, in the matter of round-the-world trips, 100
not out!
From One who was There :
Willy Kelly, who prattles about defence to the Went-
worth ladies whenever they will let him, turned up at the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) manoeuvres the other Saturday.
Willy’s knowledge of military matters would appear to be
mainly for bun-worry purposes. It became obvious after he
had spent about ten minutes on thefieldof sham-battle that
he knew at least as much about what was going on as the
hind wheel of his motor, and perhaps more. He led off by
anchoring himself, with a placid smile, bang in front
of the big guns at the precise moment the artillery-
men were unlimbering. Amid many wild and horrified
objurgations, the little man was violently pushed out
of the danger-zone and urged to go away
and buy a valuable oil-painting. He bobbed up at in-
tervals during the day, and he was quite frequently in
front of something horribly dangerous, and always
helpless, and always being passionately urged to
betake himself elsewhere and not return. Finally
he seemed to get disheartened, and a little while
later went back to Sydney, to the relief of the
whole community, which had been wondering how it
would bear the loss if Willy happened to be shot :th a
sword, or blown up by the explosion of a horse. Willy
Kelly strikes your deponent as a type of military expert
who shouldn’t be allowed at military manoeuvres without
some strong-minded knowledgable person to tell him
what is going on.
“ Melb.” : This week’s obituary includes
Nick Fitzgerald, M.L.C., beer-maker. He was
79, and never looked more than 59. Yet medical
skill saved him as by a miracle 15 years ago. He
was the son-in-law of O’Shanassy, and an exact
replica of the great O’Shanassy in ideas. Each
was a pillar of the church. Yet they were not
Irishmen of the Duffy stamp, “rebels to the back-
bone and spinal marrow.” Here was the main rift
between O’Shanassy and Duffy. Though Irish,
O’Shanassy and Fitzgerald were of the “English
Catholic ” cut, lukewarm even in Home Rule.
Fitz’s devotion to the Church slacked off a bit be-
cause Cardinal Moran and Archbishop Carr gave
so much support to the Total Abstinence League.
Only one saying of Fitzgerald’s has any likelihood
of going down to posterity: “Australia’s great
need is for a nice light ale.” He wouldn’t turn
teetotaler like Martin Hud—spelt Hood —the
other great brewing man. Fitzgerald had the
Australian record for 44 years’ unbroken Parlia-
mentary members. <ip for one place (1864 to 1908).
He was oratorio. When a neophyte, the Age
described him as Barry Sullivan from the Theatre
Royal. He would start with a brilliant five
minutes, and then give an hour of sludge. He
couldn’t last.
The Murray, Our Great Eiver.
E. J. Brady, that virile and picturesque writer,
recently traversed the Murray from Albury to the
sea in a motor-boat for The Lone Hand.
He makes a great yarn of it in “River Rovers,”
publication of which begins in The Lone Hand
next Saturday.
Every bushman should rea,d “River Rivers.”
To make sure of not missing any of the series
subscribe to The Lone Hand direct to the office,
214 George Street, Sydney, or to your nearest
newsagent. “River Rovers” brings the River
Murray, with its vast distances, its fringing gums,
its human story, right into the pages of The
Lone Hand.
The “ Oldest Inhabitant ” writes
The late William Patrick Crick made two attempts
before he succeeded in entering Parliament. He tried
both East and West Macquarie without success. His chief
political engineer in those contests (with whom he subse-
quently quarrelled) was Pierce Fowler, but recently dead.
Crick was ultimately elected for West Macquarie, and no
man could disturb him afterwards. The West Macquarie
electorate has been represented at times by John MoPhil-
lamy, of Mount Tamer, who was succeeded by his son-in-
law, C. E. Pilcher, now K.C., Thomas H. Helyer (solici-
tor), Jago Smith and others.
Strahan, the Melbourne Trades Hall dele-
gate who lately violently opposed compulsory mili-
tary training, is a quaint contradiction. He boasts a
wife and children, a position on a Wages Board,
a £5-a-week billet as chief cook at the Grand
Hotel, and a good record as a Richmond coun-
cillor ; yet he objects to compulsory training
because “those who have something to lose should
do the fighting.” Apparently, Mrs. Strahan and
the kiddies and the £5 a week billet are nothing.
Captain Colquhoun, the Queensland naval
Commandant who passed out last week, made one
appearance asapublielecturer under R. S. Smythe’s
management. He took the platform at Melbourne
Town Hall, and essayed to talk interestingly of
his experiences as Times correspondent in the
Russo-Jap war. But the matter and the manner
of his illustrated discourse were equally poor, and
the experiment was not repeated. An intelligent
man of action in his own business, Colquhoun was
something of an elderly johnnie in his social per-
sonality. With all the self-confidence required of
a lecturer, he lacked both the necessary force of
expression and the knowledge of what not to say.
He was even tittered at by the dear girls, whose
good opinion he had always striven for. Which
was rather unkind of them.
Died suddenly on Sunday at Randwick,
Sydney, that ill-ballasted genius, William Patrick
Crick. He was only 44, but he had lived the
strenuous, not to say the furious, life. A stormy
and utterly unconventional man, with a granite
countenance and a bashed and reckless hat,
was W. P. Crick. Starting without any special
advantages in the way of cash or influence lie
fought his way up rapidly. He was a full-blown
solicitor when little more than a boy. He was a
member of N.S.W. Assembly at 25, and even
then he had fought two unsuccessful elec-
tions. He was a Minister at 35, and a
little later he nearly secured the leadership
of his party. Again, after that, he was
within an ace of being State Premier of
N.S.W. People remember him as a brilliant
debater, a clever lawyer, an intensely hardworking
Minister, a master of the forms of Parliament,
and the swiftest Chairman of Committees who
ever drove measures through a sluggish House.
He worked hard at his profession, and betted
hard on horses that seldom won, and swore when
he thought the occasion called for it, and bought
drinksformanypeoplewhoshowedlittlesubsequent
gratitude, and did many generous things, and was
accused of many bad things which may now be
buried with him. Whatever else might be charged
against him he never belonged to the Stinking
Fish brigade, and among the smug hypocrites
who used to make the slandering of Australia
a gospel Crick’s eager face and bashed hat were
never to be seen—unless he was there by
accident, and then the hat and its wearer
always rose to say briefly that Australia was
a mighty good place, and one that anybody who
had the luck to be born there might well be proud
of. One of his last acts was to buy a ticket for the
Squires-Burns fight, and if his ghost wasn’t there
—well, in that case there are no ghosts.
A CHUCK-OFF.
OUR IMPORTED AUSTRALIAN ADMIBAL (showing
American ditto round): “Where shall we
go now?”
AMERICAN ADMIRAL: “ Guess we’ll go to the
Museum. I wanta see your goddarm Aus-
tralian gleet.”
John Henry Smith, who died at Farnham
(N.S.W.) a few days ago, aged (allegedly) 104, had
resided in the district for 64 years, and was the
first man to find gold at Splitters Gully. In
addition to this distinction he was visited
several times by Ben Hall, the bushranger,
when mining at Gigmalarry. Yet another
distinction —Mr. Smith resided in Bathurst
when the town consisted of two bark huts;
and on top of all these glories he was “the
first man to take sheep overland from Bathurst to
the Darling Downs,” though how he could have
taken them otherwise is hard to say.
FAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was proposed, in the S. Aus. Parliament, that a
national memorial be erected to the memory of C. C.
Kingston, statesman (deceased). Members received the
proposal with coolness. — News item.
We have got a naked Venus in a square of vivid green,
And a statue, at the other end, of Burns, the libertine—
Of the libertine and poet and the man who “ might have
been.”
We have Hercules and others who are ranked amongst
the great,
And we boost these blessed heroes of a time long out of
date,
And it makes me wonder sometimes what they did for
this poor State.
If the Queen of Spain’s in travail, Oh ! the sympathy
that wells
From the hearts of “ true Australians.” How it murmurs !
How it swells !
And a cable (sent instanter) to the King their “ sorrow ”
tells.
If the King has been out shooting and a pheasant hits
his crust,
Then the cablegrams are flying fit to make the cables
“ bust.”
And the “ loyal ” people sorrow with their foreheads in
the dust.
If a man has served his country in a true straightforward
style,
Working forwards, grandly, grimly, inch by inch, and
mile bj r mile,
What a splendid joke, my masters ! And we smile a
chilly smile !
A memorial! Good Heavens ! It would be a splendid
jest,
Just because he served his country at the people’s own
behest,
Even though he labored harder (and it killed him) than
the rest!
But the mighty dead still speaketh, for the deeds he left
behind
Are memorial eternal to our one great master-mind ;
And the fools who snigger coldly, they are imbecile and
blind !
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


)j
H
inTlmrrjjy __
Q
)l
lllllHJii
/
)[
I
(
(
n
¥i
rv 4
&
r:
\
\
/
75
/<?
<*
E
y
-v>*
te
A CUTE MAN KEEPS A GOOD CIGARETTE.
The HAVELOCK CIGARETTE is
g'ood either to g'ive or to Keep.


Arthur
Specialise in
Leplastrier <O. Co.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ROBEY’S”
English Machinery, Portable and Fixed Engines. Traction Engines, High-
Speed Engines, Threshing Machines, Oil Engines, etc.
“ NATIONAL ” Gas Engines and Suction Plants (the Gold Medal Plant).
A RANSOME & CO., LTD., English Wood-working and Cask-making Machinery; MASSEY’S Steam
Hammers ; “ HOVO ” High-Speed Steel, Tramway Material, Steel Trucks, Locomotives, etc.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining- Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
Batteries, Krom Rolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc., anrl for the Mine Workshops, Lathes, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines, Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Sole Agents for F. REDOAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTING; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Addresses— JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENCINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Bendigo.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Co. (Melbourne) :
Added to Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898.. £5Oll 10 per cent. =£2ooo £10,494
Profits.
1899 .. 4511 15 ~ „ 3000 £l5ll 12,005
1900 .. 3233 20 „ „ 4000 11,238
1901 .. 4741 20 „ „ 4000 741 11,979
1902 .. 4301 20 ~ ~ 4000 301 12,280
1903 .. 3957 20 ~ ~ 4000 12,237
1904 .. 3736 20 ~ „ 4000 11,973
1905 ~ 3334 15 ~ ~ 3000 334 12,307
1906 .. 3534 15 ~ „ 3000 534 12,841
1907 .. 3845 15 ~ „ 3000 845 13,686
1908 .. 4216 20 „ ~ 4000 216 13,902
This co. was formed in 1889 to take over the fire, marine,
and guarantee business of the old Victoria Life and
General Co., which decided to wind up peacefully as soon
as possible after the death of the last surviving policy-
holder. But there isn’t very much scope nowadays for
this Victoria General and Guarantee Co., as the Vic-
toria Insurance Co. is in the same stable. Evidently
the General and Guarantee Co. is mostly guarantee these
days, and doesn’t pursue the other class of business with
much vigor. This may explain why the profits are nearly
all mopped up in dividends, and little in the way of re-
serves is accumulated. Also it may explain why business
doesn’t move ahead at all. Results have been as fol-
lows :
Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £11,324 £2864 £6387 25'4 p.c. 56'4 p.c.
1905 .. 9,443 2973 4429 31 '5 „ 46'9 „
1906 . . 9,124 3103 3829 34 0 „ 41.’9 „
1907 .. 9,007 2825 3556 31'3 „ 39'4 ~
1908 .. 8,971 2783 3331 31T „ 37T ~
The premiums are not stated net; the extraordinary
practice is adopted of lumping commissions and returned
premiums. In the foregoing the lump is added on to ex-
penses. The profits have been unusually gorgeous during
the past year—at the rate of £l2 10s. 3d. per cent, on
capital and reserves combined. That is a pretty good
sign that the co. doesn’t take much fire and marine busi-
ness ; for in those lines it has been a very lucky Australian
co. indeed that hasn’t had heavier losses than usual
during the past 12 months.
* * * *
The Newcastle Goal Mining Co. (N.S.W.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
jg jg jg jg £
Dec., 1902.. 25 p.c. =12,500 15,339
June, 1903.. 9867 15 „ „ 7.500 1320 1047 16,386
Dec., 1903.. 8484 15 „ „ 7,500 2009 15,361
June, 1904.. 5660 7£ ~ „ 3,750 5302 11,969
Dec., 1904.. 7107 5 „ „ 2,500 7963 8,613
June, 1905.. 3582 nil 2688 894 9,507
Dec., 1905.. 6854 6 p.c.= 3,000 6137 7,224
June, 1906.. 5376 6 ~ „ 3,000 3601 5,999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 „,, 3,000 2093 4,588
June, 1907.. 6827 5 „ „ 2,500 2556 1771 6,359
Dec., 1907.. 5561 5 „ „ 2,500 1143 1918 8,277
June, 1908.. 7633 5 „ „ 2,500 1397 3736 12,013
This co. dates back rather over 30 years, and, like most
other coal cos., has shown very irregular results. Just
before the above table opens a 30 per cent, dividend was
paid ; three years before that, however, the co. only
managed 71 per cent. The ground hitherto worked by
the co. is leasehold ; yet, though it is a wasting asset,
being- a coal mine and a leasehold, very little has been
written off the property item. The amounts shown above
as written off are mostly to cover renewals. In 1904
£5987 was, in addition, written off property, and in 1905
another £6OOO. During the last two or three years,
noticing that other Newcastle cos. had worked their mines
out and that this co.’s own mine wasn’t what it used to
be, some Greta freehold coal land was acquired. This has
to be paid for ; and, as provision was not made in the past,
the present and future dividends will have to suffer. It is
an extraordinary thing that a co. which provided so care-
fully for the renewal of the comparatively small item
of plant should have failed so badly to provide for
the same thing in connection with the very much larger
item of mine property. Past profits, on account of that
failure, were therefore not wholly profits ; some of them
can only be regarded as the return of capital. Still the
new properties appear to have been acquired on very
reasonable terms (£25 per acre) ; and the new colliery,
the Whitburn, is now being opened. Last half-year
£4929 of the profit was transferred to Whitburn Coliiery
account; presumably this amount, representing either
purchase or development, will be written off next half-
year—possibly it ought to be shown as written off
now. There is still (June 30, 1908) £9095 owing on
account of the purchase; and there is still a good
deal to do in the way of rail connection, etc.
Other debts amount to £2942. On the other side,
apart from stores, there are liquid assets representing
£13,331. The co. is in 10,000 shares of £ll each, paid to
£lO. At the end of July, 1900, these shares were worth
about £ll. Then, when the divs. went up to 25 and 30
per cent., as much as £lB was paid. In August,
1903, they stood at £l7. The best declared buyer
is now £6 55., with last sales at £7. Coal mines
are an" investment, of course—they are, at any rate,
always put in the investment lists. But obviously you
can burn your fingers as well as your chops with coal.
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902 .. 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903 .. £2214 4 „ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 880
1904 .. £2155 4 p.c. = £1156 £750 £249 1129
1905 .. 1320 3 ~ „ 900 420 1549
1906 .. 1280 3 „ „ 900 380 1929
1907 .. 2008 4 „ ~ 1200 716 92 2021
1908 .. 3781 5 „ „ 1500 1500 781 2802
Australia saw, at a very early date, the blazing absurdity
of growing the best wool in the world, then shipping it
across the world to be probably mixed up with old rags
and turned into cloth, and then paying to have the mix-
ture dragged back across the earth. Though a few
attempts were made in N. S. Wales to do the obvious, the
big foreign mills knocked the infant out in almost every
case, and in 1901, when Federation arrived, there were
only 234 woollen mill employees in N.S.W. The hybrid
tariff then adopted wasn’t strong enough for its purpose ;
wherefore this Victorian mill, which had been at work at
Castlemaine since 1875, and had had a fairly prosperous
career under the Victorian State tariff, found itself
getting into low water. Even though it made no
proper provision to cover wear and tear, its
dividends got down to 3 per cent. ; and in order to con-
tinue the struggle it had to go deeper into debt for new
and improved plant. Then, fortunately, the Lyne tariff
arrived ; things thereupon began to look up again, and a
little of the accumulations of wear and tear can now be
provided for. Further, not only do the shareholders get
5 per cent, (which, of course, isn’t enough considering
the risks), but the wages for the past six months
amounted to £4141, as against £3065 in the six months
to the end of June, 1907. The co.’s debts are £10,124 on
debentures and overdraft, and £1657 on other accounts ;
the total five years ago was £12,707. On the other side
the more or less liquid assets have increased by about
£lOOO. The outlook is very much better than it was, but
there appears to be a good deal of depreciation to provide
for; and, now that Australia has settled down to Protec-
tion, it will be necessary for competing factories to keep
their plants up to date, wherefore out of profits a sub-
stantial annual addition to a repairs and renewal fund
will be called for.
* * * *
The Denton Mills Hat Factory Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
Net ten To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1899 ..£3156 10 p.c. = £2445 £7ll £3385
New share premiums .. 31 3416
1900 .. 3114 10 p.c. = £2450 664 4080
1901 .. 2857 10 ~ ~ 2450 407 4487
1902 .. 2955 10 ~ ~ 2450 505 4992
1903 .. 3268 10 „ „ 2584 £1045 4631
1904 .. 3117 10 „ ~ 2990 127 4758
1905 .. 3208 10 „ „ 3000 208 4966
1906 .. 3363 10 ~ ~ 3000 363 5329
1907 .. 3684 10 „ „ 3000 684 6013
1908 .. 3969 10 ~ ~ 3000 969 6982
This co., established in 1886, had two advantages—it had
the Victorian State tariff behind it, and it was under the
wing of the wholesale houses. As soon as Protection
became the settled policy of Victoria, and the importers
saw that there wasn’t any' chance of upsetting it, they
left off predicting disaster, and set to work to build a few
factories. Then also, instead of spreading the yarn that
nothing was any good that wasn’t made in some other
country, they considered their own bread-and-butter, and
likewise the money they had put into their own
factories, and whooped for the Australian product.
Consequently this factory was always able to show
very fair results, and for many .years past
not only have the felt-hatters of Victoria been
a well-paid lot, but a substantial dividend has also
been paid—not as much, certainly, as many banks and
other financial concerns have handed out, but still
enough to encourage the holders of money-bags to pour a
little of their contents into other Australian industries.
In 1897 the assets were revalued, and the necessary
adjustments made; the process was repeated in 1903;
but apparently no overhaul has been made since then.
Regular provision is, however, made for wear and wear
of machinery ; last year’s allowance was £575, equal to
about 13 per cent, of the book value. Practically this
allowance covers the cost of the new plant, etc., which
has been put in during the same period ; in 1903 land and
buildings (then written down) stood at £13,000; plant,
etc., £4569; total £17,569. Now land and buildings
stand at £13,618 ; plant, etc., £4029 ; total, £17,647. The
formal reserves have been used to reduce the overdraft
and the amounts owing to sundry creditors (now £7341
altogether), and to increase stock, etc. The history of the
co. is valuable as showing what an industry can do when
it not only has Protection, but also knows pretty well
that it has it on the same terms as a Judge holds his
billet—so long as he lives and behaves himself.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), who make
Australian cement, and tiles, and bricks, and handle
timber :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1906 .. £12,921 6 per cent. =£9,900 £3021 £22,424
1907 .. 14,589 7 „ ~ 11,550 3039 25,463
1908 .. 16,944 8 „ ~13,200 3744 29,207
This co. was formed in 1900 to take over the business of
another co. which had been formed in 1890 to take over
the business of a firm of long standing in Sydney. The
old co. apparently wasn’t too prosperous; anyway,
in 1898 the dividend was only 2J per cent.
With Federation, however, arrived more hope, and
the new co. was formed to meet the expected
increase of opportunity. For the first three years
apparently 6 per cent, was paid; then things slackened
off—the building trade is a very sensitive barometer—
and in 1905 the dividend was apparently down to 4 per
cent. Then began the general revival; and, with money
plentiful and cheap, something like a building boom
started in the city. Dividends have steadily mounted
up in consequence. Yet, though the Lyne tariff will, no
doubt, be a great help in the future, it is probably too
much to expect for this co. a full continuance of the
past three years’ prosperity. Certainly, the pub-
lished figures may not give a fair idea of what
that prosperity has amounted to. Nothing has been
written off plant; on the other hand, all
additions have been paid for out of profits, so that the
property account stands at the same £100,669 as it did
two years ago, and the machinery, plant, etc., at the
same £89,867. If very large additions have been made
and paid for out of profits (it is understood that some-
thing considerable has been done), then trade might ease
off considerably without greatly reducing the disclosed
profits. On June 30, with a capital of £165,000, sundry
creditors amounted to £95,348 ; against that may be set
the stock-in-trade £65,952 and book debts £39,812, the
latter showing an increase of £7640 in the past two years.
That is to say, the share capital has been almost
exhausted in properties, plant, etc., and the trading
capital has to be got by overdraft and otherwise from
the public. This, of course, increases the risks of the
shareholders, though so long as times are favorable it, no
doubt, also increases the return on their own capital.
* * * *
In April last the Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), was formed to take over those works as a going
concern as from July 1, 1907. The new co. started with
a deficit of £273 representing flotation expenses, etc. The
profits were £2298, of which £437 was written off ; a divi-
dend was paid on the 7 per cent, cumulative pref. shares
and 10 per cent, on the ordinary shares for the period
April 21 to June 30 (£319), and the balance was carried to
reserves. The latter, after deducting the paper asset,
“preliminary expenses,” therefore amount to £1268. The
paid capital is £22,000 in 17,000 pref. shares and 5000
ordinaries, and there are also 3000 prefs. and 15,000 ordi-
naries unissued, over 5000 of which latter the vendors
retain a right of purchase at par. The public subscribed
for the preference issue.
* * * -*■
Standard Mutual • Building Society (Mel-
bourne), which had a cleaning up in 1900, and wrote off
£49,600, being one-half its capital:—
Profit
on pro-
perty Written Re-
Profits. sold. Dividends. off. serve.
July, 1902 .. £lBO3 £793 6 p.c. = £1434 £485 £11,196
Jan., 1903 .. 2072 412 6 „ „ 1434 12,246
July, 1903 .. 2041 339 6 „ „ 1434 200 12,992
Jan., 1904 .. 2230 612 6 ~ ~ 1434 14,400
July, 1904 .. 1986 534 6 „ „ 1434 338 15,148
Jan., 1905 .. 2076 221 6 ~ ~ 1434 16,011
July, 1905 .. 1880 170 6 ~ „ 1434 258 16,369
Jan., 1906 .. 1869 441 6 „ „ 1434 17,245
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7J „ „ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907 .. 2087 581 7£ „ „ 1752 18,315
July, 1907 .. 1958 313 ~ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jam,-1908.. 1952 288 7£ „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908 .. 2102 753 8 „ „ 1912 700 19,415
As mentioned above, this co. had a cleaning-up in 1900,
and did it so thoroughly that ever since then a surplus
has been shown on properties sold ; in other words, the
losses haven’t been as large as had been provided for.
Still the surpluses are apparently not the net surpluses ;
for there is a contingency account “ to cover possible
losses on properties in possession or sold on terms,” and
this fund has been drawn upon to the extent of £7OO
during the past half-year. Still these latter are not
necessarily actual losses ; the Society may revalue an
asset and write it down out of this fund. The properties
in possession are still heavy—exceeding, indeed, the
whole of the capital as written down. From medium to
fair progress was, however, made in getting rid of them
during the past term. One thing in their favor is that
they return over 6 per cent, net rent on book value.
Still there is less depreciation about mortgages—the
mortgagor has to give the bricks and mortar their
periodical meal of paint and other expensive trifles—and
it would be a good thing to see the foreclosed properties
exchanged for advances on 4 mortgage. Since the cleaning-
up in 1900 the principal movements have been as
follows :
Jan.,’ol. July,’o7. Jan.,’oB. June,’oB.
Deposits, etc. .. £37,015 £27,751 £27,884 £28,710
Advances .. 19,998 39,263 41,557 43,188
Foreclosures .. 72,305 54,883 54,241 51,886
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 1,540 808 2,760
The society is going slow in the matter of deposits ; and
that reduces the shareholders’ risks. So far there is
£2 7s. of shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) for
every £1 of deposits and other liabilities ; and, as the re-
serves are pretty obviously real, the creditors are thus
very well protected indeed.
>r * » *
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road
Metal Co. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1904 .. £lOO5 7 p.c. =£952 £53 £2lBB
June, 1905 .. 944 6J „ ~ 850 94 2282
Dec., 1905 .. 612 Nil 612 2894
June, 1906 .. 706 3J-p.c.= 425 £225 56 2950
Dec., 1906 .. 1050 3* ~ „ 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907 .. 1375 6i ~ „ 850 375 150 3450
Dec., 1907 .. 2443 6i ~ „ 850 500 1093 4543
June, 1908 .. 3555 6) „ ~ 850 675 2030 6573
There has evidently been a boom in blue metal, as well as
in butter and other things : and a fine addition has been
made to the reserves. For some years past, in fact, a
very careful policy has been pursued with regard to
dividends : possibly the directors learned a lesson in 1903,
when capital was written down from £34,000 to £27,200.
Practically all of the capital is represented by a wasting
asset—quarry land. It may be that, as stone is taken
out, something is reckoned in with cost to provide for the
writing down of this asset; but though it is understood
that 2d. per ton is allowed to cover that depreciation, the
subject isn’t hinted at in the accounts ; and it is desirable
that it should be —that is to say, if the provision really is
made. If it isn’t, then the reserves are to some extent
fictitious, since they are more or less merely a
set-off to the hole the co. is making in its pro-
perty. Generally speaking, however, the depreciation
allowance is evidently substantial; for besides the
amounts shown in the table as written off, repairs and
renewals are charged direct to profit and loss. The co.
has been putting most of its surplus profits and its re-
serves into other quarries and quarry land, and therefore
hasn’t yet wiped out its overdraft. Three years ago that
trouble plus all other debts amounted to £7730, against
which there were book debts, etc., totalling £4076 ; the
liabilities (including overdraft) are now £6144, while the
book debts, etc., are £5319. Thus the debit balance has
been worked down from £3654 to £825 in the three years.
* * * «
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. off. serves.serves
Dec., 1902 £5OBl £8 17 9 p.c. = £4620 . £461 £5242
June, 1903 5133 8 17 9 „ „ 4620 513 5755
Dec., 1903 5132 8 17 9 ~ „ 4620 512 6267
June, 1904 5032 8 17 9„ ~ 4620 412 6679
Dec., 1904 5192 8 17 9 ~ ~ 4620 572 7251
June, 1905 5075 8 17 9,, ~ 4620 455 7706
Dec., 1905 5138 8 17 9 „ ~ 4620 -- 518 8224
June, 1906 5083 8 17 9 „ „ 4620 463 8687
Dec., 1906 5242 8 17 9 ~ ~ 4620 622 9309
June, 1907 5238 8 17 9,, ~ 4620 618 9927
Dec., 1907 5903 8 17 9,, „ 4620 £3OOO - 8210
June, 1908 5432 8 17 9 „ „ 4620 812 9022
This co., which has hitherto published accounts in a
form that led to this paper making remarks once
every six months, has at last been converted ; and now
the figures come out in a much improved fashion. The
gas and electric light working accounts are kept separate.
The electric light business, which hitherto has always
been represented as showing aloss, works out at aprofitof
£lO9, after providing £1286 for “repairs, renewals, and
depreciation of plant ” ; it would be better still to show
separately the amount actually spent on repairs and
renewals and the amount put aside to provide for
those repairs and renewals that will have to bedbne in the
future. On the past half-year’s results the gas business,
in which £102,717 is invested, shows a return of £lO 7s.
per cent. ; the electric light business shows only 245. 6d.
per cent. But the charge for “repairs, renewals and
depreciation ” in the electric light department amounts
to 16 per cent, of the capital invested, while the same
charges in the gas department amount to only 6J per
cent. The co.’s allowance for depreciation is written off
assets, but, as previously mentioned, the size of this pro-
vision is unknown. The formal reserves are invested in
plant, so that the co.’s overdrafts before paying the
current dividend amounted to £4616. Other liabilities
consist of a trifle of trade debts; but book debts alone
exceed the whole of the liabilities.
* * * w
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902.. £1524 5 p.c. =£lll7 £324 £B3 £2669
June, 1903.. 1525 5 „ ~ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903.. 1769 5 ~ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904.. 1831 6 „ ~ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6 ~ ~ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172 6 ~ „ 1340 275 557 4190
Dec., 1905.. 2428 6 „ ~ 1340 269 819 5009
June, 1906.. 2285 6 ~ ~ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 ~ „ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907.. 2183 6 ~ ~ 1340 408 435 6552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6 „ „ 3377 455 240 6792
June, 1908.. 1924 6 ~ „ 1490 810 6416
The shrunken profits are evidently due to dearer coal.
In the half-year to June, 1906, the coal cost 30 per cent,
of the amount received for gas ; in the term ending June,
1907, the proportion rose to 41 per cent. ; in the past half-
year it was 51 per cent. Apart from that, things would
show a steady improvement, for the sales have been
moving up all the time. Of the reserves, £4553 belongs
to a renewal and repairs fund, and this is, no doubt,
mostly or wholly a set-off to actual rust and decay. The
liabilities total £3350; on the other side, and apart
from plant and works, there were, on June
30, £4954 of assets, including stock and book
debts. One or two things about the co.’s figures, as sum-
marised in the table, need remembering. First, the
profits are gross. Second, it is very doubtful whether
the amounts shown as written off are sufficient to cover
all the depreciation. The amounts include sums spent on
renewing meters ; and that often makes a considerable
hole in the total. In five years £3121 has been added net
to the renewals and repairs fund, and £827 to the other
reserves. Assuming that the former amount, plus the
renewals made meantime, has covered five years’ depreci-
ation—and it doesn’t seem an excessive provision by any
means —then five years’ net profits have only exceeded
the five years’ dividends by £827. And that isn’t much
of a lay-by for contingencies.
m * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1903 .. £938 15 p.c. = £750 £lBB £6,371
Dec., 1903 .. 953 15 „ „ 750 203 6,574
June, 1904 .. 1160 15 ~ „ 750 410 6,984
Dec., 1904 .. 1180 15 „ „ 750 430 7,414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 ~ „ 750 361 7,775
Dec., 1905 .. 1205 15 „ „ 750 455 8,230
June, 1906 .. 997 15 „ ~ 750 247 8,477
Dec., 1906 .. 1079 15 „ „ 750 329 8,806
June, 1907 .. 1273 15 ~ „ 750 523 9,329
Dec., 1907 .. 1097 15 „ ~ 750 347 9,676
June, 1908 .. 1216 15 ~ ~ 750 466 10,142
This co. was paying 15 per cent. 12 years ago, and appar-
ently it had been doing it for some time before that.
Five years ago “ Land, mains, meters, etc.,” were valued
in the books at £12,982 ; the item now stands at £12,300.
It seems, therefore, that, besides providing a fund for
renewals (included above in the reserves), the co. writes
plant down out of revenue. Five years ago the liquid
assets were £4293 in excess of liabilities ; they are now
£8745 in excess. Thus the five years’ profits, besides pay-
ing the 15 per cent, dividend and providing for current
renewals and for any extensions of mains, etc., that have
been carried out, have added £4452 to the funds. The
maintenance of the 15 per cent, seems, therefore, an easy
matter ; though in connection with these private light-
ing cos. the possibilities of municipal works always have
to be taken into account.
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.) : —
Dividends. Writ-
-■ A ten De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. licit.
Dec., ’O3 ..£1614 9 p.c. 2£ p.c. = £713 £747 £795
June,’o4 .. 1501 9,, „ „ 116 706 116
Dec., ’O4 .. 1666 9 „ 2£ „ ~ 719 831
June,’os .. 1237 9 „ ~ ~ Jl6 1237 116
Dec., ’O5 .. 1337 9,, 2J ~ ~ 717 504
June,’o6 .. 1573 “Nil 1573
Dec., ’O6 .. 1514 18 p.c. 2J p.c. = 833 681
June,’o7 .. 1855 9,, 2J ~ ~ 678 1177
Dec., ’O7 .. 1917 9 „ ,, ~ 678 1239
June,’OS .. 1880 9,, 2% „ ~ 678 1202
This co. used to think that all its revenue in excess of
working' expenses was profit, and the directors distributed
it all in dividends. They put nothing aside to provide
for renewals, and presently, in 1904, the co. found itself
with a worn-out plant, a preference-share issue, and a
five per cent, debenture debt of £25,000. Then things
had to happen. The ordinary dividend was reduced,
arid gradually the works are being written down on one
side of the books, while on the other side the debentures
are being paid off —they have now been reduced to
£16,500. Still, there is much to be done. The electric
light department is still run at an actual loss (£22 for
the past half-year); yet the electric light plant and
mains stand in the books at £6969 (at June, 1904,
they stood at £10,843). The gas department is
profitable; last half-year it showed £2336 over
working and management expenses ; but it has to carry
the electric light loss, and the heavy debenture interest
as well. The latter is, however, gradually shrinking ; so
in five or six years, provided the ordinary dividend is
kept where it is, and Rockhampton doesn’t slump, the
accounts will be got into something like reasonable order.
The experience of this co. ought to be a warning to in-
vestors in gas and lighting- cos. Many of these cos. give
no idea as to what they write off to cover depreciation,
if anything; and there is always a danger of that sort of
investment being loaded.
* * * *
Tamworth Gas Co. (Tamworth (N.S.W.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re.
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903 £623 10 pc. = £5OO £lOO £23 £l9BB
Dec., 1903 571 10 ~ ~ 546 25 2013
June, 1904 642 10 „,, 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904 631 10 ~ ~ 546 85 2094
June, 1905 635 10 „ ~ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905 597 10 ~ ~ 546 51 2234
June, 1906 595 10 „„ 546 49 2283
Dec., 1906 660 10 „ ~ 546 100 14 2297
June, 1907 618 10 ~ ~ 546 72 2369
Dec., 1907 632 10 ~ ~ 546 100 2355
June, 1908 607 10 ~ „ 546 61 2416
The profit is stated to be net ; in profit and loss account
“ depreciation ” is lumped with management and all
other expenses. The sums shown above as written off
have been written off plant; the unknown amount of de-
preciation charged to profit and loss has been to provide
for the renewal of mains and services. Almost every-
thing depends on what that depreciation 'allowance
amounts to. If it is insufficient, then the profit is over-
stated ; and it certainly does not appear to be a very
large allowance. Included among the assets at present
is “New mains account, £204.” That seems to suggest
that renewals have not been wholly provided for out of
revenue, but that some have had to be charged up to
capital account. Not enough information is, however,
given to make it safe for the outsider to touch this co.’s
stock as an investment; and there is added risk in
the fact that the local municipality has lately gone
into the business of supplying electric light.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ore. Silver. Lead. Gross Divi-
tons. oz. tons. Profit. dends.
Nov., 1902.. 334,709 2,798,020 33,522 £73,459 £48,000
May, 1903.. 289,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., 1903.. 283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
May, 1904.. 305,512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000
Nov., 1904 . 324,535 2,564,342 35,552 158,274 96,000
May, 1905.. 297,827 2,705,929 34,747 i 70,149 144,000
Nov., 1905.. 309,971 2,896,585 34,479 227,300 144,000
May, 1906.. 229,247 2,202,364 27,865 253,473 192,000
Nov., 1906.. 293,271 2,413,066 29,383 345,622 240,000
May, 1907.. 290,088 2,695,800 29,427 331,125 240,000
NOV., 1907.. 312,158 2,785,535 29,612 153,599 288,000
May, 1908.. *273,557 2,102,559 25,407 30,389 72,000
*Ore and metal figures are for co.’s own ore only.
Of the past half-year’s profit £7612 depreciation is written
off. This is much less than usual; the previous half-
year’s total was £15,957, and in the term before that
£22,887. Thus the co. makes the fat years pay for the
lean. Besides the metal mentioned in the last line in the
table above, the co. says it purchased 17,621 tons ore,
containing 10,733 tons lead and 454,7710 z. silver. Pre-
sumably this is the metal actually extracted. In some
previous terms small quantities of ore were bought, but
the product was not stated separately. Large ore-pur-
chase contracts have been lately made, and the co. will
from this out be something more than a mining co. It is
quite likely that the published figures will therefore be
more involved than hitherto. Even now', for the reason
mentioned above, this past half-year’s figures can’t be
compared strictly with those of previous terms.
Besides going in largely for the purchase of
concentrates from other Broken Hill cos., the B. H. Prop,
has decided on something extensive in connection with
zinc. The directors say the results obtained by zinc-
expert Arnemarin at the new spelter w'orks at Port Pirie
“ are regarded as entirely satisfactory ” ; wherefore “ after
a careful review' of the subject they decided to pro-
ceed with the erection of a plant capable of produc-
ing about 8000 tons of spelter per annum.” The
experimental plant is capable of turning out
about one-tenth of that. The total cost will be
£lOO,OOO, of which £19,000 has been spent. Ample
funds are available for any such purpose as that.
The liquid assets, including stores, exceed the liabili-
ties by £452,503. Bank balances and liquid assets
of that character alone exceed all debts by £212,672. The
fact that even the Broken Hill Proprietary has decided to
spend £lOO,OOO on a zinc plant doesn’t, of course, mean
that this new spelter industry is assured ; the co. has be-
fore to-day spent nearly as much on other plants that
have failed (the amalgamation plant, for instance). But
in this case there is, first, the Sulphide Corporation’s ex-
perience for some years past, in a small way, at Cockle
Creek ; then, this co.’s own experience with its experi-
mental plant at Port Pirie. Except as to that the co. will
not start out on the new industry under favorable condi-
tions. Spelter is down to £l9los. a ton, which is consider-
ably below the average for 20 years past. In fact, there have
been only two years in the past 20 during which the quota-
tion has not been above that figure during some part of the
twelve-month. In 1906 the lowest price was £24 2s. 6d.
If the co. can merely escape a loss under present
market conditions, it would pay to establish the industry
in the expectation both of reducing costs presently and
of benefiting by any rise which may take place in the
extremely erratic spelter market. Certainly no very per-
ceptible additions to profit may be expected with zinc at
its present price. For a start, it is doubtful whether the
co. will be any better off than it would be if it sold its
concentrates (presuming it could go on selling them).
Australia, however, will be better off; and so Australia
can wish the co. nothing but great success in the enter-
prise.
The mean of the monthly averages of lead for
the half-year was £l4 os. 6d. per ton. The gross profit
was £30,389 ; and, as the lead won from the co.’s own ore
was 25,407 tons, the profit was at the rate of £l3s. lid. per
ton of lead. That means that, reckoning all other metals
as by-products, the lead cost £1 3s. lid. less than
£l4 Os. 6d. per ton, or £l2 16s. 7d. per ton, to produce.
The present price is from £l3 Bs. 9d. to £l3 10s. The
silver market is, however, weaker than it was ; in other
words, as the silver can now carry less of the cost,
more of the total cost is thrown on to the lead.
The average for silver during the six months


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA.. 8.84 „
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
ra
Owners of leases containing bauxite and bismuth
are kindly asked to communicate with George D. Meudell,
Whitehall, Bank Place, Melbourne.*
Canbelkgo.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
■* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste df power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction; Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Letnpriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
■* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel,»keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. VVm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* » » *
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying SOb.h.p.,
and operates on the “Otto” cycle; 180r.p.m. ; fitted
with most recent improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft. dia.
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer ; “Magneto”ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-sealing doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
with double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.
The Accumulator is of large size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, in-
stalled tliisplant, and are now manufacturing these plants
complete.* , [5
The Financial Times, London, in commenting
upon the Society’s report for the year 1906, writes: —
“Looking at the successive reports of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, its intense activity forces
itself on the attention. We seem to hear the very throbs
of the engine which in six years has raised the annual
amount of new business from £610,000 to £1,156,000,
and which increased the funds from £1,196,000 to
£2,990,000 between 1890 and 1905.”*
* » * *
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depdt in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
* * * *
The mining and smelting cos. of Australia and
New Zealand have been quick to avail themselves of the
exceptional chance to secure the bargains offering through
the breaking up of the Northern Territories Mining and
Smelting Co.’s immense plants, and a large staff of men
are now packing and shipping engines, boilers, batteries,
air compressors, etc., to the different States. There is
still unsold, one complete copper smelting plant, com-
prising water jacket furnace, Samuelson’s direct driven
26in. blower, complete Bisbee copper converter plant,
all neiv, Robey-Daw compound air compressors, rock
drills, stone breakers, high pressure boilers, locomotives,
traction engines, etc. The landed cost of these plants
was about £150,000, and the purchasers want to clear it
out. Fully illustrated catalogues, post free, on applica-
tion to Cameron and Sutherland, Sydney, Melbourne,
Ballarat, and Bendigo.*
» * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
; Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations, ffm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Sidberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assaj T balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• * • •
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footscray.*
* dr *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The section of the American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler.
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong
argument.in favor of the adoption of the water-tube boilers
in the navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.*
*■*■#•*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
Jeffrey Elevating and Conveying Machinery
has come to be recognised as among the finest examples
of modern labor-saving devices. These equipments
enormously reduce the cost of handling goods, as com-
pared with the old system of manual labor, and whether
installed in mill, mine, brewery, store, or factory, a
Jeffrey outfit cannot fail to be a profitable investment.
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney ; and
128 William Street. Melbourne, have erected a large
number of these plants for variousindustriesin Australia,
and they are glad to supply, free of charge, plans and
specifications for outfits to meet any requirements.*
LOHMANN (Q. COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE-AGENTS for KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Vlotoria
a n d Tasmania, and all prinoipal mining: com'
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc. ; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2
was a shade under 2s. ljd. The last quotation w'as a
shade under Is. lljd. On the half-year’s output of silver
a fall of that size would mean approximately £12,500.
Clearly the co. is now working on a very narrow margin
indeed. The question, however, is whether costs have
not been recently reduced. The South the other day
showed that, whereas the average costs for the whole
half-y'ear (mining and milling) were £1 Is. 2Jd. per ton of
ore, for the last month the total was down to 16s 7Jd. per
ton. No doubt the B. H. Prop, is adopting the same
policy, more or less. The cloud may have this silver
lining ; but it isn’t visible in the pages of the report. So
far as the report and published accounts go, it is the
gloomiest cloud that has over-hung the co. since the
middle ’nineties, when the profitable treatment of sul-
phides began, and gave the B. H. mines their new life.
And the B. H. Prop.’s cloud is all the gloomier because of
the poor results in the deepest level (1400 ft). At the
north end - nothing at all has been found; further south
the lode is only 44ft. wide at its widest.
Broken Hill Junction North has just had
another reminder of the skeleton which the management
has so persistently tried to bury—its one and only shaft.
Owing to the swiftness with which an electric motor was
lowered from the surface to the bottom of the shaft a few
day's ago, the runners were smashed, the mill was hung
up for two days, and the bottom level of the mine was
flooded. The occurrence was no doubt purely acci-
dental, and wouldn’t have happened if the workings were
true, but it was none the less expensive. If, instead of
going-in for further expensive surface improvements, new
engines, and what not, the directors decided to put down
another shaft the position would be strengthened
immensely. When the present shaft was sunk, a sand-
stone body was passed through between the 200 ft. and
the 400 ft. levels, and a few hundred feet lower down the
shaft’s stability depends on whether the old disturbed
ground in the Junction takes another slide or not. It may
be that the shaft will last for years, but there are big risks.
* * ♦ *
The Zinc Corporation should have a big output
to swing before the eyes of shareholders at the end of this
month. The tonnages put through the Broken Hill plant
have been steadily increasing, owing to the improvements
which come with experience, until one day r ’s work now
represents close on 700 tons of tailings.
•*■**■■*
The flotation of the Christmas Gift, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), will mean the opening up of a long abandoned
line of reef. In the early days the Gift was one of the
show claims, and down to the water level produced
several satisfactory crushings. Machinery is required for
further sinking. The co. has been granted three months’
suspension of labor conditions to complete the flotation.
The Klondike has also got suspension for three months
while its owners worry round for more capital for develop-
ment work. The plant is one of the best on the field.
The reef, though under loz. per ton, is from 3ft. to 4ft.
wide, and is well worth a trial in the deep country.
* * *■ *
The record of Melbourne Cope’s Creek, the
mostly Melbourne-owned Tingha (N.S.W.) tin-sluicing
show, which burst out into a remarkable crop of short-
lived dividends: —
Writ-
ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1906.. £3Oll 52 p.c.= £3OOO £ll
June, 1907.. 6124 65 „ „ 3750 £464 1921
Deficit.
Dec., 1907.. 1004 52 „ „ 3000 420 495
June, 1908.. 894 Nil Reserves.
In tin-mining, losses tread on the heels of profits, and the
man who banked a dividend to-day is liable to be struck
by a call-notice to-morrow. In the first five months
this co. paid 4s. in divs., equal to about 45 per
cent, of the actually-paid capital. Last half-year a
call of Is. per share was made. Still only £7500
has actually been put up, while £9750 has been paid in
divs., of which one-third has gone to the vendors. The
original purchasers at par are thus still a trifle on the
wrong side. However, of 240 acres only 22 acres have
been worked out; so though the shareholders may have
to wait, they still have chances of picking up a tidy' profit
whenever the tin market helps them. Last half-year tin
product brought in £6377 ; expenses of all sorts ate up
£5483, leaving £l9B for depreciation, and £696 for profit.
Liquid assets just about balanced liabilities as at June 30
last.
* * * *
Two years of the Elsmore Tin Sluicing Co.,
whose property is up in the New England district
(N.S.W.):—
Written
Profits. ’ Dividends. , ■ Off. Deficit.
June, 1906.. £332
Dec., 1906.. £1163 Nil Reserve^.
June, 1907.. 2738 Nil £604 2965
Dec., 1907.. 570 12£ per cent. =£6oo 282 2653
Loss.
June, 1908.. 305 Nil 2348
Practically that covers the co.’s working life. In the last
six months the mine was mostly idle ; work has, how-
ever, been resumed lately, but things are being taken
very gently. The vendors got £2500 cash and 4000 shares
out of a total of 24,000 ; but nobody else did much good
out of the show, and on its record so far nobody else is
likely to do very brilliantly’ in future. The co., on June
30, owed £7Ol, and had (apart from stores) £312 of liquid
assets. There is 3s. callable on the 12,000 contrib. shares.
Switched for a while off the industrial metals,
Queensland turns to g-old stocks for a gamble, and the
gold output consequently improves. Some people put it
the other way, and say that the bigger output has caused
the bigger gamble ; but there is as much truth one way
as the other. In July, 1907, the State turned out
33,4360 z. ; in July, 1908, the total was 44,9200 z. There
isn’t a considerable field, bar Ravenswood, that isn’t
showing up better ; though Croydon is so nearly snuffed
out that, in spite of its improvement, it can still only
muster 9290 z. for the month’s work.
* * * *
As was recently predicted, Giassford Creek (Q.)
is to fall into the hands of Wilcocks and Stewart, the two
directors who had to bear the burden of the bank claim.
A meeting is called to authorise liquidation and to trans-
fer the assets to these directors. Development will be
started at the mine almost immediately ; £l5O a month is
to be available for that purpose, so by the time the rail-
way reaches the neighborhood, the new owners will have
learnt considerably more about the possibilities. Those
who ought to know the mine best are confident. Con-
cerning the other mines in the district, Cannindah has just
obtained a further six months’ exemption. It is said that
Cannindah’s troubles have hit Robert Philp almost as hard
as Giassford smote Wilcocks. Mt. Hector is pushing on
with its 50-ton blast furnace, but can see no more than
six months’ smelting ahead. Moreover, only fair results
are being obtained from development.
The Gibb Copper Mines, near Mt. Perry (Q.),
met with strong opposition to their application for re-
newal of six months’ labor exemption. A large party of
local miners made an effort to get hold of the property,
and, on a well-developed mine, could have done well.
The warden was satisfied that the plant in use was un-
suitable, and that Gibb, sen., was at present in London
arranging for money to put in higher-class machinery ;
so the objectors failed. The ore has good gold values,
and with careful handling should pay.
Mount Molloy (N.Q.) is very nearly on its feet
again. Fortunately it saved a tidy bit from the times of
high metal values, and, with proper management, it
should have had enough to build its connecting railway,
which will very much cheapen its costs (among other
things the line will provide the furnace with iron flux from
the Cardwell at a cost which will be about covered by the
value of the copper contents). However, a lot of money
was wasted on the work, which cost about £60,000, and so
the co. has had to issue 50,000 pref. shares. There has
been some delay in getting them off, but practically all
have now been absorbed. They are 10s. shares, preferen-
tial as to capital, and they must receive 10s. in divs.
before ordinaries get another taste. Against the
£25,000 which these shares will bring in there _is a
debt of £12,500, leaving £12,500 net. Ore available
without further development should realise about £3OOO,
making £15,500 in all at command. A saw-milling plant,
to be erected in connection with the new timber con-
cessionj will cost £5OOO ; the ballasting of the last section
of the line (now laid to the mine) and other preparations
at the smelting plant will cost £2500. This will leave
£BOOO for the development of the mine. At the bottom
level (470 ft.) the lode has yet to be found ; but there is no
reason to suspect that success will not be met there.
The slump in the metal market has affected the smaller
mines in the district; but still even under present con-
ditions some little custom work can be expected. Most
immediate revenue will, however, be draurn from the
timber concession. Cutting has already begun, and
orders for about a million feet have been booked.
As the result of the development in the northern
block of the O. K. (North Queensland), ore reserves are
now at least as large as they were when Dr. Jack made
his report in October, 1906 ; and the quantity actually in
sight was then set at 23,600 tons. Copper is now being
loaded at Cairns at between £46 and £47 per ton, which
means a profit of £l6OO to £l7OO a month, after paying
development charges. There is a shilling a year dividend
in that. The transit arrangements are now much im-
proved ; the there-and-back trip between mine and rail
is being made in three days.. One result is that stores
for the next wet season are already accumulating.
Vulcan (N.Q.) has now a weak hold in the
market, although there are still some speculators who
are inclined to back the deepest tin show in Australia.
Their ideas seem to be based more on sentiment than
on reason. In spite of favorable announcements tele-
graphed south, reports from the mine are gloomy. The
last mill return was 1170 tons ore for tin worth £2470.
The shaft is down 140 ft. below the deepest level at 1220 ft.,
and small leaders and patches of tin cut in the shaft have
yet to be proved of permanent value. The shaft is some
distance from the main ore pipe, and it is upon this pipe
the Vulcan mainly depends. Prospecting has been
hampered by the stored water, w'hich it was not desired
to let down into the shaft.
» * * *
After its feverish burst, the Charters Towers’
market fell back exhausted ; but it is now reviving a
trifle. Improvements in driving Nos. 7 and 8 account
for that. East Mexican keeps w ell to the 1 rout, having'
1200 ft. of ground along the boundary of the New Brilliant
Freehold, and close to payable gold. Another good
crushing from the New Brilliant Freehold would
strengthen the Mexican market. The slow rate of
development has been unfavorably commented on, but
there has not been a 4ft. reef full of mineral to spur on
the work. Bonnie Dundee, on the intermediate level
No. 2 east, is following a reef of variable width and
prospects. The downward continuation of the shoot has
been proved in a winze started 100 ft. east of the rise ;
things will be all right, if this stone is proved in the main
level at 1420 ft. The North Queen has been baling water,
and is preparing to prospect for the eastern continuation
of the Bonnie ; but it is a big job, for the boundary is
over 500 ft. from the end of No. 2 east, the longest level.
* * * *
Principal Westraiian results for July :
Re- Value
Tonnage, venue. Profit, per ton
Great Boulder .. 14,598 £45,668 £23,518 62/7
Golden Horseshoe .. 19,275 43,446 19,130 45/1
Ivanhoe .. .. !5,079 34,267 14,907 43/8
Great Fingall.. .. 22,493 '27,158 4,017 24/2
Kalgurli .. .. 8,080 22,315 11,249 55/3
Perseverance. .. 14,210 20,157 2,841 28/4
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 10,637 14,173 3,254 26/8
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,295 18,513 4,739 27/10
Golden Ridge.. .. 2,265 4,870 2,452 43/-
Associated .. .. 8,417 18,156 2,066 43/2
Lake View Consols .. 7,’117 10,602 1,260 22/2
Oroya-Black Range.. 4,332 10,859 4,096 50/2
Gwalia South.. .. 2,003 4,943 2,102 49/4
Assoc. Northern .. 3,530 7,420 1,047 42/4
North White Feather 2,013 3,250 609 32/3
Hainault .. .. 5,030 5,283 218 21/-
Northern Mines .. 8,993 6,714 5 14/11
Ingliston Extended.. 1,760 2,300 104 26/1
Hills Proprietary .. 910 1,575 641 34/7
Ida H 1,064 2,603 144 49/-
South Kalgurli made, a loss of £268 on 275. 3d. ore, and
the Vivien £22 on 31s. Id. ore. Lake View Consols
revenue includes £2692 recovered from re-treated slimes
at a cost of £1154, and both the Associated and Associ-
ated Northern’s profits are exclusive of £1857 and £1750
dividend taxes respectively. All the Kalgoorlie returns
are lower on account of the mines having had to close
down while the wood cos. and woodcutters settled their
differences ; but as the stocks of fuel did not give out at
the same time, some outputs are affected more than
others.
* * * «
Golden Pole (W.A.) shareholders know the
worst at last. The manager reports that the ore that
can be profitably worked by the co. is practically ex-
hausted, and on his recommendation the Board has de-
cided to give it up and let tributors tackle the mine. The
co. still has the lvohmoor lease at Stake Well to fall back
on ; but if the option held on that property is exercised,
shareholders will for a certainty be ashed to find money
for its development.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is looking very prosperous at
depth. The east lode, just met in a crosscut at
1820 ft., assays 465. 3d. for a width of 44ft. ; and as it
is big and of about the same \alue in the level above at
1669 ft., a large tonnage of good ore should begot be-
tween those two points. This shoot is the mainstay of
the property', and for length, permanency and consis-
tency it is the best on the field.
* * *■ *
For the year ended March 31 Associated (W.A.)
yielded bullion valued at £241,020. Expenditure, in-
clusive of money spent on development, plant, etc., as
well as dividend duty, totalled £167,935 ; but London
office expenses and other incidentals, which usually tot
up to a substantial figure, have to be added on to this.
The management claims that the year’s work on the Aus-
tralia east lode, which is the mainstay of the mine,
proved an increased width of ore. Nevertheless,
judging by recent market prices, this stock still has a
fascination for speculators out of proportion to its value.
Amalgamation of the White Feather Main Reef
and the North White Feather (W.A.) was being discussed
when the last mail left London. It appears that one of
the North White Feather reefs is dipping towards the
Main Reef; and, as it would scarcely pay the latter co.
to sink a deep shaft to get at the gold, the forming of the
two concerns into one has been suggested. But even if
this is done there is, on account of the patchy nature of
the shoots, little prospect of money being earned for
shareholders.
* * ♦
Local papers are trying hard to focus the atten-
tion of speculators on Chaffers (W.A.); and its three
neighbors (Hannan’s Star, Main Reef and Deep Levels) are
also alleged to be “ worth watching.” As regards the
Chaffers, it is ridiculously over-valued at the present
market price, while the chances of profitable mining ever
being carried on in the other three derelicts are too small
to be seen with the naked eye.
* * * *
The Fenian, at Meekatharra (W.A.), will have
a 10-head battery of its own by the end of next month, if
things go all right. Two years ago, as the result of the
wonderfully ricli crushings made up to then, £30,000 was
offered for the show. It was held by a party of working
men, along with one or two business people of Geraldton
who had backed the prospectors ; and one of the business
men, W. H. James—who a few years ago was coal-hewing
at Newcastle—induced them to turn the offer down.
Since then more than the £30,000 has been taken out in
profits. The last crushing of a trifle over £lOOO tons was
worth about £ll a ton. There is a shaft down over
360 ft. ; at that depth it went into the lode, which is
stated to be 14ft. wide there. A good plant has been put
up at the shaft, and sinking is to be continued. The
owners (one of whom, Dan Meldrum, died a few weeks
ago) showed remarkable faith when they spurned an
offer of £30,000 ; and they evidently haven’t lost any of
it, or they' wouldn’t be so ready to sink. Of course,
when the mill gets to work the returns will fall away
from the 2£oz. lately turned out; for the accumulation
of seconds above and below ground will have to be
Worked off.
Mineowners at Greenbushes (W.A.) propose to
the miners a sliding scale of wages, corresponding with
fluctuations in the price of tin, instead of the lbs. per
shift minimum now in force. Employers point out that
the present rate was adopted when tin stood at a fancy
price, and that its retention when tin is offering at cut
rates means very limited employment. But that begs
the main point: was 10s. a fair thing when tin stood at
the fancy price—a fair thing, that is, for a wilderness like
Greenbushes?
The New Santa Claus, at Randall’s (W.A.), is
putting up a 10-head mill to deal with the 200,000 tons of
ore alleged to be in sight above the 100 ft. level. Manager
Craze, who arrived at this paralysing estimate, reckons
on a profit of ss. per ton ; but when the stamps get to
work, the co. is much more likely to want a coffin than a
strong-room.
J. Bull shareholders in Loddon Valley (Vic.),
sickened at the weight of cash sunk in the Moolort mines,
Won’t put up another penny. So a chief reason for
the bringing in of Bent’s Mining Advances Bill dis-
appears. Loddon Valley already has bitten £BOOO out of
the State Treasury, but this is amply secured. Herbert
J. Daly long ago cried a warning that Moolort mining
would spell ruin because there was too little gold and
too much water; and so it has proved. The State
won’t run this dubious show as a national mine,
so Bull’s shutting down ends the tally of the British
deep-lead shows at Moolort. Cost of proving this
failure since Whittaker Wright days is three-quarters
of a million. It will be interesting next to nad how
Algernon Moreing will eat the boosting speeches which
prefaced the London boom in deep leads.
* * * *
Another Victorian deep-lead show is to pass
into a memory. This is Berry Consols Extended, Cres-
wick, at one end of the Berry lead, while Moolort is at
the other. The claim was next to the Beriy Consols,
which was a rare dividend-payer in its day; but
the Extended did not go as far on the same
road. Gold was always to be got from John English’s
time to Jonah Ward’s, but it took 17 years to get a div.
out of the wash. Then, from 1897 to 1905, £79,000 was
paid. Altogether, capital contributed was £86,993 ; gold
won, 100,7260 z., valued at £417,528. Lumping these
items, it means that it took £504,521 to make £79,000.
Spring Hill Leads, lower down the lead, has never
paid a dividend, though it has flattered its sup-
porters again and a,ain; and Berry United, farther
on, has only just entered the wash. On it rests the repu-
tation of the Berry lead at depth as a great producer.
Bewick, Moreing & Co. look at it as their sheet anchor, but
the record'of the Extended is that of all the deep lead
mines low down the stream—a big lead, fine transported
gold, heavy water, and heavy ground. Is the Berry
United to set that experience at nought? If not, the end
of a big mining centre is ahead.
* * * *
Wandiligong dredge hangs on to its top place
among the little enterprises of the Bright (Vic.) district.
It strikes out a div. nowadays almost as regularly as the
G.P.O. clock strikes out the hours—only the divs. don’t
come quite as often. There are 6000 shares, 3600 fully
paid to £l, and 2400 paid to 15s. ; total, £p4oo. Divs. to
the end of June were £3210. Last half-year’s little lot
was ss. a share (£1500). The area was originally about
107 acres ; and up to date 51J acres have been worked—
in the last six months the two dredges went over 12 acres
of ground. No. 1 gave a profit of £1437 and No. 2 a profit
of £2062. The co.’s half-yearly report doesn’t mention
the area held at present; and where cos. are constantly
nibbling up neighboring areas, the information can’t
easily be pieced together. This co. has been doing some
buying—it paid £545 for land, etc., last term, besides
clearing off the last £7OO owing' on No. 2 dredge. Co.’s
debts on July 31 were £497 ; the liquid assets (including
stores) were £2176. The co. has good ground ahead,
though results are always liable to be affected by local
pipeclay deposits.
Dredging even along the Ovens (Vic.) isn’t all
as easy as failing off a log. The Bright Star, which got
to work 18 months ago, has had no success up to now. A
few months ago it decided that it would have to almost
entirely remodel the plant in order to fit it for the tough
ground ahead. The dredge cost about £4OOO originally ;
and nearly £l7OO has been spent on it lately. Results are
slightly better now ; but the lhiscalculations have left
the co. with £l9OO of debts, besides the £650 still due to
the vendors and payable out of the first profits.
The German crowd that runs the Zeehan
(Tas.) smelters has about got a £20,000 loan through the
Hobart political maze. It is odd that a venture linked
up with millions in the Vaterland should be so down on
its marrow-bones as to have to draw on baby Tasmania.
Zeehan, no doubt, would have been hit on the jaw had
the smelters shut, but it would have only been a tem-
porary knock-out, as very likely Mt. Lyell would have cut
into the Zeehan business. In fact, it would long since
have done so, but the North Lyell strike stopped the ex-
tension of the tramway. Rosebery people are watching
for A. J. Thynne’s wet process, that is to take everything
out of their ore. But the same thing has been heard be-
fore by the hard-pressed Tasmanian copper crowd ; so
now they want to see the process at work.
Gold dividends paid to date in Westralia
amount to about £18,500,000. Two-thirds of this sum
have been distributed by six cos., and as three of them—
Fingall, Perseverance, and Oroj'a-Brown Hill —have done
their dash, and as the other three—Boulder, Horseshoe,
and Ivanhoe —cannot be expected to maintain the present
profit for much longer, only the discovery of new mines
can stop a serious shrinkage in the annual figures.


/f you are one of those particular women who seek
the best preparations for toilet use, you will be interested
in the list of the Valaze preparations, arid appreciate the
many suggestions for beauty culture to be found in Mile.
Rubinstein’s booklet, “Beauty in the Making-.” Valaze,
the chief beauty-maker, is a skin food par excellence.
It revitalises the tired and wasted tissues, removes all
impurities, at,id makes the skirt-soft, and clear. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
easily and quickly banishes these'complaints, and prevents
their recurrence by destroying their cause. 2s. lOd.
posted. Valaze Skin Tonic, specialty for greasy skins*
removes bagginess under the ey r es. 3s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co.,
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon Street, Wellington,
N.Z.* [2
Established 1818.
HEEBINC’S
Cherry Brandy
“PRICOTA”
LIQUEUR
The Ideal Ladies’Liqueur
If you want a liqueur,
Why not try a “ Pricota ? ”
It is wholesome and pure
If you want a liqueur.
To its praises I’m sure
You will soon add your quota;
If you want a liqueur
Why not try a “ Pricota.”
WHOLESALE FROM —
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld., Sydney & Melbourne
\V\\
E 1
I
1
/fj
I’m the Robur Tea Girl?
For afternoon tea you
ought to use the No. 1 Grade
Robur —it is really fine tea—
it has a delicious flavor —it
is woud :rfully economical —-
the very best judges of tea
use it, and nearly everybody
who tries it once sticks to it
for all time, it is so good.
We knew of no better tea
sold in any part of the world.
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“BLACK and WHITE.’’
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the higH-class standard
stimulant of the BritisH Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 25, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
For a week the halls of the local mighty have,
been filled with square-faced, pale and, for the
most part, young men, with accents like banjos.
The observer has had a fine chance to learn what
Uncle Samuel’s naval officer is like, and compare
his manners and habits with those of other navi-
gators of similar rank who have sailed through the
Heads in the memory of living woman. What a
totally different person the LTnited States ‘ ‘ Zoo-
tenant ” is, for instance, from the British “/c/-
tenant ”! Socially, the Englishman is years
older. He is never too young to be a little
blase and cold and self-effacing. He is the
hardest thing on earth to impress. You
will not make him enthuse with a battle-
axe. This is not ingratitude or any allied
sentiment on his part; it is simply his convention.
You may pour fizzy or other wine down his throat
till further orders and in 95 cases out of 100 he
will “ carry ” it in perfectly faultless Style. It is
a point of honor with him to do so. His senior
officer doesn’t object to his “ tanking up ” freely,
but if he shows a suspicion of a sign of the process
he is regarded with abhorrence. He may tank,
but he must tank darkly. That he seldom does
show so much as the vestige of a suspicion of a
sign of his drink-lowerings is to be attributed, in
part'at any rate, to the careful mess-room training
he undergoes in this regard when at sea. The
United States mariner of the same age is socially
quite boyish by comparison. He is frankly de-
lighted with himself, his uniform, his ship, and his
native land. With charming naivetb he will tell you
all the things he has done, is able to do,
and hopes to do in the fighting line, where his
British prototype would remain confusedly silent
—staggered at your indecent conduct in discussing
such a topic with him. The commissioned U.S. A.
salt is as friendly as a child. All men (and girls)
are alike to him. Not so his contemporary aboard
a British war-vessel, who chooses his friends,
mostly, .with the cold, wary eve of the female
society brigadier-general. There is an extraordi-
nary uniformity about the maritime Briton’s dress-
ednventions. He would not wear a white tie with
a dinner-coat, or a black one with a claw-hammer,
for promotion and quadrupled pay. The Yankee
sea-goer dresses in niufti in about 1400 different
ways, and none of him appears to notice what the
other has on. Where the Briton sits impassive
and unmoved after the surrounding of im-
mense quantities of alcohol, the Uncle Sarriite
(Who sees little strong drink at home, and none
at all on board ship) grows wildly hilarious, or
combative, or maudlin, as the case may be.
Whatever the Yankee is when “inked” (whether
gay, or angry, or weepful), he is likewise talkative
to an extraordinary degree. The British officer is
hardly ever so. If the Briton is in what passes
amongst his kind for a state of mirthful intoxica-
tion a mere shadow of a smile distorts his coun-
tenance momentarily, and then he subsides into
gloom once more. If fighting drunk he simply
rises, stuns somebody, and resumes his musings
without comment regarding tlie.whys and where-
fores of the matter. The Amurrikin before, after,
and during any such manoeuvres, delivers an ora-
tion or monologue, in which he explains in detail
the full “strength” of the affair.
Intellectually the two types appear to be on
different planes. Yet it is hard to speak with
certainty as to which is the higher plane, for
the Briton has been schooled to speak to you only
about sport, plays, and the trivialities; whereas
the Arnerican’s discourse is liable to range from
Labor politics in Ohio to the state of the coal
industry in France. It is a fair thing, however,
to conclude that the highly-competitive entrance-
system that obtains in the U.S. A. navy produces
a brainier general average of sailor-officer than
the part-competitive and part-nominee arrange-
ment by which British boys are drafted
to the navy. Summed up, these types
(Yankee and British) seem to me as widely
asunder socially (and in some other im-
portant respects) as the poles. They might fore-
gather in fairly friendly ' fashion for a week or
so; but it is inconceivable that they should ever
fraternise. In the natures of the men they must
shortly prove antipathetic to one another. Withal
they are remarkably fine young men in their
Several ways, and as long as the Anglo-Saxon
peoples go on turning out such, your Akenehi is
satisfied to regard the Jap person with the con-
temptuous eye that is bred of a sense of security.
Three times has Providence condescended to
stage-manage the arrival of the Fleet. At San Fran-
cisco, at Auckland, and at Sydney the monstrous
host advanced almost unseen until by the sudden
lifting of the mist-curtain they were discovered
just “ up stage ” and moving in effortless, majestic
silence, as if each battleship were propelled as is
the swan—merely by a pair of webbed feet.
Then “mast after mast as a tower went past,”
and in ten minutes after the Connecticut had
dropped its anchors, sailors were washing its cliff-
like face, and its Admiral was scurrying over to
our Flagship to tell the other Admiral that he
was juSt tickled to death at the sight of him and
the Harbor.
Rail and tram authorities estimate that there
were more people out of doors on Fleet Arrival
Day than on any former one day in the his-
tory of the city. And the tramps . they
tramped ! If a Sydneysider were asked to walk
half-a-mile -on business he’d start to put out
the Government, or would sool his member on to
somebody. But when it comes to tramping for
“pleasure,” he and she will walk their shoe
leather through. On Thursday thousands of
women walked the 12 miles to South Head and
back. Half-a-million necks are said to have
strained from that coign of vantage —but that is
too much to be believed, and I insist on at least
2J per, cent, discount.
Here and there amongst the big crowds that
flowed through the streets oould be heard the voice
of the man with a passion for explaining what the
various devices meant; or else it was a willing
but hazy parent leading a child with a voracious
appetite for information. For such a parent there
is no escape. If he doesn’t know—and it is im-
possible to know all the things a child asks about
—he has either to display his ignorance for the
amusement of the surrounding mob or grumpily
refuse to answer, or else invent plausible lies.
The Sydney Customs,House had a design show-
ing the Mayflower in full sail on a ferociously
green sea, and beneath it the motto, “Greetings
to the Kinship of the Mayflower.” “ What does
that mean, father?” intoned a small shrill voice.
And the astounding answer came back. “ The
Mayflower was Captain Cook’s vessel, and it was
the first ship to visit Australia. Come on.” They
went on as requested.
The Law Courts copied its inscription from a
dollar somebody lent to a senior-constable. “ In
God We Trust ” was the label on the emporium
where the Judge arranges about the criminal’s
lodgings. An Irishman read it over w'ith a
twinkle in his grey eye: “‘ln God We Trust.’
Well, maybe ; but I’d try squaring the jury first.”
Whoever curled the tails of the gilded plaster
lions in Martin Place was thinking of pug dogs.
The tails curl inward in a graceful curve over the
back, and, although it looks clever, it isn’t Art.
If the person responsible tried to curl a real lion’s
tail that way he would get bitten for a certainty.
The acting-Mayor of Melbourne and Mrs.
Davey are here. The beknighted John Forrests
are at every gold-laced and speechful function.
Mrs. Deakin did not Come up with her consort,
who is staying at a private house in Sydney.
Mrs. Keating is with her Minister for Home
Affairs, and Mrs. Isaacs with her High Court
potentate.
The Gibson-made and Harrison Fisher-made
faces predominate among the officers of the U.S.
Fleet. And, ashore, the visitors from A to Z are
as well-behaved as a Ladies’ School out for a prim
airing. Any man whose primness is not guaran-
teed isn’t allowed on shore at all. I overheard
this at the Powerful’s At Home:—Girl to American
lieutenant: “Did you like Auckland?” “What
I saw of it through the glasses, mahm. It looked
a nice country town.” “And Sydney?”
“Sydney, mahm, is the real goods. I’m ashore
every day.”
The Governor of Timor, a distinguished-looking
Portuguese, viewed the arrival from Dr. Elliot’s
launch.
The State banquet was a marvel of the most
bewilderingly beautiful decorations in gold and
crimson. Each table had an overhead trolly, done
with flowers on wire. The squaws who sat in the
gallery and watched the 800 braves feeding were
sorry for the braves, for there didn’t seem to be
quite sufficient food and wine. The wine was
certainly not poured over anyone—in fact, the
glasses were only half-filled at any one time.
Possibly the waiters might account for that—for
many of them were visibly shaky about the
entree phase of the banquet.
Fearsome mismanagement distinguished the
road arrangements towards getting to the At
Home on the Powerful on Saturday night. A
dense crowd out to see the fireworks thronged
the Quay and water-frontage and all the roads lead-
ing to Man-o’-War Steps. Early goers in cabs were
stopped by the police opposite the Customs House
and told to get out and walk. The roads were
wet and muddy, and the heaving human wall was
practically impassable. Two ladies, who didn’t
realise what they were facing, did get out and
plunged into the thick of the battle. In five
rounds (I mean in five minutes) their chiffony
gowns were torn to shreds. One was rescued by
a policeman arid sent back home in a cab (and a
faint). The other, not knowing that her friend
was partly lost and partly dead, and being herself
almost scared into Heaven, told a huge nigger,
against whom she was hurled, that she would pay
him well to take her to the stairs. “ Pay now,”
said he, and as the only coin she had was a half-
sovereign he got that. He seized her
by One arm, planted a shoulder like a
battering ram against the crowd and in
about 15 minutes hauler and hauled were
against the barrier of police at the stairs. “ What
do you want here?” they asked, haughtily, of
the desirable alien. “/ wouldn’t be found dead
here,” replied Erebus, calmly. “This asked me to
get her through,” and he thrust the wretched
guest into the cleared area. A long, lean, young
Powerful officer looked critically at “This” and
other strange, torn arrivals, and raising his culti-
vated bleat, commanded a signal man to “signal
the ship—haw—and say I want —haw—30 men to
assist the police.” The police did not know
possibly that there was a Frisk on board the
showy piece of scrap iron. Later in the evening
a stream of private carriages dominated the police,
and a road had to be cloven, but it was nearer 10
than nine of the clock before the first arrivals
climbed the cruiser’s gangway. And an hour later
the majority of them were climbing back into
their wraps and launches.
I crouched against a pillar in St. Mary’sJ Cathe-
dral last Sunday and watched the Yankee sailors
stream in. Enough were admitted to fill the
building, and then all doors were hermetically
sealed, and the most elevated possible brand of
High Mass was presented. Unquestionably the
Cardinal and his henchmen know how tostage these
pageants. General Gordon and his sidesmen or
seconds, or whatever he calls them, and the U.S.
admirals and their followers filled the front
stalls, looking like a perchful of newly-plumaged
macaws. Behind them came the U.S. junior
officers, and then, in a solid, imposing phalanx,
more bluejackets than I have ever before seen in
a place of worship. The grouping of the colors
about the altar—the scarlet, of the Cardinal’s
mighty robe and train, the purple of the bishops’
frocks and the stray pinks and blues and
greens—would have caused J. C. William-
son to writhe with envy. For the rest,
the most interesting sight was offered by the
Fleet wives. They were garbed in the costume
of the New York World’s one and only Mrs.
Newlywed. Mrs. Newlywed—together with her
husband and awful babe—has been figuring
weekly for years past on the “ comic” page of the
big American newspaper. She is a slight, frail,
little lady, with a frizzed-out coiffure and a
tremendous hat surmounting the same. She lives
(and apparently sleeps) in tailor-mades, and pre-
sents an angelically even-tempered front to the
weekly outrages of her appalling infant, who,
like the Queen of England, never grows any older.
The Fleet wives wore their Newlywed hair,
hats and costumes to distraction—but their hus-
bands were indistinguishable from the mass of
male humanity that filled the body of the church,
and if they had any wide-mouthed, bald-headed
babes, they left them at home.
Miss Bee Usher has been engaged to play
in “The Prince Chap,” now running in Mel-
bourne. Young Wallace, Miss Rose Scott’s
nephew, who did such good work here in the
Gilbert and Sullivan revivals, has been engaged
in London by Mr. George Edwardes.
The engagement of Miss Phillis Macphillamy—
a member of the extensive Bathurst clan of that
name, and a pretty girl—to Frank Macdonald, of
this city, is announced. Mr. Macdonald is a
Gentleman One with a practice which is still in
the embryo stage ; but he possesses one or two in-
herited moneys, and so will shoo off the dingo of
harduppishness after marriage without undue
effort. He is a Carthlick of a strenuous order,
and the lady comes of dour Presbyterian stock,
but his strenuousness has proved more powerful
than her dourness, and the twain are to be united
under the auspices of the Church That Makes Dill
Shudder. The deed will be done in England
where Miss Macphillamy now is, and whither the
prospective groom journeys next week.
Miss Dulcie Deamer, whose prehistoric yarns
in The Lone Hand aroused so much attention,
passed through Sydney on her way to India last
week. Rumor announces her engagement and
approaching marriage to Mr. A. Goldie, pressman
and theatrical agent. A remarkable-looking
youngster is Miss Deamer, with a pronouncedly
bulging forehead and curious brown eyes. She is
terribly in earnest about her work, and seems to
look at all things in life in relation to it and it
alone.
The N.S. W. Board for The Lone Hand Beauty
Quest (Dr. Nash, M.L.C.; Mr. Petersen, physical
culture expert; Mr. Macleod, the Editor of The
Lone Hand, and your Akenehi) met several of the
contestants at Jean’s Tea Rooms, George-street,
last week, and narrowed the decision down to very
fine limits. The ladies and their chaperones were
entertained at afternoon tea and presented with
souvenirs from The Lone Hand and from Braham
and Co., Stewart Dawson, Walker and Hall, and
other firms. They seemed to find what must have
been rather an ordeal less awkward than they had
expected.
I was struck (and herein I speak not as a judge
but as an observer —in my judicial capacity I,
allowed no personal feelings to obtrude, faithful to
the oath of office which I didn’t take) by the superi-
ority that years give to a woman in such a compe-
tition. The young girl, however pretty, doesn’t
seem to know how to manage her prettiness to the
best advantage. I am beginning to understand
now why the widow represents the “church
triumphant” in the theology of our sex.
I’ve often thought the old dray horses must look
forward to public holidays with feelings of dread.
The relations of people who own drays and dray
horses are nearly always fat, heavy folk with
large quantities of lumbersome children, and on
big holidays the dray horse has to drag these
people around instead of hauling his customary
wood or coal, as the case may be. If given his
choice of loads, the horse would undoubtedly take
the wood and coal, because wood and coal are
always delivered at one end of the journey by
being thrown over a fence or carried in sacks
and dashed down in a shed. Fat people have to
be dragged back as well as dragged there, and as
well as gathering food they sometimes gather ferns
and stretches of green sward with maidenhair fern
growing in it. They never seem to think of apolo-
gising to the horse, but instead sit back heavily
and make dull jokes, of which an occasional one is
even levelled at the toiling beast in the shafts.
Towards the end of Fleet Day I saw weary old
horses that looked ready to sit down in the road
and burst into tears.
A male acquaintance sends this
Sydney turned out holus-bolus to view the fireworks
display of Saturday on the harbor. Now fireworks, like
the average circus, can be much better enjoyed from the
advertisements than from the reality. I’ve never been to
a fireworks show that was a success. But Saturday’s
seemed to promise all right; so, smothering my mis-
givings, I set out about 5 p.m. to get a front seat for the
performance, which was to start at 8.15. About 200,518
people, it seems, started at 5 a.m., and I got no front seat.
And the fireworks were, as usual, not what I expected. The
fireworks man may object to this as a libel ; but I ask
him what did he mean by these items from the official
programme (the O.P. was accompanied by a map of the
harbor, showing 15 places marked by a volcano apiece,
and it was at these places that the illuminated uproar was
to leap up) :—-
B.4s—The 14 stations will fire 6 rockets each, and the cen-
tral station 12, the whole forming a bouquet'
of 96 rockets.
8.55—D0. 12 from the 14, 24 from central, bouquet of 180
rockets.
9.5 —Do., do., bouquet of 264 rockets.
9.15—D0., do., bouquet of 348 rockets.
9.25—D0., do., bouquet of 432 rockets.
9.35--Do., do., bouquet of 516 rockets.
Now, I might have extravagant ideas, but what I
reckoned on was a growing crescendo in the racket of
rockets. The bouquet business I artlessly imagined to be
a graceful group about Pinchgut, where I reckoned the
348 and the 432 and the 516 would amalgamate and roar
in the welkin. What I did see, and what the 200,518
people who got there before 'me saw, and what the
211,673 people who got there after me saw, was a weari-
some, because monotonous, succession of rockets mean-
dering upwards from Fort Macquarie way, with an occa-
sional stray from down the Harbor. As an illustration of
simultaneousness, the show was a fraud. I stayed to the
end because half-a-million people wouldn’t let me get
home. Please ask the fireworks man what is a bouquet
of 516 rockets, and where did he put it on Saturday.
“ Mario” writes from Brisbane :
Her Ex. and husband have had a quiet week of it,
barring an unofficial appearance at the “ Coochin ” ball,
w'here Mrs. Ooochin Bell, in a room gay W'ith black paper
swans (Coochin Coochin means lots of black swans) and
washing baskets full of violets and jonquils, helped her
youngest daughter, Enid, to emerge from the status of
flapper to that of fluffer in the presence of a goodly
throng. The only other vice-regal engagement w’as the
opening of the new' Y.M.C.A. Building, a £22,000 pile
absurdly overfurnished.
It’s a gay world, and in spite of the fact that our naval
commandant is just buried in Melbourne and that the
great white eagle has flapped past our port, the town con-
tinues to frivol at tennis, teas and supper parties.
One of the smartest junketings of the week was a
cheery gathering at the house of the Cecil Palmers to
celebrate their sixth wedding anniversary. The Young
clan was also at home to a big party oh Friday evening.
when the dancing- season was about nailed up finally at
l a.m. Also Mrs. William Perry and the Eddington dame
have been giving big tea-fights. The former event was
in honor of Mrs. Stennet, who is flitting through.
Southern visitors still linger with us. The King
mother and daughter, of your own shores, and Mrs.
Chadwick, from Yarra’s banks, are among the lingerers.
Then Miss Rolf Boldrewood Browne is in our midst, and
a pretty Parke girleen. It’s the golden sunshine that
traps them.
It must he an awful struggle to live up to the billet of a
wife in the local Navy. It’s a life of abnegation ; why, the
husband even has the pretty, clothes. He goes tripping
in his ship, gets lunched, dined, danced, and flirted with
by all and sundry, and all that wifey draws is a pale
reflected glory and the opportunity to sit at home and
think of the time he is having. Half-a-dozen ladies are
suffering all this anguish at the present moment here, and
their efforts to pretend that they really didn’t care to go
and see the Great White Fleet (which counts for
more just now than the Great White Throne), though their
husbands fled there in the swift and glorious Gayundali,
are heroic.
As a rule, the members of the fourth estate keep clear
of the clutches of the Law. It may be that they
are a peaceful, law-abiding class—or, perhaps, they
know too much. At all events, I have heard
it averred that they enjoy an immunity altogether
out of proportion to their deserts. The inevitable
exception, however, almost cropped up here last week,
and the story is whispered that a real editor found him-
self within an ace of making a morning bow to the beak.
It was in the very little hours, and after the stressful time
that ensues upon getting the paper to press. The great
man was wandering home when he was confronted with
two burl}' persons, who wanted to know his name,
place of abode and business. The information was
refused. Words lead to rash statements, and these
developed into threats. The pressman, suspecting brigand-
age, just missed his biggest enemy’s head with his
stick. Then they produced handcuffs and urged him to
come quietly, and he realised to his disgust that he was
up against tw'o raw country bobbies in plain clothes.
They were on Show duty and yearning to arrest suspicious
characters. An inspector patched things up hurriedly,
and there was no editor in the dock that morning. '
Mrs. Oowley, wife of the ex-Speaker, will distribute the
medals and cardboard for the Associated Musical Boards
this year in the Exhibition Hall on September 25. By the'
way, her daughter Heather and a gentleman of the name
of Gall have announced their intention of facing the rest
of their lives together.
An enlightened public has decided, by a majority of
750 votes, to borrow' that £lOO,OOO and put up the new
municipal marble hall where it should be—in Roma-street.
It’s not often that a woman gets a military funeral.
This honor, however, was the other day accorded by the
Queensland Army Medical Service Corps to Mrs. Trundle,
Superintendent of the Army Nursing Corps at Brisbane.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


TP
m
fc-YX?
Vf
i
Every Woman. Should
Read This Story.
Then,
too, it
Tells
About
IT tells the wonder story of the complexion. It tells it in all its many interesting ramifications, and in
a manner in which it has never been told before. It is a mine of valuable suggestions. It points the
way to Beauty—Beauty unfailing, unmistakable, and hatural. I send it to any address in
Australasia, if 3d. is sent for postage. You will enjoy reading it, and will profit by it.
Since I have last publicly addressed my friends in the “ Sunny South,” I have not only
ransacked the world’s beauty-laboratories to supply the ladies of Australasia with the very latest pre=
parations and treatments for the cultivation of the beauty of complexion, but have carried the gospel of
my modern methods into the world’s metropolis—London. In the heart of the aristocratic, historic
Mayfair, 1 have taken an historic mansion, the former town residence of the Marquis of Salisbury, at
24 Grafton Street W., and opened in it the “ Maison de Beaute Valaze,” an establishment for the practise
of the Cult of Beauty on a scale hitherto unknown anywhere in the world, with Valaze as its cornerstone.
And Valaze came, saw, and conquered. Englishwomen have tested Valaze, and have passed
judgment on it—a judgment enthusiastic, unprecedented, overwhelming. Duchess, merchant’s wife, and
actress ; dowager, matron and society bud—whatever the station, whatever the means, and whatever the
age, all pay tribute to Valaze.
You will agree with me, that if Valaze could not prove my every claim ; if it could not re=vitalise
the tissues of your skin; if it could not give you a smooth, clear, and flawless skin, as I say it can; if
it did not ensure freedom from wrinkles, and a beautiful, enviable, perfect complexion, as I say it unfail-
ingly does, the circumstance would spell ruin to my business interests. But my flourishing establish-
ments on three continents, and the many thousands of fair faces you meet wherever the charm of good
complexions is valued, are eloquent and conclusive testimony.
From the Head Depot at 24 Grafton Street W. goes out an unbroken stream of well-known white
Valaze jars, carrying beauty into every corner of the globe.
At 24 Grafton Street W. every one of my Australasian friends will meet with a warm welcome.
The following unsolicited and gratuitous verdict of the leading London organs of public opinion,
the most conservative and the most chary of praise in the world, should prove interesting reading to
the women in Australasia and the Dominion:—
**T!ie Daily Express,** London (April 18): “In all the length and breadth of London there is no
woman who is more exhaustively discussed just now than the chatelaine of the beautiful old-fashioned mansion at 24 Grafton
Street, viz., the great Viennese Beauty Culturist, Mile. Rubinstein. The fame of this clever young priestess of beauty, who
has succeeded in building up for herself a magnificent reputation, has spread like a prairie fire, and her magnificent rooms in
London, decorated in true Viennese style, are the Mecca of all those who are anxious to make permanent the most precious
and greatly desired of Nature’s gifts. Thanks to the marvellous Russian and Viennese methods, which Mile, employs, no case
in which wrinkles, skin troubles, or the ravages of time play a part are too difficult or hopeless to deal with ; while she has the
monopoly all over the world for the almost magical skin food and other preparations known as ‘ Valaze, ’ the creation of
the great Russian Specialist, Dr. Lykuski, who compounded them from some tiny herb grown on the Carpathian Mountains,
and possessed of wonderful virtue for the skin.”
“Sunday Times** (London, April 26th) : “Abroad, all women who pose as beauty-doctors have to pass a stiff examination, and are given written credentials of their
ability to treat the skin in. a hygienic manner. This is as it should be ; we should never trust our beauty to an unknown and possibly ignorant practitioner any more than we would our
health in case of serious illness. Fortunately, there is a chance this season for my readers to undergo beauty Culture in an absolutely different' system from anything that has been
seen in England before. Mile. Helena Rubinstein is a specialist of European celebrity. Hers is a name to conjure with. This year she has consented to come over here and give
English ladies an initiation into the true art of beauty. She has taken a magnificent suite of rooms in Grafton Street, which have the additional interest of having once formed part of
the mansion inhabited by our great Premier, Lord Salisbury. The rooms are fitted up most beautifully, full of quaint objects d art collected abroad, and showing the taste and originality
of their owner in every detail. But this is only the ornamental part. The arrangements for beautifying the human form are bewildering in their variety and completeness. Every
possible facial defect is dealt with in a scientific manner, and with apparatus absolutely unknown before.’’
The ** Gentlewoman** (May 23) : “ The fame of the well-known Viennese beauty-specialist, Mile. Helena Rubinstein, has long been known in England, where
she has had a large postal clientele for years. She is now sumptuously, installed in that fine mansion, 24 Grafton Street W., and crowds of fair beauty-seekers are flocking to obtain
her advice, her beauty-preserving and restorative treatments, and to avail themselves of her new Continental treatments,’’
The "SKetch** (April 22) : “ In the house in which the late Lord Salisbury lived before he came into the family honors, Madame Helena Rubinstein has established the
Maison de Beaute Valaze. She has established herself so successfully as a specialist that she is well known in Australia, India, and on the Continent. So many Englishwomen have become
her clients abroad that she has now come to London, where she has been welcomed with a rush most flattering to her reputation, and more spontaneous than she had thought possible.”
And now do you know why the successes of Valaze in England and in India
and in Africa, in Austria and in Russia and in Australasia have been so
phenomenal ?
Because Valaze stands for the most perfect complexion preparation
that Science has ever had to her credit.
Because Valaze is not like thousands of so-called skin-foods—bland,
indifferent, vapid, nondescript—the kind the skin is better off without than with.
Because Valaze ACTS on the skin.
Because Valaze seeks out the deepest layers of the skin, the deepest
tissue, the deepest cell, and there works, like Nature works, thoroughly and
surely, for skin health, for skin purity, for skin color, for skin freshness, for
skin beauty.
That is why the skin that feeds on Valaze can bear the brunt of all
weather and climate conditions, of heat, of cold, of atmosphere damp and dry.
That is why the cheek never fades that is caressed by Valaze.
That is why Valaze fulfils every iota of its promise and why it occupies
a niche of its very own on the world’s toilet table. In jars, 3/6, 6/6 : 6d.
postage.
But for all that, Valaze is not all-powerful, and no one is readier to make
the admission than myself. Valaze does not do all things, although what it
does accomplish nothing else can do better or as well.
And because VALAZE does not pose as a cure-all, I supply, also, the
following exclusive preparations, which are as invaluable and indispensable in
their own particular sphere of usefulness as Valaze is in its own.
Valaze Herbal Powder protects the skin from the
elements. 2/2, posted.
Valaze Complexion Soap, made of rare herbs and
almonds, pure, wholesome and economical; lasts six months. 2/2.
Valaze BlacKhead and Open-Pore Core
banishes every trace of these disfigurements, and is an unfailing specialty for
coarse and greasy skins. It closes unduly open pores, refines the skin’s
texture. 2/10, posted.
Valaze Cicfllidine dispels undue redness of nose and face,
and prevents pimples and blackheads, by acting directly on the pores, and
freeing them of waste matter, so that the breathing of the skin remains unim-
peded. 8/6 ; 6d. postage.
ValaZe Snow Lotion is a preparation of rare distinction
which refreshes, cools, and whitens the skin. 3/6, 6d. postage.
ValaZe Massage Rollers form a very simple remedy for
the removal of wrinkles, double chin, and excessive flesh about the face. The
balls and cylinders rolled over the face, as well as the circular and stroking
movements with the staff, improve the nutrition of the skin, regulate the circu-
lation of the blood, stimulate weakened nerves and calm excited ones, and
strengthen the muscles of the face. They roll away wrinkles and crowsfeet, fill
out hollows, and give proper facial development. Full directions are given, free
of charge, as to their use. A single roller is 8/6, a set of two 18/6, and full
set of three in case 25/-, 6d. postage.
ValaZe Lip Lustre is a perfectly natural lip food, which
restores the color to dull and blanched lips, and prevents cracks and chaps.
2/- and 3/-
Valaze SKin Tonic is an absolutely perfect preparation of
its special kind. It tones and braces the skin, prevents wrinkles, and in every
way makes for healthfulness of the skin. It is astringent, antiseptic, cleansing,
soothing and healing, and the skin responds to its action with astonishing
rapidity. It corrects a greasy skin, and removes flabbiness under the eyes.
3/6, 6d. postage.
Valaze Rotlg£e Tenace is a purely herbal preparation,
which imparts a natural glow of color to the cheeks. It defies scrutiny, and is
not displaced by heat or perspiration. 1/6 and 3/-
Valaze Eyebrow Pencil delicately darkens the lids,
lashes and brows, and emphasises the eyebrow arches. 2/-
Novona (Sunproof Creme is a positive safeguard against
the harmful action of the sun’s rays upon the complexion. The sun cannot
inflame, discolor, freckle, tan or burn the skin which is fortified with this mar-
vellous specific. This preparation does not remove freckles, tan and sunburn ;
but when the Valaze has done this, the Novena Sunproof Creme actually prevents
their recurrence. You may go out driving, riding, motoring, golfing, or what you
will, on the hottest day, and return home with the skin quite untouched by the
sun’s rays. 2/- and 3/6.
No vena Hair Destroyer is a perfect hair killer, it
removes the hairs instantly, without the slightest detriment to the complexion,
and after application leaves a delightfully cool sensation, which is so different
from the usual effect of other depilatories. 6/6, 6d. post.
No Vena Cerate is a most effective skin=cleanser. Continued
use of Novena Cerate in the nursery will ensure perfect skin-health during
childhood. 2/- and 3/6.
My Melbourne and Sydney establishments —the Valaze Massage Institutes
—are equipped to cope with every complexion disfigurement. The treatments
carried on in it have received the endorsement and commendation of numberless
clients, and are conducted by trained Viennese assistants. I make no charge for
advice, either by letter or interview, and extend the courtesy and freedom of
my salons to every woman who desires to improve her appearance.
158 Pitt Street, Sydney.
274 Collins Street, Melbourne.
9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.
24 Crafton Street, Mayfair, London W.
AND ALL CHEMISTS.


THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been receiver)
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged .. £34 11 0
“ White Australia ” .. .. 0 2 6
E. Brown, Carnarvon, W.A. .. 0 8 0
R. Carlisle . . 0 5 0
G. S. It. Dumas .. .. ~ 0 2 6
Michael Coleman .. .. .. 0 10 0
“ Kanownasts ” .. .. .. 1 14 6
£37 13' 6
wr
r
m
Q?
for Speed and
Reliability.
DUNLOP
TYRES
GIVE SUCH SATISFAC-
TORY RESULTS THAT
Nearly EVERY CYCLIST
IN AUSTRALASIA USES
THEM.
Annual Sales,
360,000
None Genuine
without this £P9“
Trade Mark
h
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, Christchurch. N.Z.
mm
£
'p
Outwear
All
Others.
Only Accept, /
Dunlop
Brandy
There’s nothing like
our soft Para Rubber Dunlop
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They e£sorb all
jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels.
I Obtainable in various shapes and I
\ sizes from all leading Stores. But I
to get Best Results you must V
specify “ DUNLOP ” Brand. f
ĥ
DUNLOP RUBBER COT*
MolDourne. »ydn«*
3b.it»tcHWC*.'f«.ft
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 24, 1908.
My Dear Yarrtk,—
Melbourne wakens with an injured feeling to
the fact that the farewelled ex-Governor-General
hasn't gone. It is a shock and an anomaly.
Didn’t we put our head out of the window and say
“’Ooray,” while the whole city got off its clerkly
stool and stared, and waved the blotting pad of
farewell ! Think of the speeches—laboriously con-
cocted and learnt —that were flung from portly
(■bests at the departing Excellency. Why, he
hasn't r/one! He has been creeping about the
country, with his aide-de-camp Share, keeping on
the weedy side of the rivers, exploring the
curves' of the' Murray and Darling. And
before he takes up his gubernatorial billy
and swag in final departure Northcote is
actually coming back to Melbourne to have his-
share of the Fleet. The official mia-mia has its big
gates sulkily closed, while its numerous Mary
Ann whirls a dusty broom and puts up fresh cur-
tains, and changes the frilled pillow-slips for the
newcomers. Seeing that they are now homeless
wanderers, and are sleeping out, the Carmichael
Step-Governor has offered Northcote and his faith-
ful Share a shake-down at Stonington State
Government House. It seems that the G.-G.
who bowed his acknowledgments from a,barouche
the other week was not being farewelled for ever,
but merely shoo-ed out of his hut in time for the
spring cleaning. Meanwhile Dudley is said to
have superseded Northcote. The position re-
mindsone of the Athanasian Creed, for although
there is only one G.-G., there are two G.-G.’s, and
whosoever believeth it not will be saved.
When Friday’s express brought over Margaret
Anglin, Titheradge and .co. there was a mighty
crowd on Spencer-street to wave the wild hat of
welcome. Horticulturists had collected from
every corner of Victoria, and, each with a daffodil
in his buttonhole, they formed in line to smile
yellowly on their master gardener. Titheradge,
in a marvellous way, managed to dodge the whole
crowd, though the daffodils had outposts to cover
each batch of carriages. His satisfaction did not
last long, however. The keen scent of the ad-
mirers tracked him to his retreat at St. Kilda,
and they arrived at a run, bowed down like a
strong ass couching between two vegetables, to
greet the travel-worn mummer.
Margaret Anglin, meanwhile, bolted straight
for a house she had secured, or snatched from the
fire, in the midst of the Fleet scramble—some-
where along Queen’s Road. The divine Margaret
says she can’t stand hotels and bell boys—she
likes to laze with a book and a yawn in the bliss-
ful peace of half-a-yard of balcony that is all her
own.
Margaret Anglin caught her house without a
doubt on Saturday night with “ The Thief,” and
Titheradge came into his own. Titheradge is an
idol in Melbourne, and the welcome was unlike
any other ovation that any other mummer has
received here for years. He expressed his thanks
quietly and very sincerely—but his whole attitude
breathed out paternal pride when he presented
son Dion. “Bully boy!” “ Chip of the old block !”
yelled the house.
At curtain, when Tith talked prettily of the lead-
ing lady, the divine Margaret rushed out and
blocked his mouth with her three square inches of
cambric and lace—like a scene from “Sherlock
Holmes.” Then she hugged old Tith openly and
unblushingly.
All the Fashionables who could manage it had
rushed to Sydney to have a first paw-shake of the
Uncle Sams. They were far away, sleeping on
pantry shelves and. billiard tables and such like.
Just a clustering few were left to break the
serried ranks of Hebrew Nose—that Mosaic sacred
to First Night. A string of Maddens were there,
and the handsome Railway Tait pair graced the •
stalls. Mrs. Kirby, who is a double of the
Tasmanian Strickland Lady, kept up her First
Night record. Miss Anglin's sister, Eileen-of-the-
golden-locks, beamed from the manager’s box.
Commander Colquhoun is dead—peace to his
ashes. A gallant goldlace with a mystery and
manner adored by women.- A good fellow to his
naval subordinates. Colquhoun did risky, reck-
less doings in S’Africa, and pulled off various
points on the Dutchman, and won the letters
D.S.O. and other British honors to tail after his
name. Australia left co-Commander Tickell
on the Cerberus, and sent Colquhoun abroad
to pick up , hints; sent him to England
and Asia. He had returned only a few
months before his death. For the sake of
his health, he had been transferred to Brisbane.
The little commandant was just returning for
Fleet welcome, and had only brought his boat
into Sydney Harbor, when he slipped out of this
life in a dream.
Poor little mariner—the festivities would have
found him in his ornamental element. There was
never a dance or a social function that Colqu-
houn did not figure in. He was part of the furni-
ture. His gentle flattery and care of pretty
debutantes was an art in itself. The newly-
blossoming rosebuds answered by adoration. Full-
fledged swanlets had their own special treatment,
not so obvious to the chaperone eye.
Colquhoun’s wife was a mythical-seeming fact
in the background of far-off Fogs ; his separation,
the foundation for beautiful and romantic legends
that he never contradicted, and never cor-
roborated. In addition to his. widow he leaves a
daughter, also a young son in the British navy.
Poor old “Nick” Fitzgerald has passed out
—Nick, the wealthy brewer and the deep blue
Conservative of Victoria’s House of Landlords.
Nick never “ speeched ” without a musical em-
broidery and a plethora of words thatcharmed but
led nowhere. He would hypnotise his hearers
into lulled agreement, but when they wakened at
the amen, not a soul could grasp what the speech
had really embodied. He was never known to be
pinned down to expressing an opinion when he
didn’t want to ; his evasion was softly hazy or
smartly crisp. Fellow-members speak of him as
the most perfect of raconteurs.
Mrs. Fitzgerald is one of the handsomest dames
in Melbourne. Her Fitzgerald made quite a
pleasant little fortune from beer. Then the firm
stretched out its gilded fingers for land, and the
Fitzgeralds squatted—squatted with the best of
them. Brother Edward always stuck to the
brewery. He was an unassuming man and a
grafter—just “ Nick’s brother,” and proud of the
title.
When the Glassy Harem feels extra chilly it
bursts into fancy-dress carnival to warm things
up. On Wednesday night the ice saw its usual
Pierrettes and pierrots, arid postmen, and police-
men, and bottle-ohs. They are hard pushed of
late for a'new idea in raiment, and this time the
prize original genius could think of nothing
more extraordinary than to turn out as a Man-
Woman. She-He wore her bodice cut low
,( wantonly inviting pneumonia) with all the
paraphernalia of lace drape and cute violets,
whilst the nether parts of He-She — below
a skittish sash—were enclosed in the conven-
tional black perpendicular tunnels of male attire.
■So many of the teams “fell to pieces” that only
one “fiver” skated before the judge’s box, and it
was turned down for want of competition. It was
a glum gorgeosity in white and scarlet hunting
do’ that trailed back to the entrance gate. The
essence of glassy carnival is to drift into waltzing
to the latest touch of sentiment in music, under
the dim dusk of paper glow-lamps. The primly
sedate Leslie Madden maiden glided round in her
pierrette toggery. Dimpled Ruby in sables, and
Mrs. Yallange in the stiffness of a tailor-made,
led an anti-pneumonia crusade with a rigid dis-
regard for carnival attire. Mrs. Vallange grows
slighter, and is darkly suspected of the rolling-on-
a-barrel craze that madames and maids are fol-
lowing in a frantic chase after the “new slender
figure.”
The beginning of that yell-girt Fact, the Inter-
state Football Carnival, at the Melbourne Cricket
Ground, had quite an attractive ceremony for its
kick off. The newest brand of Governor —the
latest importation—gave his personal blessing and
glad hand, and was backed up by the curveful •
presence of Premier Bent, which presence, by the
way, grows gradually wider, like the circles on a
pool that has been hit by a brick.
The six teams of the six States were drilled into
ranks like the spokes of a wheel, and out on the
grassy greenness the color effect was as good as
F'lemingtononOaksDay. Tasmania has a gay dress,
and its elo’ looked well against the all-black of the
Maorilanders and the black-guernsey and white-
pants array of the Victorians. As the Governor
and his party walked out to the ground,
each team (in succession, thank goodness) took
its war-cry off its chest and threw it into the air.
The Victorians merely ripped out “ Hip-hip-’oo-
ray ! ” —if they had shouted “ Croajingalong-
Yackandandah - Boomahnoomoonah - Buttlejork-
Corop,” and a few more of their own local names, it
would have been a heap more impressive. The
Queenslanders went through a whole ballet and
corroboree of aboriginal performance —a lengthy
thing of recitative and gesture. The Westralians
also corroborated, but not so violently, and with
rather graceful movements. The Maorilanders
have their well-known Maori uproar, which Uni-
versity boys modify into “NoKoffee ! No Koffee !
—but Be-ah ! ” And N.S.W. has its “ Wah
Wah ! ” but poor Victoria, as aforestated, has ad-
vanced no further than “Hip-hip.” And there
is no joy whatever in “ Hip.”
TheUnitedStatesiqvasionof Melbourne is natur-
ally to be celebrated by the Vic. Baseball Leaguers.
They have arranged a match —Australia?’. America
—for Friday afternoon at the M.C.C. ground.
By that time the sailors from Uncle Sam’s land
will doubtless have grown aweary of official
functions, so the opportunity to stand around and
say “Geewhiz !” should fill a want.
The elf-man Kubelik left this corner of Aus-
tralia t’other day to make music in Adelaide and
Westralia before he finally falls over the Edge.
A crowd of worshippers did their best to smash
the welkin with their enthusiastic send-off, but
the welkin, though badly damaged, is pronounced
by leading architects to be capable of repair.
Emilie Dyason, the pianiste of the limited com-
pany, goes abroad to try her wings, but Lovie
Mueller will come back after the Westralian tour
to astound Flemington at Cup time with the
dresses in her long-lost, but now happily-
recovered luggage, and, it is rumored, to announce
her engagement. Barring the recovery of Heze-
kiah when at death’s door, that of Lovie Mueller s
luggage is said to be the most remarkable on
record. The luggage was as near dead as could be
imagined, but it is now quite well.
“Dickie” Davey, daughter of our acting gaud-
Mayor, was married on Tuesday to Charlie
Beauchamp, a dark Adonis who wields a hammer
—not the sledge implement of the smith who toils
with honest perspiration under the spreading
chestnut tree and really produces things, but the
little, tippety-tappety wooden thing with which
you knock down houses and forests to the highest
bidder. He does these tremendous deeds in
Collins-street. The bachelor auctioneer put him-
self up to be bidden for in the usual human way,
and when he saw Miss Davey he promptly
knocked himself down to her. It was a wedding
of much importance. St. Kilda and surrounding
suburbs were roused to a frenzy about noon with
the flurry and scurry of every available cab, motor
or carriage, rushing from all corners to the scene
of the sacrifice —which was Christ church. The
bride, a small, delicately-pretty girl, decked her-
self in a dress of adorable lace—it was priceless
Limerick (web, not poem), and hung from the
kind of waist which comes right up under
the arms, with all the glory of silken
chiffon foundation to back up its beauty.
The sacred edifice — i.e., the church or tabernacle —
rustled with the swish of the latest thing in
Directoire gowns, filled with some of the Best
People. Little Gwen Mooney was the small and
only bridesmaid. Another small child, Peggy
Bruce, was commissioned to meet the bride in the
doorway and give her a lucky horseshoe. St.
Kilda Town Hall was commandeered for the frisk
which followed, and Mrs. Charlie Beauchamp,
after cutting the cake, disappeared into the haze
of honeymoon in a blue-misty drapery of Shan-
tung silk, topped by a brown Merry Widow
hat. A Merry Widow hat, by the way, is an
invidious thing for a bride to top herself off with
on her wedding day.
Miss Katharine Goodson, a very young woman
of much fame, has arrived in Melbourne. She
promises to proclaim on the piano the fact that
she can knock Paderewski and Carreiio and Ham-
bourg into the orchestra, and thence, by a re-
bounding process, into the front stalls. She is a
pupil of Leschetizky. She has performed under
most of the leading orchestral batons, and it is
claimed that in one United States season she
received more engagements than any previous
artist had ever captured in the time. Miss
Goodson opens her campaign in Melbourne on
September 12.
Porteous, that silver-haired Adonis, hobbled
through Melbourne on crutches last week, and
was besieged by the tears and violets and pettings
of his 50-ply Best Girl. The Beauty Man has
been held up in draughty Dunedin for weeks at
the mercy of the dazzling complexions of South
Edinboro’ lassies.
A mishap at a Melbourne restaurant, t’other
night, has been significantly described as “bliss-
ful.” Just at the whirliest time after the theatres
something went wrong with the electric light, and
the whole cafe was in darkness. All the manage-
ment could produce to meet the case were two
guttering candles, which merely served to make
the shadows blacker and more trying to the eye-
sight of Cats. Two or three notable tabbies are
said to be haunted by gloomy suspicions as to
what they didn’t see. F’rinstance, there was the
sound of a soprano voice saying in the darkness,
“ Now, Tom, enough is as good as a feast ” —and
this came from the direction of a table where no
supper had been served up to the moment when
the light went out.
Somebody sends me this as a truthful story of
tremendous topical interest: —‘‘When tommy
Burns was inside St. Patrick’s, Melbourne, on a
recent Sunday morning, an Irishman addressed
the driver of his motor car : ‘That’s a foine car ;
whose is ut ? ’ 4 It’s mine—l’m driving Tommy
Burns.’ ‘Where is he?’ ‘lnside at Mass.’
‘ Phwat! Tommy Burns at Mass ! Then I don’t
see much chance for Bill Squires, at all, at all.’ ”
Another of the many-headed not hydra
headed—Tait family has committed matrimony
.Tames Nevin, the London representative of the
Tait Brothers, was recently married to Miss Bess
Norris, the clever Australian miniature painter,
who has been running rings round English society
dames with chalk and brush. The pair have cut
work for the time being and are wandering in the
green lanes of England, playing at Phyllis and
Corydon.
“Peter Pan” departed after a Friday night
farewell. ’Tilda Brune made a parting speech,
and broke her record by not weeping. It is an
amazing fact in connection with “P. Pan” that
the small housemaid Eliza (the supposed author of
the play, who comes before curtain-up to stamp
the orchestra into life) rarely gets a “hand.” She
is probably the most Barriesque of all the Barrie
characters, and the small mummer, Toots Pounds,
grasps the spirit of the part wonderfully. Per-
haps it is the least-understood and least-appreci-
ated feature in a play that keeps a good many
people guessing.
Ernest Moore, one of the gay young bloods of
Melbourne Savage Club, winds himself in the
silky tendrils of matrimonial engagement. Miss
Bond, of Nhill, holds the gossamer ends.
Alberto Zelman and his String Quartette did a
postponed concert in Glen’s Hall on Wednes-
day night. There was a Beethoven icily cold, and
a Mozart number that was like an exquisite piece
of Dresden, and a Dvorak that blazed with all the
primary colors and most of the secondary ones.
An unrehearsed unharmony filtered in from next
door in mysterious rappings, as if one of Edgar
Allan Poe’s ghosts were trying to draw attention
to its painful shortage of burial. The Vienna
food shop was indulging in extensions and re-
furbishings for the Fleet, and gnomes had been
put on to work night and day. When Mrs. Ethel
Carrick-Fox was showing her pictures on t’other
side, the Viennese artisans let a brick slide
through her skylight, making considerable glass
smash and scaring an ascetic gathering out of its
senses.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Kubelik and his heavenl.v-eyed countess embarked for
Europe in the middle of Thursday’s storm and torrent.
They started with an exciting launch journey over the
raging brine, for the P. and O. boats still haughtily
refuse to be tied up to the Outer Harbor. Kubelik was
in Adelaide two days, and gave a matinde, and lunched at
Government House, and signed many autograph books.
The matinee was thronged with the usual insatiable
economists, determined to get 20s. worth of Kubelik for
10s. 6d. The wizard was brought back to bow his shaggy
mat five or six times after each item. But he gave only
two encores. The pianist damsel, Miss Dyason, was a
vision in deep sea green panne, made with the empire
hitch-up at the waist and a fetching under-blouse of pale
blue net. Miss Mueller was arrayed in velvet and a plumed
lpillinery conquest, and the Countess, who stayed firmly
behind the scenes, was a dream in velvet and picture-
hattedness. Lady le Hunte was there with Miss Clowes
and an aide. Andrew Higginson and “Merry Widow”
Carrie applauded from the front row. The local girl, by
the way, now talks Higginson exclusively, and when
Julius Superhunianus arrives this way in a day or two, he
will have to reconquer his lost throne, like Abdul-Aziz.
Great is the array of motor-broughams and carriages
and cpckaded foot-gentlemen outside “The Merry
Widow ” every evening. The Widow has struck the Very
Best People ail of a heap, and neither Kubelik nor Butt
could drag them from their marble halls in such gilded
quantities.
Our Excellency had a birthday last week. He was at
Port Lincoln, an exciting spot containing a tree, a shop,
a town hall, and a harbor which modestly says it is the
best natural harbor in this end of the hemisphere. The
women of this neighborhood put the town’s tail in curl-
papers ip honor of the occasion, and decked his Ex.’s
carriage with flowers and greenery. In addition to all
this, they made him a pretty little speech and handed
him a large pink-iced birthday cake, with red, white and
blue stripes.
There is great excitement. Harry Dutton and his partner
have reached Port Darwin, and that lone, lorn town has
at last seen a motor car. The travellers ploughed over
the drear wilds of the interior for nearly seven weeks, but
they did the deed, and we intend giving their, a Roman
triumph when they get back.
A few engagements are happening. Bessie, the second
graceful Fotheringham maid of Medindie, has promised
her small, white, blue-veined hand to Walter Duncan, one
of the squattocratic Duncans. Also Florence, the second
daughter of James Melrose, has gladdened the heart of
Mr. Hope Murray by saying “ Yes.” Those who know Mr.
Hope Murray admit that she could hardly say anything
else, and those who know her reckon they would have
asked her to say it even more suddenly than Mr. Hope
Murray did.
The Register is having another epidemic of matrimony
among its staff. Reporter Mervyn Ohinner was married
last week to Alice Eakins, a pretty North Adelaide
damsel. The Robert Kyffin Thomas’s reporter son Jeff
will be wedded to Miss Haynes on September 5 ; and
Gerald Bednall, of the commercial staff, will shortly take
unto himself a wife and the necessary house and furniture.
Journalist Fred Robertson and his wife have just re-
turned from their globe jaunt, having wandered over
Rome, Milan, Venice, and the Italian lake districts ;
climbed an Alp or two, and knocked at the door of Eng-
land. He is one of the editors of the Bonython paper,
and a brilliant but retiring wielder of the quill.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Louis Adolphus Bernays, who in the mid
’fifties was clerk of the printing branch of the old
or mixed Legislative Council of N.S.W. (when
Charles Nicholson was Speaker ; Henry Watson
Parker, Chairman of Committees ; William Mac-
pherson, Clerk of the Council; Richard O’Connor,
first-class assistant and librarian; and Major
Lockyer, Sergeant-at-Arms), and who took service
in Queensland on the establishment of Responsi-
ble Government (1859) as clerk to the Legislative
Assembly, died on Saturday morning at Brisbane,
of heart failure. He was son of the late Dr.
Bernays, Professor of the German language and
literature at King’s College, London. In 1851 he
arrived in Maoriland, but two years of very early
Maoriland was enough for him.
The weak feature of British War Minister
Haldane’s Army scheme, leaks out all over the
place nowadays. A recent cable says that a divi-
sion of the "Territorial Army” is encamped on
Salisbury Plain, and concludes :
The strength of the battalions averages 388 men out of
an establishment of 1009.
Which is what was to be expected. Haldane
went to Berlin to investigate the German reserves
and Landwehr, which are part of a universal
service system. No doubt the German generals
commissioned to explain things did their best to
make him understand how the machinery worked,
and it was no fault of theirs if he was so stupid
that he could not see that the central fact about
the German army is that it is recruited by universal
service, and that every man in the country not
physically incapable has no choice but to take
his place in the ranks when he is 20 years old.
Haldane’s scheme is a good scheme in everything
but the fact that there is no compulsion clause in
it to provide.men. And that being so it.turns out
to be a hopelessly futile and bad scheme.
The wild cat has a new rocket tied to its
tail. A Victorian man lately gave another man
the mining tip which didn’t come off—they hardly
ever do—and the victim, in his anger, left a large
box of combustibles and a lighted candle on the
foe’s verandah. The flare-up was more humorous
than dangerous, and Chief Justice Madden and
the jury agreed to regard the thing rather as a
Fleet illumination than as the serious attempt at
arson which the infuriated plaintiff described it,
and in a general way things simmered down.
But the business suggests an idea. Every man
who buys scrip on another’s recommendation
should be legally authorised to burn the said scrip
at any hour of the day or night on any part of the
scrip-tipster’s premises. Then scrip-tipsters
would give up living in wooden houses, and the
building trade would get a shove, and the appear-
ance of our towns would be improved.


beg to intimate that we are now shewing all the
newest and most fashionable goods for the
SPRING and SUMMER
season, and are daily opening up novelties in all
departments.
We shall make a very Special Display in all Depart-
ments during
In
w
c
<r?
and shall be pleased if Visitors to Melbourne for the
Celebrations will inspect our large and varied stocks.
In our Furniture and Carpet Department we are
showing a Splendid Variety of up-to-date Furniture,
Tapestries, and all the Choicest Productions of Carpets
and Floor Coverings.
We shall esteem it a favor for visitors to call '
whether desirous of purchasing or not.
BALL & WELCH Pty. Ltd.
180-8 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.


Mrs. Cromer, Percy Street, Geelong,
writes: —“Have used Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy with such success that I will always
recommend it to my friends as being the best I
have ever used.”*
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
DURING THE
AMERICAN FLEET FESTIVITIES
SHOULD PAY A VISIT TO
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET,
where one of the most beautiful
DISPLAYS OF WORKS OF ART
in the Southern Hemisphere can be seen.
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Choice Art China Ornaments.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
A MODERN REMEDY.
That dreadful word “consumption” need never be
feared if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is taken in time.
Thousands speak of it in the highest praise, Obtainable
everywhere, price Is. Cd. and 3s.*
As for wit and
Humor good,
Bet. a bit and
Back Toni Hood !
And as Mood’s great
Humor’s pure,
So is Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure !*
YOUNG GIRL SAID TO BE IN A
DECLINE.
G-rbw Anaemic at Fifteen ; Too Weak to Get
Out of Bed; Thin and Wasted; Violent
Headaches and Heart Palpitation.
Health Restored by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
The following is just one of the many serious
cases of bloodlessness that has been cured by l)r.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Mrs. John
Fitzsimmons, 361 Cleveland Street, Redfern,
, Sydney, tells liow they saved her daughter,
Victoria, when she was thought to be in a decline.
Miss Fitzsimmons is a professional singer and
dancer of considerable note, and has appeared
with her sister Mabel in many leading halls in
Sydney, and has toured many of the large towns
on the Northern line.
“My daughter Victoria fell ill when she was
fifteen,” said Mrs. Fitzsimmons. “First of all
she complained of indigestion, then she got in-
fluenza, and finally anaemia set in. I couldn.t
tempt her with the best-cooked dainties. Meat
and vegetables she wouldn’t look at, merely
bread and butter or a little toast, and there
was a craving for salt, or anything sour like
pickles. Every particle of color faded from her
face leaving her cheeks and lips white. She had
dark rings round her eyes, and every day she got
thinner till it was pitiable to see her. She had no
strength or energy to get about. Day after day
she’d have to lie in bed too weak to rise. She
couldn’t do a hand’s turn about the house; she’d
just have to lie on the sofa. Her eyes got very
bad, she had a hazy mist before them with millions
of specks dancing so she couldn’t sew or read. One
day I took her out for a little fresh air, and to my
terror, her sight suddenly failed altogether.
I had to stop still with her awhile artd
then lead her home, her sight getting a
little better towards evening. She was terribly
low spirited and only wanted to be alone.
Her friends would come round for her to
take a stroll, but her answer was always, ‘ No.’
One of her ankles swelled up, and both of them as
well as her wrists gave her pain. One of her arms
had a peculiar twitching from shoulder to fingers.
She had terrible palpitation. If she had a little
exertion her heart would start thumping. I
honestly thought she was in a decline and I was
worried to death. One day she’d feel better and
the next worse than ever. Her gums were quite
white, and her feet and hands cold. She had
practically no circulation. She had violent head-
aches, lasting all day, and a dull ache between the
shoulders. At nights partictilarly she’d get dread-
ful attacks of neuralgia. She’d feel sick at the
stomach after eating but could rarely bring any-
thing up. The doctor’s treatment did her very
little good, and through hearing of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills I decided to give them a trial. The
first few doses actually did her a little good.
The color began to show in her face and lips.
Her eyes brightened and she began to fill out
again, and her appetite improved most wonder-
fully. The second box saw her able to eat a meal
of meat and vegetables and the utter weariness
gave way 'to good spirits. The headaches and
palpitation got less every day and she could get
about the house and go out in the fresh air with
pleasure. The third box cured her. You could
see her health returning every day. Now she is
well enough to resurne her profession, though I
never though she would.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medi-
cine dealers, or if you cannot get them locally,
send direct to The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia, Ltd.. Sydney, 2s. 9d. for one box;
six boxes for 15s. 3d. post free.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofeomfort, made of
the best materials, and drives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make oil kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
2SI GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
At,HO AT MK.LBOUiv.NE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Is Freefcrade attainable? ’’ was the title
of a letter written by one Henry Bowditch, of
Parkes (N.S.W.), to Sydney Telegraph last
week. Certainly it is. So are dirt, death, codlin
moth, verdigris, bankruptcy, dandruff, beer-
horrors, and atheism. Of course, Freetrade is
attainable. The aborigines had it when Cap-
tain Cook arrived.
Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, ex-
presses the opinion that compulsory military
training is impossible in Maoriland because “nine
out of ten of the ►people have to earn their own
living,” and consequently “can’t afford the time.”
Maoriland is a rich country, with short working
hours and many holidays, and if its people can’t
afford the time to learn to defend themselves
there is no other community on earth that can.
But the excuse saves lazy, borrowing Joseph the
excuse of facing the situation.
The argument employed by certain holy
Cornstalks against Premier Wade’s Contagious
Diseases Bill is on a level with that of the London
anti-liquorites of a few years ago, who demanded
that Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital—to which
most of the slum casualties are carried—should be
closed against new cases from Saturday afternoon
till Monday morning. Most of the Saturday night
and early Sunday breakages, they pointed out,
arose through drunken fights, and the argument
was that the State, by maintaining a staff of
surgeons and nurses to attend to the shattered
human tank, was directly encouraging drunken-
ness. “Shut up Bartholomew’s on Saturday
night! ” was therefore the cry.
The Maoriland Pubkeepers’ Union has just
heard of something which is likely to play Ancient
Henry with it at the election and Local Option
poll in December next. Hitherto Maoriland
unionism has declined to regard the liquor
question from a party standpoint, and, on.
the whole, has been understood to be
against extreme Cold Tea. But, during
the strike of the Wellington bakers,
one prominent beer merchant took an
active part against the men. He had
made bread in his earlier days, and an
evil spirit entering into him, he re-
sumed baking till sufficient black-
legs could be got together to break
the back of the strike. Labor re-
garded him with a cold fishy eye,
and made a note of the circum-
stance. Then the hotel employees
went to the Conciliation Board
with a long list of grievances, and
Mr. Public-house, united and ag-
gressive, fought the union with
every weapon in his arsenal. This
was a crowning blunder, and shortly
afterwards the Maoriland Labor
Conference decided that the way
Mr. Pub ran his business was de-
moralising to the community. His
house was behind the times, and the
purity of the grog was far below sus-
picion. So the Conference decided to
support Prohibition as the quickest way
to nationalisation, and now Mr. Public-house is
feeling depressed, while the Cold Tea crowd is
jubilant. If organised Labor goes for Prohibition
the trade is settled, and the vote of December
next will make Maoriland a drinkless State.
That crusted old Anti-Sosli Tory,
McCutcheon. woke the Victorian Assembly up
the other afternoon by petting quite eloquent
about—of all things in the world—“physical
eulchaw”! Being Anti-Sosh, he of course in-
sisted that the State ought to do the physical
culchawing in the schools. In fact, he said so much
about it that some people noticed that the Land
Valuation Bill was down for debate, and that the
day was the last before a three-weeks’ adjourn-
ment. McCutcheon may not be desperately in
earnest about physical culchaw ; but he would
rather have that than a progressive land-tax
any dav.
Launceston (Tas.) is still waiting for its
tramways. It has an insane desire to hand over
its tramway rights to Private Enterprise, and
Private Enterprise has twice slipped it up, and
gone away without building even a yard of tram-
way. In this matter it is behaving very much as
it did in of Tasmania’s Great Western
Bailway, which isn’t built yet, and as it did with
Maoriland’s Midland line, and many similar
affairs. Now, in its insane desire to hand over its
streets to Private Enterprise, Launceston is trying
to job itself away to a London company ; and, if
it tries long enough, it will assuredly manage to
job itself away on disastrous terms to somebody.
The thing that “can’t be made in Aus-
tralia ” is still heard of at intervals, but the voice
of the Stinking Fish party is very faint nowadays
compared with what it once was. Still, it broke
out last week about the duty on “pull-over
hoods.’’ A little meeting was held in Sydney at
which—
Mr. Duncalfe explained that “pull-over hoods” were
known in the trade as “ rabbit fur in the rough,” and
were used in hand-made hats, the rabbit fur being pulled
over a framework of shellac and calico. The article
could not be made in Australia, being imported from
Italy.
“ Babbit fur in the rough,” regarded as an article
that “can’t be made in Australia,” is interesting.
But then, in the bright lexicon of Stinking Fish,
nothing can be made in Australia.
The Jap is a high-handed person. The
other day, according to the cable, the Japan-
ese ambassador at Pekin heard a report
that a Monkey-person in that city was act-
ing as a spy in the service of China. He
didn’t apply for the arrest and extradition of the
suspected person or anything like that. He
didn’t even do as the horrible Bussian does in
novels, and have him secretly assassinated (there
is at least this courtesy about secret assassin-
ation that it doesn’t openly insult the law). The
Jap is nothing if not openly and arrogantly
insulting. The ambassador’s armed guards turned
out, tramped to the suspect’s house, burst it open,
arrested him, took him to the Legation—and
presently there was a corpse. And the Chinese
stood by helpless, knowing that for want of a
sufficient army and fleet they must allow the Jap
to break into houses and do arrests and executions
as he darned well pleased even in the Chinese
capital, because any attempt to keep order when
the Jap chose to be disorderly might mean war.
The Westralian State Frights crowd, in
its efforts to make out a good case for separation,
has circulated enormously silly statements about
the Commonwealth. It has declared that the
poor old Groper State was being ruined and out-
raged by the Australian Government, and, in an
attack of extreme Ananias, has even suggested
that the Surplus Bevenue Act was designed to
take money out of the three-fourths net Customs
and Excise revenue due to the States. The sheer
floridness of that last fabrication ought to have
cremated it there and then ; but such a lot of
people have begun to believe it that Treasurer
Bill Lyne was forced to speak. Bill has declared,
and—oh, so wearily !—that any Commonwealth
appropriation of State dues is forbidden by the
Constitution, and he threw in the following an-
nouncement gratuitously :
In the year ended 30th June, 1907, there was spent in
AVestralia the sum of £229,587 on new works. AVest-
ralia’s share of the cost of those works was on a
population basis £101,610. She therefore gained £127,997,
which is not the least of the benefits which she gets from
Federation.
Same old ruin !
SOMETHING EXTRA HEADY.
MELBOURNE CITIZEN (offering glass of Yan Yean
water): “Have a drink?”
VISITTING JACKIE : “ Wal, I don't like to he dis-
agreeable, but, yer see, the Admiral has com-
manded us to abstain from all intoxicatin'
liquors, and THAT gives one D.T.’s to look
at it !”
There is a frequent gibe about the inter-
minable making and multiplication of laws. But,
apparently, until mercantile men become honest
(and Heaven knows when that will be) the process
must go on. About once a day the bag-carrying
tribe invents a new swindle, and then another law
has to be added to the list to meet the case. For
instance, Victoria is now preparing a Chaff Adul-
teration Bill because the commercial community
has discovered a fresh method of defrauding the
honest horse out of his well-earned dinner, and
the Courts have decided that no existing statute
meets that particular case.
It. is a common and comforting delusion of
the Foreign-trader that Trusts only spring up in
Protectionist countries, but the delusion grows
pretty thin these times. In England four of the
biggest railway concerns (capital £350,000,000 all
told) are negotiating a combine; and there is in
course of formation a Trust (capital £100,000,000)
to control the manufacture of railway material,
and a £40,000,000 Trust to control the steel in-
dustry as applied to shipbuilding.
THE TORY PARROT: HIS LATEST
SHRIEK.
One Kinji Hagakawa, a Jap, wrote to the
Sydney Star (19/8/’08) in an irritated frame of
mind because he had seen it suggested that the
cruise of the American squadron, now in Aus-
tralian waters, was being made with the object of
impressing Japan. And he wound up with this
unple’asant gibe :
The ordinarily-informed citizen and common-sense
British community cannot believe that Japan will be so
impressed with the fleet of 16 battleships. It is the case
with Australians to be profoundly impressed.
Bingi is right. It is not cheering to read his
screed, but there is a certain justice in it. And
he will not have gibed in vain if he brings home
to such of the disgraceful anti-Defence crowd in
this hemisphere as see his letter the humiliation
of Australia being in a position to be publicly
jeered at by any stray saffron-colored human
being that learns to write pigeon English.
John Darling, the leader of S. Australia’s
Fat party, who quitted politics a while ago to
give more attention to the wheat-dealers’
“horrible understanding,” is busy again, putting
his little knife into the Commonwealth :
South Australia had not experienced the benefits of
federation to the same exent as some of the States. The
Commonwealth had been fairly generous to Queensland
and New South Wales by way of bonuses on their white-
grown sugar, or, in other words, compensation in Con-
sideration for their having maintained a White Australia.
Well, South Australia with her Northern Territory had
also maintained a White Australia, so why should she not
get compensation, too, in the way of bonuses?
This yarn about “bonus on white grown sugar”
is a particularly malignant and disgraceful stab.
Asa matter of fact, the sugar business, during
the five years 1902-7, paid the Commonwealth, in
Excise, £2,119,993, and it merely got a refund of
£776.675 ; so instead of the sugar business costing
the Commonwealth anything, S. Australia and
the rest of the Commonwealth got £1,343,318 out
of it in direct net taxation, after paying expenses.
If the farmers of S. Australia had to pay 4s. on
every cwt. of wheat they produced, and then got
Is. 4d. returned to them if they worked under
certain conditions, they would stand in exactly
the position that the sugar-growers have occupied
since Federation was established.
The disgraceful type of person who wrests
a living out of Australia, yet holds that nothing
the country produces is worth buying, was in
evidence at Roma (Q.) the other day. The town
water authority decided to extend its mains, and
a number of firms were asked to submit prices for
the materials required. The lowest tender came
from one Bernays, the representative of a Mel-
bourne firm of pipe manufacturers. An alderman
duly moved “that Bernays’ tender be accepted.”
Then uprose another alderman and objected
passionately. He urged the claims of Webster
and Co.; a firm which imports its pipes.
He admitted that the tender of Webster
and Co. was well in excess of Bernays’ tender, but
Mr. Bernays was simply the agent of a Melbourne firm,
and the pipes were colonial made, whereas Webster’s
pipes were made in Glasgow.
Th at alderman reads like a spook or other u npleasant
myth till one remembers there are whole con-
stituencies which return people like Johnson, and
Willy Kelly, and Wilks. And then one grows
dejected, and wonders how long it will be before
the entire tribe dies out and makes way for men
with a trifle of national self-respect.
“ Red Tape Junior ” (of Sydney)
O 1 where is ’Ector ? ’Ector used to have some theories
about us, and when ’Ector was here the Public Service
Board used to have’Ector’s ideas. Economy was one of
them. Now Wade is here, and blow economy. Wade has
fixed up a nice little scheme in the form of a Premier’s
staff. Once the Premier had a “ private ” secretary who
was a public servant in another billet, and while he was
privateering for the big man, some one else kept his fixed
billet warm. When See was Premier his P.S. was one
Harkness. When Carrufhers came Hark ness was hanging
about looking for the cold remains of his former glory,
and Joe spotted him. Evidently he found favor in
the sight of Joe (I mean ’Ector), for he was kept
in the job. When ’Ector sold out he passed Harkness
over to Wade, with the rest of the inventory. Now Hark-
ness is made Permanent Secretary to the Premier. So
that when a fishing Premier like ’Ector is on top, Hark-
ness must know about, prawns and things; and’when a
goffey Premier is there he must goff, etc. Now I don’t
object to this. It’s terrible to be a big thing like
Premier’s secretary while the Premier is in, only to be
liable to go back to your old humble job when he goes
out. But what in thunder does Wade, or any other
Premier, want with four permanent hands? Harkness
has just been given three assistants to help him brush
Wade’s hat, and these are quite apart from the big
official staff which brushes Wade’s hat in his other
capacity as Attorney-General. But perhaps Wade has
two hats. Anyhow, what sort of drunk’s luck is the luck
of these white-headed boys to get their jobs fixed up just
as the Fleet is here ?
New South Wales, during its semi-Free-
trade days, lagged a good way behind Victoria as
a manufacturing State, but now under Protection
it has caught up with a rush and gone ahead.
Says the S. M. Herald (10/8/’OS)
We find that this State is well to the fore. Whereas
the output of Victorian factories only reached £30,399, 945,
those of this State totalled £34,796.169. There were
£6,679,418 distributed as wages in this State, against
£5,982,677 in Victoria, and materials were used to the
value of £22,102,685 here, against £18,632,439 across the
Murray.
Another evidence of the advantage of throwing
overboard the S. M. Herald’s Foreign-trade
superstition ! Put how does the Herald reconcile
this sort of thing with the oft-repeated Shoddy
he and whine about the benefits of Federation
being wholly for Victoria and S.A., while the
down-trodden Ma State gets none of thefli ?
“Our finances are unusually strong,” said
Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, the other
day. And then he explained. It seems that the
Government has £825,000 cash, some of it bor-
rowed money. It has about £1,300,000 of securi-
ties available in London to be pawned at any
moment in order to raise the wind. It has permis-
sion from Parliament to borrow another £1,250,000
inLondon,and isliabletodothatborrowalsoatany
moment. Out of over £2,000,000 borrowed and
spent by the Government last year Maoriland
itself only put up £2o,ooo—all the rest was raised
by pawning the country abroad. And because
the Dominion is revelling in all this borrowed
money Premier Ward says that the finances are un-
usually strong. They are more than strong. It
would be quite moderate to say that they stink.
Premier Price has told the S. Aus.
Parliament that if Private Enterprise continues to
restrict the output of bricks and to keep up the
cost, the Government will go in for brickmaking.
It has already taken steps towards buying a coal-
mine, and it is putting a bore down at Wandilta,
near Wallaroo, which may result in opening up
a State copper-mining property. The strange
part of the business is that so little objection has
been offered by the Opposition to these Socialistic
schemes, or to the policy of the Government in
getting public works carried out wherever possible
bv day labor. Wherever contracts have lately
been insisted on by the Legislative Council, the
State has lost by it, and by degrees it is beginning
to be recognised that it would be best to give
Ministers a free hand.
“SONNY, GET A FLEET OF YOUR OWN!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coming of the American fleet shows us emphatically
how insignificant is that portion of the British fleet that
pretends to guard our shores. That is a political lesson
that should be brought home to us by the American
visitation. An Australian fleet alone can defend the
shores of Australia. The British fleet would do its duty,
I am sure, and so would the American fleet in thecapacity
of friends ; but, to be properly safeguarded against an
invasion, Australia ought to have a fleet of its own. —
Cardinal Moran.
Oh ! this is the song of a splendid spree
In honor of Uncle Sam,
When the guns boom loud and the wine flows free
And nobody cares a d n ;
When the gay decked crowds in each roaring street
Grip fists with the Yankee tars,
And the cheers are loud for the great White Fleet
And the pride of the Stripes and Stars.
But —Sonny, get a fleet of your own !
The impalpable power of a throne
Far over the sea won’t help you and me—
Little boy, get a fleet of your own.
Oh ! this is the song of a Leathering cloud
That looms through the Gates of Dawn,
Where the restless hordes in their millions crowd,
And the jaws of the Dragon yawn—
A cloud that will one day burst in dread
When the guns begin to roar,
And the screaming shells soar overhead
By the towns of our unfenced shore.
Then—Sonny, get a fleet of your own !
Don't wait till the chance has flown !
Three cheers for the tars of the Stripes and Stars,
BUT—SONNY, GET A FLEET OF YOUR OWN?
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


Business Suits
for Country e-Tbwrv Wear.
111
Best Value
in
Australia
J
m
I
f
%
V4#
%
■ ;
Write for Patterns
and
Sel/ 5 Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYcNUNN 1™
Bourke St Melbourne.
6 ECKERSLEYS
IS ~ I
i-i.-y ;■/• ■■■
SfSkd
j
r.'i
wilO*
/\ -
IPS
,
1
wo/r;
'- - - - -■
DKCERNMENT in the matter of Beverages readily recognises the superior
quahties of ECKERSLE Y'S HOT PUNCH. Satisfying In its use is HOT
a 1 a wme dellci °us, makes spirits salubrious, makes soft drinks
delectable. An ideal beverage. It is non-intoxicating, stimulating, smooth, palatable,
and, in the matter of purity, the purest health that mortal ever drank. Look for the
FCKFRsTrv f P^ CH J a f °° f that His the 2 enuine °«gmal), the name
Un addltlonal safeguard against imitations), and be careful to Say
HOT with unmistakable emphasis. Served and sold at good Hotels, Clubs,
Chemists, Confectioners and Storekeepers everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers: ECKERSLEY & SONS. 628 Bourfce Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Wholesale Agents: Elliott & Hancorne, 110 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
MALI HOLD MINERAL ROOFING is the outcome of nearly a quarter
oi a century s scientific research and practical experience. It embodies all
the virtues and qualities of what may be aptly termed an ideal roof. Besides
being easy to handle and simple to lay, it is absolutely weather proof. All
the faults of slates, tiles, iron, and shingles have been eliminated, leaving
nothing but what is necessary to make a perfect roofing for all classes of
buildings.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY,
SAN FRANCISCO, NEW YORK, AND MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Established 18S4.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
G. A. GARDINER.
SORRY & 00., Newcastle.
JOHN KEF.P k SONS, LTD.
F. LASSETTI2R & GO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
agm
SSfSE
SB
; j
ss
5.. .■
V
• \
SAVE
14
Let us send
you a
for a
TEN DAYS’
TRIAL
at
our expense.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.
282-4 George Street, Sydney.
Seasonable and
Satisfactory iSuits.
In the Spring a young man's fancy lightly turns
to thoughts of
-3\
FJ, PALMER & SON'S
Stylish Suits
To Measure.
505., 635„ 705,, 755„ 84s,
Perfect Fit* Latest Fashion*
A.l* Finish*
We employ the cleverest cutters
in the Commonwealth, and all
garments are made throughout
on our own premises*
Call or write for Patterns of our
New Spring Fabrics, mailed
free with Tape and simple
Self-measure form, on receipt of
your name and address*
May we send you a set ?
F. J. PALMER &, SON,
The Criterion Tailors, opposite the Criterion Theatre ,
Corner of Pitt & Park Streets, Sydney.
And at George Street, Hay market.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold, by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
BILIOUS ATTACKS.
There is no More Effective Remedy than
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Piles.
“ I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
bilious headaches and indigestion,” says Mrs.
Elorrie Yeates, Chapel Street, Marrickville,
Sydney, “ and found them an excellent remedy,
and can recommend their use for these ailments.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills relieve this
trouble speedily. They open the clogged-up
system, purify the blood, and cleanse the stomach,
causing the human mechanism to work smoothly
and easily. On the appearance of bilious
symptoms a dose from two to four of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pillfi should be taken, the larger dose
for a more robust grown person. A little experi-
ence will guide the patient in the use of the pills
so as to produce the best results. People differ in
the way medicine affects them, and consequent!} 7 no
invariable rule can be given.
m
(A
VB
(A
CA
n
m
-H
CA
“I
O
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
DOWLING ST., REEFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Sunday before the great Burns-Squires
contest was an anxious one for Mr. Mclntosh and the rest
of the syndicate that is known as Scientific Boxing and
Self-Defence, Ltd. Burns had caught cold and had also
wrenched his arm. Once the Mclntosh had been dragged
from his bed by the startling information that Burns had
pneumonia, and a red and blue motor-car went hurtling
through the night with the fate of the greatest pugilistic
battle in Australian history swinging in the balance.
That Burns was far from well was indisputable ; he had
caught cold, and, like most extraordinarily healthy men,
was scared at the slightest sign of disease. He could
not breathe properly, and as it was the first time in
his life he had not been able to breathe as he
darned well pleased, he was filled with forebodings. The
modern athlete sees pneumonia in his dreams, and Burns
reckoned the grisly thing had gripped him. The doctor
said, “A mere cold,” but the champion of the world was
not reassured. “Sa-a-a-y, Mac,” he wheezed, “ Ah’m
not feeling good. Don’t put that £lOOO on ; I might not
be able to meet this man. Ah’m not well, an’ he’s a
powerful hitter.” And the Mclntosh, with blank ruin
staring him in the face if this human machine should not
come up to time, said cheerfully : “ If you’re sick, don’t
fight—l don’t want any dead pugilists on my mind.
But if you can’t come up to scratch, for the love
of Heaven say so, and I’ll start to refund the money, and
put in a substitute at reduced prices.” And the days
went by. Burns abandoned his training and practice, and
on Sunday afternoon the Mclntosh did not know whether
his pugs would enter the ring or not. He was an anxious
man.
On Monday afternoon, at 3.40, something
between 16,000 and 17,000 people were crammed into the
Stadium, and outside three men were on the top of a
solitary telegraph-post that overlooked the ring. An-
other vantage point was the gable of an adjacent house,
and it was heaped with men and some women.
Other houses some two miles away were crowded
with people in the vain hope of seeing the
scrap. A sudden burst of cheering that drowned
the music of the band, and dou'n the passage
stalked Squires, looking the very pink of condition, with
a grey check dressing gown around him, his feet shod in
heelless boots. He climbed into the ring’, and took his
seat in the south-eastern corner, smiled and talked, and
seemed quite cool and at home. A few minutes later
another roar split the sky—the champion of the world
was coming. He, too, climbed into the ring-, clad in a
thick dressing-gown, pants and thick sweater. He looked
far from well, his face wasghastly yellow, and his eyes were
dull. His expression was that of a man who is tired—dog
tired. The gloves u'ere fixed, and Burns smiled in a
weary, forced manner at some remark of his second’s.
Then Referee Nathan called the fighters to the centre of
the ring- and made remarks. Squires nodded, Burns
looked at the sky wearily, and slouched back to his
corner. A gong clanged out. They advanced swiftly to
the centre of the ring, shook hands, faced about, strode
back to their corners, and, again facing, quickly advanced
on one another, twirling their fists as they came.
Bash !—Squires landed Burns full on the face,
and within five seconds blood was oozing from nostrils
and lips. The crowd yelled hilariously. “Give him
another, Bill! Good boy, Bill!” “Oh, you beauty,
Bill!” “ Piff, pat, thud ! ” “ It’s all on the glove,” said
tne expert, wisely : “No harm done.” And round and
round the ring skirled Squires, landing heavy blows on
his opponent, who seemed dazed, and smiled occasionally
in a far-off resurrection sort of way, while he looked
straight in front. Then the crowd saw what American
fighting is like. The men had clinched, and Burns dealt
out three quick, short upper jolts on the face, smote
once over the kidneys, and dealt sounding smacks
over the heart. But he was smothered up, and
tne blows seemed to lack steam. The referee
tore them apart, and narrowly escaped damage as he did
so. Then the gong sounded, and the men rushed to their
corners, to be sponged and fanned, while the crowd yelled
with delight, for the first round belonged distinctly to
Squires. The Southern Cross and the kangaroo’s tail were
elevated.
The opening of every round saw Squires lead on
to Burns’ face. But the majority of the blows were de-
livered at too short a range to be really effective. Then
Burns would crowd close, and Squires would try to
avoid, but sooner or later he would be forced to
clinch, and then the vicious in-fighting, which consists
mostly of holding and hitting, would commence, and
Squires would get the worst of the deal, though in some
cases he managed to turn the tables on Burns and beat
him at his own game. For 10 rounds he led handsomely
on points, but his strength was ebbing, and. his limbs
and body trembled when he went to his corner.
So did those of Burns, but at the touch or the sponge
Burns seemed to recover ; he sat up and seemed quite
cool and collected, although he perspired a lot.
In the 11th round Squires stopped some very nasty
short arm jolts which rattled him badly. Burns
showed his ring generalship* by keeping Squires with
the sun in his eyes. Squires tried hard for
a knock-out, but always and ever Burns stood in close,
and the unerring tap on the shoulder or biceps spoiled the
aim. In the 13tn round Burns seemed fresher than when
he started, but Squires was done. The multitude of short
arm jolts he had received on the chin were telling, his
stomach and sides were working convulsively, his eves
were glazing. He was on the verge of a collapse. Then
he hit Burns—a sort of last effort—and fell weakly on his
arms. Twice he went dow'n after smiting his opponent,
and staggered up within the limit with sagging, blood-
stained mouth, staring eyes that glared out of blackened
sockets, and a great gash across his chin. William
was done, and Burns could have smashed him, but he
hesitated ; and while he did so down went Squires
again, and lying there with red, thick blood oozitig in
great drops from his mouth, his hair wet with perspira-
tion, his body trembling all over, his lungs working
he was counted out. The bacon had gone
back to Chicago. As soon as Squires got his breath he
sprang up not knowing he was out, and sparred wildly at
the sky, but the referee took him in his arms and piloted
him to the corner.
While Burns is on deck Boshter Bill can take a
long farewell to the championship. Neither he nor any
other fighter of his kind can ever be champion of the
world, for although, as far as this fight vvas concerned,
Squires vvas the better boxer, Burns was the superior
fighter. He never wasted a blow, and his two targets
were the heart and the chin. Occasionally he smote over
the kidneys, but he never tried for that target. On
points Squires won easily, but he hadn’t the stamina to
last 20 rounds, and the long succession of chips on the
point of the chin hastened his collapse. But there was
no knock-out blow, Burns won simply because Squires
led for 12 rounds and, piling up points galore, exhausted
himself in doing it. Burns is not so much a fighter
as an anatomist. He destroys his opponent’s blows
either by dancing away as they come or by
coming in closer and tapping the arm or shoulder
that is delivering the blow, thus destroying the aim. It
w'as a case of brains and immense lung power against
brute force, great skill and marvellous quickness. Brains
and lung power triumphed.
Lung power seemed to count for more than
anything. Burns has twice the depth of chest, under the
arm, that Squires has, and he recovered much more
rapidly and did not tire nearly so fast. Burns delivered
only about four really heavy blows during the whole riot.
Squires sent them in like rain—and exhausted himself.
When a man uses a cold chisel on a piece of iron, one sees
very little impression after each blow, but in time the
iron is severed. So Burns in every clincli tapped his man
several times on the chin, and by the 13th round that,
combined with the exhaustion produced by his super-
human efforts, broke Squires right up. The man who beats
Burns will be either too quick or too scientific for him. He
will either get his blows in so quickly that Burns cannot
dance away from them or destroy the aim by tapping-
the biceps or shoulder, or he will have such marvellous
dexterity that he will be able to feint a blow, draw Burns’
d fence, and then, while Burns is tapping the firing
arm, cross suddenly with the other and land on the jaw.
And that man doesn’t seem to be on deck just now. Till
he appears, the bacon seems likely to be permanently
located where Tommy Burns hangs out. He has evolved
a new and scientific system of fighting, and till someone
can invent a new system which will work faster and draw
Burns’ defence, Burns will remain champion.
* * * *
“Front Row ” discourseth about The Fight:—
As I came away from the Burns-Squires fight last Mon-
day, a pallid lad poured out his soul, within a few feet
of me, arient the futility and, unworthiness of the just-
defeated Bill. The speaker’s language was hideous, and
the vindictiveness of his rage against Squires for allow-
ing himself the luxury of being knocked out was a
thing to marvel at. A few minutes before, this
youth had been lauding the Australian as a god,
and polluting all the surrounding atmosphere with
yells of encouragement on his behalf. Now no-
thing was too bad for the wretch who had caused him
monetary loss and stultification as a stoush expert. This
unpleasant attitude was fairly general within an hour or
so after the contest. Tiresome liars sprouted in every
bar who “ knew all along that the two men would fight
13 rounds, no more no less,” because “the cinemato-
graph crowd had squared Burns to play with
Squires” for just that space of time. These folk
explained just how, when and where Burns “kidded”
the foolish Bill that he had a show. Their post-bellum
view w'as that Squires never had a hope of landing a blow
that would disconcert a fly. The contest was, they opined,
merely mild exercise for Burns from start to finish.
And so on. Admitting Burns’superiority as a fighter, it
is still the sheerest drivel to suggest there was any time
till the twelfth round during which he didn’t stand in
danger, more or less, from the Newcastle battler. Squires
is not a champion, but he is very, very nearly one. It is
part of his “style” to “fight” all the time, and that
attractive trait tended in part to bring about
his downfall. With pugilists of the new school
gaudy fighting is bad policy. But at any moment
Burns stood to capture one of the big man’s mighty hits
on a vital spot, and if he had he must have passed out.
And as it was he endured smashing blows that would
have settled 99 pugilists out of every 100.
Stripped, the two men looked curiously unlike.
Burns may be sft. 7in., but in the ring on Monday
he didn’t look it. He was plump, round, cheru-
bic, with a “waist,” and gave an impression of almost
womanish softness. That he wasn’t “soft inside,” he
showed, however, in short order. Squires was big, well,
muscular, as strong as a horse —i typical heavyweight
champion of the old school.
When all was said and done, the same thing that
beat Squires in ’Frisco and in Paris beat him at the
Stadium—to wit, Burns’ terrific in-fighting. Australians
had never seen anything of just this sort before, and it
was a painful revelation. Squires appreciated what
he was up against in this regard, and to us
who knew' him in the past as the hottest-
headed of fighters, it was impressive to observe the
elaborate caution with which he treated his opponent
when anywhere near a clinch. Yet his precaution availed
him little. He “ led ” all the time, and as gallantly as of
yore. But his “leads” were mostly up against the
leather w'alls of Burns’ gloves and arms ; and, meanwhile,
whenever the two got to close quarters Burns’ jolts might
be seen doing their deadly work on the big man’s body.
This pow'er Burns has of dealing terrific hits with either
hand at a distance of about a foot, combined with his
amazing footwork, make him the wonder he is.
With it all there was no time till well into the middle
of the tenth round that things looked altogether hope-
less for Squires. After that the hurricane of stomach
blow's he had been enduring told even -on his iron
frame ; and Burns came in, and with a few’ straight hits
put him out of his misery.
Notable points about Burns were his condition (he
never once lost the spring in his step) and his stolid
calm. He knew the precise moment he had his man
beaten better than anyone in the audience. It was im-
pressive when that time came to see him fell Squires with
a carefully-considered, piston-like jab, and afterwards
turn to his trainer (who labored momentarily under the
delusion that Squires was right “out”)and coldly shake
his head, remarking “ Not yet.” Also it was impressive
to mark the icy nod with which he let his sup-
porters know (w'hen the end really did come) that
this time Squires would not get up again. Bill
Squires showed himself the same unassuming old bullock-
hearted William of three y.-ars back, with a heap more
fistic science than when Australia last saw him. He
stood a hair-raising amount of punishment with the
stoicism of a hero. As a fact he didn’t rattle Burns at
any stage of the uproar—w'hich is attributable as much
as anything to the fact that Burns has, apparently, a
w'ooden head which is uninjurable from the mouth up-
wards by human effort. Some of the blows that Squires
passed the American in the neighborhood of the forehead,
ears and eyes w'ere enough to slay an adult gorilla in
robust health. Squires is a splendid game fighter, 30 or
40 per cent, better than w'hen he left these shores. And
on Monday afternoon, for all his misfortunes, he did his
country proud.
Wednesday, August 19, saw the opening of the
first Australian Football Carnival at the Metropolitan
Cricket Ground, Melbourne, when the six States and the
Dominion had their best men at play. Roughly speaking,
the three Eastern teams are not yet open to serious
criticism, the three Western States understand the busi-
ness of football, while Tassy stands betwixt and between.
The matches were arranged on that basis, so that the
two best novices should have a chance to divide places
with the two best experts. The ball opened with Maori-
land v. N.S.W., to a 9000 house, worth £248, and
though the play was crude, it was plucky and
sportsmanlike. An exceptionally close finish main-
tained the interest till the bell rang. After getting
26 points in the rear at half-time, the All Blacks obeyed
the behest of the crowd to “ bog into it,” to such purpose
that they steadily reduced the deficit until at three-
quarter time there were only six points between the
teams. Then they scored a behind and a goal; but Ma
wasn’t done yet, and a strenuous bit of play gave the
light blues a goal—and a five points lead. The crowd was
barracking lustily by now, and the Maoris were again
urgently desired to “get into it” and “move them-
selves,” and just before time a hard won goal gave
them victory—by 63 points to 62. After the seven
teams had paraded and inspected Carmichael, Bent
and co., and had heaved sundry war cries at those
defenceless persons, Tasmania collided with Queensland.
The latter is, in a football sense, a mere child of four
years, wherefore it is sufficient to say that the scores
were: Tas., 22 goals 22 behinds: Queensland, 2 goals
2 behinds. There is a progressive regularity about these
figures that would appeal to a mathematical mind, but if
Tassy’s score had been a score less, in a manner
of speaking, the game would have been less monotonous.
On the Friday some 4000 persons, including M.C.C. dead-
heads, “parted” good money to see Victoria consume
Maoriland, which it did with certainty and despatch.
After notching 68 to 2 in the first quarter, the Bent
representatives filled in the other three terms in a casual
and negligent manner, winding up with 171 points to 40.
On the Saturday, passing showers on the already
soaked ground made clever play impossible, nevertheless
both games were surprisingly fast and open, as well as
fair. Tassy opened the ball against Ala, and achieved a
comfortable victory, being at no time threatened with
danger—scores, 62 to 35. Then followed a notable con-
cussion between W.A. and S.A., to view which some
25,000 spectators paid Is. a head or passed the gates on
their chivvies. The Crow-eaters set off with a rush, but
the Gropers were wide awake, and swiftly responded.
They were said to be only at home on their
own hard, bare grounds, and to be lost on
sloppy, grass-covered mudholes; if so, they must be
veritable champions on their backblocks paddocks.
Though parts of the arena were sheeted with water and
the rest was chiefly slush, both teams played pretty
and open football; though, of course, wet hands and a
greasy ball meant many a mark and chance missed. The
Gropers kicked rather high, but they boast one man who
knows how to boot a ball. The crowd laughed as he
“ placed ” the sodden sphere for a long shot from
a little beyond the centre, but the kicked ob-
ject sailed low and straight through the posts,
6ft. over the defenders’ heads. At half-time the men
from Swan River were eight points ahead, and a goal soon
after resuming threatened a lop-sided finish. The
barrackers roared at the Crow-eaters, and asked them if
they were the mighty Norwoods and the invincible West
Ads., and what was the matter with them, anyhow. So
they set their teeth, and through the driving rain and
splashing mud strove determinedly till they got two
goals and a peck or two of behinds. For half the last
quarter the scores were equal. Next South Oss gained a
point, which West equalised a few minutes later. Then
the latter’s men carried all before them in a last strong
rush, and gained the day with a goal almost as the bell
rang—W.A., 59 points ; S.A., 53.
So far the games have heen open, clean and
interesting—but with an absence of devil. The ’bailers
play their best, and play to win, but not as South Mel-
bourne rushes at Carlton, or as Norwood tears up the
globe when dealing with West Adelaide. Crow-eaters
and Gropers play with the Concert and almost the skill of
the Cabbage-Gardeners, but both overdo handballing and
both fail to “shepherd” thoroughly. The low, swift
kick, straight to the man waiting for it, beats the
hand-passing always. One Tasmanian is an expert at
this—ever he picked his man and sent him the ball
hard and straight. And only the Victorians, of the
whole seven teams, have learnt that the essence of
organised play is that a man must keep his assigned
place. Neglect of that essential detail cost the S. Aus-
tralians many points on Saturday. As for the youngsters
■ —Q., N.S.W. and M.L. —they have yet to learn that Aus-
tralian football is not croquet or lawn tennis ; that it is
necessary to “bog in” hard and long- ; that if your
opponent picks up the ball there is no rule compelling
you to stand and watch him kick ; and, finally, that
training, practice and organisation are more necessary to
football success than weight, speed and pluck.
Meanwhile the Association clubs, Essendon and
Brunswick, ’Soray and ’Town, were deciding their semi-
finals at Carlton and North Melbourne
Fully 25,000 spectators spread themselves over the two
grounds. Brunswick once again beat the natural and
acquired’bailers of Essendon (though its erratic kicking
threatened disaster at - any moment) by 5 goals 16 behinds
to 5 goals 7 behinds. The extra police subpoenaed to the
North Melbourne Gluepot soothed the outraged.feelings
of ’Town’s barrackers while ’Scrav administered a castiga-
tion to the tune of 45 points to 30. As ’Town is thus re-
tired from public life for the season, it is an aggrieved
and indignant suburb, especially as the Association had
recently suspended one of its best players for unseemly
conduct. ’Town had a notion that the said player was
harshly dealt with, and the Association seems to
have been much of the same mind, for it promised to re-
consider his case before the final came off ; and now
there isn’t any final as far as ’Town is concerned, where-
fore the village reckons it has been fooled, and would
much like to “ job ” somebody, but can’t make sure of
the responsible party. The Association final will eventu-
ate on August 31, being postponed for the edification of
the American sailors, when it is to be hoped the barracker
will behave himself and not create a bad opinion of us
abroad, and thereby depreciate our next loan.
: * * * *
Melbourne University Football Club got away
to Adelaide while the Jubilee was being celebrated on
Yarrabank, and beat the local seat Of learning comfort-
ably. Adelaide ’Varsity had to get its men together from
various clubs ; the local League still firmly refuses to
admit it as a team, reckoning- that the rigid electorate
system would be fatally damaged thereby.
*****
The final match of the Anglo-Welsh team
against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket Ground was a remark-
able one. To begin with, it was the sorriest exhibition of
ruffianism writer has seen on Sydney Cricket Ground
during 12 years ; also in 26 years of following and playing
Rugby, writer has seen only one game played in a worse
spirit-—and in that particular scrap no less than 12 men
were carried off the field. What went wrong with the
British men’s temper this deponent knoweth not, but
it was evident from the start that some of them
had got hold of a horrible brand the night before.
Apparently exasperated by being unable to score,
in a game in which they had all the best of it, and with
the wind behind them, some of the Anglo-Welsh crowd
began to use their hands, played off-side, kicked the ball
into the scrums, and tried to tear the ears off the local
men. For a while the men in blue stood it, but, finding
that the* referee was following the ball sd carefully with
his eyes that he could not see the assault and battery,
they com menced to retaliate. When an Englishman
punched he got it back like a flash, and several of them
were knocked right down before they began to realise
that scrapping doesn’t pay.
It is sad to have to admit it, but the truth is
mighty and will prevail. Although the Walers won by
six to three, the Englishmen played the better ganie.
Some of their passing charges were superb, while there
were dribbling rushes worthy of an All Black team. But,
somehow, all their brilliant work came to a bad finish,
and the solemn fact was that through keeping both eyes
open for the local man’s ear, the ball was often lost sight
of or overrun. And when these fine rushes brought the
Englishmen to the N.S.W. line, something happened.
Men who ought to have been there to back up the charge
were spurring or wrestling with Walers the other side
of the 25. The audience kept up a continual hooting,
and the fact that so much ruffianism was allowed to go on
so long entirely unchecked was as discreditable to the
referee as to the scrappers.
*****
The result of the tour in N.S.W. was four vic-
tories for the Anglo-Welsh, and two defeats —72 points to
34. The team was superior in scrum work, passing, off-
side play, and ear-tearing. The back division, although
it did excellent work occasionally, was not nearly as good
as the forward crowd. In the final match especially the
forwards hustled viciously, and tearing great gaps in the
defence, opened out for the backs to come through, and
the backs didn’t. The Walers were splendid in the loose,
and tackled with deadly sureness. Their fine kicking was
also excellent, and the way the forwards kept rig'ht bn
the leather should earn them honored seats in Heaven
when they permanently retire from the game.
* * ‘* * *
For tbe third time Balmain and Granville met in
the Soccer semi-finals for the Gardiner Cup. and this time
Balmain, to use Squires’ historic phrase, brought home
the bacon by five to nil. The only other match of im-
portance was P.vrmont versus Adamstovvn, which ended
in a draw with one goal each. The real interest in the
struggle will begin next week.
* * * «
On Saturday at Rushcutters Bay grounds,
Sydney, the first inter-State hockey match between
N.S.W. and Victoria ended in a draw with one goal each.
A prettier game to watch does not exist than well-con-
tested hockey, and the match was one of the best, both
teams having trained to perfection. The Victorians
showed amazing skill with their sticks while the ball w'as
in the air, and taking it on the fly slashed'and drove it
where they listed. On the other hand, the Walers showed
superior skill when the leather was on the ground, and
this writer isn’t going to make an ass of himself by
risking an opinion which method is the prettier. Both
seemed equally effective, and the pace was terrific,
though, fast as it w'as, the combination never suf-
fered in consequence. The public has not grasped
the beauties of hoqkey, but there is no game being played
in Sydney at present where such splendid machine-like
play can be seen, where order is so well maintained in the
wildest excitement and fastest rushes, and where one
may see a long line of men rushing along at full 'speed
with the ball flying up and down their rank like the
tongue of flame that flashes down the line of a feu de joie.
And that was a sight seen over and over again in the-inter-
State game. N.S. W. scored first and led at half time. The
second sp 11 opened with a series of magnificent charges by
the Walers, but the capable stickwork of the Victorians
intercepted every shot in mid air, and brought every effort
to nothing. Then came fierce rallies, and the ball went
soaring down towards the N.S.W. net, only to be picked
up and brought back to the Victorian territory. It was
in one of these repulses that a Victorian, springing into
the air, smote the flying chattel hard and straight, and
drove it like a bullet right into the N.S.W. net, and made
a draw of the game.
* * * *
Smarting under the recollection of their defeat
at Auckland, the United States riflemen went into camp
at Rand wick immediately on arrival, to the number of 50,
and, rising with the kookaburra, practised assiduously.
The Commonwealth is not'enforcing the Imperial law
against the landing of armed parties, and the men were
allowed to bring their own Krag-Jorgenson rifles ashore
with them. It is said to be 18 months since they had
rifle exercise, which seems a fearful and wonderful state
of affairs. In the coming match 20 men fire seven shots
each at 300, 500 and 600 yards.
* * * *
Seems a pity that a big-gun shooting contest
could not be arranged between the U.S.A. squadron and
the British tars on the station. There are some dandy
shots on board both the Powerful and Challenger, al-
though the champion of the British navy is now oh the
Channel fleet, and the ex-champion is at present in the
China squadron.
* * * *
Dick Arnst left by the s.s. Ulimaroa, on Satur-
day last, for Maoriland. There, after a brief look in at
the old folks at Christchurch, he will rush northwards to
Wanganui, and stay there till he has won the champion-
ship of the world, or otherwise. Arnst at present kicks
the beam at 14st., but expects to throw off at least one
stone of that. In spite of the revelation he made by
beating Pearce, the market apparently does not take
Richard seriously ; in all the bets made so far, Webb is
regarded as a hot certainty,
* * * *
The v present position in regard to betting in
S.A. is rather comical. The law, which absolutely forbids
any betting, even on a racecourse, except per totalisator,
is being strictly enforced, and the clubs joyously assist in
the good work. Thus the Adelaide Racing Club, at its
two-days Grand National meeting, put through the
machine close on £26,000, being nearly double last year’s
total. The Government takes £650 of that, and the club
nearly £2OOO, so that stakes are being raised all round.
Meanwhile, out on the Flat there is no tote (the S.A.
Jockey Club has a shilling Flat, and the A.R.C. an abso-
lutely free one), and yet the makers of silver books even
there are heavily fined at the police court. A strong
effort is being made to get the Labor members of Parlia-
ment, who mostly don’t go racing themselves, to see that
in common fairness the totalisator must somehow be ex-
tended to the Flat.
* * *• *
A curious thing about the Whelch-Thoroughgood
sculling proposition is that, although he refused to row
Pearce on the Parramatta, Thoroughgood is willing to
meet Whelch on the classic course, whereat a wondering
community inquires indignantly, “ Whaffor?” Whelch
is a lightweight sculler, but fast and slippery, with the
power of making phenomenal bursts of speed at any part
of a severe race. The tussle is now almost a certainty,
and will be for £2OO a-side.
* * * *
“ Sr, ”: Some of the hard old cases of Bourke-
street, Melbourne, sti'l bet in a surreptitious way. Their
awful dread is the “fizzgig.” They shy like an alarmed
horse at the sight of a new client. One disguised John
recently approached a jobbing bookmaker, and offered to
put a dollar on Little Jack. The bookie became cautious.
“ I don’t bet, me man ; if you want to bet you’ll have to
go up to the Victorian Club.” The news of the advent of
the suspicious stranger was whispered round, and every-
one was on the alert. The agent approached another
pavement sport. “Wanter dollar on Little Jack, last
race.” “ Don’t bet, me lad, but I’ll tell you where you
can get a bet.” “Thanks,” said the John. “Here,
Paddy. Take this lad up to Jimmy’s. He wants
er bet.” “Righto,” said Paddy. “Follow me,
matey,” and he led the way up to Russell-street.
There he entered a warehouse. “ Wait ’ere er
minute. I’ll slip into his office and bring him out.”
“ Thanks,” replied the John once more, and he stood in
the vestibule of that warehouse and waited for 20 tired
minutes. Then he realised that about a dozen “rats’
were peeping- into the warehouse, and had begun singing
out derisively, “ What price Little Jack, mate?” The
John covered himself with shame and confusion and has-
tened down the street with the voice of scorn streaming
after hi in like a squid running on its eight feelers.
* * * *
Now is the silly season as regards cricket news
from England. Last week the cable reported an innings
of 243 by Tyldesley against the Leicestershire bowling.
Leicestershire has no bowlers to speak of. At latest
dates it waS tenth on the list for the English county
championship, having lost five matches and won only
three. Tyldesley’s big score was not more remarkable
than would be an innings of 250 by Trumper against
Goulburri. But. a little thing- like that wouldn’t get
cabled to England for announcement under a cross-
heading.
(Continued on page 35.)


KUGELMANN\S
e
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
Bent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kug'elmann’s Fare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St, SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
CHAMPAGNE
is produced ONLY in the Champagne
district of France. AH the world=
famed brands from there are good.
HEIDSIECK &l CO.’S
“Dry Monopole”
is one of the Best.
You can be
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every man or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. If you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the “Miracula”
Nerve Food and Flesh Developer. This newly-discovered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Fleshi Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and friends. Attenuation, be it in
inan or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where flesh ought to be, and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would vou like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scrapgi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time to
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pay
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
If You are
like this.
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney
....
I
1
TRENCH’S REMEDY FOR FITS AND EPILEPSY
A FEW TYPICAL CASES FROM MANY CURES
48 HoUPS girl k ac j £ ts 10 suc jj ra p l( j succession that she was unable to take food or drink, and |
To Live doctor sa ‘d she could not live more than 48 hours. Trench’s Remedy at once stopped!
the fits, and there has not been an attack since—over four years—and none of the I
Remedy ha£ been taken for three wears. • . ,
[Declared to be
A girl treated by several of the leading doctors of Melbourne was declared to be
incurable by them a«*., and the parents were advised to place her in an asylum.
She took from ten to twenty fits a day. vet upon using Trench’s Remedy the
attacks ceased at once, and she has not had a fit since —nearly five years She
ĥ
I ceased taking the Remedy three years ago
£ 1000 Spent
Without Result
I he sod of a leading merchant of Melbourne broke down just as he was commencing j
his University course. All the best physicians of Melbourne were consulted, butJ
none of them could stop the tits. The father then took the young man to England'
and elsewhere to obtain the best advice in the world, but, after spending over
he brought him back with the fits occurring more frequently than ever Trench’s Remedy at once stopped
the attacks, and the young man is now perfectly cured
The above statements can be verified by personal reference to the parents of the patients, who, from
gratitude, have offered to reply to any enquirers we refer to them
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth S
lelbourne
valuable booklet
POST FREE
ħ
Send for it
at once
h
Delay is
Dangerous
Makes you look manly
Wore
1
After
A Permanent MOUSTACHE
A Permanent Moustache can be guaranteed
to ANY man who will try
CAPILLARINL
Try it YOURSELF ; you will be delighted with the results.
A JAR OF CAPILLARINE
in Plain Wrapper,
10/6
Post-Free to
Your Door.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
Amusements.
THE ROYAL WELSH MALE
fIHfITR (Finest Choir in the
V ' /xxwxxx Wide World)
INAUGURATES ITS AUSTRALASIAN and N.Z. TOUR
Under the Sole Direction of J. and N. Tait
AT THE
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1.
A REVELATION PROMISED IN CHORAL WORK.
THE ROYAL WELSH MALE CHOIR
have been likened unto a Pipe Organ :
“ Tones of soft luxuriant sweetness die awav in tender
cadences and are renewed in swelling volume to the
fulltst power of the entire chorus.”
A PERFECT VOCAL ILLUSION.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s Thursday Next.
Day Sales Sea id’s, Florists.
Touring Manager, A. W. Batiste.
“ From Shake-hands to Knock-out.”
COMING!
TO TOUR AUSTRALIA!
FIGHT ON FILMS—REALISTIC AS LIFE.
FIGHT ON FILMS—REALISTIC AS LIFE.
FIGHT ON FILMS—REALISTIC AS LIFE.
MacMahon and Carroll’s Latest
and Greatest Enterprise. By
Special and Exclusive Arrange-
ment with Edwin Geach.
THE BURNS-SQUIRES STRUGGLE
THE BURNS-SQUIRES STRUGGLE
THE BURNS-SQUIRES STRUGGLE
ALL OVER AGAIN,
TO THE LIFE, by the
BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
The Middle Man’s Only Chance
at People’s Popular Prices.
Is, 2s, and 3s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
ONE OF THE MOST NOTABLE SUCCESSES ON THE
AMERICAN STAGE,
MRS. WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE PATCH,
By Anne Crawford Flexner arid Alice Hegan Rice.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY,
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL
BRUNE, supported by a
SPECIALLY SELECTED COMPANY
—in—
PETEK PAN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES' AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Me.vnell and Gunn’s Comic
Opera Co. presents
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul A. Rubens and Austin Hurgon.
One of the Most Successful Musical Productions of
Recent Years.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—D.C. and R.S., ss. ; Stalls 35.; Family Circle, 2s. ;
Gallery, Is.
Q U EEN’S HALL SY D N eA.
MACMAHON & CARROLL’S
“POP THE TEEM OE HIS
NATURAL LIEU.”
The Bulletin says: “ The way the public has rushed to
see that great Australian romance, ‘ For the Term of His
Natural Life,’ proves conclusively that the Australians
will support their own writers.”
pAL A CT THEA T R E, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A^ fcof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 2/- Plan at Nichoison’s.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
“|“ H E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE SKATING.
DAILY : 10 to 12; 3 to 5 ; 8 to 10.30.
ADMISSION 2s. CHlLDREN—MorningandAfternoon
onlv, Is. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY MORNING Admission, CHILDREN, 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY'.
TED KALMAN, Eccentric Patter Comedian.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy, Sketch Artists.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
GALETTI’S DOGS and GIBBON BABOONS.
MISS MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Charming Comedienne.
THE MILES STAVORDALE QUINTETTE.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES —35., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and Is. Plan at Palins’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE?
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BURT SHEPARD, Comedian Reconteur Pianist.
TROUPE OF 12 REAL ARABS, World’s Greatest
Acrobats and Tumblers.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Gymnasts.
FRED BLUETT, Vocal Comedian.
MUSICAL IBSONS.
810 PICTURES—ARRIVAL AMERICAN FLEET, Sydney
Plan at Allan’s. SW PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
ĥ
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
Direction of J. and ST. TAIT.
MARK HAMBOURG
THURSDAY & SATURDAY,
AUGUST 27 and 2<>.
PRICES —(is, As, 3s, and 2s:
•pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, FRIDAY, AUGUST 28,
LAST TYVO NIGHTS of TWO LITTLE SAILOR BOYS.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 29,
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in
LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
L.J ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: ,7. C. Williamson.
Enthusiastic Success of Miss Margaret Anglin
IN THE THIEF.
RE APPEARANCE, AFTER TEN YEARS’ ABSENCE,
OF HR. GEO. S. TITHERADGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, FRIDAY, AUGUST 28,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A LIFE’S REVENGE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
ROBBERY UN OKI’, ARMS.
Popular Prices.. Plan at Allan’s.
p) KIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 29,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
THE RE D M ILL,
A DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
Wl R T H’ S OL Y M PI A,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THEE FJ IJ ,
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at, Glen *.
p»EAL ICE SKATING
MELBOURNE "GLACIARITJM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING..
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
Missing- Friends.
| | ANNIBAL ROWE, formerly of Fryers-
» town, Victoria, please communicate with
Messrs. Newell and Lawson, Solicitors, Castle-
maine, Victoria. Motherdead. Any person who
can supply information as to the whereabouts of
the above-named Hannibal Rowe (who was some-
times known as “ Bill ” Rowe, and is believed to
have worked as a miner at Chillagoe) will be
rewarded.
WILLIAM JOHN DAVY, who was last
heard of in Perth, is earnestly requested
to communicate with E. T. M. DENNES, 22
Chancery Lane, London, W. 0., England.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR MOST WHEAT and BEST SAMPLE.
THE “ SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
a
ri
FOR CLEAN CUTTING and PERFECT SHEAFING.
THE “ALBION” BINDER.
: S
Drills. Ploughs. Cultivators, Horseworks.Chaffcutters,
Mowers, Hay Rakes, Gates, Trucks, Bag Leaders, etc.
Ask for Illus. Catalog Llo—Farm Implements
(Posted gratis on request!
SHOW
ROOMS
102 Spencer St., Melbourne
42 Engine Street, Sydney
56 Nth. Terrace, Adelaide
state Sandover & Co.', Perth. W.A.
agencies : Mott & Barlow, Toowoomba, Q.
H. V. M C KAY
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
HEAD OFFICE
AND WORKS
SUNSHINE
ħ
I WHAT IS CATARRH?
JCATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDXCATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgic Bronchitis. ,Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Med.
cator complete, with 4 months' treatment, post fro?
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Cy'llins-st., Melbourne


Fig. 1606.
Do You Dealise the Difference
between Sprayers that have been on the market for
years, tested under all conditions and by thousands
of growers—and those whose history covers but a
few seasons ?
Goulds “Monarch’’
has proved reliable and strictly modern, containing
cd the features demanded by the up-to-date grower.
Besides being used for spraying, it can be also used for
other purposes about the farm, and is often used for
white-washing and cold water painting. Let us
send you our catalogue of Spray Pumps, it will
interest yo»
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
h
Agents—
Harrison <Ss Attwood,
Sydney.
SMOKE
REFEREE tobacco,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LTTTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
I YftNQ 256 bqurke street
L. I U V%0 3 MEL bOURNE.
ĥ
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 256
Bourke St..where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumnnts can be
shown to advantage.
A Welcome awaits old and
new Customers.
YOUR NEED
is met in these Splendid VIOLIN OUTFITS.
ALU the VIOLINS, even in the very
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE;, and of
Superior Quality. Good Case, Bow,
Bixtra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Book, FREE!, with every
Set.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 217-
Scholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set £5 ss.
The Ideal Set 7/8 Bs.
Send your address I
for Best Musical I
Instrument Catalog]
in Melbourne. I
■
qqqqoqoooo
THE MEZON
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD’S
BEST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 357-
Wonder Mezon 427-
Grand Organ
Mezon 63/-
Chromatic Mezon, 90/-
Musical Instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any address.
tez
HOME-SHAVINQ A PLEASURE.
To make it so, a good lather, a good strop, and a good Razor are
necessary. But principally the latter. And we claim the PLUM
RAZOR to be not only good, but the best of good Razors. Its keen
shaving edge makes the PLUM eminently practical for the self-shaver.
PRICE 1016,
POST FREE ANYWHERE IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM-HEATED PALACE HOTEL
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the -t
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
TELKI'IIOXES
( 4349 Central.
1 29 Katooniba.
Fur Details apply—
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
o
7i
WHEN friends drop in it’s a grand thing to have
some agreeable form of entertainment always
available. It’s so hard to make an evening pass
pleasantly if you have no musical genius amongst you.
That is where the Edison Phonograph comes in
so well. It fills in hours that might otherwise lag,
be wasted, or even be ill-spent. It is a wholesome
amusement maker that brings out the qualities of
sociability and enjoyment.
The genuine Edison Phonograph, with the Gold-Moulded Records,
puts in every home the means of enjoying nearly every kind of
good entertainment.
It sings, talks, laughs, plays, whistles and imitates, and through
its agency you can have a wonderfully varied programme, in which
the artists are the best in the world.
If you write us we will forward complete lists of machines
and records, and the name of your nearest dealer. He will gladly
let you hear some selections on a genuine Edison machine.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
Mrs. H. Rowe, Nelson Street, Ballarat,
sa y S I often tell my neighbors to give Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy to their children, for I
have given it with great success to my own child-
ren for coughs, colds, and croup.”*
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of the worries ahead of the dairy industry
is the pine butter box. The supply of Maoriland pine is
rapidly being' exhausted, while, of course, the price is
going up. But there is a.streak of light showing, for a
syndicate has been formed in Victoria to put a handy sub-
stitute on the market. It is made of a mixture of kaolin
(clay) and straw, is damp proof and odorless, is extremely
light, and can be sold at Is. As Australia uses about
3,000,000 butter boxes a year, the new invention, on the
figures quoted, would lop some £40,000 off the butter ex-
penses. #
Australia has a had habit of saving at the tap
and wasting at the spigot. Fodder for stock has been so
scarce in some parts during the past six months that any
old stuff has been thrown into the manger ; at Trentham
(Vic.), for instance, straw which had been serving as the
roof of a shed for 20 years was pulled off and put through
the chaffcutter. Yet, almost at the moment when it was
adopting such poor shifts as that in one part, in another
part it was wasting hundreds of tons of molasses, which
are almost the finest fodder that Australia produces. Last
season Queensland sugar mills alone produced approxi-
mately 8,000,000 gallons of the sticky substance, andappa-
rently only half of it was put to any use at all; and 1,500,000
gallons of that was either burned as fuel or used up as
manure. The only excuse made for the waste is that the
sugar people are ‘‘ too busy about other things to bother
with molasses” ; but if the sugarmen themselves are “ too
busy to bother,” it ought to be worth somebody else’s
while to bother. The cook is too busy at the moment to
bother about making soap; but still Pears and a few other
people have made at least three-ha’pence by taking the
bother off the cook’s shoulders.
* * * *
The Louisiana Planter gives information con-
cerning the manufacture of paper from megass (sugar-
cane refuse). It is the discovery of a Trinidad (West
Indies) sugar-planter, named de Lamarre, and is the re-
sult of two years’ careful experiment. De Lamarre has
backed his opinion of the business by erecting pulp
works as an adjunct to his sugar-mill, at a cost of £17,000.
The megass, after treble crushing in the sugar-mill, is
conveyed to the paper works, where, after treatment by a
special process, it is boiled for some hours and then
crushed between rotating mill-stones. It is next passed
through the ordinary pulp-making machinery, and is
finally cut and baled under hydraulic pressure. It is cal-
culated that 81 per cent, of the megass is converted into
pulp, which is worth £5 per ton ; and, as most of the
pulping can be done by the waste steam from the sugar-
mill, the cost of manufacture is trifling.
• * * *
A recent Royal Commission on whisky (which,
by the way, denied to pot-still whisky an exclusive right
to the title) was the means of unearthing some old docu-
mentary references to rum. In the early dawn of its
existence, the “ spirit ” distilled direct from sugar-cane
products in cane-growing countries was known as
“ Kill Devil.” Other spirits were merely deadly to man-
kind in those days, but the brown, treacly liquor was
reckoned poison for Beelzebub. The earliest English
writer on Jamaica rum said, “ The chief fuddling they
make in the island is rumbullion, alias kill-devil, and this
is made of sugarcane distilled —a hot, hellish, and
terrible liquor.” It must have been pretty bad to
have earned its evil character in an age of heavy
drinking, when beer was boiled and spiced for
the table, -and punch was swallowed by the pint.
The name rumbullion, subsequently abbreviated to rum,
was a Devonshire term signifying “uproar,” or “rum-
pus.” Hence the picturesque expression, “A rum go.”
When a social gathering gets into wild disorder, and the
chairman is laid low by a skilfully-directed piece of furni-
ture, and the clash of fireirons is heard above the din of
many voices—it is “ a rum go.” On account of its match-
less fighting qualities, rum was consecrated to
Britain’s naval service in the good old days, with the
result that the Nelson Column, in Trafalgar Square, is
practically a fine, upstanding monument to a triumphant
series of “ rum goes.”
In some parts of Maoriland the people begin to
look as though they meant business with regard to the
pure milk question ; wherefore most of the Wellington
vendors have agreed to come down before any shooting
is done. Their idea is to pass all their milk through a
depfit where it can be tested by the Board of Health or
some other official. But, unless somebody who isn’t
specially interested in making six pints pan out a gallon
has the handling of the liquid after it leaves the depfit,
there seems to be a hole in the scheme. One of the
saddest spectacles this paper knows is that of a milk-cart
making a long stoppage just alongside a water-tap.
» * » ♦
“ Itan ” : North Queensland has a rich heritage
in its shell fisheries. The oyster-eater has nine varieties
to choose from, the biggest as big as an elephant’s ear,
the smallest as small as a thumb-nail. The delicacy in the
latter is no thicker than paper ; the former has to build a
fence to shut out sharks when he gapes. In practice
consumers narrow their selection down to four kinds, so
that the medium oyster, which is the most plentiful, is
the most preyed upon. The coarsest kinds are the
scarcest. The gold and the black-lip are the most
sought after in the North, and the sand or mud
oyster in the South. Inside the tropics the rock
oysters thrive luxuriantly; they may be found at
ail levels, from high-water mark down to a depth
of 20ft. or more. In two months the bottom of a boat,
even if well tarred, will be completely encrusted. This
all shows the patient animal’s wonderful productivity;
yet the city pays the Dago one shilling for a dozen of
him. The oyster trade of the North is waiting with wide
arms for the enterprising. The spat wants cultivating,
however, so that the product will be easily handled on
maturity. But it is highly advisable to keep the Dago
out of the business. He already has the trade cornered
in N. S. Wales.
THE EMOTIONS OF EGGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A very excited market in eggs was reported in Sussex-
street.— Daily paper.
The modest, silent egg that sits apart
On some cash grocer’s counter, looking pahs
Has fierce emotion surging in its heart
When it at last has been marked up for sale.
When, massed and prone (“ Per dozen, one-and-eight ”),
It hears the housewife—plain and unadorned—
Reply, “ Too dear !” its shell is filled with hate.
(Hell holds no fury like a hen-fruit scorned.)
Left on the shelf, the melancholy egg
Broods o’er its wrongs till it goes raving mad ;
Then climbs the grocer, standing on one leg,
And sells—for cash—an egg that’s really Bad.
Borne to a cheerful home by Kate or Peg,
It gives a dreadful, silent, eggish yell,
And boils and boils—a maniacal egg
That waits the moment when they break the shell.
Then to the breakfast table in hot haste
(The egg its ecstasy can scarce contain),
Where fumes a man who has no time to waste,'
And bellows always, “ Well, I’ll miss me train ! ”
A flash of steel —a cry of “ Take it out! ”
And, from the buttered toast and toasted buns,
Rushes a man who seems to be in doubt —
Or deadly fear—and staggers as he runs.
Oh ! when with cheerful grocers—they that spring
On shelves, or wave from bins their spindle legs—
You buy, remember They are listening 1
Consider the emotions of the Eggs !
X.S.W.
KODAK.


LONDON OPINION.
JT is a striking fact that on the first occasion on which
Beale Australian Pianos have appeared publicly in
London they should attract unusual attention and admira-
tion ; and it is more striking still that a great British con-
cern such as J. Lyons & Co., the proprietors of what will
be the largest and one of the most beautifully furnished
F ceding London.
Last week Lyons & Co., well-known caterers
here, and the proprietors of some 120 tea-rooms,
besides the Trocadero, the Gaiety, and other
favorite restaurants, held their annual meeting',
.The gross profits for the year amounted to
£790,000, with an available balance of a quarter of
a million. A4O per cent, dividend was declared,
and £40,000 was added to the reserve fund, which
now stands at £480,000. ( On recovering one’s
breath after reading these colossal results of
London retail food supply, in one of its branches,
one was not surprised to find that a bonus of
£3500 had been granted to the directors, in addi-
tion to their ordinary remuneration. A few
thousands scattered more or less promiscuously
did not seem to matter much. Lyons’ tea-rooms
are familiar to all Londoners. They are to be
found from east to west, from north to south—
everywhere— at intervals of a few hundred yards.
In addition, just now the firm has scores of shops,
and some thousands of waitresses, at the Exhibi-
tion, a venture which, judging from the incessant
rush of business there, will send their profits well
over the million for the current year. The organi-
sation of this gigantic concern is certainly wonder-
ful, and not least so at the Exhibition, where in
the tiniest spaces available to them for shops,
Lyons’ produce swiftly, and with unfailing
resource, huge numbers of lunches daily, and light
refreshments of the most varied kind, and every
one of their hundreds of shops seems completely
equipped for whatever contingency. ,
—S. M. Herald, July 23, 1908.
hotels in London, should consider our
Pianos of such merit as to warrant their
bringing twenty of them twelve thousand
miles oversea for the hotel referred to.
Messrs. Lyons & Co. gave this order
after having inspected the ten Beale
Australian Pianos now at the Franco-
British Exhibition. Those pianos were
not specially manufactured for the
Exhibition, but were just taken out of
our ordinary stock, and are the same as
are sold by us every day in all parts of Australasia.
Perhaps you have been hesitating as to where to buy your
new piano. Does this not help you ?
BEALE’S
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rnndle Street Adelaide S A
837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next Q.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland). ’
Catalogue Free.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


DO YOUR SHOPPING BY POST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s PURSE, solid silver, richly embossed,
Stork design, silk lined, with four compartments.
Size, x 24in.
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 5:..
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, real amber stem, solid sil
ver mounts and screws, straight or bent stem.
POST 12/G FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Chain PURSE, croco
dile leather, gold or green
solid silver mounts and chain.
POST 25/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,
21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, pure i-rer-
plated, richly embossed, bevelled
mirror.
POST 10/6 FREE.
BRUSH to match, 10/8.
m-
ml
S»r4
rjs
r w
rs«f If pRC 1
SSSSiSs /C»f
-^gKSfe^S!
«f*<a
SSSSIa»
Mn
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT SPRAY, fine hobnail cut crys-
tal o-lass, solid silver top, full size.
“POST 12/0 FREE.
Smaller Size, 10/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 10/, 20/.
Our facilities for taking good care of Country Customers were never
better, and we guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our up-to-date Mail Order Department.
fa
Mfefli
yM.
mm WJa Bjisw
bzs.&££&
■ ■■ - ■
>tS
a. sounders.
Indies’ WAISTBELT, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, pierced floral design,
in all sizes to fit any \ aist.
POST 10/<> FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES.
If you're interest-
ed in Watclies,
Cloc Jewellery,
Silver-plate, Lea-
ther or Optical
Goods, write for
our Illustrated
Catalogue. We will
send you a copy
post free on re-
quest. Write to-
day. It’s freely
yours for the ask-
ing, and is worth
having.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TRINKET STAND and PI
CUSHION, pure silver-plated, satin finish.
POST 10/0 FREE.
Other styles, 15/, 20/, 25/.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
You may safely or-
der by mail if you
cannot make a per-
sonal selection, as
we pledge our-
selves to treat
every customer
with absolute fair-
ness. With the ex-
ception of Clocks
and Chinaware, we
send all goods car-
riage free to any
part of Austra-
lasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, imitation tortoiseshell, 9et
gold, scroll mount, securely riveted mount.
POST 15/0 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A- SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING ROLL, comprising pair of
Razors, finest Sheffield steel, corn kr.ife, tweezers,
scissors, in leather roll.
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, ’s Ebony HAIR BRUSH, solid
silver shield, fine white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6. 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH
TRAY, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver pierced base.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To hold Safety Matches, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO JAR, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved,
satin finished, height sJin.
POST 17/6 FREE.
Other styles, 20/, 25/„ 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, 4 pieces, solid silver,
richly embossed handles, polished steel
ends.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver, richly em-
bossed, long white bristles.
POST 10/6 B^REE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, real amber holder, gold-
mounted, in richly-engraved sterling silver ease, 2iin
POST 10/G FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP HOLDER,
solid silver, fine badger bristles, soap fits into
handle.
POST 16/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
y -\i ■ \
a*'*
9mK
t^SSSfP-
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass
bottle, engraved top, 3in
high.
POST 776 FREE.
Other sizes, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6.
SMTWKRS.
Cloth or Hat BRUSH, solid silver, riclilv embossed,
“Day Dream” pattern, 7in long, extra long, fine, white
bristles.
POST 20/ FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fide hobnail cut-glass,
engraved silver top,
height 3}in, S/6; 2iin,
5/6.
A. SAILwEiiS.
CARD-RECEIVEIt, pure silver-plated, handsomely en-
graved and embossed, satin finished.
17 /«
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
m ■
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, with cards and card-liftin - at-
tachment.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
I’cggy HAND-BAG, Morocco
leather, nicely finished, silk
sewn.
POST 8/6 FREE.
Other styles in fancy leathers,
from 10/6, 12/6, 15/, to 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver,
richly embossed, fine white
bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT-PIN STAND, pure silver-plated,
amethyst thistle, velvet base, '’in
high.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
ħ
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


The Old Original
«
BOOMERANG
99
T
STA
Pure Grape
Australian Brandy
HAS IMITATORS EVERYWHERE
SERIOUS RIVALS NOWHERE!


A Half-Page of Beautiful Thing's from which
to Choose.
How do you liKe tine New Style of NecKlet
Set with the Fashionable Turquoise Matrix?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style of the one we picture here.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
jyjpLlliliiiiiiiTnTlilHiHH 1 1 I
Then we have the Malachite Necklets—rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—80s. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
02. —15ct. Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, £4-110/•
Fine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring, 38ct. Gold, £ l7/10/ -
a
Cl. —Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, £4/15/-
No. H 1549.— Real Pearl
Set, Amethyst and Gold
Pendant, £2/10/-
No. G 9396. —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Set Brooch, £l/17/6.
No. F729B—Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
211- ; with Pearls and Olivines, in 16ct.
Gold, JS2.
No. H7727—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Exquis
Pendant, with Gold and Pearl Necklet, 1:
Case, £B/10/-
ite Enamel
Morocco
No. G5OG9.
Sapphire,
Pearl and
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Gold, JSS/51-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/-, 80/- and 90/-.
No. H7729.—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in 15et.
Gold, J22JISJ-
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in 15ct.
Gold, 35j-
Fine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and E. Euby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O.
9ct. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
lJin.,4/6
llin., 5/6
No. H7726 —Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £9/10/-
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
Removed by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
illft
f
l
m
■v
s.J.
KUTNOW’S
Improved Eftcrvesccwt CaeusßAD
POWDER,
m
Hirsclicnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
London
* 41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.‘ ‘
!■ REGISTERED TRADE MARK
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES —
« About three years ago I was confined to my bed for
a short time with a very acute attach of liver complaint.
I was recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking two bottles
I was completely cured, and my health has been better
ever since. 1 have since recommended your excellent
preparation to quite a number of sufferers, who testify of
similar results.
“(Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church, Adlington, Lancs.).”
SOLE PROPRIETORS s
S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
L *
\ A T HEN liver troubles arise from any cause take a dessert-
v V spoonful of Kutnow’s Powder in the morning before
breakfast. The action of this refreshing corrective is materi-
ally hastened by a cup of hot tea taken about ten minutes
after ; in twenty or thirty minutes the desired effect is attained,
and the entire system is cleansed and invigorated. Kutnow’s
Powder has been before the public for a period of over
twenty years, and is most strongly recommended by the
leading Physicians for Biliousness and every form of Liver
Trouble. It is speedy and painless in action, pleasant to
the taste, and suitable for men, women, and children.
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUD!
The genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the
fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW
& CO., LD.,” and the registered
trade-mark, “ HIRSCHENSPRUNG,
OR DEER LEAP,” are on the carton
and bottle. You will then
Get GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder


mm
TKeDCJNLOP.RUBBEft C° o( AU&Lfcl
-e-their patEons , Tender their cordial
welcome to the officers and men of the AMERICAN
FJXET- andoWish. them aBUMpiNG&OOB TIAUS
,
• . . ■ • . •• - • ‘ . .
Illii
- ■
DUNLOP,
QCBefi.RCoqp|J
lh^t3a a rtt/&P»ce-l
* l
>«*****W $
**■. • ■
. ./ . ••••• ■ ...
' f l "v. • *
I ...*■■ " ."• . ■
?r*&?
, . * ; ,
' •. •. . '
/•V'v
|§|
r>
i -
-v- •'
- *
' ' ‘ • V .
’ A, •‘* 1
A.;<; >V;
• ;
' .. ' ... -
P ,vv ■- •r J
► ■■■'
i • •. ... .' .•
-
O F THE
h
The prison authorities at Ballarat are
much troubled by an elderly celestial Sing, who
hates to be out of gaol. Sing is out often, but he
is never out long, and when he is out nobody
inside can get sufficient sleep for the clamor he
puts up at the gate. The anxiety of the starling
to get out appears a mild sentiment contrasted
with Sing’s desire to get in. He weeps up against
the outer wall, pleading in pigeon English to be
restored to his familiar cell; he cries at the gate,
and yells shrill solicitations through the keyhole.
If this is all in vain he goes away and reluctantly
steals a bushel of hens or a pig—a pig for choice.
The other day Sing got 12 months for the usual
pig, and thanked the Bench feelingly. “ All li!
All li! Gaol plenty welly good,” said Sing.
Sing’s fondness for gaol may be explained by. his
terse appreciation : “No dam lallikin in gaol.”
About “ragging” :
“ Rag-sing,” for which five officers of the Buffs were
punished last week, is a great British army institution.
Culprits are only dealt with when the. treatment they
inete out to their unpopular companion-in-arms is parti-
cularly outrageous. (Young Clark-Kennedy, of the
Guards, for example, was, the other day, stripped naked,
exhibited in the altogether before private soldiers,
smeared with jam, and otherwise shown that he was an
undesirable person ; vet those responsible were but lightly
punished, and the victim had to quit the service.) The
average Q.O. is in favor of “ragging,” if it is
Judiciously administered. There are two types of
subalterns who may be “ ragged ” with impunity : (1) the
un-moneyed youth with a disregard for sport; (2) the un-
ashamed student. Neither of these is the slightest use
to a “ smart ” regiment. The youngster who can’t play
cricket and won’t learn to play polo is a “passenger”
in the regimental boat. He displaces one who might
have been a sport adept. His commanding officer regards
him with the cold eye of contempt. It is agreed on all
hands that he lacks esprit de corps (vague, comprehensive
phrase) in a particularly hopeless fashion. The student-
soldier is intolerable to the average commissioned
Britisher. It is a dogma assiduously kicked into the
embryo officer at school, and solidified afterwards at
Sandhurst, Woolwich or a university, that he must
not appear to know more than the stupidest and most
unknowledgable person in whose company he finds him-
self. Dining at mess (the R.E. and one or two others ex-
cepted) one never hears art, literature, or music dis-
cussed. The man who trenched on any of those topics
would bump against a solid, dejecting wall of silence, as
who should refer to the banned subject of unemployment
in the United Kingdom at a Cobden Club dinner.
One of the best and worst points about the British
officer in regard to social intercourse is his horror of
“skite.” He has an exaggerated dread of the mere sus-
picion of self-praise, and a hatred of it in others. The
student-subaltern who is '''no sportsman” may escape
actual physical violence if he is becomingly humble in
his deportment; let him betray the faintest trace of
satisfaction with his degraded lot and he is doomed. It
is not too much to say that 90 per cent, of “ragging”
cases in the British army arise from the fact that some
foolish youth, already contemned universally for his
unsporting habits, has looked as if he considered
his own acquaintance with the art of war as valu-
able an asset in the fighting profession as someone else’s
acquaintance with (say) the art of polo. Even proficiency
in sport will not alwavs save an officer in whom lurks-the
microbe of brag. Winston Churchill was said to be one
of the most unpopular officers the 4th Hussars had ever
known. Yet he was a capable soldier and one of the
soundest polo-players in the service. The trouble in his
case was that he didn’t sufficiently conceal his gifts. He
was too formidable a proposition for violent physical
assault, but, by all accounts, if plain and unvarnished
insults from his fellow-warriors were capable of slaying,
he would have dropped stone dead almost any 7 day during
his half-a-dozen years’ service.
« * * *
A little, short-skirted scrap of a girl was
lately passing over one of the level railway crossings
that endanger Melbourne’s suburbs, and stopped in
the middle to tie her shoelace or adjust her hat or
something. Just then a train came along; but
the damsel was in no way unnerved Or incom-
moded—she merely stuck out her arms semaphore-
fashion, and brought the express to a standstill.
Tait’s minions were naturally annoyed, and
hunted for the regulation or bylaw in .such case
made and provided ; but apparently Tait hadn’t
considered the possibility of the Australian dam-
sel making a semaphore of herself, and it looked
as if the infant couldn’t be restrained from such
capers without a special Act of Parliament or
some similar ponderous weapon—even a charge
of trespass wouldn’t lie against a girl on a level
crossing. Then someone remembered good old
“insulting behavior”; and that all-embracing
charge was heaved at the infant accordingly. It
brought her a mild- caution, though nobody
stopped to explain who it was that the maiden
had insulted.
A report that the Melbourne Age printed
in the middle of last year is giving the lawyers a
delightful time. The Age said that a Melbourne
firm of importers’ agents, which it named, had
been put in Customs quarantine, and that W.
Lyne’s officers were at the moment busy turning
over the premises to see whether the proper
amount of duties had been paid. From the Age
the news was rushed to Adelaide and Sydney,
where the firm had branches, and to other places
where it hadn’t branches ; and then a prompt
denial arrived with a very prompt thud. Since
then small pieces of blue paper, asking, in all, it
is alleged, for £17.000, have been distributed. The
Age and the Advertiser (Adelaide) were asked
for £5OOO apiece ; and apparently the Telegraph
(Sydney) was invited to contribute the same trifle.
The Age paid up £3OO, and looked as happy as
possible under the circumstances ; now the Adver-
tiser, having fought the matter on a question of
damages, has had the joy of seeing the £5OOO cut
down by a jury to £l5O, notwithstanding that the
formidable ’Siah Symon worked the plaintiff’s
guns.
Justice Hood, of Vic. Supreme Court,
lately told a story which should have concluded
with justifiable homicide, but didn’t. The ques-
tion was being argued as to when a sentence was
actually concluded, and his Honor, gazing
abstractedly through the wall in front of him,
remembered: “A man never finishes serving his
sentence. I received a letter a while back from a
man whom I sentenced long ago to 10 years’ hard
labor. He served his term, then went to another
State. There he lived a clean life, made money,
and stood for Parliament. But during his candi-
dature some brute got up at a meeting and stated
that the candidate had served 10 years. That
ruined him, socially as well as politically, and he
had to leave the district where he had lived long
and honorably, and start life again in a fresh
place.”
• * * *
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes:
It is understood that the Union Club has come into
possession, by purchase, of an old Sydney landmark
which will possibly be demolished. The premises are
those known for many years as the Blue Bell Inn, Phillip-
street. When the license of the present house was can-
celled, owing to the forgetfulness of the owner in a
matter of building additions or something of that sort,
the late John Want, K.C., appeared in horsehair and
orthodox petticoat in support Of an application for a con-
ditional license for an up-to-date house to be erected.
The police, however, opposed on the grounds that the
neighborhood didn’t need any more pub, being well
pubbed already. Mr. Want, in making the application,
said that the license had existed for something like 100
years, which was considerable of an exaggeration. There
is evidence of a licensed house being there in the
mid ’thirties aB the Bell, kept by James Wheeler. In
the early ’forties the place was kept by James
Gannon, uncle of Fred Gannon, solicitor. In 1844 Mr.
Ganhon went across the road to what had been the Three
Tuns (now the Assembly Hotel, with a new front), and
named it the Sportsman’s Arms. In 1860 the Bell was
improved as the Blue Bell bv Michael Farrell, who had
come from the Hen and Chickens and the Whale Fishery,
on the Rooks. In 1854 William Wheeler kept it. In 1856
David Carmichael sold drink there. In the mid-’sixties
Walter Daniel was in possession, and he remained at
the beer pump till 1870, when Ben Yeend got the place.
He died there 11 years later. His wife carried on the
business for a year, and then followed a succession of
landlords as long as the string of apparitions in
“ Macbeth,” until 1894, when Mrs. J. Marsh suc-
ceeded Mr. J. D. Rogers. The house was in this
lady’s possession when the license lapsed. Under
her maiden name, Mrs. Marsh was one of the company of
G. V. Brooke, at the Melbourne Royal, in the late ’fifties.
The Blue Bell was a great Government printing-office
house, and a good-sized “slate” was always kept there.
After losing the license, the Blue Bell became a restaurant
and lodging-house, but now the blue bloods of the Union
intend the old drinkery for other uses. Next door to the
Blue Bell, in ISSS, Fred B. Deeming, the notorious
“cement” murderer, had a workshop, and Mr. Rogers,
the then licensee, gave the much-married murderer a very
high character for affability. He must have been affable
to be able to get married so often.
When the last tariff was going through,
the Labor party insisted, in the cause of cheap
living for the working man, on removing the pro-
posed heavy duty on flannelette. And since then
flannelette (which is an imported cotton shoddy
made to masquerade as flannel) has been con-
sistently providing a cheap dying for the
working man’s family. In Australia during
1907, no less than 219 women were burned
to death. Latest victim of t’other week was
Mrs. Cameron, of Prahran (Vic.). Her flannelette
nightgown came into contact with a candle, and the
stuff, which is rather more inflammable than cor-
dite, flared up. She was taken to the hospital
(probably to die there) “pulling pieces of burnt
flesh off her arms.” On an average, flannelette
kills at least one Australian a week—a human
sacrifice on the altar of Shoddy.
* * +• " *
The Malvern (Vic.) Council recently wrote
to the Tait. Railway Commissioners complaining
that the engine drawing the Glen Iris train had
no fireman. The Commissioners wrote back
blandly stating that as only one train ran on
that particular line, and as the guard could get to
the engine if he noticed anything wrong, they did
not regard the practice as dangerous “ under
existing circumstances.” The Department used
to pursue the same economical practice with the
Heidelberg-Eltham extension, and the present
scribe has a vivid recollection of seeing the
single occupant of the cab letting the locomotive
run along for a mile or so on its-own while he
stooped down in the tender and smashed coal for
the furnace. The beautiful theory about the
guard has holes in it. Here are a few of the
largest:—■
(1) The guard may not notice.
(2) Even if lie does he may not get there in time.
(3) An engine rushing blindly along at about 20 miles
an hour is liable to meet disaster so suddenly that even
10 guards in the van couldn’t avert the smash.
(4) In the event of the driver fainting, falling
dead or being jolted off the engine, there might nqt be
anything noticeably wrong until the train reached a
dead end. The guard might be busy sorting parcels
and the passengers would probably be immersed in their
evening’ newspapers. There would be nothing to advertise
the driver’s unavoidable absence until the smash came.
(5) If the guard is on the engine, or making his way
there, he isn’t in the van. Accidents can happen to the
tail-end of a train as well as to the head of it.
The Victorian Railway Department’s faith in
the durability of the article called “ existing cir-
cumstances” is very touching, but it doesn’t
convince. Accidents alter circumstances so
suddenly that circumstances haven’t time to turn
round.
* * * *
The good times tramway and railway men
have in Australia —the common expression at
present—are only good in comparison with times
elsewhere. In, England, for instance, the men are
in the hands of private companies. They have
only begun to talk of unions. Their hours are
almost anything the bosses like, and 18s. a week
is called good pay for men in the lower grades.
And when a manager comes here soaked with the
18s. a week tradition he is amazed at the good
times men have in Australia, and says so, and the
admiring daily press says so likewise.
We already have the Hog in the Car ; and
now the airship threatens to supply the Pig with
Wings.
MAN PROPOSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
The Eights were burfling brightly.
The Dance was almost done,
They left the room together,
Just as the clock chimed one.
The Band was playing softly.
Both young and fair was she,
And ever since their childhood
He’d loved her tenderly.
“ I’ve brought you here to ask you
If you will marry me—
You know I love you, darling,
What will your answer be?”
The Manly boat went swiftly,
Its lamps were all aglow ;
She was a freckled maiden,
And he, a “ Bottle-oh.”
Like many other couples,
They’d come out for a blow,
With hearts that beat as wildly,
As none but lovers know.
“ I brought yer ’ere ter arst yer
If yer’ll git spliced ter me,
Yer know I love yer—blarst yer,
Now wot’s.it goin’ ter be?”
E.G.


AUSTRALIANS—ONE AND ALL !
Drink to the health of those jolly
American Sailor Boys in Bumpers of
ĥ
40*
a?
&
a
£
r-'
7'/
0
W
0
*
a
/
B 5
\
7» m*
2
B
r^ri
>r
r>'
s
S&
0
s
0
»
-1.
2
>1)
Si
3
.%v,v
5
771
2
BixaEl
ħ
In spite of the most
strenuous competition—
in spite of one of the
fiercest displays of un-
scrupulous imitation
any beverage has
ever been subjected to
—in spite of many
and varied attempts
to foist inferior sub-
stitutes on the public
“O.T.” —the stimulat-
ing but non-intoxi-
cating beverage
of health and
refreshment
—has not
only
WHISKY
BRANDY
WJNt OR
rc BE ER o»
A
DE.UCIOUS
ALSO^Mt
BEST
LIQUEUR
AFTER MEALS
j Dixon
if, Wl *Oj^*^jN
>3 car* 7 ct/«£
£ofl MQICES7IOH
achieved the proud dis-
tinction of being the most
popular drink in every
State of the Common-
wealth, but its fame has
made it an International
beverage. In England,
in India, in South Africa,
and other countries the
demand for “ O.T.’ - is
rapidly increasing. And
from first to last this
phenomenal demand
has been due to the
unvarying merit
of Dixon’s Aus-
tralian-made
drink.


The Lone Hand.
September Number
on Sale Saturday.
It’s a special “ Australian ’’ number, designed to give our American visitors
a good impression of the Commonwealth.
Beginning with a colored frontispiece, ■“ The Wallaby Camp a bit of
the real bush by Harry Garlick—it goes on with a fine set of caricatures of
the leaders and notabilities of the Federal Parliament. With these pictures
by Will Dyson is some informative chat by “ F.F.” Norman Lindsay con-
tributes two of his inimitable Bear pages apropos of the American Fleet
festivities, and Jack Sommers illustrates Maori Mythology with four fine plates.
As to the Asiatic Menace, Louis Esson writes on “ Japan, the Gamester,”
and Walter Kirton on “ A Jap School for Spies.”
“ River Rovers,” by E. J. Brady, opens. Recently, for THE LONE HAND,
E. J. Brady navigated a motor launch down the Murray River from Albury to its
mouth. His experiences make a fine, thrilling yarn, with the flavor of the gum
tree and the tang of the camp fire in every sentence. Brady is certainly the
brightest descriptive writer in Australia, and his “ River Rovers ” represents
the best work that he has done to date. It will be a feature of THE LONE
HAND for the next six months.
“The Public Good” section is especially strong. Another heartless fraud
on the sick is courageously exposed, and there are articles, too, on
Headache Powders and the “ Water Diviner.”
And perhaps, after all, one of the most attractive items in the magazine
will be the early-day pictures of Prime Minister Deakin, of Chief Justice
Sir Samuel Griffith, of Mr. G. H. Reid, and other notable Australians.
That's just an indication of some of the contents.- Roderic Quinn con-
tributes a fine cattle-station yarn (which Mahony illustrates), entitled “The
Healing of a Feud.” “The Big Five” concludes handsomely. Edward Dyson
resumes his humorous series “ Two Battlers and a Bear.” Beatrix Tracy
deals with a Shop Girl's life in her “ Explorations in Industry.”
But it’s just impossible to tell about all the good things. Buy THE
LONE HAND and see for yourself.
ON SALE SATURDAY.
THE LONE HAND, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Eureka!
lEureka!
I have not been looking for the PHILOSO-
PHER’S STONE, but I have by assiduous study
for over THIRTY YEARS delved deep into
NATURE’S vast storehouse, and by practical
experimental research have, step by step, acquired
information of such a practical character that I
am now in a position to treat advanced cases of
baldness with every possibility of success. In-
deed, cases which were thought to be quite beyond
any possibility of success are yielding to my
LATEST DISCOVERIES.
A gentleman writing from Queensland says :
“ Your preparations are doing wonders for my
hair. I had only a thin CROP OF DOWN on
t'nc top of my head; now it is becoming REAL
HAIR, and is growing thick and strong. I wish
you every success in your great work.”
Another gentleman writes from W.A. :—“I
am one of three brothers. We have all been
bald for years. One of my brothers had heard
so much of your successful treatment of the hail
that he sent for four months’ treatment to give it
a trial. After he had used it for about three
months A NEW CROP of tine, healthy hair
raHUHOE
3k- wm
started to grow, and it is now doing well. We
are so satisfied with the result that I want you to
send me four months’ treatment, also four months’
for another brother, and two months’ treatment for
my brother whose hair you have been treating.”
A Mr. Constab (W. A.) writes : —“ My scalp,
which was in a very bad condition, has become
more healthy-looking, and the irritation is all
gone. A splendid crop of THICK, STRONG,
HEALTHY HAIR is now growing on the BALD
PART of my head.”
These Letters and hundreds more can be seen
at my CONSULTING ROOMS. They come to
hand every day except Sunday.
If your hair is falling out badly apply
SPECIAL PARASENE at night and COSMO
LOTION in the morning, and wash the head once
a week with CREOLUS SOAP. Price : Two
months, 12s. 6d.; four months, 235. 6d. If.you
have only down on your head apply SPECIAL
PARASENE at night, and EXEMO in the
morning, and wash as above. Two months’ treat-
ment, by post, 12s. 6d.; four months’, 235. 6d.
HOLLANDS MARVELLOUS HAIR RESTORER FOR LADIES
has trained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay, pro-
moting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your ham is falling off,
try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3/=, 4/=, 5/= ; 3/8, 4/8, 6/2 posted.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making the hair grow on Bald. Patches. Price, 5/» ; 6/2 posted.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly, Naturally
and Effectively. Price, 5/6; 6/8 posted.
No. I. Li<dit Brown. Medium for medium Brown hair. JNo. 3 tor
Dark Brown, and extra strong for Black hair. Get the right strength.
Mention color when ordering.
Consult E. HOLLAND for all Diseases of the Hair.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
AND BY
E.. HOLLAND
HAIR SPECIALIST,
195 Collins Street, Melbourne
The Fleet meeting at Flemington (September
2) promises to throw a first ray of light on the spring
handicap chances of some Victorian horses. A number of
Caulfield and Melbourne Cup candidates are engaged for
the American Cup at the V.R.C. course next Wednesday,
and, as there is bound to be plenty of betting, anything
that seems good enough to win will be worth putting on
the job. Sprinters are well represented in the entry for
the Roosevelt Handicap.
» » • *
The average English racing man is evidently a
“bad mark.” It is stated confidently by a leading
London journalist, “ Captain Coe,” that the odds laid by
cash bettors in the cheap enclosures arc far better than
those offered by the bigger men, “ because the layers
who do business with the so-c ailed common people have
not to make provision for bad debts.” The vast body' of
betting in England is done in cities far away from the
racecourse, at “ starting price,” and it is argued that s.p.
ought fairly to be compiled in the half-crown ring. “It
is hard lines on stay-at-home backers to have to receive
tramped prices just because big bookmakers are liberal in
the matter (if credit to ne’er-do-wells, many of whom
would not pay their betting debts if they could.”
* • * *
Burgess, the English swimmer, has failed
in his twelfth attempt to cross from England to France,
after having got within a mile of Cape Grisnez, on the
French coast. These failures grow very monotonous.
They have practically ceased to be “ attempts to emulate
the feat of Captain Matthew Webb,” seeing that easier
conditions have been introduced since the gallant captain
swam from Dover to Calais with his old-fashioned breast
stroke. Webb made his journey about 36 miles (say 12J
miles longer than the direct route), and took 21J hours to
do it in. Moreover, he was not dead beat when he
reached shallow water and waded ashore. And then the
conditions! One great difficulty that Webb had
to contend against was the pain in his eyes
and skin, caused by the salt water. The susten-
ance he took on his journey 33 years ago was
not scientifically tabloided, like that which the modern
swimmers are provided with. Nowadays the Channel-
crossers—who don’t cross —protect their eyes with goggles
and their hides with appliances that the plain porpoise-
oiled Webb knew not of. Furgess stayed 20 hours in the
water this last time, it is said, and he may presently stay
there long enough to do the trick. But he doesn’t try to
follow the lead of Webb. Most other athletic “ records ”
have been like piecrust* made only to be broken. Webb’s
has stood for 33 years, and is not being fairly challenged by
the men who seek credit for equalling it.
* * * *
Swimmer Frank Beaurepaire attributes his col-
lapse in the Thames paddle against Jarvis and Co., to too
much dinner. He got a fearful kink in his Little
Mary. In the long-distance championship of England,
in the Thames, between Kew Railway Bridge and Putney
Pier, a distance of five miles, “ Bogey ” again got a twist
in his innards after clearing out from Springfield and
leaving a field of some 30 swimmers (Taylor and Radmilo-
vic amongst them) in the rear. Taylor, by the way, re-
ceived a crack from the blade of a scull and had to quit,
and later “Bogey "went out rubbing his spasms. This
left “ Springy ” with a substantial lead, which he main-
tained to the dead finish. His time (1 hour lOmin. 57sec.)
was slower than any of the five previous races, but then
he wasn’t pushed. Jarvis didn’t start.
The Olympic Games provided two startling
surprises in the pedestrian events. The United Staters
were very sanguine about cleaning up the sprints,
and the British were hot favorites for the distance
races, especially the 26 miles. On their trial times
it was difficult to conceive how they could lose. How-
ever, the expected somersaulted andupsetall the experts’
calculations. The 100 metres was won by young Walker,
a South African sprinter who was sent to the Games
by private subscription. “ Bobby ” Kerr, the Canadian
flyer, took the 200 metres in fine style, and Lieut. Halswell,
the Scotch athlete, got a walk-over in the run-off of the
400 metres, because the Yankees wouldn’t come to light
and take their gruel. The run-off was ordered
owing to Carpenter, from the U.S., using his
elbow in the final. His rotten tactics were frus-
trated by the officials, who broke the tape and
declared “no race.” Aforesaid unfair methods were
simply a repetition of those at the race at Athens,
in 1906, when our own Nigel Barker, after winning his
heat in the fastest time, got assaulted in the final. In
the Athens race the field was eight, including Pilgrim,
Hillman, Bacon, Moulton (United States), and Barker.
Contrary to his usual every-post-a-winning-post style,
Barker sheltered with the field and made a big run
at the home turn. He was going strongly at the
20yds. turn which leads into the straight, when Hillman
struck him somewhere about the wind. Despite the
blow, he recovered and left them standing, only to shut
up like a box 20yds. from home. The Yanks pleaded
accident, and soothed Nigel’s feelings, but if the race had
been run under other control the tape would probably
have been snapped, as it was in Carpenter’s case, and the
event re-run.
The winner— Paul Pilgrim— did 53 l/ssec.,
which was slower than Barker’s heat. Halswell, who got
the walk-over, was second at Athens, and Barker third.
In writer’s opinion, Nigel Barker is the swiftest
amateur “quarter” runner on the globe, and his
only chance to prove it was beaten by Yankee
teaming. Unless afforded an opportunity to work
in fine points, the much-boomed Yankee sprinter is
no better than the other fellow. The Marathon race was
a surprise as regards the absolute failure of all the
Britons. In excuse for them, it is suggested that their
trials were too severe and that thev had trained stale.
“0.K.”: Seems to me that Tommy Burns
gives the game away when he puts so much Stress on the
assertion that none of his victorious fights has been
anyway brutal. If nobody suffers any damage to speak
of in a prizefight, where is the cause for all this wild
excitement? Tommy never hurt a man in his life, he
says, but his managers ask £5 for a front seat at the
spectacle of his harmless encounter with Squires. It’s
a lot of money to pay for the pleasure of seeing two men
“gammoning” to hurt one another. The “gammpn”
must be admitted before one CEth swallow Tommy’s state-
ment without a lump of salt, for the appearance of savage
intent to do injury is all there. That is where the
brutality of heavy-weight fighting comes in. It looks
bloodthirsty and full of angry passion, and dangerous to
both parties. If it doesn't look s d, it is a schlenter, and
the crowd that hoots at it couldn't be induced to pay
another shilling to witness another such fight between
the same men. Brutality is what people want when they
attend a fight to a finish. They age not happy until they
get it, or seem to get it. Let them once be persuaded
that they don’t get it, and there’ll be an end to the
enormous fees that prize-fighters receive for practising
the noble art of false pretence,
* * * *
Racial pride counts for something in pugilism,
and one great reason why Burns would not give Johnson
a chance to wrest the championship of the world from
him was a ferocious hatred of the idea of the negro being
the bruising monarch of the earth. Previous to last July 4,
Joe Gans, the redoubtable colored “ old master” of the
U.S.A., was lightweight champion of the globe, and had
Johnson by some lucky blow managed to “put” Burns,
the negro race would have heen absolutely on top. Now
absolute colored supremacy is impossible, for on July
4, at Sari Francisco, Battling Nelson met Gans
and knocked him out in the 17th round. With his
downfall,the nightmare of a colored conquest has van-
ished, and Johnson can have his much-sought row with
Thomas as soon as he likes to arrange the details. It is
said bv the,friends of Gans that Nelson’s victory is no-
thing to be proud of, as Gans, at the age of 33, is a pre-
maturely old man, who is, moreover, further handicapped
by failing sight. In which case, what is he doingin the ring?
He could have retired, but he had sufficient confidence in
himself to defend his championship, and when knocked out
he challenged his conqueror to defend his newly-won title.
Gans was a most formidable fighter, who seemed to have
much more brain than the average bruiser, black or
white, and to have reduced the art of laying ’em out to
-an absolute science. Battling Nelson,, according to
report, was also an inferior fighter to the Nelson of a year
ago. But he was aggressive, and bored in steadily, and
in fistic fights the Napoleonic maxim of being the attack-
ing party still seems to hold good, in spite of Tommy
Burns’ injunction to let the other fellow set the pace.


THE PRINTING GOMES NEXT
and to get the best results from FLEET and PROCESSION
NEGATIVES the following THREE NEW PAPERS are
recommended as appealing strongly to Amateurs, and in fact to
all Photographers, for ease and simplicity of working and
beauty of results :
The New Velvet Bromide.
A semi-Matte Paper of Beautiful Service, which lends
itself to treatment with any suitable developer, and yields
the most perfect results.
The New Cream
Crayon Bromide Paper.
■
r
Cff
m
-•••
v
OQiSSV ->,Vvf-.v .. ... ,^ ; - _ 1 -»vy -■..'*s^rr
654} ■ • » ' '■'•
■ ' •■■■■•■ •- ■
A Matte Surfaced-Cream Colored Paper, giving beautiful effects and rich tones.
IN ALL SIZES AND AT SAME PRICES AS PEARL BROMIDE.
Nepera” Gaslight Paper
IN MATTE AND GLOSSY SURFACES.
Can be worked without a dark room, and is a splendid medium for Home Printing
in the long Winter Evenings.
Gives results equal to Pearl-Argentic, and with somewhat stronger contrasts.
The Prices of these Papers
range from 6d. per packet up,
and can be supplied in any size.
S?!k3>
O
0
Sole Agents for
AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block,’
-37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
By Royal
h
Appointment
Motor Tyre Manufacturers to His Majesty the King:.
Again
Michelin Tyres
T riumphant.
Messrs. Dutton and Aunger successfully accomplished the overland trip
from Adelaide to Port Darwin without tyre troubles on their MICHELIN
Non-Skids —the first and only motorists who have achieved this
remarkable performance.
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS,
234 CLARENCE STREET,
NEAR
TOWN HALL,
SYDNEY.
AT POVEETY POINT.
From France comes an instance of the ill-effects of stage
melodrama on the maiden mind. A burglar was sen-
tenced to 10 years’ hard labor. His fiancee, aged 19,
begged to be allowed to marry him, and the knot was tied
at the local mayor’s house, where the convict was brought
along in Black Maria to meet the bride, a detective act-
ing as h’is best man. After which the wife reiterated her
faith in his in-no-cence (like Frances Itoss barracking
for Walter Baker, or Eugenie Duggan clinging to George
Cross), and was taken back home by her parents. It now
remains for the convict to scale his prison wall, and fly
to her assistance Just as her other devoted admirer—the
villain—is chasing her around her sleeping apartment.
Also a faithful funny man and a free pardon will be desir-
able, together with some papers proving that the burglary
was committed by the village idiot who had borrowed the
hero’s clothes for the occasion.
“S.”: Maggie Moore was recognised (fife moment she
appeared in the box at Melbourne Princess’s on the open-
ing night of “ The Prince Chap,” and the crowd cheered.
Maggie bowed. More cheers. Maggie threw kisses.
Rapturous applause. Maggie wiped away two distinct
tears. Thunders. Bong, long years ago I saw Maggie
Moore in “ Struck Oil” at Ballarat, shortly after her great
Melbourne and after the show Maggie was yelled
before the curtain, and the house bellowed appreciation.
Then Maggie bowed, threw kisses and wiped away two
distinct tears. They weren’t the same two tears, nor
were they wiped with the same hanky, but it was the
same piece of business.
Harry Rickards has just despatched from London a
brace of vaudeville stars, by name Osborne and Brookes,
whereof the Brookes portion says he is “ the finest drunk
in the United Kingdom.” It is a big order this—the
grandest “ drunk ” in a land whose music halls teem with
drunks of all sizes, ages, creeds and colors, and of both
sexes. It is no mean claim—that of being the finest ex-
ponent of footlights intoxication in the land that invented
the vermilion noise as a stage jest, and has given to the
world in the past half-century enough whimsical saying's
about Beer to fill a Blue-book. Brookes soars high. It
is as though he asserted tiqit he was the dispenser of the
worst language in the Rocks, or was the evillest logician in
the Cobden Club. He is either a great artist or a megalo-
maniac—like the late Cheops, only Cheops built pyramids
instead of norrors.
“Snell”: Melbourne critics are telling us that Harry
Roberts is a much-improved actor, as a result of his
American experience, that he has gained “polish” and
“repose,” also “ease” and “restraint.” Candidly, I
think that Roberts is only much more artificial than
when we saw him beforehand this artificiality is a pro-
nounced feature of a great deal of American’ art. The
“ polish ” put upoh Roberts is identical with the laborious
stippling that gives a smug commonplaceness and an
almost universal characteristic to American magazine
illustration. arises from a love of uniformity and
prettiness, and is very nice, as women love niceness, but
is destructive to individuality and force. Roberts is a
.much nicer actor than he was. He has cultivated an
effeminate urbanity and a slickness of method, and these
things, in,combination with his original intelligence and
dramatic intuitions, will keep him popular. But indi-
viduality is worth more than the whole bunch.
“Star”: “The Prince Chap ” (rotten name) serves to
illustrate the rise and progress of the female infant
prodigy in quite a striking way. In Act 1, the heroine is
an infant; in Act 2, a girl; in Act 3, a grown woman. And,
curiously enough, the best actress is the infant. Aged
about four, just able to articulate with sufficient dis-
tinctness to make herself understood, the baby isaperfect
comedian. The girl later is old enough' to be self-
conscious, although still a child, and much of the charm
has gone. The grown woman is represented by the
finished actress, a good craftswoman who knows the game
and has intelligence and experience, but there is no
hiding the fact that it is all artifice. There are three
people, of course, but all the female prodigies I have met
in my 30 years’ experience have made the same crab’s
progress. In 99 instances out of 100 your perfect actress
perishes at seven. Apparently it is the ability to retain
the candid emotion of the baby girl who acts tragedies
and farces with her dolls in the backyard that is enabling
some Russian and Corsican actresses to “hit up” the
blas<s American and English stall-holders these days.
“ Melb ” : I am no disciple of this restrained-force busi-
ness, visible all through “ The Thief." The acting is per-
fect, but when you reach perfection on the stage it is time
to begin over again. lam a disciple of the Unreal I
want the play of “The Thief” to be carried
through with impetus, momentum and glamor,
with performers grasping after the unattain-
able, carrying the audience along in a whirlwind
And why are there no clothes on the bed? Hang it all if
you’re going to be Real ! Oh, what a treat Miss
Anglin’s “ Thief ” would be in a little theatre. I contend
that in a big barn your storming must be flamboyant.
Miss Anglin’s ability is very great. Her modesty is quite
noble. She (the scar) goes into the background at the
final .call, and lets Titheradge be the hero with only the
third best part. I have lived to see the incredible ! Now
thy servant will depart in peace.
Dear Bulletin.—l have seen Henry Kolker’s magnifi-
cent full-back acting, and I write to express ray admira-
tion of it. In nearly all the thrilling situations of his
various plays Henry shows us the marvellous expressive-
ness of his back view. Margaret Anglin does it also, to a
certain extent; but she does not wholly rely for her
effects upon a fulj-back view. In “ The Thief,” where
the detective is building up the fabric of the bov’s guilt
she sits half-turned away. It is a pity, because as I
saw from the prompt side in the front stalls, she really
did act with her facial expression, and did not evade the
situation. But, with such an opportunity, the Divine
, ra would have shown every note of the chromatic scale
of emotion by facing the audience and allowing it to
see the soul and the brain reflected on the visage.
The new United States style of acting apparently be-
lieves in ‘begging the question,” and relies on
expressive back play, and passionate suggestion
from trouser seams, or velvet collars, or back hair.
I remember that Nance O’Neil, as she ramped through
four acts of Magda,” like a caged but not un-
happy tigress, showed us every moment a fresh facet of
her gorgeous back curves, in which the line of beauty lies
according to old Hogarth. In that marvellously pathetic
pieceof emotional acting done by Margaret Anglin, in which
she redeems a rotten piece like “ Zira ” from and —nation
confessing her guilt in the third act, Mr. Kolker's full-
back acting was at its best. It was the fine flower of ex-
pressionless suggestion, with far more carrying power
than his ordinary emotional display of turning up his eves
and flapping his arms as if about to fly. The new style is
a success, sure !—Yours, Locust.
Harry Hill, of Melbourne Histrionic Studio, has created
a romantic drama.of the 17th century, with the title of
“ Princess Ollilie.” The “ Princess ” is to be staged at a
Melbourne theatre early next year in the interests of
Charity, who is an enterprising manager as regards un-
tried dramas. Meantime Harry Hill is training an
amateur co. in the “ Vicissitudes of Vivienne,” written by
Miss Summer Locke.
“John”: The amount of jaw connected with the
average buck-jumping entertainment is staggering.
Went to a show in Maoriland recently, run by one O’Neill.
Each time a horse was led out O’Neill stepped forward
and held forth for perhaps ten minutes to a weary crowd
that hacl paid its bob to see horsemanship without gas.
Every time O’Neill wound up by offering £1 per minute
to anyone who could ride the nag. As each would-be-
horseman stepped into the ring there was another speech
from O’Neill, followed by more jaw as soon as the aspirant
was thrown. When fo&r amateurs had just missed
breaking their necks, a very Lame-looking moke was led
out. Long speech informing crowd that her name was
“ Cyclone, Meg,” and explaining how she got the name.
Also £2 offered to anyone who would ride her. Two
heroes sjouched bashfully into : the ring. Lecture on
their abilities by O’Neill. Both were thrown. Speech
by O’Neill explaining-why they couldn’t stick on, coupled
with rash offer's of “ a tenner to the hospital” if “my
little brother Ted ” didn’t ride Cyclone Meg' barebacked.
“Little brother Ted,” aged about 32, came forward.
Long speech introducing him. 1 Further speech chal-
lenging the world to meet him in a catch-as-catch-can
buckjuniping contest for £2,000,000 a-side and the gate.
The docile moke stood all thistiriie with its head between
its front feet. It wasn’t interested, for it had beard that
tale 3684 times before. “ Little brother Ted ” then rode
the horse for 37sec., and jumped off. It was then 10
o’clock, and as O’Neill was hoarse, and buck jumping ap-
parently could not be carried on without talk, the show
ended.
Sectarianism has frankly discovered itself in the English
theatrical world. A “Guild of Catholic Actors and
Musicians” was lately formed, with George Edwardes as
president and the Duke of Norfolk as boss patron. The
first public announcement of the Guild’s existence hap-
pened in connection with a matinee performance at Daly’s
Theatre in aid of the London Catholic Missions. Now,
how will a purely Holy Roman version of, say, “Macbeth”’
, differ from a strong Orange Lodge version when the
Protestant Actors’ Guild gets started? Perhaps the R.C.
Guild will make Macbeth a Primitive Methodist and the
First Murderer a Presbyterian.
“Harrison O.” : Curious how British is spoke on the
stage. There is the bellowdramatic form of British, in
which language such words as “gur-r-.v1,” “che-e-iki,”
“pewer” (referring to the aforementioned gur-r-.vl)
occupy prominent places. This language, spoken by
melodramatic blokes and tarts, is complicated, to say the
least of it. Just consider such sentences as the following :
“ Noah, I will nev-ah bee-kum you-ah wif-ha ” (spoken bv
the oft-occurring gur-r-yl); “ stand-a back-a or youah ha
a dead mahn” ; “Erbert, I be-seecsh yew foah the sake
of ouah che-e-ild,” etc. Then there is the robust Music
Hall.variety (if variety is possible in a music-hall) such as
“ mah bar-Jje,” “mah lydv,” “gel,” “my ole wumun ”
(loud laughter), “sossage” (roars of laughter), “ow
lodjer ” (uncontrollable merriment). Musical comedy has
not yet got a language of its own, but it soon will have.
Paris has already become “ Par-yis,” and Nice is gene-
rally pronounced as it is spelt. For infinite variety of
mispronunciation comme/id me to “The Merry Widow.'’
Each singer in the “Women” septet has a different,
theory, thus we hear of “ wumun,” “ wumin,” “ wimin,”
“ wemen,” “ woahmen,” “wymen,” and “ wo-o-o-men.”
Carrie Moore used not to be like this, but now she has
picked up an English accent, or something equally atro-
cious, and her song about “ Oh-feel-yah ” loses seven-
eighths of its attraction in consequence.
HER SUCCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Advancement on the stage,” says a somewhat pro-
minent actress to a curious press person, “as in other
professions, is won by talent, hard work, self-sacrifice
untiring perseverance.”
I have a moving tale to tell
Of Martha Clara Anabel,
Who shyly sported on the stage
In opera, and was not the rage.
Though Martha Clara strove to gain
A great success, ’r.was all in vain ;
No great success could Clara win,
Because, alas ! her legs were thin.
She had some talent, and would shunt
No means of forging to the front ;
But with such Calves as she could show,
She lingered in the backward row.
For years she had no kind of luck,
And danced unheeded in the ruck, s
Till one night when ’twas noted that
She showed some tendency to fat.
The manager he sorted Clare
From out the pus,h, and put her where
The lisping, stall-fed gentlemen
Could see her flitting now and then.
And still she grew. She got her show.
They put her in the foremost row.
The pap?rs praised her. Soon she flew
Silk petticoats, and diamonds too.
What was it won her stage success ?
I only know she lived to bless
The day she read it in a rag :
“ Blank’s Food for Calves ! ” She ate a bag.
VIC.
Silas Snell.


(
‘«3s
XI
'.-X
frx
RB
x\'
M
■^f
/V
*N
/
A^
\s> :
4
O
f
'I
(Bold- /IDcJ'af,
l Calcutta, IS$3
'ifPflQfc’O
I f LlIll) MAGxNEIA
gtsassa^
it^S?J hcn - vor exhibited; as a proof of
cr th« 8 U to-all others, tho Jurors
: touch l i* il i! cmr F s icee~7, in thoir
■ iShfclf H°« tllat *«••’» Fluid liagnosis
. . so -s° r cent, of rccarbonatoft
"taew* m oxeos3 of any other exhibited.
• " : ■ i Uhj .h *""■ *?. Is.tapepsU. U»liO«»snc*B, *c., «•
•■ • f ! r ° Mwitthum, <tnplc*s»pt Enu?«»Uo»s :
‘*in after Hath.#, Want«*f Apf*«^& j
:s f«‘h« t'fken ratolsrl/ early to wn j
;;°*tiv«*rie«R, Pain afte
■ W«tt«cl:<88ful:
„„ t , iv early uj»«»
>iu*d once or twi e .funm; tho day. in fever* e«»> ]
M Ridihara‘pi}ti oWe i!' r , of the Mvef. «» «* ,
r,'. - . every other ufeht at bedjf»e t
M*ffw»ta has 'proved to be of the S«*W* ■
£ ,j , ; is 'be food from turning soar o» >he si >m»~b
~ i ; .•* h*d < i the mine, and acts a* n »»*»[
1.’ - ,>l! r ,u ' tivi, '« nr **«*«» time? a day fc&va
■- «;**. V -X i;i "£ Had during- the early roasts*
_ •» < ptt'.rwu, roollmf. sod r*lr'«h)nsr beverage.
«. ; , ! « * tesv minute* after an ?xc*** r f »** 1
•• * . ’ ■’' " -atsop o; uric act 1;c mat and yravel- j
%C?« once or tme'e a dayh t
—...•ron, tyro or thro® ts&spoo&fuls. . y|
i ftc;
&RIMWADE & CO., Melbouphl |
/t
'U
K
:
f
■<S..
.\'
V
;■&
:/;.
■S
'~l
k >
r .
\
/•
• •
X
\;
L
TO
\
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
For Indigestion, Biliousness, and Acidity.
' ;■ ’ 2 i • _ j -
SOLD EVERYWHERE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 t.o £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantlb Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hot. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of nem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other ,places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS..
WE
ĥ
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
H)ontdepieteO.«|.C«i.,tW.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Sf., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs, Bright & Oo.); E. Yickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 ColiinB-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
When Mosquitoes annoy you <
remember how useful, either for pre- \
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their >
bites, so many people have found ?
Calvert’s
20% Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases. |
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. <
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. j
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 22nd SEPT.
MANILA 20th OCT.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 17th NOV.
Unsurpassed Seairoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN. & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDfln vested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw. t'New Steamer.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os Co £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s co £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
WHITE STAR LINE.
ħ
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 2.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
September 30.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £,15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Ualgetf) and Com/pani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
h
ĥ
CRUISES. *«
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane 'and
Sydney, combining a de-'
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Balls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
VERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR AND SHIRTS
are a safeguard against
COLDS AND CHILLS
during the change of seasons.
/ERTEX CELLULAR should always be worn next
the body.
Recommended by Doctors and Scientists all over
the world.
Write for Pamphlets and Illustrated Price Lists
Post Free.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
The Mark, of Quality
ħ
ERN’S
“AT OR”
RAZOR Guaranteed
A High-Grade Razor, Fully Hollow-
Ground. Electrically Tempered.
Always Keeps the Edge. Each
Razor in a Case.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle.
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney. (2
DON'T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
"TOUR
WITH
22?
LOCKYER’S
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOB[NS,
Queen’s Mansions, 'Z to 5 Beacon if i eld Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHiS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian)
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, August 27.
(Accompanying American
Fleet to Melbourne.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
September 12.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S. S. Innamiticka, Aug. 29.
S.S. Yongala, Sept. 5.
Jiest and Cheapest Ho ate to (Joldlielda.
Saloon Passage Tickets ace interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IYI ESS A GER/ES
I^ARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
MELBOURNE
GEELCXNG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 29.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 5,
ADELAIDE i
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
KYARRA, noon, SATURDAY,
September 19.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 29.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
September 1.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 5.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE, BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNIOri STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS .
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England — l/I\, 2j9, 4/6.


Head Encrusted with Humour —
Wore a Cap to Stop Scratching—
Could not Sleep—Her Sickening
Suffering Lasted Ten Months.
FATHER WRITES OF
CURE BY CUTICURA
“My little girl, aged three, had a
splendid cure by the use of the Cuticura
Remedies. She had a fall from a chair,
three nails penetrating her head. She
was under medical care but the head
became worse until the whole top and
back of it were a mass of scab. The
poor child could not sleep, and we had
to cover her head with a special cap to
prevent her scratching it in her pain.
I felt sick at the sight of it until I com-
menced to use Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment after the child had suf-
fered about ten months. From the
moment that Cuticura was used until
she was completely cured her head
progressed, and one tablet cf Cuticura
Soap and one box of Cuticura Ointment
cured her. I am extremely sorry that
I did not try Cuticura before, as I am
certain that the pain in her head caused
my child to go cross-eyed. I have
great faith in Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment. J. H. Phipps, Coventry Rd., Coles-
mll, Warwickshire, Eng., Dec. 15,1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
WIND RASHES
And Irritations of the Skin
Soothed by Cuticura.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle applications of Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great Skin
Cure, instantly relieve
and point to a speedy
cure of the rashes,
itchings, irritations, in-
flammations, cliafings,
lameness and soreness
incidental to outdoor
exercise. For preserv-
ing, purifying and beau-
tifying the skin, scalp,
hair and hands, for sanative, antiseptic
cleansing, as well asforeczemas, humours,
pimples, blackheads and other torturing,
disfiguring affections of the skin, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are priceless.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Principal depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns &
Co., Sydney; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town,
etc.; Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio: U.S.A,, Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
£
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
The Battleships are here!
The cannon smoke has
cleared away—the atmo=
sphere is again clear—the
last faint echoes of the
welcoming guns have died
away in the distance, and
the mind is once again free
to give earnest considera=
tion to that too=oft=post=
poned question,
The Purchase of a Piano,
When you have been
around the City and in=
vestigated the merits of
certain makes of pianos,
come in and let us show
you the same merits, plus
many others, in
THE STEINWAY,
THE FEURICH,
THE MIGNON,
and
THE NANON
PIANOS.
These pianos are abso=
lutely the best—at their
respective prices—on the
market.
CASH OR TERMS.
CATALOGUES FREE.
34-2 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY.
115,000
The WaybacK Series
Australia laughed ! ! !
and keeps auyiuny.
2s o. i,.
Red Harry Is.
JERDAN’S HOME BATTERY.
h
ITS benefits cannot be over-estimated jn
cases of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout,
Neuralgia, Insomnia and similar illnesses.
In addition, it can be used for a young
child as well as for adults.
It is most simple to operate and easily con-
trollable, while the first cost constitutes the
whole cost, as there are no parts to wear out.
The dry cells last quite six months, and then
cost only a few pence to renew.
Price 35/- Post Free.
Let us send you the Battery—if you find it is
not exactly as we say, we will refund your
money.
OUR FREE BATTERY BOOKLET ON REQUEST.
JERDAN’S
(Late OSBORN fit JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
ĥ
Have you got “Shoe-
light,” our illus-
trated booklet, des-
cribing, with prices,
our very finest
Footwear? You
should get a copy—
we’ll post it free on
receipt of name and
address.
This
Comfortable
and Stylish
LADY’S
SHOE
at
One
Guinea.
You could tell at a
glance that this Shoe
combines style, com-
fort and good wear.
It is an Enamel'Kid
Derby Oxford, with a
Welted Sole, and is
certain to prove one
of the most popular
Walking Shoes for
the coming outdoor
season.
Because it is strongly
built, and at the
same time stylish in
appearance, we guar-
antee it, and price it
at One Cuinea.
Add 9d. for postage
if ordering in Vic-
toria, or Is. if from
any other State.
LEEMINC’S Boot Stores, 109Swanston St., Melb.;
1 & 3 Errol St., N. Melb. ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran.
PEOPLE
who are
FAT
often fail
to fully
COHILU FROn ACTUAL. PtIQIQGFiAPJiii
realise what a tremendous burden they
are carrying. A body intended to carry
ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, ex-
cess weight. Dead weight, useless tissue.
Why do you carry it? Obesity ruins
the health.
“F atcure”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity. It
reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It rids
the body of five pounds superfluous fat per
week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless, and pleasant to
take. Improves the general health and re-
stores a good figure. Send 2d. stamp, or
call for free trial sample. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets. [3l
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
rfIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
JL Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ UKICA”
Galvanic Rings positively cute Rheu-
matism, Sciatica’T'Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness aud kindred ailments.
iniiiiniiiiiimiHiiiimiiiuiii
mu.
S'**' ■—lllllw—
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
Etattery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold-
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNRLING,
The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
‘ T INSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial imitation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
7 LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGrULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUN TAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PILLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
* LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence' of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemise or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. lIEAIINE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, vou’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your
i.n color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
The Late Lamented Tramway Strike.
A condensed statement of the case :
The recent tramway strike in Sydney was a weird busi-
ness, in which State Frights played a sinister part. The
executive was to a man against the movement. It did
not believe that the train men had any earthly hope of
winning in a single-handed scrimmage with the Depart-
ment. Therefore it was adverse to stopping work
till a general strike had been arranged for. But
Che men demanded a ballot, and having carried,
almost unanimously, the motion for an immediate
strike, took the management out of the hands of
the executive, and drove their officers before them into
battle, and, sad to say, left them to be butchered when the
battle was lost through their ojyn precipitate action. The
Department’s officirs were flattened when the non-union
men came out as loyally as the members of the union,
and the whole scheme for running a reduced service by
means of the non-unionists fell to the ground. The Labor
Council set to work to organise a general strike as quickly
as possible, but the vote of the railway engineers against
coming out paralysed it. It is now said that sundry
members of the Parliamentary Labor Party used ail
their influence to prevent the engine men deciding to
strike. Certain it is that Messrs. McGowen and Holman
did their level best to persuade the strikers to go back
to work on the best terms that could be secured, or, if
necessary, upon no terms at all. The ostensible reason
was that, as members of Parliament, they were
morally bound to use their influence to get the men to obey
the law. But it is now suggested that there was another
reason. Holman is as virulent a States Frighter as Wade
and Carruttiers rolled into one hopeless insect, and
McGowen would be as bad had he the nervous energy
of his fatally fluent lieutenant. The plan of the
Labor Council was sublime in its ingenuity. To fight a
Government to a finish generally means smashing it by
physical force. The Labor Council proposed to destroy
Wade and his Government by covering it with ridicule
and reducing it to a howling farce. It had the best of
legal advice, and had been informed that the State
Government, even if it read the Riot Act, had no power
to enforce it except with police armed, at most, with
batons. A general strike would have stopped railway
traffic, shipping, coal-mining, baking, butchering and
carting. The capital would have been completely iso-
lated and practically starving in ahout four days. Then
it would have become a place in which the Premier and
Ministry that brought about the trouble would
have been anything but safe. The public could
not have dealt with the strikers—it wouldn’t know
them if it saw them; but it could have dealt with the
Ministry whose clumsiness had brought it to such woe.
And then, for fear of worse trouble, Premier Wade,
the gallant champion of Slate Frights, the man who had
howled ever since he became a.,Minister about Federal
tyranny, would have had to change bis tune and cry to
the Australian Government to come over and
save him and put his State on its keel again.
At the first command or request of the Aus-
tralian Government the strikers w'ould have resumed
work. It would have been a long step towards getting
the control of all industrial legislation transferred to the
Australian Parliament. Possibly it was because they
foresaw that a general strike would almost certainly end
in the destruction of the prestige of the State Parliament,
and prove that the Australian Government has the con-
fidence of the organised portion of the working com-
munity and is really the supreme*power in the continent,
that Holman and McGowen fought so strenuously to
prevent the trouble spreading. When State Frights were
at stake nothing else mattered. So they persuaded the
tramway men to go back to work while the Labor
Council was, as one of its members put it, “ charging the
guns.” But for the bullheaded precipitation of the men
who would not obey their commander,s, and then left them
to be butchered in the stampede that was, in a great
measure, incited By McGowen and Holman, the guns
would have been all charged and ready before the men
left the cars. Then events would have moved too swiftly
for McGowen and Holman, and would have buried Wade
and State Frights in one general ruin.
«
“Dico ” sizes up an agriculturist:—
During the last 12 years I have had a wide experience
of Victorian cockies, in the north-eastern, central, and
western districts, and the Mallee ; and I have come to the
conclusion that it’s not so much deliberate conservatism
and selfishness that have made them such a hopeless
stumbling-block to progress as their incredible ignorance.
What they don’t know of current politics and outer-
world affairs is astounding.
Mention Protection to them, and you will be told that
it is only another tax on the “pore farmer.” George
Reid and the Argus say so, and the average cocky’s faith
in these two is as large and argument-proof as Kosciusko.
To cite actual facts and figures is about as effective as to
shoot boiled peas at a rhinoceros.
Point out that a high tariff would provide him with
huge markets for his produce a few miles away, and
Whiskers will reply that all these “ factory blokes are
blamed Sosherlists,” who would seize his land, and pre-
sumably eat it.
But the most aggravating phase of his impenetrable
stupidity is his opposition to the idea of a graduated land-
tax, specially designed to provide him and his sons with
plenty of good land at a reasonable figure. The Federal
electorate of Corangamite (Vic.) is one of the worst
examples in the Commonwealth of the evils of land-
monopoly; and in Grattan Wilson, Freetrader, Anti-
Sosh, anti-lapd-tax, anti-all-progress, it possesses about
the worst example of benighted Toryism. Yet it was not
the squatter vote only that provided Wilson with his
seat. The Federal one-man-one-vote law gi ves the rouse-
about or station laborer just the same voting‘strength as
the squatter, no matter how bloated and land-gorged the
latter may be. No, it was the bljnd, chuckle-headed
wheat-grower and rent-crushed tenant-farmer that rallied
to the aid of their natural enemies, and helped to delay,
for another year or two, the most desperately-needed
reform in Australian politics.
Asked the reason of this hostility to a proposal that
would do the genuine farmer much good and no harm,
Cocky and Co. mumble something vague about “prin-
cerples,” “ confiscation,” or the good old “ thin end of
the wedge,” which ought to be pretty blunt by this time,
anyhow.
One would think that the ordinary State-school educa-
tion (despite its nature-study, brushwork, and other
frills) would be sufficient to dispel the thickest of this
murky ignorance ; but the budding cocky is dragged from
school as soon as he reaches the age of 14, and earlier if
he resides beyond three miles from school. Besides,
it would be as much as the teacher’s billet was worth to
impart any knowledge that smelt even faintly of political
economy.
Some four years ago tlie Victorian State Legis-
lature passed a Closer Settlement Act. The Act
provided for the purchase and subdivision of
large estates, and a Board was appointed to carry
out the provisions of the Act. It was decreed that
this Board should have £500,000 per annum to
buy estates with. Then, having bought a pretty
good horse, and having fitted him out in style, the
House (or rather the Upper House) carefully fixed
a pair of hobbles on his front legs. In Maoriland
they have the same steed, but he is allowed to use
his limbs freely, as the Act there provides for
compulsory purchase. But the Victorian Act has
no provision in this respect. As a matter of fact,
there is a clause dealing with compulsory pur-
chase ; but as it requires a “ resolution of Parlia-
ment ” to set it going, it has only once been used,
and even then it creaked badly and nearly
fell to pieces. But the most significant com-
mentary upon the ineffectiveness of the Act
is to be found in the fact that the Board
has had to give up buying estates. It hasn’t
bought an estate this year, though farmers everyr
where are howling for land. The Board has no
less a sum than £1,103,475 in hand (or available),
but it can find no estates suitable, at a reasonable
price. As the grant of £500,000 ceases to operate
after June 30 next year, a new Act will be intro-
duced this session ; and it is hinted that it will
contain a compulsorv clause, in which the cum-
brous “resolution of Parliament” will be done
away with, and “an order of the Governor-in-
Council ” substituted. If this is done, the Board
will be able to get going again ; but, if the old
hobbles are fixed on the animal again, it may as
well be taken off to the Zoo and given to the lions
at once.


ħ
NEAT and
STRONQ. •
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
* No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
io?8. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tu l ular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Eng.
Price List on
application.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
THE BALLET GIRL
h
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and XoveUiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.F.0., SYDNEY.
ħ
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
. A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable,and
handy to use.
’ Insist on haviug NIKOTEEN; there ara
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. I>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street. Sydney.
Sample hotfles and full particulars , by poet,
Is. 4d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
in the battle of life.
bands of steel. The weak
physical vitality should be
Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world t<£day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in eveiy case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
3P
T
=c
\\
w x
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liven and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves —strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £i and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
ioseph n. corcorah Dep. jq, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The McLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12
c_
CL
BIIAIARDSF°R
tHE-MOME ■
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to bj placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK.<&Co.
422, GEOROE ST SYDNEY .
AND
IttfLiUßETtf*
MELBOURNE.
Look Out -fox' the American Fleet
GREAT SOLAR TELESCOPE
h
AND MICROSCOPE COMBINED
Sun Spots.
Nearly Four Feet Long. About Six Inches Around.
Price, only 8/0, including Delivery Anywhere.
GUARANTEED SCIENTIFICALLY PERFECT BY THE MAKERS.
-—>+■ Valuable Booklet on Telescopy with Each Instrument *< —-
rnHE New Excelsior Telescope is large and powerful and wonderfully cheap. With the
Adjustable Solar Eye-Piece you can observe Eclipses of the Sun and look for the mysterious
Sun Spots. A Telescope with a Solar Eye-Piece has never before been sold for less than a couple
of guineas. There are five sections, or draws, measuring when fully extended nearly Four Feet
and closing to about one foot It is fitted with four lenses and a focussing diaphragm, accurately
adjusted, and a metallic cap protects the object glass and excludes dust when -the instrument is not in
use. The Eye-Piece section can be withdrawn and used independently as a powerful Magnifier or Micro-
scope. An interesting book of hints and instructions on the use of the Telescope for Solar, Lunar and
Astronomical Observations and for ordinary purposes is given with each instrument. Tounsts, residents at
the seaside, and others able to enjoy wide and extended views should have this wonderfully cheap Tele-
scope. Mr. John Orcan, Gympie. Queensland wrote-—“I am much pleased with the Solar Telescope. J» is
all that it is represented, and would be cheap at twice the price.” Mr. W. H. Moss, Euroa, Vic. “Am very
pleased with the Telescope.” Mr. A. Gould, Boggabilla. N.S W. :—“Your Telescope is simply perfect. Send
me another. Don’t send any other sort.” There are scores of similar opinions. If you wish, we will send you
names and addresses in your own State.
With each order received within two months from the date of
‘this paper we will send without charge an excellent Magnify-
ing Mirror and Pocket Telescope, that folds up and can be carried in the vest pocket. Useful as
« Reading Glass, Magnifier, Burning Glass, Opera Glass, Complexion Mirror, &c You must mention this
paper. Remember, The Solar Telescope and Microscope Combined, with adjustable Solar Eye-Piece, the Book
of Instructions, the Magnifying Mirror /ind Pocket Telescope, all complete packed in a box and delivered
at any address, for ONLY 8/6. Postal Notes of any State. Send at once or you may be disappointed.
THE UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SPECIAL OFFER.-
!@0
ĥ
ħ
Prepare for a Uood Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training' within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for y-u. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD UVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy fop Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung- Complaints.
/Is a food and huildes'-'Ugs fas* both children
and adults , MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled * «
BECAUSE; It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS Shi'S ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medical Review. —“ We have no hesitation in saving it i" quite unexcelled. It is
of a paie golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid : it is easily assimilated,
and, what, is most important, it doss not cause eructations or nausea.” .
Medical Press. —“Messrs. Peter Mdlie*% Ltd., by the introduction of flieir
Hydro xvl-Free Cod-Liver Oil. have placed in the hands of medical lien a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which i almost free from tasie, limpid m character,
and. what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable k repeatings * we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
ROLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the ouly Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., iB, HIGH HOLBQRN, LONDON, W.C.
h
OSTRICH PLUJTES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Thk Bullistin.]
Also at Corner of Sourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DBF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
ttt-, , ? s ' a ' r f ax i E S< l- General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
ĥ
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winch-ester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
CDe Society of
motor manufacturers
ana Craaers, £ta.
For the protection , 'encouragement ana
development of the A utomobilc Industry .
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
■which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
g&tTYO?
ZC}
“«£RSt*
Address •
Maxwrll House, Arundel St,
London, England.
INCREASES THE FOOD'
VALUE ENORMOUSLY^
lancet.
ħ
?VK-
COCOA
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA /,
LDELICIOUS A
h
our Rate* are the l o west current
OUR PoLicy CONDITIONS
THE MOST FAVORABLE- f
QUR Bonuses the hicmest obtainable
our Claim Settlements
ARE LIBERAL*. PROMPT<1
I <
amp
\W
\
X
1 !
'/
r V
X
Townsvifte'.
ished in
ockhampton.
/ 18186,
wifh Branches all ove
AU^TRALAJIA
West Australian
»• Branch.
/ /
i )
. South
Australian
*!??»*?* Branch.
"‘X : :
TASMANIAN
BRANCH
Hobart.
A Purely Australian Company a
TRANSACTING FIRE,MARINE,
& accident Insurance
PUBLIC RISK OF
ALL KINDS, IN-
CLUDING MOTOR
CAR INSURANCE,
Also LIVE STOCK
INSURANCE, on
THE MOST REASON-
ABLE TERMS.
HEARNES BROlreHms
CURE
Tire Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough. Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure.. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop. _ Consumption has never been known to exist where •• Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
' ’ i child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
C £7y
\ /
ĥ
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
About a parson’s special license :
The wearisome absurdity o£ the Canon Nash case,”
which has been paraded before Melbourne newspaper
readers six days a week for the past nine months, appears
to have come to a fitting termination. That is to say, the
Anglican Archbishop Clarke, of Melbourne, has issued a
sort of benediction to Rev. Nash, and he is allowed to
resume duty anywhere within the Archbishop’s jurisdic-
tion, except in the one place which especially wants him
to do duty. Nash, last year, was the vicar of a parish in
Geelong: when the prelate Clarke suspended him. Where-
upon the sheep of the retired shepherd began a protracted
bleat for information concerning: what he had done
to account for the deep conglomeration of his hang-
ing up. The reply was a portentous official silence,
broken only by evasions and excuses. Then came
an indirect announcement that something or other had
formerly happened to Nash in England, but what it was
and how it happened the blessed church authorities
would not say. Archbishop Clarke and Co. were, in effect,
chanting the refrain of an old music-hall ditty—
“ We know enough to break his heart —but we ain’t again'
to tell."
Neither did Canon Nash tell, perhaps because he didn’t
know. Nor did the newspapers that printed innumer-
able controversial letters and reports of mysterious pro-
ceedings bearing on the fact that “ further develop-
ments ” might be expected. They were not agoin’ to
tell.
When the babble of silence was at its loudest, Canon
Nash went to England to collect evidence, and establish
his innocence, or benefit his health, or something'. Also,
Prelate Clarke followed him to the same Cold Country—
or they both followed one another. The result of tlieir
respective visits to England (whence the Canon soon came
back, and the Archbishop has not yet returned)
was the renewal of a limited demand for Nash’s
reinstatement in his old billet, answered on the other
hand by the statement that the “authorities” had no-
thingtosay. Nobody offered any details at all. Finally,a
vicar-general or other prominent suppressor of facts was
so goaded by the taunts of Nash’s barrackers (the general
public having ceased to care twopence about anybody in
the matter) that he levelled a threat at them. He pro-
posed to publish something if Canon Nash persisted in
wanting to be reinstated in his billet. But even then he
didn’t publish anything.
Finally some kind of a compromise has been fixed up,
and Nash is allowed to resume preaching in the diocese of
Melbourne. But even now he is only a sort of preacher at
large, for he doesn’t go back to his old billet. Either
Nash is good enough for any place save Geelong, yet not
gpod enough for Geelong ; or else Geelong-, by reason of
its badness, isn’t good enough for a Nash who has proved
so much better than was supposed even before the trouble
began ; or else the Archbishop wants to keep an excited
Nash and an excited Geelong apart lest the combination
should get very much excited and again ask for details.
It is all a mystery.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Sy>G LEADING
HOUSE
ħ
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP ...
CANT
B
BEAT
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 65 to 6glb. ...
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
h
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
'•(Send for List). -Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of' the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. • Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 hinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing,-Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How To Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s (id.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How MoDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Hung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
Os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I^'' Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’S Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
ĥ
ħ
Hmd
Wholesale Depot for
* Australasia *
231 Clarence St. Sydrvey
h
T
HHE BULLETIN POST CALLS.—New
' Series IV V VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, 10d. ’ Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Free!
re
2-ft High
H LIFE-SIZE OOLL,
OR ft BOY’S RIFLE
II
The Life=siZ“d Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French c eation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye , and represented with flesh-col >ure body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will tit Dolly.
The Rit'le is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in its?, n J,
coir ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silyer W" • t-H
CHaiN and PENDANT sent FREE with the P.° n ° r
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3a per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
. We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the monev to/-, ano we will forward you the Prize you select ,
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those wh
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivaliea.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains. Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Esetul Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds,
Send your name and address plainly written, and w
carefully packed by reJ-mj.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 P
e will forward the Seeds
'itt-st,, Sydney, fI.S.W.
?
Eoy’s Rif^e.
IJJotene^
are safe
* and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps"
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catal agues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address‘Greener, Birmingham.’
ASTHMA CURE
GRINIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES., K'i'il all Chemist*-
M BrUisb=flustralasian
tf-
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pri rfx A /-I POST FREE, £t per year,
‘ 1 UU< j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting- London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London,
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


*9
<2
/y
f
A Lifz-time. Necessity
It is not simply now and then, but always and every day that
Horlick’s Malted Milk proves its value and its handiness.
A reliable food for the baby, a source of strength to the
growing boy, a stamina giver for athletes, a stimulating,
blood-making food for anaemic girls, a valuable tonic for
shaken nerves, and a digestible and enjoyable food for old
age—all of these things you find in Horlick’s Malted Milk.
Made in a moment —only water needed.
Sold fey all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &c.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK
Samples: 82 Pitt Street. Sydney, N. S. Wales. Horlick's Food Co. Slough, Bucks, England.
THE BEST NATURAL APERBEIMT WAitri.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted wiih a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Wiien you ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and is a
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
ĥ
His Majesty the King.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. JFull Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
a. <a> f
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Homeland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OVER the Tasman’s trackless flood, over the
waves to the West,
Who is beyond thee, Land o’ Mine, of all
lands loveliest ?
Swung in the cradle of shining seas, crowned with
eternal fire—
Call to me, exile and wanderer, thou goal of my
great desire !
Brave dawns on the rim of thy mountains,
Red dawns in the East, amber-lined ;
The flash of bright valley-hid fountains ;
The thresh of the ocean-born wind
That creeps through the hushed forest places
Of pale glooms, where the silence is sweet;
The spanless and boundless green spaces ;
Pale orchards, and leagues of blown wheat:
I know them ; and know the vermilion
Of thy dusks of delight, and the noons
Sun-drenching earth’s purple pavilion,
Far flooding the gleaming lagoons ;
And I know, too, the hush of hill-passes,
Thy groves full of flashing bright birds,
And, head down in the velvety grasses,
Wide flocks and the slow-feeding herds.
I dream of a shining hill-river,
A ribbon of silver unrolled.
Where the slender green water-reeds shiver,
And the wattles droop burdened with gold :
A prodigal, riotous glory
Of fragrance, a highway of trees
Wherein, with a murmurous stor'y,
Hides a hiving of plundering bees.
In deep bowered gorges, peace-haunted,
The lyre-bird calls in the cool,
A peal of bells elfin, enchanted,
Safe hid by some languorous pool;
And into the halls of my dreaming,
And clear to my soul’s eyes, a-brood,
A phalanx of swans forward streaming
Drives past to a far river-flood.
Oh, Southern dawns splendid, yet tender,
Ob, holiest calms of the dusk
A-glow with a moon’s crescent splendor,
A-blow with the incense of musk !
God send in the future oncoming
I may stand where the grey waters lie,
To list the cicada’s low drumming,
The curlews that mourn to the sky.
God send in no distant to-morrow,
Once more, with a galloping rein,
I may stifle the Exile’s dumb sorrow
A-swing on the wide Western plain ;
And there, when the darkness uncovers
The dew-smiling dawn, on .the track
To her heart, the supremest of lovers.
I shall ride, and shall never come back !
Over the Tasman’s trackless flood, over the waves
to the West,
There shall I find thee, Pearl of the South, of all
lands loveliest,
Swung in the cradle of shining seas, crowned with
eternal fire;
Keep me a nest in thy boundless breast, thou, oh
my great desire !
MAORILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
A Love Episode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHUFFLE and cut again. Now pick
t’ree,” said Madame. “ ’Ere we are,”
she continued; “tall, diamond man
with a clean shave.”
The searcher into the Unknown became re-
proachful, and the Sibyl corrected herself,
shuffling in more than one sense.
“Fair moustache, I mean. True ’eart—crossed
—faithful to ’earts woman—yow —someone come
between—got any enemies ? ”
She paused for breath and information.
“Yes,” replied Mrs. Burney. “Yes, there
was a dark girl. She ”
“’Ere she is on the cards,” interrupted the
Sibyl; “a spade woman. Beware of ’er; she
means mischief.”
Another breathless pause. The dupe’s common
sense flickered feebly.
“But the mischief’s done, Madame. It’s long
ago, though cherished in my heart—and now—
now—l’m tied to another.”
Madame snorted. “ There’s no tie worth con-
siderin’ but Love.”
She spoke decisively, though a glance would
have shown that with her a very small coin would
outweigh all the love on earth.
“An’ what’s years?” said Madame. “‘Ab-
sence makes the ’eart,’ etceterer. The cards show
a meetin’—diamond man—’eart woman—that
meetin’ will clear up what come between. Show
’em into the back room, Liza. I’m engaged.”
(This last to the servant en route to answer the
door.)
Mrs. Burney, though repelled by Madame’s
vulgarity, was too much saturated by her girl-
hood’s magnified love episode to be very critical.
She asked how her husband would “ take it.”
“ ’Usband ! ’Usband ! ” (A futile interroga-
tion of the cards.) “Between-colors man, your
’usband, did you say ? ”
Mrs. Burney hadn’t said, but did so now, with
details of her husband’s salary, temper, and
affairs—details so useful that the fortune-teller
was enabled to give a complete forecast of his
attitude when his wife should have flown to the
arms of the fair man whose heart was breaking in
exile.
Mrs. Burney’s appetite for detail was so in-
satiable that the seer, abandoning the cards, fell
heavily into a trance, and conferred with another
ally—Guide Mahomet.
Behind closed eyes her brain worked astutely.
Did her client want an elopement? Would “the
world well lost for love” suit, or would “mar-
tyrdom for honor’s sake” better fill the bill?
Madame decided on a non-committal course.
“ I don’t qui-te see,” she said. “ Guide angry.
‘ Pro-obe not too far,’ he say. Ah ! he go—he
gone—but before he go he ’ints of an ’urried
flight—fair man, he say, pine away.”
Here Madame shuddered, rubbed her eyes, and
was,herself again.
“ I can’t tell no more,” she said. “Your cards is
exhaustin’ —strange signs—spades, ’earts and ”
(dramatically) “Death.”
The dupe shivered deliciously.
“Thank yer,” said Madame, pocketing Mr.
Burney’s earnings. “’Ave faith—mind the ’ole
in the carpet; good-bye—show in the next lady,
Liza.”
Emma, the maid, met Mrs. Burney with
sympathy. She also loved Sibyls. This touch of
nature made them kin. Now she waited till, over
her tea, her mistress’s reserve, always of flimsy
quality, should give way to confidences.
Her experiences Emma drank in open-mouthed.
“Lor!” she exclaimed; “three cuttings, an’
the same cards turns up-rdark woman, as come
between—’urried flight ” (she giggled). “What’ll
Mr. Burney say—as I was remarking to the
wash ”
“That will do, Emma,” corrected her mistress,
with dignity.
Emma, humbled, resumed respectfully. “He
come ’ome while you was out for lunch, but when
’e heard you was at your mother’s ’e just took pot
luck.” The mistress looked hard at the maid.
“You may have my pink blouse, Emma,” she
said. “It’s no use worrying your master with
my troubles. The one with the lace,” she added,
seeing a faint smile hovering over the hand-
maiden’s lips. She waved off the qualified thanks,
and, going to her room, wept from force of habit
and idleness.
Through long feeding of a trifling love affair on
novelettes and the forecasts of half-crown prophet-
esses it had become to her a romance —a tragedy,
only awaiting fulfilment.
“Only to see him again—to hear his voice.”
This was her wail. What was to happen then
was not clear—she left details to Futurity. She
held the old love-letters sacred they were
the only visible link between her and the “ fair
man ” of her dreams.
Looking from these visions to the pictured
visage of her husband, grinning good-naturedly
from a violet frame, she grew impatient. “ How
common he,looks ! llow sick I am of him with
his everlasting cheerfulness!” she cried, and
throwing herself in a comfortable position upon
the sofa she raved at ease, yet brokenly, of her
wretched life, till Emma, clattering in with coals,
administered comfort.
“I blame Fate,” said the handmaid, later, to
Mrs. Maloney, as in the scullery she related the
sad story of “ the missus’s ” wasted life. “ Fate
an’the boss. He’s too tame. Now the missus is
like me—likes a bit of fire in a man.”
“ Ah, thim fiery wans,” grunted Mrs. Maloney,
examining a soapy garment. “I know thim.
Sure ’tis a dog’s loife I have wid Maloney.” She
rubbed meditatively. “Oi’m thinkin’ the missus
wants a dozen childer an’ a bit av a leatherin’
now an’ thin. She wouldn’t want thim whimsy
fortin-tellers thin, Oi’m thinkin ? As for Burrney,
poor mahn —it’s thrue for you, he is a poor
craythur to stan’ sech doin’s.”
When Jack Burney got home, jaded, looking
for a friendly ear into which to pour his grievances,
he found his wife had retired—the same old
headache.
He swallowed his lonesome meal, and wondered
irritably how in Heaven’s name he and Alice had
come down to this cat and dog life. They had
started well, with love on both sides. Yet here
they were, with comradeship at an end. He made
up his mind to study Alice more, the better to
understand her. In pursuance of this resolve he
inquired kindly after the headache next morning.
But his wife was merely monosyllabic, being
engrossed in recollections of the cards.
Later on Emma, the unconscious instrument of
Fate, brought the papers—and then the wonder
happened. For there, one of a group of visiting
footballers, was the face of the diamond man.
Mrs. Burney’s heart stood still. She sat as
though turned to stone. Here, now, were her
dreams to be realised. He, the man himself, was
within call. Good Heavens ! He might come to
claim her at any moment—and she idling here.
A feeling of loyalty to Jack, oddly inconsistent,
gave her a twinge, but she ignored it as a heroine
should, and ringing for her faithful Abigail, she
explained the situation with tears.
Great events were stirring. She must be ready
for them. Plucking details from the paper she
learned that her hero would be in the city for a
fortnight. Only a fortnight in which to end one
existence and start another.
Contrary to expectations, the diamond man
failed to call that day, or other days. Something
was wrong. Love’s instinct should, if in working
order, have guided his steps to her.
Then, pocketing her remnant of pride, she
haunted the Sports Ground like a restless spirit,
and, straining for a view between multitudinous
heads, was sometimes rewarded by glimpses of her
hero, as in some scrimmage for the ball the less
dignified parts of him came uppermost.
And even this was hearsay. How was she to
distinguish with certainty one striped guernsey
from a dozen of the same description !>
She hung round the gates till the police got to
eye her, and ran many risks in the hope of a meet-
ing, but all without avail.
Hope deferred itself so long that she became a
nervous wreck ; and Emma, suffering the qualms
of the accomplice, confided to Mrs. Maloney her
fears that “Missus was goin’ ‘dippy.’” Emma
also veered round in the face of danger, and be-
came a partisan of the despised husband. “ Did
not Mrs. Maloney think he had ought to be
told ? ” The washlady, however, had no solution
to offer, though she still fancied vaguely that a
good “leathering ” might be beneficial.
Meanwhile, with Mrs. Burney, time dragged
on. Half and more of the fortnight of grace was
gone, and no meeting. Clearly the hand of Fate
needed forcing.
She wrote an appeal, guarded, anonymous, im-
ploring a meeting, and quoting freeiy from his
ancient love-letters.
The day was late when her hero read this effu-
sion. He was breakfasting; his good looks were
draggled ; a handkerchief was round his brow.
He had just received an intimation that unless he
drank less he had better give up the game and go
home.
“Great Gosh! How should I know? Don’t
even remember the girl. Great Jehovah ! Was
I ever ass enough to write chunks of stuff like
that ? And she tells me to wear white violets ! ”
He guffawed his way through the extracts, and
tossed the letter aside contemptuously. “Seems
a decent little thing too,” he mused. “I’ve a
good mind—but no” (with sternness) “I’m
going to be a different man in future. God ! how
my head aches ! ”
He moralised over last night’s spree, while
groping for his boots—and at last he decided to
“ put the decent little thing straight.”
It was one evening later. Against a back-
ground of green were two figures. One of them
was Mrs. Burney’s, though she was doubtful of
her own identity, so shocked, so benumbed in
every sense was she.
This man before her ! Could he be the-hero for
(Continued on next page.)


THAT ONE WEAK SPOT!
Right in the Small of the Back.
A bad back is Nature’s signal of distress, a call for help from the
kidneys. The aching tells of dangerous congestion that robs the
kidneys of their blood-filtering power, or painful, wasting inflamma-
tions. There is immediate need for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
to relieve the pain and heal the diseased kidneys, to ward off more
fatal and painful disorders. Learn to keep the kidneys well, Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills will do it for you. Grateful people
testify. Their statements prove it to you.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY.
.0-
sr
/
/
fu
Jjft
“ Every picture
tells a story.’*
FROM SURRY HILLS.
Mr. James Higgins, 15 Terry Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says : —“ Some time ago I
was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I consulted three doctors, and underwent
treatment, and each one failing to do me good advised me to go into the hospital for an
operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only
chance, as one of the kidneys was diseased. I took medicines of all sorts; everything
failed, and I was in such pain that I did not care if I died. I had severe backache, giddi-
ness, headaches, and scalding urine. The day was appointed for the operation when a
friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of
a man who was as bad as I was, and had been cured completely by these pills. I postponed
the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnignt later I
returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in me
would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. lam as fit for work as
a man could be.”
On 11th March, 1908, Mrs. Higgins, says“ My husband has been free of every symp-
tom of kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him, five years ago.”
FROM BALMAIN.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says “ I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under
three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad
that I would have to be carried home on a cart if an attack Came on when working in the
Street. Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one of these bad attacks came on. I
suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting, my secretions were very bad ; I could never
bend my back or move at all when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me
medicines and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was of no use ; they did not benefit
me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy.
I only took one box, and was cured. When I finished them I started work, and have worked
ever since. These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith, says, eight years later: —“My husband has had wonderful health since he
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced that he owes his life to this remedy
He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
DOA
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
Price, 2s. 9d. per box.
All Chemists & Storekeepers.
FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
whom she had risked so much —this patronising
cad, who, pipe in mouth, was so lavish of advice,
the sight of whose red face and bull-neck sickened
her?
What had gone wrong ? Expecting Tragedy,
Farce had been her portion ? According to the
cards, a god-like Apollo, after a blissful recog-
nition, should now be urging flight. Within her
heart rose a desire to sera! ch and claw the super-
cilious face of her old love.
“Pull up in time’’(puff, puff) “’nother chap
mightn’t let you down ” (puff, puff) ‘ ‘ so easy ” (he
blew a cloud).
Mrs. Burney covered her ears, but there was no
escaping his advice.
“Stick to your hubby” (puff)—“they’re not
easy” (puff) “to get; and I’ve a wife and boy
to” (puff) “ think of.”
The announcement of his marriage affected her
not. Had he 20 wives she wouldn’t care. She
hated him—wished only to escape him. “Go ! ”
she said in a shaking voice. “ Can’t you see
there’s some mistake—you are an utter stranger
to me. You’ve altered beyond recognition ”
He saw her eyes suddenly distended with fear.
Following her affrighted glance, he noticed among
the evening strollers a man approaching with a
manner carefully careless and a savage glare at
all other men who had a taste for white flowers
as buttonholes.
“It is my husband,” ejaculated Mrs. Burney
with chattering teeth. “He must not see me—
he will—he might take it to C-court.”
Tears drowned further utterance. “ Gad ! ” said
her companion jeeringly, “I thought you didn’t
want hubby ?”
“ I do now,” the erring one replied spitefully.”
“I-I’ve seen you. But, quick, let me go! He
must not see me ! ”
“Here, then,” whispered the diamond man,
not unkindly, “ cut through the shrubbery—out
the other side— and run for it. I’ll do the rest.”
Jack Burney passed. A stranger asked him for
a light. Planting his foot firmly on a few white
violets, the stranger chatted so affably that Jack
was held back from the track of vengeance for
longer than he knew.
Meanwhile, in the fast-gathering dusk, Mrs.
Burney, her skirts tucked up, her hat awry, her
heart bursting, “ran for it.” She ran till she was
just one heart-beat, wondering distractedly how
much Jack knew and how he knew it.
Tired out, panting, stumbling, she reached the
haven. Emma applied restoratives and repaired
the dishevelled hair and the shattered buttons,
and put on an air of astonishment. When Jack
arrived, the fugitive was singing, somewhat
shakily, to an indifferent accompaniment. He
listened awhile. Then some of his suspicions dis-
solved into air, and he resolved to bury the rest.
Yet he thought of the affable stranger who wanted
a light and the persistent way he kept his foot on
certain blossoms.
WEEKOONA.
Oscar the Sincere.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Sunday night. A verandah at a
city corner sheltered seventy or eighty
people from an oozing, misty shower of rain.
The air was bitingly cold. On the roadway, a
step or two out from the kerb, a preacher stood,
hatless, stout, pathetic, alone. In the electric
glare he looked like a depedestaled statue of
Albert the Good hurriedly dressed in black. The
monotonous stress of conviction in his voice irri-
tated one. I crushed forward to listen.
“Mine friendts, I dell you dere vas non like
•Jesus ! ”
In a flash the street scene vanished. I was
back at Wandalong.
“ Mine friendts ! ”
It was August, shearing-time ; the first Sunday,
the first Day of Rest on a shedful of strenuous
workers. Dinner had been over for more than an
hour. The morning’s washing was still flapping
idly on the wire fence. A few shed-hands lolled
out in the genial sunshine beneath it. Some
shearers were bathing swollen wrists, others yarn-
ing, arguing, laughing. A foot-race had been
run and a jumping contest, narrowed down to the
jackeroo and one of the pressers, was being
decided.
Then Oscar came from the shed, clean, ruddy,
hatless, the sun casting a radiance about his high
forehead that looked like the half of a halo. But
Oscar was no half-saint. There was trouble in
his eyes—almost misery.
“ Mine friendts ! ”
Somebody cheered, and in a moment Oscar was
surrounded. He was too short to overlook the
crowd. He waved his hand in the direction of
the jumpers. Speaking with difficulty, sadly :
“ Mine friendts, dis is der Lord’s day ! ”
“Good lad, Oscar! Give it to ’em! Boys,
’ere’s the parson. Come to church—come on ! ”
Some looked shamefaced —a few only. Others
laughed. Here was a huge joke—a single Christian
in the midst of a mighty plain. Let us make fun
of him !
“ Mine friendts, I vas no breacher ; but dere is
non’ like Jesus. I haf vatch you all der morning.
You haf run, you haf joomp, you haf laugh like
billy-o at der sdory dat vas tole. Now—now—
now ”
Oscar floundered, his face flushed, his hands
twitched nervously. A hero against odds—who
knows how much it cost him to face that crowd !
“Hold a little service, Oscar ! ” somebody sug-
gested, with cheerful irony.
“ Mine friendts, I vas no breacher. I vas never
breach in mine life. Der vords I vas say toomble
down und trip oop der vuns I vould say, und dere
vas no good in me —no, not vun.”
There was a box clump, heavy with shade, close
at hand.
“ Let us go dere,” he said, “ und I vill try.”
Bible in hand, he led the way. The sweat stood
out on his forehead and ran down the back of his
ears more copiously than at the tenth sheep. The
crowd followed him, laughing. No one offered
to walk with him. He was a man apart. \
At the clump, a circle was formed.
“ Mine friendts, ve vill open dis service by sing-
ing—singing—a hymn.” But Oscar’s conversion
was of recent date, and the snatches of hymns he
sang in the shed refused to come to him now. He
looked appealingly at Devenish, who retired to
the oqter circle and felt mean. Devenish could
sing “ Pull for the Shore ” .as well as any man ;
but, somehow, he funked it then. Others funked
starting, too. They looked guiltily at one another,
and involuntarily drew back. Oscar, in the pause,
strove for composure, painfully.
Presently little Jack, the boundary-rider, spoke
from the security of the shadow of a burly
shearer’s back : “ Wot about ‘ Onward, Christian
Soldiers,’ Oscar ? ”
Oscar jumped at it, and started to sing. It was
evident that the words were unfamiliar to the
crowd, and presently he stopped, at fault himself.
“Vill you not sing, mine friendts ? Vill you
not sing?” he asked, pathetically.
“ Give us the words like they do at the Army,”
someone suggested. “Read ’em out, you know,
a verse at a time.”
Oscar knew the words but imperfectly himself.
He prayed inwardly for a moment, and spoke
again :
“ Mine friendts. I haf no hymn-book; but ve
vill start der morning service by singing ‘Onvard,
Christian Sodger.’” Then he recited the first
verse :
“ Onvard, Christian Sodger,
Marching as to var,
Mit der cross of Jesus
Going on —on— on—on in der front of him ;
Christ, der rovale master,
Vas lead against der foe,
Vatch Him, Christian Sodger,
Vatch Him vere He go ! ”
There was a ring of pride in Oscar’s voice as he
got through, and he did not notice the laughter.
His eyes were beaming heavenward.
The verse was sung gleefully, the shearers
keeping faithfully to Oscar’s rendering. Verse
after verse it was so, and then—
“ Mine friends, ve vill bray ! ”
Of the things in life that I revere that prayer
is not the least. I laughed then, and I laugh
now ; but Oscar was sincere, and all things can be
forgiven the sincere. Oscar, himself, said so.
At the end of the prayer the meeting was held
in deadly earnest.
“Ve vill sing ‘Onvard, Christian Sodger’
again,’’ Oscar announced, and, this time, there
was no laughter, for as the self-appointed evangel
recited the first lines again there was an ominous
creak in the box-tree above. The crowd opened
out. Only Oscar stood his ground. Evidently
he did not hear. A huge rotten limb detached
itself and fell. A half-dozen men rushed blindly
forward.
“ Vatch Him, Christian Sodger. Vatch
Him
The limb crashed down. Oscar was smitten
prostrate, suggestively silent, motionless.
“It’s a matter for the horspital! ” said Devenish,
mopping blood from Oscar’s face with a huge
bandanna.
“Harness up like Hell. It’s seventy miles to
Hay ! ” It was Bill the Cocky who spoke, and
there was fear in his voice.
There was no lack of helping hands.
* * * *
Oscar’s pen was not filled that season, and at
the cut-out of Wandalong a deputation waited on
him, convalescent, at the hospital. Bill the Cocky
was spokesman.
“There were fifty-two thousand divided by
twenty,” he said. “ The boys did your share
between ’em, an’ I have pleasure through them—
that is, they have pleasure through—through—oh,
blank it ! ’Ere’s yer cheque, Oscar, an’ we’re all
damn glad to see yer pullin’ round again.”
The cheque was for £26 ; no deductions. Oscar
looked at it blankly for a moment or two.
“ Mine friendts ! ” was all he could find voice
to say. “Mine friendts ! ”
The street corner came back to me suddenly.
The rain had ceased. The crowd had dispersed.
I was standing alone. There was a touch on my
arm. I looked round. There was the preacher,
the raindrops still gleaming on his bald head. A
little girl was offering him his hat. He did not
appear to notice her.
“Mine friendt, you vas in trooble,” he said,
tenderly, solicitously.
“No, Oscar, I was thinking of Wandalong.”
E. S. EMERSON.
A Legend of Eld.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is a .ale of long ago,
When the Skrattlesmash was young,
The days of the Dorkterorkterscrock
And the Fribbleslushtibung.
The tower of gallant Squandlebang
Was filled with mirth and glee,
For he had slain the Skrattlesmash,
And a japparak man was he.
The guests, all filled with glootlescrook,
Arose and roared applause—
For little they recked of the fiery breath
And the kangdlerandering jaws.
From a cavern, dark and dismal then
The Dorkterorkterscrock
Came bellowing forth to seek his prey.
Corogleroglerock !
He met the Fribblelushtibung
On a mountain wild and bare,
And the sound of the fighting rose and fell
On the tudrabuddering air.
They heard the sound in the banquet hall,
And a dreacfful silence fell ;
While over all, in the topmost tower,
Rang, out the danger bell.
The trusty sword of Squandlebang
Was girded to his side.
He took one draught of glootlescrook
Then away to the fight he hied.
In spraddrab struggle interlocked
The grorpious foes he saw,
And the glumperdumpid spectacle
Unbumpled him with awe.
Then straight he drew his strupperous blade
And sworked with all his might.
He sworked until that slashtab pair
Were slamflanked out of sight.
Then back again to his gloobid tower
The stramstergammerous throng
Bore Squandlebang, and gave him hail
In glootlescrook and song.
And so no more of the olden days
When the Skrattlesmash was young,
The days of the Dorkterorkterscrock
And the Fribbleslushtibung.
VIC.
H. TATE.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
A Grateful Mother Writes:
fJ££&3Zs
ft
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla-not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
'FREE
CARDEN SEEDS
W-
v&Vo
M
Xs
P^S
MONEY
WANTED
TN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES-MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JISWEM#ISRY, etc., FRJb'K
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All vou have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, I.ETTT7CK
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILIIAM
MIGNONETTE GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.’
p<er packet, send ns our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list
WE TRUST YOU-THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ħ
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases ■without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name wr
m,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REME
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
h
ĥ
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
ħ
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
GOUT
WEARME & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURKRS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, klO, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
COLORED
and
ħ
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
o a f> a ? h COllta ’ u '“g 6 our colored and high art POST
sell f or at fed. per packet. U hen you. have so d the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble anv
present you may.choose Ir m the list ot jewellery which we forward
you. Bv continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a I aDY’S
orGKNT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER H aIR BRUSHES, GOI D RINGS I. A iirv
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, 1< A BBIT RfKl£sof fahMul
UMENTS, Ladies- or
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE AI I THE RISK
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the 'largest dealers
m post cards 111 Australia, and import our jewellery or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in yourdistrXt Our
post card, sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
Yve assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE and in
NO MO.vn^ OSU ,' Vely as ' repre ? e, ‘ t ? d ia our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
<£Q
GOOO LUCK
lTst, s> oney
Familiar Quotations
pregnant with meaning are being handed down from one generation to
another. Many examples might be quoted, and their applicability to the
subject of health noted. For example, “Forewarned is forearmed.”
Directly symptoms of a disordered Stomach appear, that is “ the warning ”
and all the “arming” that is necessary is a box of Beecham’s Pills
A stitch in time saves nine.” Beecham’s Pills will quickly arrest anv
disposition to Stomach, Liver, or Kidney trouble.
“Worth a Guinea a Box”
This is another familiar quotation but applying specially to Beecham’s
Dills, lhese enjoy a popularity that can be claimed by no other
preparation: and the last named expression has become proverbial
because thousands of people all over the world have benefitted by the
use of the medicine to which it refers. For really buoyant health—free-
dom from ache or pain a system attuned alike to work or pleasure—take
Beechams Pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
I
On 23rd March, 1906,
An important event happened, viz., thegranting
of Australian Letters Patent for an im-
proved windmill, one with a bearing on
EACH SIDE! of the wind wheel.
Previous to the above date all windmills were
built on the 1000-year-old plan of the
Saracens, that is, with only one bearing to
the wind wheel, a most serious defect.
To be brief, the
“ Steel Wings ” Windmill
is the easiest running mill on account of its
bearings ; is the strongest built; has the
largest sail area; is the least complicated ;
and gives 50 per cent, more power than any
other type.
Send for Illustrated Booklet.
The Steel Wings Windmill Co. Ltd.,
Dept. C ,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
The
h
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
U>>
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OP TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness .” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
- - - lOd.
Packet of Ten
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21U George Street , Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following-
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 lbs. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to~W.EADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
-0
men
A NO
WOMEN
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours : 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
: 1 from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you app’ly to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Syo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a truetfuide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ener hem mihlishori *
FREE
To .ill persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copv of
_ - »his work Free on enclosing-five stamps (the actual cost of the postage),' and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments
on receipt of this advertisement. {SIT* /Vote Address s
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,” /£>/ Et/Zdbeth-St.
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, ’


Reliable Rubber Boots.
ĥ
The man whose work keeps him in damp,
sloppy places should wear a pair of our
high-grade rubber boots. They effect-
ually prevent the feet getting wet, and
preserve the health.
Pure Cum Boots. —Good for riding or
general wear. An extra light weight
for 20/-. Heavy grades, with the
rolled edges, at the same price.
Others at 15/- and 17/6.
Thigrh Boots —The “Storm King”
for 21/-
Sea Boots.— ln dull or bright finish and heavy or light
weight, at 15/-, 17/6 and 20/-
Women’s Pure Cum Boots.— The best quality at 12/6.
Second grade, 10/-
Full details of Leggings, Goloshes, and other wet
weather necessities will be found in our No. 17
Catalogue. Ask for a copy.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKINC PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
ħ
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64- PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AN!
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
253
MARK
The STRONCEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a truard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
B i^p. rt( ,r S: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN HURST & CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers, TELEPHONE 5177*
Taken Hot with
Lemon at Bedtime,
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Cures Colds.
olf&Sdinapp
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven . — For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply— J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fglSlgl
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
h
The PI
(Registered)
Suitable for all classes of STATIONARY and PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES,
including ENGINES for ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
The Pickering 1 Governor was first introduced by us into Australia, and the number supplied since, for New Engines,
and to replace unsatisfactory Governors (?) has run into a considerable number of hundreds. We have the Pickering
Governor working successfully on Engines engaged in every imaginable industry. The Governor is manufactured
expressly for us by the PICKERING GOVERNOR COMPANY. The words “Pickering Governor” have been
registered by us, and we sell Governors made by the Pickering Governor Company, that is to say, we sell the
ORIGINAL PICKERING GOVERNOR, not a Governor only made on the Pickering Principle. The Original has
words “The Pickering Governor” cast on valve chest. All others are imitations.
SOLE AGENTS for N.S.W.— Earge Stocßs of all Styles always car;
ĥ
ħ
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74
HAUL
Substantially built of best material and
Workmanship. Self-contained and specially
adapted for all General Mining Purposes.
We have supplied a great many of these Winches, and
they have given General Satisfaction. All Sizes.
I—*
Wdfifk
N.
ocq fiPORGE STREET, SYDNEY, ,
HI COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
