

A Word to the Wise is sufficient
B. G. WATKINTS «S& CO.,
107 Kent, Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
Wm
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON S
Pine Apple Brandi
HAMS ®
BACON.
COOPER.
THE COMING MACHINE.
Nothing Succeeds Like Success.
THE COOPER is a
SUCCESS.
Cost of up-keep Reduced.
Efficiency Increased.
BUY THE UP-TO-DATE MACHINE.
COOPER SHEEP SHEARINC MACHINE
PY., LTD.,
16 Young Street, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Inventors of the Double Rocker Fork
Wide Cut Machine.
HOBART.
[jadleys Orient jjotsl.
PIONEER
PIONEER
>v.
m
LEATHER
BELTING
LEATHER
'belting l
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
(Me* aM, Id aU(&ui MUdfCy U -ft* I%t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are ■ • ■ * ■
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch :
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
GOWIE’S
HOUSE OF LOROS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYD3XTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
PIP
m
m
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
economy
c.
if
A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET,
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
SYDNEY.
lELIDON SPA WATER.
HELIDON SPA is sold at a price within reach
of all. Bottles allowed for at cost.
“s^uaSv
OO * NIIIOD
The Bulletin
V01.29.—N0. 1476.1
[Thursday, May 28, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY,
Brookes, Tropical Medicine, illus., 15s, post Bd.
Spooner’s Machine Design : Const. & Drawing, 12s6d,p. Bd.
Mackenzie, Tragedy ot Korea, 3s 6d, postage (id.
Lambert, Photographers’ Dictionary, Is 3d, post 3d.
Kelly, Medical Gynaecology, 30s, postage Is.
Verschoyle, Electricity : What is it? 4s, post 6d.
Arnold Forster, English Socialism, 3s, postage 4d.
Fraser, Famous Fighters of the Fleet, 3s fid, post 6d.
Keane, The World's Peoples : A Popular Account, 7s, p. Bd.
Roberts, C. G. D., The Watchers of the Trails, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Robinson, Architectural Composition, 12s, post 8d
Ratey, The Motor Car and its Engine, 6s, post 6d
Moore, Passing of Morocco, illus., 6s post 6d* '
The Case Against Socialism ; a Handbook, 6s,' post 6d
Sodas, The Age ot the Earth, 7s, postage 9d.
Bruce, Detection of Common Pood Adulteration, 6s p 4d
Lloyd & Hobson, The Swiss Democracy, 7s, postage 8d
Knoop, American Business Methods, 2s, postage 4d
The Harmsworth Atlas ; the Latest Up-to-
Date, hall leather, 50s, postage 2s 6d. *
London journalist,
with Eight Years’ Australian Experience,
will supply smart “London Letter” to an Aus-
tralian daily or weekly.
VERY MODERATE TERMS.
Write “ CARMELITE.,”
c/o Dixon’s Advertising Offices,
195 OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COEDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION. \
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
C. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5& 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
Our Northern Frontier.
SPECIALLY significant and men-
■ acing to Australians is the last of B.
L. Putnam Weale’s studies of the
unstable national conditions in the North,
The Coming Struggle in Eastern Asia
(Macmillan). Herein he attempts a final
summing up of the possibilities of warfare
in our own private pond, the Pacific ; and
his conclusions are not reassuring. The
book is big, unwieldy, indeterminate;
but so is its triple subject, Russia, China
and Japan. Apart from its conclusions,
the book affords a picturesque glimpse of
travel in little known regions, the Amur
province, Manchuria and Siberia. But
Weale is always more impressed with the
future than with the presentof this rapidly
changing Eastern Asia. He shows us
Russia—slowly, methodically, clumsily
strengthening her hold upon her hardly-
won prize. She has had to draw in her
claws ; but merely to sharpen them. She
is firmly entrenched all along the top of
Asia. Her farthest frontier, the Pacific,
is dominated by Vladivostock, perhaps
the strongest fortress in the world, pro-
vided for a three-years’ siege, and so
armed and garrisoned that within 150
hours of the outbreak of war it would be
at least three times as powerful as was
the Port Arthur garrison. Taught by
bitter experience, Russia is now at work
by a more natural method : she is colon-
ising her possessions, not holding them
by scattered garrisons. She is beginning
with Siberia, and by emigration and by
railways is spilling over Eastwards a new
colonial Russia.
The Siberia of the story-books has already
disappeared never to return. Siberia must
now be looked upon simply as the exact
Russian equivalent of the old American Far
M'est or the new Canadian North-West. . . .
It is a new piece of Europe, as European as
the countries of the old world, as white as the
whitest . . . It has, in fact, become Euro-
pean Russia pure and simple ; and has gained
a position from which it must influence, by
its own dynamics, and unled by any military
imperialism, the fate of the whole Asiatic
world.
European Russia thus does not end. at the
L ral but at the Baikal. The population
of Siberia is now estimated at fifteen
million—an increase of 100 per cent,
within the last ten years. Probably
half-a-million colonists arrive annually
from Russia ; and the astonishing Slav
fecundity—the annual increase by.births
over deaths is 3 per cent, of the popula-
tion—make it certain that by 1917 there
will be there thirty millions of white men
—and democratic white men. For these
colonists will not go back to Russia .;
they are satisfied with their great wheat
country ; and Siberia will soon be self-
contained. Already Siberia is setting to
work to manufacture all its warlike
stores and ammunition. So a broac
swath of white must be painted on the
motley map of Asia.
\»/
Nearer the East the racial color is
rather a dirty saffron ; for the Chinaman
in enormous numbers is taking advantage
of thef/rading and agricultural possibilities
of Manchuria and the Amur.
The real re-conquest of the country is not
being effected by the Russian railway for the
benefit of Russians, but is slowly being
brought about by the‘indirect agency of that
railway for the direct benefit of the' Chinese
—a very different thing.
Yet the hardihood and grim tenacity
of the white Russian is beginning to tell.
Harbin has the only white settlement in
Asia-—a town of 80,000 white men.
[The recently authorised Amur railway,
which will cost the enormous sum of
is a significant proclama-
tion of Russia’s intention to retain her
hold on the Pacific.]
Despite all corruption, all carelessness and
ineptitude, the great country lumbers con-
tinually forward, gathering greater and
greater strength merely from its own onward
movement. . . . The Russian behemoth is just
as unconquerable as it ever was ; and Asia
does not contain in all its hundreds of
millions more than a fraction of the vital
force necessary to subdue it.
VVeale crossed from Russian Manchur
into the Japanese lines ; and his accoun
will be interesting reading to Bru
Smith.
Every railway settlement which has a fe
hundred males has almost half as mar
females, who seek not onfy the custom o:
their own compatriots but that of the Chine
as well. This mark of inferiority, couplet
with the political aspirations of which ever
one openly speaks, has made the local Chine
amazed that a nation boasting sue
soldiery should present so deplorable a con
trast in times of peace. . . . The atmosphei
of Manchuria may have something to do wil
converting all alien spheres into mere Yosh
wara \ but the scandal of such a conditio
of things should induce Japan, instead o
making high-sounding declarations abroac
regarding the honesty of her intentions,
turn and deal practically with what is virtu
ally a canker, causing the heroes of yesterda;
to be the laughing-stocks of to-day.
The author devotes one section of h
work to an analysis of the political con
dition of Japan. He makes it clear tha'
despite—or rather in consequence of
its constitution, there is not a pretenc
of democratic government in Japai
Notwithstanding a very low basis of fran
chise, only one citizen in fifty possesses
vote. And, under the constitution, bot
Houses can be “packed.” But this i
quite unnecessary, since bribery is th
easier way.
Tokyo newspapers have not hesitated t
publish complete lists of the number o
shares in new semi-Government venture
“ reserved ” for loyal members of the Lowe
House, and have openly stated that briber
is now so common as to arouse no comment
ifh the unstable internal condition
in Japan, it is obvious that the Govern
ment must play the Imperialistic care
And Imperialism means—inevitably—
war. And Japan is strenuously preparing
for conflict. In this last year o:
peace she added 36 millions sterling to
her public debt—mostly for her arm 1
and navy. By 1915—unless the finan
cial smash comes—Japan will have an
army of more than two million trainee
men. And her navy will be commen
surately powerful. At the present time
she has out-Dreadnoughted England
and possesses the two largest and mos
formidable battleships in the world —
built in Japan. Of this navy and its
purpose Weale significantly speaks :
It is too strong. The old enemy, Russia
is now merely a land Power ; on water she
can effect nothing. Such a navy as Japan
has created has behind it some deliberate
purpose which cannot yet be guessed.
The conundrum is hereby confidently
handed for solution to Australia.
«
Over in the W est there is growing up a
sturdy young Australia ; and every year
there comes an intimation of its patriotic
ideals in Australia Junior, published by J.
J. Simons, Fremantle, at the extraordinarily
cheap price of gratis.' The mission of this
illustrated annual is “to assist in directing
the thoughts of the younger sections of' Aus"
tralians to the higher necessities of National
life, and its motto, “a white, self-con-
tained, self-reliant nation.” Inevitably, as
the paper is for school boys, much of it is
devoted to sport ; but the tone of the publi-
cation is throughout commendably Aus-
tralian, and the annual is worthy of its aim.
Inevitably a publication with artistic aims
such as Art and Architecture (Brooks,
Sydney, Is.) must object to the composition
of the Royal Commission appointed by one
Wade for the Sydney City Improvement
Scheme. The March-April number devotes
an article to exposing the pretension of the
members of this commission to be a body from
whdp artists, architects, or the public can
expect a city beautiful. There is also a well
illustrated appreciation of the paintings of
Edward Officer, the N.S.W. painter of the
back-blocks, whose recent exhibition in
Sydney disclosed expert technique, allied
with a sturdy Australian vision.
Edward S. Sorenson publishes a collection
of his short stories, which have appeared in
The Bulletin and other papers, under the
title of Quintin’s Bouseabout and Other
Stories (Lothian, Melb.). There is good
craftsmanship in this book ; but Sorenson,
like most of his Australian fellows, depends
more on plot than on psychology.
The Tin Wreath
A Plebiscite
of Poets
The Tin Wreath will be placed upon
the brow of the poet chosen by
the poets of Australasia. For this purpose
a plebiscite of poets will be
taken by “The lied Page.”
The sole qualification as a
voter is the publication of a piece o:
verse in the pages of The Bulletin or
The Lone Hand ; and to avoid the pos-
sible contingency of each bard voting for
himself, each ballot paper must contain the
names of at least three Australasian poets,
placed in order of merit. If their modesty
does not forbid, bards may place their own
name first, but the ballot paper will be
declared informal unless the names of two
other poets are also mentioned. Three votes
will be counted for each poet placed first,
two for the second, and one for the third ;
and the grand total of votes will declare the
poet to whose size in hats the Tin Wreath
will be fitted. The poet laureate will hold
the wreath for one year, after which it,
or the pawn-ticket, must be returned
intact for another ballot. Voters will
also be asked to select the best Austral-
asian Poem. One of the conditions upon
which the wreath is bestowed is that the
laureate must wear it every Saturday morn-
ing when he comes to town.
Votes must be addressed to this page, and
the envelope must be marked “Vote.” Bal-
lot-papers must reach us by July 18th.
Voters will fill in their ballot-paper on
this model :
The best Australasian poets are, in this order of
merit:
1.
2.
3.
The best Australasian poem is :
My qualification as voter is Verse entitled :
Published in Bulletin or Lone Hand (date
and page).
( Signature.)
Randolph
Bedford.
There is one man who stands out as the
supreme literary genius of Australia. That
man is Randolph Bedford.
Half-baked literary dilettanti,
who have not followed Bed-
ford’s career in print, and judge
him superficially by a few of the fugitive
verses which appear from time to time over
his name, will be inclined to smile dt anyone
daring to suggest superiority of his work to
the low-toned daintinesses of Quinn, Daley,
Brennan, and the rest of the Kelto-Australian
school. But those who have enjoyed the
mass of the verse Bedford has turned out
during the past fifteen years must stand con-
vinced. Like all geniuses, Bedford is
full of minor faults ; and, strangely and
sadly enough, these faults grow more
common as his work becomes more mature.
His carelessness of metre, which results
in many of his lines being impossible to scan,
is irritating enough, but not half so irritating
as his use of archaic words and, worse still,
words coined by Bedford himself out of Latin
and Greek roots. It is almost impossible to
read through some of Bedford’s later poems
without a dictionary by your side. Bedford
seems to think his verses are for publication
on the puzzle page. But, after all, these are
only spots on the sun. Bedford’s faults are the
faults of Meredith and Carlyle and Browning.
Bedford is meat right through. Red and
raw and streaked with gristle the meat may
be, but it is good, solid, juicy beef-steak
all the same, and tender enough for those
who have the teeth to chew it and the
stomachs to digest it. The literary dyspeptics
who think that all poetry should consist of
pale yellow ice-cream, with toppings of pale
pink, will naturally have none of Bedford ;
but if literature is to be anything it should
be vigorous and willing. " It should be
beautiful; but there are more forms of
beauty than one. Those who think the
danseuse is beautiful and the pugilist
is not, those who see no beauty in
a bulldog, will pass Bedford’s verse.
Bedford’s frankness is another of his virtues.
He is so frank that he could say things that
would be shocking in any other poet. His
epithets are spontaneous, and shine out in a
firmament of dull versification like evening
stars. W hat poet of any age has surpassed
the marvellous picture of Heaven which
Bedford gave, in “ The Star of Ciontarf Bill, ”
in four words—“ The Arctic pomp of God ” ?
Bedford and the rest of us feel sorry for the
poor people who weren’t born Australians,
still there are some disadvantages attached
to the position. Just think for a moment
whaQthe reputation of the man would have
been ‘had his best poems been published in
one of the big centres of civilisation. His
“Cry of a Clod ” would have raised Exeter Hall
and every Chautauqua in the United States
to a condition of excitement such as followed
the publication of Kipling’s “Recessional/’
The publication of the “Ballad T"""
Impenitent Thief ” would have led t° tlle
haps the biggest advertisement of all ° rf
world would have rung with the name af f
writer. as
Just as Swinburne is the true u
of England, though Austin
diploma, so is Bedford the laureate !
Australia, no matter who may bo awaked
your tin crown. He has but one rival T j
H. Greene—a name that few readers'
ever remember having seen. Greene w t
but little, and that little appeared whnlll-
The Bulletin. But he maintained a hiV*!
standard of merit than any other \ 1W
tralian writer of rime. Those who w'
forgotten his name will not have fa
gotten his “Song of the Sea” and w'
“Jester of the Damned.” But Greene’
output was admittedly too small to qualify
him as a competitor. Further, he is non-
resident in the America, where he is on the
stage. As for the rest of the Australian poets
Lawson, though perhaps not a poet in the
Strictest sense, has sufficient claims to tak >
second place to Bedford. McCrae and A C
McCay stand high, but their work is cosmo’
politan, not Australian. Quinn and Brennan
are at the top of their class, but though I
think it is the highest class, it is really m uc h
less important than the class of which
Bedford, Lawson and Brady are the ex-
ponents. Then there is topical verse in
which one man stands a class in himself-
“ Dry blower ” Murphy, of Westralia. The
east has nobody who can hold a candle to
“ Dry blower ” in brightness, or humor, or
facility of expression. If there should be a
cap and bells for the light versifiers, I <dve
my vote for Murphy.
A.B.
Other
Competitors
Other claimants are announced. Harrison
Owen demands that the metal wreath be
posted at “Anon,” c/o Fitchett
Bros., publishers of Lift,
Melb. “ Kink ” barracks for
Jamie Patullo, of Tennyson,
Vic., whose language, even
when his subject is a Scotch lassie dancer’s
legs, is always chaste. Also, Patullo has
more hair than Purtell. His poems are solely
for private consumption—printed on the
backs of patent medicine circulars and auc-
tioneers’ sale announcements, and he scorns
to take payment for his epics. “Kerchishoo”
selects \\ illiam J. Nankervis, the cricket
poet of Bendigo, whose works can be wot,
during any test match, at a penny each’.
There are also nominations of George Reid
and Jawbone Neild ; but it is doubtfu'
whether these will be starters.
As predicted, The Trident (Lothian,
Melb.) has found little fish for its
tri-lingual spear, and now sees the error
of its bait. It no longer devotes itself
exclusively to education, and no longer
expresses itself in assorted Dago languages.
It hopes to develop into a general Australian
Review. There is ample room in Australia for
such a review. The May number, with
trident on its cover vainly attempting to spear
a sixpence, has an instalment of an auto-
biography of H. H. Champion, editor of
The Book Lover and sometime acting-editor
of The Nineteenth Century. Its other articles
are well selected.
A commendable work is being done by
Whitcombe and Tombs, the Maoriland pub-
lishers, in bringing out reprints of books
dealing with the early history of the
Dominion. The latest of these is John
Rutherford , The \Vhite Chief (per G. Robert-
son, Sydney, 3s. Qd.). In his preface to this,
the first story of a pakeha in M.L., James
Drummond c'oncludes that the author was
George L. Craik, and that the sailor, Ruther-
ford, who could not write, and whose story
is in many respects inaccurate, was some
years among the Maoris, was tatooed by
them, and became a chief and the husband
of two Maori wives. It is an interesting
yarn, and is well illustrated.
An interesting new-comer among the
quarterlies is The New Quarterly (Dent, per
Sydney Book Club). The magazine is meant
for the scientific and the literary reader.
The first number contains articles by Max
Beerbohm, Lord Rayleigh, and Arthur
Symons ; and among its articles is a selec-
tion of extracts from the notebooks of
Samuel Butler. Butler was for a time a
run-holder in Canterbury, M.L., and over the
M.L. Alps he set the scene of Erewheon, his
remarkable Utopia of “Nowhere.”


No. 610— Smart Tailor-made Skirt, New Dark Winter
Black or Navy Sicilian, 19/6 ; Black Fine Ser<re, 21/-
Navv, or Green Cheviot, 22/6. All Sizes. Length, 38in.
Waist, 23in to S2in.
Tweed,
; Black,
to 45in.
We are Family
Drapers, Complete
House Furnishers,
and Universal Pro-
viders, and our
unique system of
trade presents at-
tractions not to be
found elsewhere.
No. 1105—13-Gore Tailor-made Skirt ; length, 38in. to 44in. ;
waist, 23in. to 27in.—New Dark Winter Tweed, 22/6 ; Black or
Navy Cheviot Serge, 23/6 ; Black or Navy Sicilian or Serge, 21/-
Be wise! Try a
course of
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices,
recognised by dis-
criminating shoppers
as Savers of Sovs,
No. 7397— Sicilian Walking Shirt, three tucks at toot, Navy,
Black, Green, Brown, 10/9. Length, 38in. to 44in. Waist,
23in. to 27in. Other sizes to order, 1/6 extra.
■4 & -ts?!
?\ . flip
M) W 1
w ' !
v.
I;
W!
. -
SRfeu
n -i 1
<o* *
// 1
mi
%d
6
■ mm
:7 7<
--.
A Problem vSolved
HOW to keep PACE with the DICTATES OF FASHION In all
Its VAGARIES Is a PROBLEM that has been SOLVED by
MANY a LADY who has LEARNED the ART of making a
SOVEREIGN GO AS FAR AS TWO, and even THREE, expended
by her LESS FORTUNATE SISTERS.
We Invite the uninitiated to a PRACTICAL DEMONSTRATION
of the ART of CONFORMING to the MODE in a SMART HAT, a
STYLISH COSTUME, the NEWEST SHAPE in footwear, and the
choicest in a FASHIONABLE FUR SET, without UNDULY
TAXING THE PURSE. The secret lies in making use of the
unequalled resources offered at
THE NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
and REAPING to the FULL the ECONOMIES effected by a course
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
We have conclusively proved to a considerable section of
smartly-dressed Sydney that our Ready-to-wear Costume Depart-
ment can meet all demands for the very latest style in Dress,
whether it be for a Costume, an Evening Gown, or Skirt, or a
Motor Coat. Our enormous assortment makes it an easy
matter to satisfy the requirements of almost every figure, and,
where necessary, we effect alterations free of charge.
The extensive assortment we offer ensures to patrons a
choice high-class Model Garment, possessing all the charm and
Individuality of a made-to-order gown. Our system of trade
enables us to offer these latest creations at a price which
effects a very large saving in the expenditure necessitated in
conforming to the demands of fashion.
Our Winter Fashion Portfolio is a comprehensive compila-
tion of the Latest Fashions. We post a copy free on request,
thus enabling patrons in any part of Australia to secure the
Newest Styles.
• ‘ >,/1
v.‘
If. /
\rw
m
j • ’I
Li. --*• 1
n
. •-"
i a
':N • ». /' >:/
T
J ,v,t%
i-:?
"r
/ttV
¥ M-
( l %.\s
&
j^:
s*
rO
No. 6455— Elegant Black Sequin Net Unmade Robe, with Black,
White, Sky, or Eau-de-nil Ribbon-work Medallions, complete with
Material for Bodice, 37/6.
No. 6477— Sequin Net Unmade Robe, richly embroidered
with Silk, in Black, White, Vieux Rose, and Magpie, complete
with Material for Body, 55/-
No. 1100— 13-Core Tailor-made Skirt, Dark Fancy Winter
Tweed, 22/6 ; Black or Navy Cheviot Serge, 23/6 ; Black, Navy
Serge or Sicilian, 21/-
We offer three
quarters of a million
pounds' worth of
the World's choicest
commodities, and
the goods are Top
Quality at Bottom
Price.
/f
v;>.
J
No. 594—Useful Black Alpaca Skirts, unlined ; all sizes,
38in. to 45in. ; waist, 23in. to 32in., 8/9.
Our Illustrated Price
Lists place the vast
resources of The
New Palace Em-
porium at the com-
mand of the most
distant settler. Write
for copies, posted
free anywhere.
No. 1000— Black Stripe Sicilian Skirt ; length, 38in. to 44in.
waist, 23in. to 27in.,35/-. Other sizes to order, 2/6 extra
& SONS
ANTHONY
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UIHT
and other A,so butchers’ produce, sen,.
SKINS;
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
m-tca.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
k° c^ass^n P\ an d disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrape ™ BOOKS.
f
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of tiie
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Mf.rrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE.
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted*
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and his
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and we will giTe a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mak-
ing invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool, silk,
linen, &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of same). You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
s
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. ,We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previous puzzle. ...
~ Write at once. THE GUTTA PEUCHA TRADING CO., *2O Ash St., Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. TJiere is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'ERTJIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Ac.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Freel
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR a BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life'Sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosv
cheeks,brown eye-, and represented with flesh-coloured body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
ccui ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver W24TCH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
2-ft High
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money 6/», ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wilh the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
¥
Boy’s Rifle.
CD TAILOR-MADE f D
•O* CORSETS. X/*D»
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
IT*
<*•
AOt
CORSETS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane. MELBOURNE,
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J- BUNTING, Central House.
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
Underwear
Elade in
England
MARK
3avax
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
e
a
for
comfort
awheel
r The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
F
rail c
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
Cl
W
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
yon must not
use it. You see,
yon will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
* friends all about it.
>ti(er’s
%air Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if aot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten year«, despatched
direet from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Him Brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port In the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tueciol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Dept. 280 Liverpool-
mHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
I in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
“My son, Lauran, 12 years,
seemed to be just wasting
away, and everything I tried
seemed useless. However,
after the first bottle of
SCOT T’S Emulsion his
appetite
improved
he slept much better, and
began to take an interest in
his lessons ; all the listless-
ness vanished, and he looked
and felt a different boy. I
continued SCOTT’S and he
isnow quite strong and well.”
Thomas H. Collins.
30 Hereford Street, Glebe Point, Sydney,
2/8/07. [N.S.W.
Albova is the Proof in the Facts.
Here "is Proof in the Reason Why :
SCOTT’S alone was able to save
this lad because SCOTT’S differs
from all competitive emulsions in
being always made
of high-grade Lo-
foten cod liver oil
by the original per-
fected SCOTT pro-
cess, which secures
pleasant taste and
complete digestibil-
ity. The result is
an intense nutritive
energy unattain-
able by any other
means. SCOTT’S Emulsion has
dragged thousands from death’s
door. Therefore, when purchasing,
if you desire the SCOTT’S Emulsion
result, don’t ask for “Emulsion;”
ask for and get
Scott’s
Emulsion
—the difference between fhem
means a cure for you !
See that “ the Fishman with the Fish”
is on the package. Of all Chemists
and Dealers in Medicines-
SCOTT’S EMULSION
o
$
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
georoe”bonnington
’WiHH Mmd
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
The New Fragfrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
6
Tobacco
Kanufactored in
. . r ; Richmond Virginia.
by Larus*. Brother C
Packed hy RTowf«s*Co.7Vsenrs,Sycl*ey.
taw«wi"
Facsimile 'reduced) of 3oz. tin.
SPEC/AL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
No connection with any Trust or Combine
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s. Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize (V/ledaJs^
These dries of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works s Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bor.
SUFFERED FOR THREE YEARS.
HAD TO PUT ANOTHER MAN ON TO DO HIS WORK.
BODY BECAME SO DENUDED OF FLESH
THAT CLOTHES HUNG LIKE A SACK.
Clements Tonic
•• LIFTED ME FROM THAT SORRY STATE.**
Mr. V. BOR WICK, Storekeeper, of 286 and 288 Crown Road,
Ultimo, relates his COMPLETE CURE to a Sydney reporter.
“ It is six years ago now since I got all right
again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, and I think it
was about up to me to have a change of luck, con-
sidering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and
reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did not know what I
was doing. My adversities set in when I was
“running the plank,” as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can assure you that
I was so broken down in health that I had to put
another man on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia. lam sure nobody
could have it worse than I had, and as I found
such a grand cure for it, the least I can do is to let
humanity know all about it, for I daresay my ex-
perience wjll prove very helpful. Well, out of all
the medicines I tried to cure neuralgia, the only
one that was of any lasting benefit was Clements
Tonic, and when I say that after keeping going
with that remedy for a few weeks the fearful
pains all left me, and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am telling you.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ?”
“ Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgia tor-
tures were at me I had other troubles to deal
with, for my digestion was just as bad as it could
be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing
to the pains about my jaws, eating was almost out
of the question ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did force myself
to take to keep body and together had the
unhappy habit of disagreeing with me. And you
must remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a stretch
sometimes—could I get any rest, and, as you may
well imagine, the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my
work altogether, and my body was so denuded of
flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some of them
altered about the time that I started on Clements
Tonic, and by some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was afterwards
very glad, as in a few months I was as stout as
ever. Yes; it was quite a matter for regular
comment how well I was looking, and, thank
God, I felt well, too. For three years
previous to using Clements Tonic I was nothing
but a total wreck, for every part of my body
was adversely affected in some way or other. It
was my first experience of indigestion, and I sin-
cerely trust it will be my last, for I would rather
be dead and out of the world altogether than go
through such misery again. I got to feel as shaky
and uncomfortable as if everything in my
inside was going to pieces, and was so disturbed
and unsettled mentally that the least thing made
me irritable. My eyes always felt heavy and
swollen to such an extent that I could scarcely see
to read, and I felt so discontented and restless
that I could not stay indoors. Consequently, I
often wandered about outside, hardly knowing
what to do with myself, feeling as though death
would be a thousand times more welcome than the
wretched life I was leading, for I was in agony
everywhere. The pains in my chest were really
cruel, and I thought I had strained myself or
broken something between my shoulders owing to
the pain that was there. It was like getting hold
of a piece of meat, and tearing it in two —that was
the kind of feeling I had between the shbulders,
and my loins ached badly into the bargain.”
“ And have you never had a return of any of
those symptoms during the past six years?”
“No ; upon my honor; and I have not had
that nasty bulged-out feeling in the stomach
either after eating my food. No, Clements Tonic
removed everything, even to the bitter taSte of a
morning, and the fur that used to cover my
tongue, besides which it gave me permanent
relief from the many attacks of giddiness that I
had previously been subjected to. How much my
nerves accounted for the misery I had endured is
hard to say definitely, but they undoubtedly had
their fair share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that I was so highly nervous that I cohid not
stand the least excitement without getting all of
a tremble, and I had also contracted an uncon-
trollable ‘practice of measuring the future with
nothing but trouble and worry in store. All I
could see before me was a continuance of my suf-
fering, only to be added to my misfortunes of
other descriptions, and now that you understand
the gloomy frame of mind I was in, you will
readily conceive why I Speak so highly of Clements
Tonic for lifting me from the sorry state to the
happy and healthy condition I am now blessed
with/’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of No. 286-288 Crown Road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting' of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) VICTOR BORWICK.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand-nine hundred awl four,
before me. W. J. KYLE. J.P.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Advocatus Diaboli.
Seek not toAvipe the Devil out—but let him have
his 'due,
The right to pay his lawful wage to all his dirty
crew, s -
The right to hold the balances till all be proven
just,
The right by fire to purify the erring child of
Dust.
He rose, himself, in days gone by, to pull the
tyrant down.
To crack his whip and fill with fear the things
that wore a crown.
The poor man in his poverty—he fearful was, ’tis
true,
But blessed the Grimy Potentate who smote
Oppression’s crew.
They cried to him to do them Right—the martyrs
when they died ;
The Humble called his vengeance down to crush
the men of Pride ;
The Slave was mindful of him, too, and half for-
got his pain
In brooding o’er the Dusky Lord who’d ’venge
him for his chain.
Why should he damp his furnace down and let his
oven cool?
Is there not need to burn the dross that’s deep in
ev’ry fool ?
Have all the fulsome villains bidden smiling Earth
good-bye,
That we leave him lone for ever where his sulphur
meadows lie ?
Mark well —he had his uses in the merry days of
yore;
’Twas he who haled the victor from the field that
ran with gore;
’Twas he who paid the usurer and got a quittance
clear,
And found the grinding Landlord in a lodging
many a year.
Why should we wipe him lightly out ?—is Earth
not hard and cold ?
And have we not a callous gang to suit his narrow
hold?
Doth he not deal out Equity to all the villain
crew.
And need we not his Grimy Hand to hold the
balance true ?
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
Down.
Fierce gleams of light are on the downward path,
Wild voices from the land of shadow call,
And, leaden-footed, towards the place of wrath.
Each print blood-stained, the heavy footsteps
fall.
Above, in some far heaven, an angel’s voice,
Singing a welcome-song, comes faint and sweet
To deepen agony, theirs is no choice ;
The mists of horror cling about their feet.
Downward and ever downward ! Flames the fire,
Shrieks of a soul tormented rend the night,
The strangled pulses of a world’s desire
Heave, sobbing, through the dark of lost delight.
Downward ! No angel’s voice can break the chain
Invisible that drags them to their goal,
Nor earth, nor Heaven hold aught for him again
Who hears Hell’s laughter in his own lost soul.
MAOKILAND.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Sport O’ Dreams.
To ease my woe extreme'
Night came (0, eyes of gold !) and gentled me,
And so I saw, fair-shining in my dream,
Australia free.
Content sat queenly in the smiling mart.
And men at peace smiled in each other’s eyes.
All brotherly, nor scowled and schemed apart, '
Each keen to thwart his fellow’s enterprise.
Tolerant wisdom sat enthroned as law ;
And biting envious Care,
And greed and cant of class, were dead ; I saw
No mourners there.
The alien hordes that ravage and offend
Fair Law had banished to the alien lands,
Till in the end
Ideal and Real had met and joined their hands.
I saw no smirking ministress of lust,
No man enslaved by any cancerous creed ;
Men lived, but all the shoddy gods we trust
To-day were dead indeed.
No politician mouthed his impotent
Obscene farrago in the face of day ;
The days of blood (in Pelf’s vile interest spent)
Had passed away.
The prudes that peer, the shrews that shrill, had
flown
I know not whither, but their flight was gain ;
The bigots squealed in homes, square-built in
stone,
For the Insane.
Men blessed the gracious earth that nurtured
. them,
The rains beneficent, the teeming sod,
The night’s incomparable diadem ;
And these were God.
To soothe my grief extreme,
My mistress, Night, laid her soft hand on me ;
And then I saw (O, miracle of dream !)
Australia free.
MAORI LAND.
FRANK MORTON.


V!
3
M
O
£
r*
o
5?
FFW
WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
LINGS
Originated by expert Designers « *
Modelled by first-class Artists • «
EMBOSSED BY
HIGHLY-TRAINED SPECIALISTS.
Erected by competent Tradesmen •
Decorated by skilled Colorists « «
Embossed by highly-trained
Specialists by means of powerful
Drop Hammers, which produce an
impression - Sharp, Clean, and True.
Write for JTlustrateA Qatahgue.
W6e Wunderlied Patent Veiling $ Roofing (Bog., Jbtd.,
SYDNEY : 56 PITT ST. MELBOURNE: 125 QUEEN ST.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
ID*- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE ant! STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. 1£ to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob,
Conn., U.S.A.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
? ■
m--
ESTA3P/750.
English
Watch es
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London IBGZ, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
N
<H AMS
DON
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
a~>~f
\
$W
v
The “ Blue House ” —-
The “Red House”-
And the “ Yellow House' —
A RE some of the large
buildings which con-
stitute one of the largest
Dry-Color Works in the
world. An entire building is de-
voted to the manufacture of each
of the principal colors. In this
way the possibility is avoided of floating dust of various
shades affecting the exact standard of shade of any par-
ticular color. It also allows much better opportunity and
facilities for manufacture than could be otherwise secured
This great plant is owned and operated by The Sherwin-
Williams Co., and is the source of dry colors used in tinting
Sherwin-Williams Paint Products. It insures paints of
much handsomer, stronger and more uniform shades than
where the dry colors used are bought on the open market,
as nearly all manufacturers must do. The Sherwin-
Williams Dry-Color Works have been very largely respon-
sible for the exceptional quality of Sherwin-
Williams Paints. No other paints will give
such good results.
When you have need for Paint or
Varnish in your Home, Shop, or Factory,
or anything in them, ask your dealer for
Sherwin - Williams.
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “Who Makes the Best
Paints and Varnishes.”
9.
A
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. MORRISON, Sydney, New South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & Son, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales.
A. PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, “ “ "
D. COPELAND & Co., Wagga Wagga, “ “ “
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle, " " "
Charles Regan, Tamworth, “ “ “
T. J. Phillips, Dubbo, " " "
Bracey’s Limited, Lithgow, " “
John Meagher & CO., Ltd., Temora, New South Wales.
Brooks, ROBINBON & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & Co., Townsuille, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & Co. , Brisbane, Queensland.
HOCKLEY & Co., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney t New South Wales.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
EXTERMINATOR “S."
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living- in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
JLHJSJa
m
iXTt
yj!
I
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay>
tariff, from ios. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
IS
31
r .i,
tartfSigsrata


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1476.
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 1908.
Price 6d
WAITING ON THE SHORE.
T . defences of the Northern Territory, where the Asiatic invasion will probably come, with back view of the transcontinental
railway and telegraph line, and a glimpse of land settlement thereabouts, as they will look if the State Premiers’ proposed division
of the revenues comes off. The State Premiers’ proposals leave the Commonwealth with about 2d.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
•invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. 'The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ItlaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to l\fS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Ar/ents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 28, 1908.
THE EXPLODED STATE FRIGHTS
PROPHET.
The curse and the fowl that both come home to
roost often arrive late, but they generally get
there. And now that the procession of birds has got
started a whole regiment of fowl may be expected
to arrive in fairly rapid succession. A week or
two ago a small preliminary specimen reached
home, when the High Court decided that the
N.S.W. Government was making a foolish waste
of good Cornstalk money and interfering with
matters in which it had no concern when it
dragged the Commonwealth before the Courts
and tried to prevent it paying the usual retiring
allowance in the case of a superannuated N.S.W.
postal official with 27 years’ good service to his
credit. Another bird came home with anathema
thick upon it when the same Court decided that it
was folly and mere expensive and baseless cussed -
ness for N.S.W. to sue the Australian Govern-
ment for a refund of duty paid on steel
rails. Also there has been a third arrival;
the High Court decided that ex-Premier Car-
ruthers’ wire-netting insurrection was a silly,
ignorant and illegal act, and again is good Corn-
stalk money fooled away in Costs, and the State
made a laughing-stock because of its folly in
electing absurd little State Fright persons to
manage its local affairs. Also the Ma State
is fined £5, the same as a common drunk.
It is N.S.W., not Carruthers or Wade,
that has to pay the bill for these miser-
able little quarrels, yet it is Carruthers
or Wade who gets all the advertisement and
limelight. The wire-netting case in particular
was a folly which seems hardly conceivable out-
side of the comic opera Kingdom of Barataria.
If N.S.W. had won, it would thereby have
secured a decision that any State Government can
import, free of duty, any goods, either for its own
use or for sale, no matter what duty may be
chargeable on such goods when imported by
private persons. If that theory was established,
then any Ministry with a turn for socialistic ex-
periments, and with the Single-taxer’s firm belief
in making the land carry all the burdens, or
with a mere belief in making the richer classes
carry all the burdens, might create a State Im-
port Department and thereby (1) ruin all the
private merchants and importing firms ; (2) ruin
the great bulk of Australian manufacturers; (3)
destroy the N.S. W. Customs revenue to such an
extent that the State would have to heap on direct
taxation to a degree never before heard of; and
(4) so utterly beggar the Commonwealth that it
would have to levy 2s. 6d. in the £ income-tax and
about 4d. in the £ on the capital value of land, over
and above the State imposts, in order to make the
loss good. The ruin would extend all over Austraila,
for, there being no border Customs, the free goods
brought in by one insane State Import Depart-
ment could be sent by rail or coastal steamer to
all the other States, and the Customs revenue
would be obliterated everywhere, and the Excise
revenue would, of course, disappear also, for no
brewer or tobacco-maker could pay excise and yet
compete with free imports.
* * * *
And this amazing cataclysm, as already men-
tioned, could have been brought about by any
State—if N.S.W. bad won its case. Tasmania,
which has a special grievance of its own about the
division of the Customs revenue, might have done
it in order to bring pressure on the Commonwealth
or the other States, and constituted itself, at one
gigantic swoop, the commercial depdt of Aus-
tralasia, and hung up the trade of Sydney and
Melbourne, and “staggered humanity” as
Kruger put it, so far as humanity is embodied
in the Commonwealth, and demanded its own
price before it would shut up its State Import
Department and let things get back to their
ordinary basis. Or Labor-Premier Price, of S.A.,
might have done the fatal deed ; the Tory crowd
regards Price as a Socialist who is liable to do
anything, and Carruthers tried to fix things so
that Price could rush all Australia into wholesale
and retail Socialism of a kind never before
attempted ; and Wade carried on the attempt.
There would have been a similar chance for
Bowman and Joe Lesina in Queensland,
when their turn of office caine. It was to
secure for every State the power to run riot
in this incredible fashion, and to hang up the
revenues and industry of the Commonwealth, that
the maddened and impossible “ Liberal and
Reform” Government of N.S.W., driven appa-
rently “off its dot” by reasonless hatred of the
Australian Parliament, has been wasting good
N.S.W. money in law costs, and it was for this pur-
pose that it started a silly little insurrection which
might have ended in bloodshed if Deakin and
Lyne had been one-tenth as frantic as the N.S.W.
State authorities. N.S.W. should raise statues to
Deakin and Lyne and their colleagues for doing
their best to save it from the folly of its State
rulers, and from its own folly in tolerating such
rulers.
* * • *
Also that section of the community which keeps
the Wade Government in power, and supports
its anti-Federal policy of snarls, quarrels, sourness,
bitterness, bogus woes, sham grievances, and
general cantankerousness, might think a little just
about here —if it has the needful machinery to
think with —and possibly revise its position. The
assurance that Treasurer Lyne’s financial pro-
posals will be ruinous to the States rests on the
say-so of the discredited political frauds who
knew so little that they were capable of going to
law over the wire-netting woe, and trying to open
the way for the State Free Import Department.
The assurance that N.S.W. is deeply wronged, in
some way that no one can explain, over the Aus-
tralian capital business, rests on the same blown-
out authority. All the alleged State grievances
rest on the same identical and busted authority.
These sham grievances were invented by
the men who tried the incredible State Free
Import Department madness. On the re-
cord of these men, a grievance may exist
though they say it does, but the chances are very
much against it. And it might perhaps dawn on
even a rather hopeless WADE-ite that, on the evi-
dence, Alfred Deakin and Plain Bill Lyne do
know something. They knew, for instance, that
the Commerce Act wasn’t going to burst up Aus-
tralian trade ; and that the nigger exclusion policy
wasn’t going to produce any awful results; and
that sugarcane can be raised quite easily by white
labor; and that the tariff wouldn’t bankrupt Syd-
ney ; and that they had a right to collect
duty on the famous wire-netting, and on the
steel rails; and that they were acting legally
in paying that gratuity to poor old John
Heffernan, of the N.S.W. postal service.
All these things they knew, while the bulk of the
State Frights push didn’t know one of them. On
every question between the State Frights gang and
the Commonwealth which has come to a settlement
up to time of writing, the verdict has been that
the Federal authorities were right, and the State
Frights push was wrong—and generally wrong in
a very silly, and often a coarsely malevolent,
fashion to boot. On these and other records
the chances are about 1000 to 1 that the
Federal Parliament is right about the legal aspect of
the Dalgety capital and about the 2001 b. cornsack ;
and that it knows a great deal better than Wade
the proper and safe and solvent way to apportion
the Customs and Excise revenue between Common-
wealth and States. Surely the fiasco over the
great scheme to legalise a stupendous State Free
Import Department should have made the State
Frights person an utterly exploded prophet
by now.
"WADE, WADDELL, AND A BOGUS
BALANCE-SHEET.
The April issue of N. S. Wales’ Statistical
Bulletin contains the bogus balance-sheet which
the daily papers announced and fussed over a few
weeks ago. The object of this alleged balance-
sheet was clear enough. Wade, the “ Reform ”
Premier, and his “ Reform ” Ministers, in spite of
the enormous sums which they have been receiving
on account of boom conditions and the new tariff,
have set out on a wild financial jag. In 1904,
when Carruthers pushed Waddell out on the
ground of reckless financing, he undertook to
reduce borrowing to £1,500,000 a year. In the first
10 months of the financial year 1906-7 the total loan
expenditure was, in fact, got down to £1,082,608.
Wade, however, brought back Waddell, whom
Wade’s party had declared to be a disastrous in-
competent, to the Treasury, and between
them the loan expenditure for the first 10
months of the current year has been rushed
up to £1,764,255, notwithstanding the vast
increase in the revenue available for public
works. While still yelling Reform, and declaring
that the return of a single Labor member would
mean Ruin, Wade has, in fact, drifted into wild
profligacy in the matter of loan expenditure,
without even the excuse that the Owe’Sullivan
had—that times were very bad, revenue poor,
and work desperately needed by large numbers of
people. w
* * * *
But even a “Reformer” can’t scatter around
loan money without first raising it, and it was for
Cohen’s special benefit that the bogus balance-
sheet was prepared. For Cohen had just shown
that he needed a deal of encouragement. Invited
to part up £3,000,000, he had, in fact, subscribed
for one-tenth of it, and left nine-tenths on the
hands of the underwriters, to be absorbed later on.
In other words, WADEhaddiscountedhisfuture bor-
rowing capacity to the extent of about £2,700,000.
Thereupon, to put Cohen in a better mood, a
wonderful “balance-sheet” was prepared, to this
effect :
Liabilities. Assets.
Loans— Railways, etc., £67,752,000
Reproductive £67,253,224 Water, etc. .. 11,357,000
Indirectlydo. 7,293,014 Harbor Trust.. '6,151,000
Unproductive 11,061,594 Resumptions.. 844,000
Surplus .. 28,347,168 Public lands .. 22,586,000
Cash .. .. 4,782,000
Sinking Fund.. 483,000
£113,955,000 £113,955,000
The railways and other business undertakings
were capitalised at the rate of per cent, on
their return for 1906-7. The fact that 1906-7 was
a boom year, and that thereafter freights and fares
were cut down hard, was cheerfully disregarded.
Thus, when it suits them, Wade and his party
crow lustily about the great benefits they
have conferred upon the country by reducing
charges to the extent of £300,000 or £400,000 a
year; also, when it suits them, they scatter
figures calculating the value of the railways as
though the reductions were not made. If the
figures for 1903 were taken instead of those for
1907, the railways and tramways would be worth
only £32,756,090 instead of £67,752,000; and,
apart from everything else, the difference would
more than wipe out the alleged surplus of
£28,347,168, after allowing for the £3,000,000 or
so which has been spent on railways since 1903.
* * * *
That, however, is not the most serious feature
in connection with this financial “fake.” It will
be noticed that among the assets are included
unsold public lands, £22,586,000. Where, how-
ever, is the item on the other side respecting the
lands that have been sold ? If the Wade Govern-
ment, in its attempt to prop up its policy of
furious borrowing, takes credit for the unsold
areas, it must debit itself with the sold areas.
Those latter areas have been paid for ; and where
is the money ? Or where is the equivalent in
works? In “Wealth and Progress of N. S.
Wales” (1901) Coghlan set down the money
received on account of land alienations up to that
time at £47,601,986. Since then, as nearly as can
be ascertained, a further £7,120,000 has been
received, making a total received of £54,721,986.
That amount must be shown—it is a mere con-
fidence-trick not to show it while showing the
unsold lands. Then, even capitalising the assets
on the absurd basis of a boom-year’s revenue, we
get this balance-sheet: —
Liabilities. Assets.
Loans .. .. £85,607,832 Railways, etc. £67,752,000
Land sales .. 54,721,986 Water, etc. .. 11,357,000
Harbor Trust 6,151,000
Resumptions 844,000
Unsold lands 22,586,000
Cash .. .. 4,782,000
Sinking fund 483,000
Deficit .. 26,374,818
£140,329,818 £140,329,818
As a matter of fact, the capital with which the
State started was not only the land that has been
sold, but all the land, sold and unsold; so that
the unsold land ought to appear on both sides of
the balance-sheet, and the effect of that would be
to bring the deficit up to £48,960,818. That is to
say, so appalling has been the financial govern-
ment of N.S. W., so disastrous has been the bor-
rowing policy which Wade and Waddell are
now reviving, that all N. S. Wales has to show
for £162,915,818 of loans and lands is £86,104,000
worth of public works, £22,586,000 of lands, and
£5,265,000 of cash balances, or a total of
£113,955,000. The balance—£4B,96o,BlB—has gone
for ever. Even valuing the public works on
the outrageous basis of a boom year’s re-
venue, the State has received £48,960,818
for which it has nothing whatever to show. The
State’s borrowings have been subsidised in that
way once; they cannot be subsidised iri that way
twice, because the land is sold, and can’t
be sold again. Moreover, all this involves
the maintenance of the unsold lands as
an asset. If of the alleged £22,586,000 worth of
unsold land so much as £1 worth is sold and the
proceeds applied to anything but reproductive
works, then the real deficit is added to by £l. As
a matter of fact, over £1,000,000 worth of land is
being sold every year, and about two-thirds of the
total is being used as revenue—the other one-
third goes into the Public Works Fund. At pre-
sent, therefore, the real deficit is being added to
at the rate of over £600,000 a year, even assuming
that the Public Works Fund is a genuine public
works fund, which it isn’t.
* ¥ * *
What is going to happen, then, in the future?
The one apparent hope is to make sacrifices and
reduce the debt, with its frightful burden of in-
terest. Prime Minister Deakin and Treasurer
Lyne propose to do that; that is, in fact, a funda-
mental principle of the Commonwealth’s finance
proposals. Wade and Waddell moan in reply
that those proposals mean the State’s ruin. But
if not ruin, at any rate disaster, is looming ahead
for the State unless the present system of drift is
stopped, and stopped short. That system has only'
been kept going, so far, by eating up the country’s
capital—the public estate —and that has been eaten
up at such a rate that there is now very little of it
left. Wade and Waddell talk as though the only
disaster threatening the State was the taking over
of the debts. Their blindness will, however, not
make things any better for N. S. Wales. Some-
way and somehow, whether the Commonwealth
takes over the debts or not, Ma will have to make
sacrifices. Her past has been easy ; she has lived
upon land sales to the extent of about £50,000,000,
and thus her burden of interest has been borne
with comparative ease. Commonwealth or no
Commonwealth, she will have to do without that
subsidy in the future ; and then she will find the
burden quite a different matter. When that time
comes, she will throw clods at the amazing asses
who taught her not to worry about her debts,
being too utterly incompetent to see that the
reason why those debts hadn’t worried her hitherto
was because she was paying interest on them out
of her stock of capital.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The People of Australia, Regarded as a Race
that is Unfit for Self-Government.
The State Labor party of N.S.W. as usual fooled
away a great chance during the recent St. George
by-election. The Deform party fought the battle
on one main issue—that N.S.W. and the other
States were wronged, robbed, trodden on and
generally insulted by the Australian Parliament,
and that Wade was Horatius on the bridge
defending his native land against the hordes o
Evil. And the Labor party hadn’t suffic ien
patriotism to take up the gauntlet. If it had done
so, and had shown up the Deform lies and slanders
on every platform, and expounded the hollow
fraud of the figures on which the alleged
“wrongs” were built, and had been the Large
Australian party, in contra-distinction to Wade’s
Small Colonial party, it might have won
With a big cause and a big principle no political
battle is quite hopeless. But Labor pottered
away at humping the steady old planks of its
steady old platform—planks in which the great
multitude of shopkeepers and clerks took
no sort of interest. Yet the Labor party
should take up the Federal cause above all
other parties. The anti-Federal attitude is a
gibe and an insult thrown at Labor. The whole
attitude of the anti-Federal push is that the
Australian people in the mass can’t be trusted to
govern themselves. They are inferior and unfit,
and require to be kept under the guardianship of
a select and special class. In this insulting
assumption lies the entire gospel of State Rights.
The Australian Parliament is elected wholly by
the people—by all the people. It isn’t exactly a
case of one vote one value, for the Senator from
N.S.W. represents far more people than the
Senator from Westralia, but still every member
of the Australian Parliament is appointed by the
people in the largest sense ; in the act of appoint-
ment a millionaire and a swagman have exactly the
same voice. The State Parliaments are built differ-
ently. There is a veto, exercised in two cases by life
nominees, and in four cases by a House elected
by a narrow group of property holders. These
Upper Houses exist on the theory that the mass
of the people are unfit to govern, that they can’t
be trusted, that they are always liable to do some-
thing foolish unless looked after and supervised
by a clique of Superior Persons. The Tory press
and the Tory gang in politics—the Herald and
Telegraph and Evening News and Argus, and
the Bent and Wade and Carruthers— are solid
in their assurances that the event has justified
this view; that the people can’t govern them-
selves ; that the first and only experiment at com-
plete self-government ever made in Australia has
been a dire and horrible failure ; that the people,
being entrusted for the first time with full power,’
have been so monumentally incapable, and
so utterly brutal and villainous that they
have done nothing right from 1901 to 1907. The
language of Torydom about the incredible inca-
pacity of the people, as shown by all the legislation
and proposed legislation of the one Australian
Parliament which is wholly the people’s creation,
would do credit to a French nobleman of the pre-
Revolution days jeering at his horde of unlettered
serfs. It is something tremendous to listen
to the impassioned assurances of the Wade and
Bent kind of person, that all possible power must
be kept with the Legislatures in which there is a
House of Superior Persons to throw out the crude
legislation of the ignorant Australian mob; and
that any increase in the power of the People’s
Parliament must be disastrous to Australia. The
Federal Upper House is the only one that Aus-
tralia has ever possessed for which the miner,
the hodman, the pick-and-shovel artist, the
drayman, shearer, rouseabout, and all the rest of
the horny-handed multitude has a vote. The
Federal Lower House is the only one which has
not the blessed guidance and restraint and wise
counsel of Superior Persons in the other Chamber.
The verdict returned by at least five State Pre-
miers, and by the whole herd or drove of Tory
papers, and by all the State Frights multitude, is
that State management (i.e., government nomi-
nally by the people, but with the House of non-
elected or property-elected Superior Persons to
teach the fool multitude the right path to follow)
has been a great success, but that Federal
management (i.e., actual government by the
Australian people) has been a curse and a
fiasco. The Australian people, according to
Wade, Bent, Evans, and others, have not only
shown themselves incapable; they are also thieves,
liars, tricksters, stealers of revenue that doesn’t
belong to them, breakers of faith, and most
other things that are bad. And, curiously
enough, the Labor party, as a whole, doesn’t
rise to fiercely repudiate the insult. Its members
are the people concerned ; the chief difference
between the Australian Parliament and most of
the State Legislatures is that in the former the
class which Labor represents has a lien on
both Houses, while in the latter the House of
Veto, or Chamber of Superior Persons, is kept
strictly free from Labor influences. Evidently it
is the taking of the veto out of the hands of the
Superior Person that makes all the difference
between the alleged grand, patriotic reliability of
the State Houses and the alleged utter villainy of
the Australian Parliament. That is the attitude
of Wade and Bent, and it is amazing how few
things have been thrown at Wade and Bent, and
how mildly the State Labor politicians put up
with their lordly (not to say ungodly) insolence.
♦
Crowded Dwellings—Crowded Graves
Dr. Agnew, the Health Officer of Collingwood
(Vic.), has handed to the local council a stagger-
ing report on the sanitary conditions of the
suburb. Comparatively old, poor, and closely
built, one would hardly expect to find things there
all they should be ; yet neither would one expect to
find in such a democratic city such squalor and
slum horrors as Dr. Agnew pictured. He told of
insanitary and dilapidated dwellings by the dozen ;
of three-roomed cottages occupied by two or more
families; of shanties where the paper on
the lower walls peeled off when touched,
being rotted and mildewed with damp; of
little scraps of yards where fowls fought
with the children on the doorstep for the scraps,
while rats peeped from innumerable holes and
scurried off with such morsels as they could snatch.
The fool council was inclined to make light of the
report, and to soothe itself with the notion that it
was no worse than anyone else ; but Dr. NORRIS,
of the Board of Public Health, who was present,
barred that easy way out. He told the councillors
that the stench from some of the drains in their
district was a shrieking abomination; that
they thought more of bricks and mortar than
of human flesh and blood; that there were
ample powers conferred on the municipalities
by the Health Act to abolish the abominations,
and yet for 18 years nothing had been done ; and
he pointed out that the deaths from consumption
in Collingwood were one in seven , while Port
Melbourne’s rate was one in 33, and South Mel-
bourne’s one in 17. Thus driven into a corner
and compelled to do something, the council is
now talking of buying up a few properties here
and there and turning the areas into public
gardens, and of compelling the most insanitary
occupiers to keep themselves and their premises
clean. But a vast deal more than that
is needed. It is hopeless and well-nigh
useless to provide infectious diseases hospitals,
consumptive homes and sanitaria, so long as
the causes of disease are allowed to remain.
Among the chief causes are close and unhealthily-
built houses. Little can be done with existing
houses beyond compelling the owners to make
them sanitary; but before any house is built in
future—not in Collingwood, or Fitzroy, or Port


Melbourne only, but everywhere in Australia—
the plans should be submitted to the Board of
Public Health, as well as the local municipal sur-
veyor. The law to-day in most places insists on
this latter precaution ; it will not allow a wooden
house to be erected in a “brick area,” where
danger from fire might arise ; nor will it permit a
ramshackle shanty to be stuck up in a
“ desirable residential district,” lest the beauty
of the scenery be marred and the value of pro-
perty decreased. The Law has a tremendous
regard for this “ value of property ” ; but it seems
to worry not at all whether a house is damp or
built on a covered-in tip, or on a scrap of land no
bigger than a dairyman’s conscience. Yet the
fact that Collingwood kills one citizen in every
seven from consumption is pretty good proof that
these are things that the Law should worry about
hard and often. Also the person who persists,
after notice to drop it, in keeping fowls in a yard
the size of a tablecloth, should be carted out into
the Mallee and left there. His views of life —
other people’s life—badly need enlarging.
The Tower of Babel.
“Nil” writes with enough truth to make this
paper sorrowful :
“The attitude of the State Labor parties, especially
the Labor party of N.S.W., towards the Federal capital
question, and towards the State Frights craze generally,
is a bewildering feature of Australian politics.”—
Bulletin, 7/5/’OB.
Is it? There is no “Federal Labor Party.” There
should be no “ State Labor Parties.” But there are.
There should be Thf, Labor Party. But there is not.
The writer has voted Labor for many, many years. The
vote was an academic one, and given on the broad
principle that only two classes should obtain recogni-
tion in Australia— viz., (1) The class that supports itself
by honest personal exertion, and (2) the class that does
not. Class 1 should be the Labor party. But as such it
is not recognised ; it is inchoate, leaderless, voiceless,
although it is the vast majority, and contains all that is
necessary and desirable in the nation.
In voting for Labor, we of the Labor party have sunk
niany side issues and personal predilections, hereditary
prejudices and preferences. Where petty class habits of
mind and obvious personal disadvantages cropped up,
they have been put aside and the vote given for the
Nation. There must be many thousands who view this
party question from the same point as the writer. It is
obvious, and not a matter for self-praise. But how far
have we got on the road to the proper organisation of
“Labor”? Not far, it is to be feared.
The root of the trouble is that, although those who
were suspected of “ class prejudice ” —the educated wage
earners and self-supporters—are generally ready enough
to join lorces with the “labor ” parties (with a small 1),
the latter are really the prejudiced class, and as exclusive
and self-sufficient as any 7 plutocracy, bureaucracy, or aris-
tocracy on earth. On no occasion has the writer, when
announcing his intention to vote for a Labor candi-
date, been met with anything but suspicion and cynicism
by fellow voters of the laboring class. The “man with
the hoe” looks on the skilled artisan as “no friend of
his the skilled artisan considers the inventor an idler.
The mechanic classes the man who has clean hands, and
“ works with his coat on,” amongst his natural enemies,
the “ swells,” “ silvertails,” “ capitalists ” and “ frauds.”
Nothing will convince him that there are any other
laborers than those who literally sweat.
It is a fair sporting risk to say that no man on the
Bulletin staff, outside the machine-shop and compositor’s
room is owned by the “ Labor ” parties as a genuine con-
frere. You may talk, you may write, you may vote
Labor, but you are an outsider. You do not sweat, and
you sp_ell properly, and “ labor ” (with the little 1) knows
you not. . . .
Until there is a properly organised party 7 , including all
those who live by honest personal exertion, there will be
no Labor party ; and until there is a Labor party 7 there
will be no party capable of thinking nationally. The
‘ Wheat-bag problem,” the Australian defence ques-
tion, the capital site matter, and the rational tariff are
considered bv each petty “ labor ” particle from its own
twopenny-ha’penny squalid view'-point. There can be no
National feeling amongst a crowd that creates class
distinctions by the hundred, and where each class “ goes
alone.” That such as the writer are denied recognition
as members of the Labor party (Class 1), he considers an
injustice. That he claims such recognition is looked
upon by the “ laboring class ” as an insult.
♦
The Commercial Swindler and His Cell.
London Daily Mail of March 17 casually re-
corded among its North Country items that, on
the previous day, John Turnbull, trading as
Armstrong and Co., tweed manufacturers, of
Hawick, had been sentenced to one month’s hard
labor for selling as “all-wool Scottish tweeds”
certain cloths made in England and containing
from 14 per cent, to over 37 per cent, of cotton.
A blundering person like that really deserves no
sympathy—a person who can make the mistake of
selling his stuff in England instead of exporting it
to Australia, where quite a lot of people rather
approve than otherwise of such means of “ down-
ing” Australian manufactures. And if there
should be a row about it—well, there’s nothing
worse than a private Customs Court to be feared,
with certainly no horrid cell gaping at the end of it.
♦
Satisfactory.
The morning after the St. George election the
S. M. Herald came out with the following more
or less joyous whoop:—
The result of the St. George election leaves no manner
of doubt as to the feeling of the constituency, and it
reflects very plainly the satisfaction current through the
Stat e at the steady realising of the Liberal programme... .
St. George may be taken to have seized the first chance
to endorse Mr. Wade’s spirited defence of State rights....
We may fairly take it that the verdict of St. George is the
verdict of the State at large. This is satisfactory, etc.,
etc.
But Sydney Telegraph had an unwonted spasm
of ingenuousness the same morning, so it printed
this :
Less than a year ago the Liberal candidate at St. George
polled 5345, and the Labor candidate 1507. Yesterday
the numbers were altered to 4077 for Liberalism, and
2391 for Labor. This on the face of it means a loss of
1268 votes to the Liberal party, and a gain of 884 to
Labor.
The figures are quite plain, and if they satisfy the
Deformer, then that dreary person is more of an
optimist than he commonly appears. Holt, the
forlorn-hope Laborite, was contesting a seat which
has stood, during a quarter of a century, for all
that is mean and parochial in N.S.W. politics. It
is the habitat of the genteel clerk who is an
aggressive Tory on a precarious £2 a week; of the
tragic ass who attaches himself to a small bag
matutinally and hurries to a city business-place
with everything un-Australian that he can afford
to eat, drink and wear either on or inside his
person on a point of fiscal principle. It is
the home of the frothy, low-wage Imperialist,
who waves flags, speechifies, and feeds State buns
to infants each recurring May, who mafficks on
slight provocation and associates the lamentable
procedure in hazy fashion with “adherence
to the inalienable blessing of British Free-
trade,” with “loyalty to the throne and
person,” and with the estimableness of cherish-
ing grinding hatred against so much of Aus-
tralia as is outside the boundaries of Ma
State. The Deform candidate, who goes to the
polls here with the State Frights and Yellow Pup
tickets in his hat-band, makes a surer appeal than
in any other constituency in N.S.W. The Labor
man’s tenuous chance was not improved last
week by the action of the deplorable Hol-
man, who, by' hoisting the State Frights
banner, froze off hundreds of Nationalists
whose sympathy votes would otherwise have gone
HoLT-wards. Nor did the foolish Holman’s ill-
judged action detach a single vote from the
winning candidate, who was justly accepted by
all true-blue State Frighters as the genuine
representative of the Anti-Australian creed. In
its stronghold Deform, State Frightism, Anti-
Australianism, or what not has lost 1268 votes;
and Labor has gained 884. It is, as the S. M.
Herald notes, satisfactory. But it is not satis-
factory in the sense the S. M. Herald means.
♦
The Vanishing Australian War-horse.
Sydney Star, in noting last week the shortage
throughout the Commonwealth of horses suitable
for cavalry and mounted infantry purposes, touched
on a point of national danger. Over 70,000 high-
class Australian horses went to S’Africa for Boer-
baiting purposes ; the Japs took further huge
drafts for useintheir struggle withßussia, and they
are still buying up all they can. The well-to-do
Anglo-Indian, the wealthy native of India, the
burgher and white resident of Ceylon, and Asiatic
horse-fanciers generally offer big prices for
“ Walers.” It is understandable that they should.
The climate of Australia is no less astoundingly
favorable to horses than it is to sheep, to rabbits,
and to human beings. The locally-bred descend-
ants even of unsound imported sires show clean
flat legs and a freedom from blemish otherwise,
that astonish Cold Country experts. The Euro-
pean, who, perforce, treats his expensive horse
like some delicate piece of mechanism liable at
any moment to go wrong, is consumed with
surprise on first, meeting the untiring and
well-nigh unlameable Australian-bred animal.
This is gratifying in one way. But in
another the effect is disastrous. Australia has
been led to squander its invaluable horse-assets
shamefully ; and it is still squandering them. In
the event of foreign invasion it would need at
least 100,000 more good-class, weight-carrying
horses than it could at present supply itself with.
The Arab, whose only reputable product m these
davs of his degeneracy is his indigenous horse,
grasped the wisdom of protecting that fine animal
half a century ago. To-day few of the good-class
Arab entires are suffered to leave the country, and
the highest breed of Arab mare may not be ex-
ported under any consideration whatever. Aus-
tralia with its constant and imminent Asiatic
menace can afford far less than the Arab States to
allow its horse-stock to degenerate or run low
The Australian Government would do a great
national service if it prohibited th e export of
home-bred horses to Japan, India, and the Straits
for the next ten years.
♦
The Wire Netting Seizure; Some Other Aspects.
The High Court, without a shadow of doubt
showing"in the mind of one of its Judges, has
decided that the deeds of the N-S-W-
-acting under the authority of the N.S.W.
Executive, when they seized certain wire-netting
from the Federal Customs, were absolutely illegal.
This decision might have been come to with less
impressive authority, but with just as much
certainty, if, the morning after the seizure, the
Commonwealth had haled Carruthers and his
accomplices, one of whom was Acting-Governor
D vrley, before the Police Court. And what was
lost in impressiveness would have been gamed in
practical effect, for Carruthers seizure, effected
on the eve of a State General Election was an
impudent bit of pinchbeck revolutionism, designed
to catch votes. Prompt humiliation should have
been inflicted on the law-breaker, so that he should
not have gained any advantage from his action.
As it was, he was allowed to reap its
benefits and, though he had to scurry from
office shortly afterwards to escape a Parliamentary
vote of censure, his party still enjoys the fruits of
his impudent lawlessness. No consequence of the
present judgment can touch Carruthers. But
the position m the matter of Chief Justice (at the
time of the seizure, Acting-Governor) DaRLEY
calls for some attention. He presided at the
Executive Council meeting which authorised
the illegal seizure. His signature gave a false
ninr nf legality to a document which broke the
faw bf thi land As a Judge it will be difficult for
him to plead ignorance of the constitutional
law. But short of ignorance, what plea, ex-
cept that of deliberate contempt of the law, can
he advance? And is New South Wales content
to have for its Chief Justice a gentleman who is
either contemptuous or woefully ignorant of the
law ?
+.
Side-Lights on the Sunshine Accident.
Though drivers and others were practically on
their trial at the Sunshine railway-smash inquest,
the Vic. Railway Department— which is to say,
Tait and the bosses of the Department —lost no
time in putting in Driver Milburn’s record,
showing that, in the course of 32 years, he bad
been fined or cautioned a few times. It looked a
formidable list; but anybody who can work 32
years and not deserve to be cautioned 300 times,
is too good for a long life. In some situations the
man just cautions himself and goes ahead; but
the Railways are not run on those lines. Mil-
burn’s fines and cautions actually totalled only
15, and one small matter of a bent axle, in which
no fine or caution was mentioned, made 16.
That meant a fine or a caution or a bent axle,
on an average, every two years. And before
anybody can fairly judge Milburn’s record, it is
necessary to know what the other records
in the Department are like; for there are ser-
vices over-run by petty bosses who don’t think
they have earned their day’s salary unless
they have got somebody cautioned or fined.
And when the fines are for such things as “break-
ing drawbar,” it is fair to ask how old and
rotten the drawbar was, and how much weight of
train was behind it; if the drawbar was too much
decayed and the train was too heavy, then, of
course, something would have to break. Five of
the 16 episodes charged against Milburn in 32
years were for breaking or damaging drawbars,
but if a drawbar is too old or a train is too
weighty, then the driver isn’t fairly responsible ;
and if an engine is old and dilapidated it gets into
a habit of starting with a jerk, apd then even a
new drawbar breaks. It is a notable fact that
Milburn never seems to have broken or damaged
a drawbar in his first 25 years’ service—that is to
say, until Tait came from Canada and started to
economise on. repairs and in other ways. Then,
in two years, Milburn fell in five times for
damaging or breaking drawbars. Apparently
every drawbar except Tait’s could hold out
against Milburn’s style of driving. Further, if
Milburn’s record of 16 small troubles in 32 years
was at all bad or unusual (apparently Milburn
never killed or injured or even scared anybody
until the other day, but there were on his list one
bent axle, five damaged drawbars, one case of
taking too long filling up with water, one case of
stopping short of the platform, and one case of not
having enough water in his engine tank) —if the
record was a bad one, why did Tait’s department
put the man in charge of one of the biggest
express trains in the State ? And if his record was
really above the average, or, at least, nothing
unusual, why is it published so as to rush the
public to the conclusion that he is a desperate
character with an evil past? It is distinctly “up
to ” Mr. Tait to explain.
“Worth What they Cost.”
There has been a resurrection lately of the
story, told to excuse old borrowing and pave
the wav for new, that if Australian State railways
were put up for sale they would probably bring
what they have cost. This theory is based on the
returns of the past three or four boom seasons ; it
disregards the fact that even in N. S. Wales,
where the rail .vays and tramways are much more
profitable than the average, there was a net deficit
of £1,760,516 in the 10 years 1885-94, a net
deficit of £422,761 in the 10 years 1895-1904, and
a net deficit of £36,698 in 1905. There was
certainly a surplus in 1906 and 1907 ; but the per-
son who talks to Bull Cohen on the basis of two
years’ figures, and disregards the figures for the
previous 20 years—or 30 years, or 40 years, it
doesn’t matter which —is liable to find Cohen tell-
ing him to go away and put ice on his head.
But, apart from this, there is another aspect of
the case altogether. Even assuming that some-
body would give cost price for the railways, it
simply means that somebody would pay the price
in return for the right to charge heavy freights
and passenger rates. Give him a free
hand in that matter, and he might even
pay 20 per cent, more than the railways cost ; but
he would only do it by turning the country into
one huge pauper. Even now, in order to promote
settlement, very special rates have to be quoted,
and every now and then seed wheat has to be
carted for nothing, and starving stock has to be
shifted for the cost of axle-grease. Therefore
even with the specially-low rates made for the
benefit of land-settlers, occasional concessions are
demanded. The private capitalist who would
give cost price for the railways would probably
make concessions too; but he would only make
them in the iast resort —he would only make them
if he couldn’t keep his customer otherwise, just
as the slient per shent man may reduce his rate from
100 to 80 per cent, if the victim talks seriously
about going into bankruptcy or committing suicide.
Even, however, as the railways are, standing in
the names of the States, they require to collect
£5,000,000 a year more from their customers than
they would have to do if they had been pro-
vided out of revenue. Last year the total
interest bill was £4,975,341, and it is increas-
ing rapidly. The railways of the Common-
wealth received last year for goods and live
stock traffic, £8,388,948; that is to say, 59 per
cent, of all the goods and live stock freight paid in
Australia last year was mopped up in interest.
Thus had the railways been built out of revenue,
instead of being built out of loans, 11s. lOd. in every
£1 of freight would have been saved. Precisely
the same thing applies to new railways. Build
them out of revenue, and it is possible to run
them profitably on a charge of Bs. 2d. ; build
them out of loans, and the charge must be £1 in
order to show the same result. Build them out of
loans, and so far as the users of them are con-
cerned they must be regarded as costing 20s. in
the £, and interest must be raised on that amount
somehow ; build them out of revenue, and for all
practical purposes they may afterwards be re-
garded as costing nothing at all, and rates and
freights may be fixed accordingly.
Sydney Town Clerk Nesbitt, in his annual re-
port, concerning municipal trading :
The newly-elected retrogressive London County Coun-
cil, with characteristic conservative tendencies, signified
its accession to office by at once taking the first step
towards building up a huge private monopoly in elec-
tricity supply. What that retrogressive step is likely to
involve, from the point of view of the consumer, can
the Municipal Journal points out —be gathered from the
interesting and instructive returns published by the
Electrical Times. In London, as is well-known, the
private companies and the municipal undertakings
are working side by side. The companies have the
nick of the metropolitan areas, just the same as
the Strand, the Empire, and the Imperial private
supply companies had the best business centres
in Sydney before the Council’s electric supply under-
taking came into operation. The position of affairs
undoubtedly means that the municipal authorities in
London are seriously handicapped by a disproportionate
disadvantage, but it will be readily recognised that the
Electrical Times could not very well take that factor,
important as it is, into consideration in compiling a
severely rigid statistical analysis of the comparative
results of the two classes of undertakings. Taking the
metropolitan summaries first, it will be seen that, tested
by every aspect of public service, the municipal enter-
prises are superior in every sense to those operated by
private enterprise. The supreme test of a public service
operated by the municipal authorities in these sordid com-
mercial days is the price at which that public service
reaches the'consumer, and this naturally leads to the per-
tinent query : What are the respective positions of the
consumers in this regard, in the two classes of under-
takings. The answer is not only clear and concise, but
convincing and conclusive, as follows l The average price
charged per unit by 13 Metropolitan companies is 3.23 d.,
and by 12 Metropolitan Municipal authorities 2.62 d., a
difference in favor of the Municipal authorities, and con-
sequently the consumers, of 'Bid. per unit. In other
words, the consumers of electricity in London who are
fortunate enough to reside in districts supplied by local
authorities obtain their electric current more than a half-
penny per unit cheaper than those supplied by private
companies—that is to say, the consumer gets the benefit
instead of the private investor.
Yet Lord Avebury, the Industrial Freedom League, the
British Electric Traction Co., the miscalled London
Municipal Society, the Municipal Trading Committee of
the London Chamber of Commerce, and all the other
“ disinterested ” public champions are constantly assuring
the public in increasing propaganda, that it is impossible
for local authorities to supply electricity at a cheaper
rate than companies. In effect, the precise nature of the
argument advanced is that municipal authority under-
takings, not being operated by so-called “experts” like
those of private companies, cannot in any circumstances
produce such satisfactory results. Yet here are munici-
pal authorities coming out a half-penny per unit cheaper
in their charges to the consumer - a saving equivalent to
something like 4d. on 1000 ft. of gas.
«.
One of the futile side issues of the Commonwealth
is the attempt to prevent the completion of the
partly-built Adelaide-Port Darwin transcon-
tinental line, and to substitute a sort of coastal
railway through Western Victoria, N.S.W., and
Queensland. The idea is all very pleasant for the
three big States, but there is just this difficulty—
the completion of the partly-finished transcon-
tinental line is part of the terms on which S.A.
surrenders the Territory. And Australia needs
that same Territory mighty sudden, so as to settle
people on it, and garrison it, and put this coun-
try’s back entrance into some sort of security.
There aren’t any three or four or 10 years to
waste in starting the whole negotiation over
again on a new basis, and besides, if Australia
doesn’t accept the Territory now, and if it
lets the chance go by, the blessed place
may even yet become a Crown Colony
infested with Asiatics. Even though certain
interested parties are writing to the press to say
that their proposed Vic.-N.S.W.-Queensland line
would go through “ excellent fattening country,”
and Mackinnon, of Victoria, says straight out
that the opening of fattening country is of more
importance than defence, Australia requires to
keep at least half-an-eye on the question of its
national existence. Bloated ox isn’t everything.
Unless Australia rises up and Does Things, the
time may come when its own daughters will be
fattened for the Asiatic harem. That is a possible
development of the fattening-country idea that
calls for earnest attention.
Scornful of the experience of Ballarat, Bendigo,
Caulfield, and other Victorian towns, the somno-
lent council of Geelong has decided to hand over
its streets to a foreign company whereof the shares
are mostly held in London —the Australian Electric
Light and Traction Co., to wit—to exploit them
as it thinks fit. The bait is the promised free
possession of the lines in 30 years, by which time
they and the system are fairly certain to be worn
out and hopelessly out of date. Even while
Geelong’s city grandfathers were signing the con-
tract, those of Caulfield were using disgraceful
language about their predecessors who similarly
traded away local transport rights. The various
shindykits that have handled Caulfield’s dilapi-
dated horse system have all gone bung, and the
lines are rusting in the streets and -constituting
themselves a nuisance to traffic, but Minister
Cameron has decided that, as the concession was
originally granted for 30 years, nothing can be
done till the time is up ; the fact that the various
shindykits have utterly failed to keep their part
of the contract doesn’t seem to matter to dull old
Cameron. All Australian experience shows that
the council that trades away its traffic rights is
the two ends and middle of an ass, and the bray
and the hoofs to boot.
The Little Ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The arrival of Messrs. Holyman and Sons’ auxiliary
ketch Helen Moore at Launceston this morning, from
Strait Islands, has placed beyond doubt the fate of the
same firm’s Orion, which has been missing for nearly a
fortnight.
The Helen Moore brought to Launceston four lifebuoys
and an alleyway-door belonging to the Orion. These
were picked up on the west side of Long Island, near
Cape Barren, by Messrs. Thomas Barrett and William
Brown, residents of the island.
The Prime Minister was asked to-day if he would have
an inquiry made as to the truth of a rumor that the
Orion was overloaded when she left Tasmania.
Mr. Deakin replied that it was not within the power
of the Commonwealth to take action of that kind ; but
he would see what could be done to ascertain the facts of
the matter .—Daily paper.
The little steamers put to sea. They’re loaded
deep and well.
They burrow slowly in the trough and struggle up
the swell.
And the wind croons a Requiem across the depths
of Hell.
The little coasters climb and dive. They’re loaded
fore and aft.
The tumbling billows shoulder them like all the
other craft,
And spit the spray of scorn upon the lifebuoy
and the raft.
Each tiny coaster fights with God to carry home
her freight.
The captain tries to hold her up—assisted by the
mate,
And the sea drums a dismal tune upon each
straining plate.
Year in, year out, they fight and swim to earn
their sodden bread
Far out upon the rolling waste that mocks the
groping lead,
For there is money to be earned —and children
must be fed.
The liner’s trim, the liner’s taut. She knows no
haunting doubt ;
She looks the gale square in the eye, for she is
large and stout.
The little coasters, half-ashamed, just stagger in
and out.
Oh ! up and down the hungry coast, and through
the heaving dark,
Until the end. Then, dead and drowned, a ship
lies cold and stark—
Her only legacy a large interrogation mark.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
The Jawbonly Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is notorious that State Ministries and Parliaments not
only attempt to ignore, but even resent, the existence of
the Federal Legislature. If they confined their dislike to
merely striving to ignore and silently resent the existence
of the Commonwealth Government, it would tend to a
better feeling between the governing powers.— Senator
J. C. Neild in Sydney Telegraph, 20/5/’OB.
As State Fright, “Noo South” citizen and
Senator;
As Poet, Soldier, Thinker, Loyalist,
This conduct-rule—whereof Pm the progenitor—
Permit me, friends, to hand you, in the gist.
Attend ; whene’er you see a Repre. Mitative —
Be he in tram, boat, theatre or bet
Gazing your way and dumbly making tentative
Attempts towards friendly traffic, cut him dead.
Should he (which God forfend !) forget all decency,
So that he strives to pass the time of day
With you, don’t strike the wretch for his mal-
feasance. He
]\'o better knows. Walk silently away.
Assume that you have met him in a railway smash
Mixed up with .Johnson, flames, and Tait, and
blood, —
No matter; heed him not. His anguished wail
may gash
Your heartstrings; still the “cutting” rule
holds good.
When he, and others like him, take the floor and
flute
In re the Commonweal in Melbourne Town,
Nail to your hats the burning phrase, “Ignore
the Brute,”
And clear outside—whereby you’ll do him
brown.
Thus to maintain the Peace and his State’s
dignity,
Each patriot unceasingly should strive ;
His watchword “ Hate,” an ostrich on his signet,
he
Deems Federal Ministers are just not alive !
N.S.W.
JOHN FOLDING.


CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
The petty nastiness of N.S.W.’s State Govern-
ment towards Australia seems to have burst forth
in a new place, like any other mud spring. The
trouble this time is over the cadets. They are
mostly school-kids, and their officers are, as a rule,
their teachers also. It has been understood for
years that where the cadets went in their military
capacity their teacher-officers went also, and that
the leave given for the cadets to attend camp in-
cluded the officers as a matter of course, just as
leave given to a horse includes its head and its tail.
But now the cadets (as cadets) are Federal troops,
and the officers are partly Federal officers and partly
State teachers. The arrangement worked well
enough for six years or so, but now it seems to have
suddenly dawned on the State Government
that it has been missing a splendid oppor-
tunity to be a small, cantankerous hog.
So it lay low on the weather-bow till within
four or five days of the next cadets’ camp, and
then it was intimated that every teacher-officer
who wanted to go must get formal and separate
leave (which, it is said, takes about a month to
procure), or he would be fallen upon for being
absent without permission. The cadets them-
selves have got leave —which until _ now
always included the officers—but without
their officers the camp will be simply a
discreditable mob. It is an ingenious little
piece of nastiness. By way of putting a finish on
it, the decision was announced when many of the
teacher-officers were actually on duty with the
cadets—a telephone-message just bade them drop
things in a heap and get back to their schools that
same afternoon. Possibly this scheme is intended
to compensate for the High Court’s decision that
the Ma State Government had made the last
possible ass of itself over the wire-netting insur-
rection.
—♦
The horde of “Commissioners” and such-like,
whom the State Governments of Australia
sent to supervise a few tons of produce at the
Franco-British Exhibition, have been grievously
snubbed. Three Commissioners were despatched
to help the Agent-General to represent Victoria.
S. A. and N.S.W. sent about six each. So did the
other States. There was no one to represent the
Commonwealth of Australia, but the hordes of
State representatives, who expected free tickets
and free feeds, were like Xerxes’ army clamber-
ing into Greece. All these small State potentates
were supposed to rank with the representative
of France or the man from Germany. The
management of the exhibition looked with horror
on the horde, and then rejected it almost
to a man. It reckoned that if all that
crowd came to represent 4,000,000 people.
Mexico might want free lunch for 120 delegates,
and China for 4000. It said, “ This is too much,”
and absolutely declined to recognise the bulk of
the herd, with either free admission, free food,
free drinks, or authority to strike large official
attitudes in front of their States’ little show of
timber and beans. So once more is Australia
made to look the world’s fool through the
egregious vanity of its State Insects.
♦
On an afternoon last week Prime Minister Deakin
elected not to vote on a division in the Reps. The
Melbourne Argus (taking the same line as the
other Freetrade and anti-Australian sheets) came
out next morning with the following series of
anguished yelps on the subject:—
That the Federal Ministry does not lead Parliament has
long been a notorious fact, but never has it been so
openly confessed by the Ministry itself as in the remark-
able proceedings of yesterday afternoon. ... To run
away is to reduce Parliamentary proceedings to a farce.
They run outside and cry like little girls. . . . Talk about
the slanderers of Parliament after this ! This weak aban-
donment of leadership is a fitting climax to much that
has gone before. It is very painful to see a leader of Mr.
Deakin’s standing and ability reduced to such humilia-
ting straits in conducting the business of Parliament, etc.
Twenty-four hours later the Argus (in common
with the other Freetrade and anti-Australian
sheets) printed this cabled item concerning
Asquith, Britain’s cold, strong Freetrade and Anti-
Sosh Minister who heads a “Ministry of all the
Talents,” and has “ the biggest and most compact
majority of modern times ” at his back :
Before the division on Captain Craig’s motion with
respect to the display of the Union Jack in Irish National
schools, the Prime Minister (Mr. Asquith) left the House.
Other Ministers and many private members of the
Liberal party also abstained from voting.
And the silence of the Argus in regard to the
British Prime Minister’s “ confession of weak-
ness, ” and “ farcical conduct, ” and ‘ ‘ weak abandon-
ment of leadership,” was quite uncanny.
♦
A Victorian Act provides that all meat, if sold
in the metropolis or exported, shall be inspected
and branded ; but outside this “meat area,” any
old parental cow may be slaughtered and sold.
Also it appears, from a Public Health inspector’s
discoveries, that any ancient ox, when slaugh-
tered, may be carted to the Metropolitan Meat
Market, branded there by the City Council’s
inspector, without being unloaded, and either sent
up country, or exported as Prime Victorian Beef.
The reporting officer happened across a few of
such carcases the other day—and promptly
ordered 32 quarters to be kerosened and
burnt immediately. The rest of the con-
signment was allowed to be shot on to
Ballarat and Bendigo, those cities not being
“ meat areas.” That is to say, the Rich Landlords
who mauled the Meat Act didn’t think it necessary
that country meat-eaters should have pure food.
The Board of Health is now asking for an amend-
ment of the Meat Act. But more than that is
required. If the citizens are not to be murdered
and invalided wholesale to suit the pockets of
rascally food purveyors, the administration of the
Meat Supervision, Pure Food, Milk Supervision
and similar Acts must be taken out of the hands
of interested councils and placed in the indepen-
dent care of the Board of Public Health.
Exit the steamship Orion, gone with apparently
all on board to be with that part of Davy Jones
that lives in Bass Straits. It joins a list which
also includes the coasting vessels Quiraing,
Glenelg, and Nemesis. The Bega’s name would
in all probability have been added to the list only
for the fact that throughout the recent waterside
dispute there was scarcely a capful of wind, and
the sea maintained the profound calm of a billiard
table. The usual inquiry will doubtless follow,
and as usual official witnesses will tumble over
each other in a violent hurry to testify that
the Orion started on its last run sound
in wind and limb, quite sober, and showing no
sign of vice, and that it was a young, good-tem-
pered, well-nourished boat, rising 16 hands, and
had always given 60 pints of milk per day. Yet
it is announced that the harbor-master at Stanley
The Premiers’ Conference began and
ended in empty clatter, seemingly for want of an
influence to act as a guiding light to reason, and a
soother of stormy bosoms. The influence of
D.C.L. Whisky upon the counsels of the most un-
wise, when given a fair chance, is such as to impart
sunny gleams of wisdom, which it would do even
through the mental gloom which envelops anti-
Fed. squabbles.*
*
(Tas.) has reported to the Mersey Marine Board
that he proposed to stop both the Orion and the
Warrentina from proceeding to sea on account of
the haphazard manner in which both vessels’
decks were encumbered with cargo. This worthy
intention w r as blocked by the fact that the Tas-
manian Marine Act gave him no authority. It is
now up to ex-shellback Premier Jack Evans to
get a move on, and make such use of his profes-
sional knowledge (if he hasn’t been so long ashore
that he has forgotten it all) to draft regulations
that will enable his inspectors to stop on sight any
ship which, in their opinion, is not in a safe and
proper condition to proceed to sea, and argue
points with David J ones.
On Tuesday, May 31, the “Last Post” was
sounded on the Volunteer and Yeomanry forces
of Great Britain. It is many years since the dis-
banded troops came into official existence —in
fact, there are traces of them away back in the
days of Henry Vlll.—but they always failed to
get themselves regarded seriously. Some of the
Yeomanry regiments looked like mounted bar-
barians in freak attire, and the alleged comic
papers, led by the dreadful Punch, consistently
delineated them as gawky burlesques, and the
paid officers of the permanent army affected to
regard their honorary brethren much as they did
their tailors and valets. Continental Powers are
said to have believed the Volunteers to be part of
the Sal-Army under General Booth. War
Minister Haldane hopes to enrol the dis-
banded regiments into the new Territorial
Army (called the “ Terrors” for short), but so
far recruiting has come alarmingly short of
expectations. As an object lesson on the futility
of the voluntary system the incident is most
eloquent. These men, who gave their time to
learning to defend their country, received nothing
but contempt from the military caste and the
papers, which, like servant girls, dearly love a
uniform. Had Britain had universal training,
the editor of the dreary Punch, and those of his
kidney, would have had to put in a certain time
humping a rifle around through the English slush,
and would thereby have got a better view of the
business. The disbandment is a nasty pill for the
Australian Tory press that howls for a “properly
encouraged voluntary system.”
From an old Indian officer :
The cabled report that the British forces “ are evacuat-
ing the Khyber Pass under orders ”is significant. The
ground gained is thus not to be held, and the frontier is
to remain open to the attacks of raiding bands from the
hills. That is what the situation really amounts to. In
theory, Afghanistan is a “ buffer state ” to guard India
from Russian attack ; and to secure the permanence of
that state of things the Amir has been receiving £120,000
a year from the Indian Government for the last 50 years.
Yet this Amir, who receives this large payment, cannot
in return even guarantee the safety of a European diplo-
matic agent at his Court. After the second Afghan war,
Major Cavagnari was sent on that errand, and was
promptly massacred, with his escort. The truth is, the
Amir has at best a very shaky hold on his subjects. Old
Dost Mohammed and the late Amir, Abdurrahman, kept
them in order by sheer terror; but the present man,
brought up in the harem with his mother, has neither
the habit of action nor the sense of responsibility that
would make him respected. Afghanistan has always lived
on India. It was started on its independent career under
the Douranis with the treasure collected by Nadir Shah,
after that monarch was murdered on his way home from
Delhi. Ahmad Khan Abdali commanded the 10,000
Afghan horse who escorted the treasure, and after the
murder he hurried home to the neighborhood of Kandahar,
and set up for himself in the business of royalty. The
Dourani Shahs went the way of all Asiatic dynasties, And
were pushed out of the way by the present Barakzai
Amirs. The former dynasty continued to fill their
treasury with the plunder of India till the end of the first
quarter of the 18th century—till, in fact, the annexa-
tion of the Punjaub. Afghanistan was certainly conquered
in the first Afghan war, when Shah Shujah, the last of
the Douranis, was put on the throne, but was not given
force enough to keep him there. Since then the Barakzais
have been forced to subsist on subsidies instead of plunder,
and they get on very well so long as they are strong
enough to make their alleged subjects keep their hands
from picking and stealing other people’s property, and
cutting other people’s throats. Now, however, they don’t
seem strong enough ; and on that account and others, it
becomes a serious question whether India is not on the
brink of another Afghan war.
♦
The State Frights papers have been squealing so
much about Postal blunders that the Department
gets blamed now for losing almost every mislaid
letter in the country. One Victorian woman
complained recently about a missing letter which
she was sure she had posted. The Department
searched long and vainly. Two months later
the missive turned up in the leaves of a lend-
ing library book which she had returned to the
library the day she said she posted the letter.
Another, after the Department had been put to
the waste of three reports, several telegrams and
a lot of worry, informed the P.M.G. that the
missing letter had been found under her table-
cover. She had the grace to apologise; but so far
she hasn’t blamed the wretched papers for putting
foolish notions into her head. If the Department
were entitled to recover costs from persons whose
complaints are afterwards shown to be groundless
and due to their own carelessness and casualness,
the State Frights papers would by this time have
made for themselves quite a lot of enemies.
♦
Thus an embittered elector of St. George
(N.S.W.): —
St. George electorate has been deeply absorbed in find-
ing a successor to the lamented Joe Oarruthers. The
politician was abroad. Stacks of him. We had the kerb-
and-gutter man with his shallow little yelps, the petty-
souled “Ministers” with stock gabble and windy blather,
the raging anti-Federalist joker, the “hob-nailed Labah
ruffian,” the “ Ladies ” of the League, the “ Wimmin’s ”
Organising Society, together with a whole battalion of
canvassers, agents, and hangers-on. Well, out of all the
mob there was only one real, eloquent patriot— Hector
Lamond, of the Worker —who had a word to say for my
country, Australia. The remainder were engaged
wrangling over the defunct “Minimum” (one fellow
called it the “ Mininum ”) “ Wage Bill,” the “ Industrial
Disputes ” row, and the “ Likker ” Act. One of the can-
didates based his claim to selection on his ability, if
elected, to shift some sewage deposit out to the Pacific
Ocean.
The king-holt of the Deform crowd, Wade, fresh from
the “Conference,” after “approaching the Federal
financial proposals in a spirit of conciliation,” filled the
Rockdale Town Hall, and turned a massive legal mind on
to the further cultivation of a venomous hostility towards
Australia. Of course he can be safely counted on to
maintain that.
He slung himself headlong on William Lyne, and
accused him of being a traitor and an enemy to N.S.W.
Another old party— Hogue— with the glamor of antiquity
on him, squealed from the balcony of a shoe-shop, in a
like narrow, grudging, Old Colonial strain, and referred to
the Parliament of Australia, which is the people of Aus-
tralia, in terms of scoff and derision. And no Australian
threw clods at him. These organisers of discontent
were supplemented by Twaddle, Wood, Lee, and
Johnsing, M.P.
The place was putrid with religious rancor and
bigotry.
The crowd’s attitude was strikingly shown when the
National Parliament was attacked. It scarcely seemed
to be aware of the existence of the National Parliament.
The patriotic spirit is dead in St. George, and folk re-
ceived the paltry-minded sneers at Nationalism with
blank indifference. No one seemed to give a thought to
the new and rapidly changing conditions of to-day, the
menacing position of affairs on our northern threshold,
or the endeavor of the National Parliament to get to work
on life and death problems. I hope that when the Japs
arrive they’ll eat the whole blooming lot—raw.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prince of Piisen."
Criterion { “ The Mummy and the Humming
Palace The Scarlet Troubadours.
Lyceum Hall.. Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Town Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
C “ The Merry Widow.” Saturday,
Her Majesty’s -f 31st—“ Pygmalion and Cala-
is tea ” (Special Matinee).
Bijou “ Lured to London.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Town Hall Kubelik Concert (Monday).
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
• C-
“J.A.C.”: Alfred Dampier, excellent actor
and courteous gentleman, died on Saturday last.
His death was somewhat sudden and unexpected,
although he was for a long time ailing. It has
been stated that some few years ago he fell
through a stage-trap in Maoriland and perma-
nently injured himself. That such may be the
case I do not dispute, but I have never before
heard of the occurrence, and I have not found
anyone who has. He met, however, with a very
bad accident on the stage in England; he had to leap
into a canyon in some bellowdramaor other, and the
property-fool had left some heavy ironwork for
him to fall on in place of a cushion. Although
an Englishman by birth, Dampier might fairly be
called an Australian actor. For 35 years, with a
few brief intervals, Australia was his home.
It is not generally known that in his young days
he was a skilled athlete and gymnast. Among
other things, he used to take part in a double
trapeze act ; his partner was George Atkins,
who afterwards came (in ’79) to Australasia as a
comedian with the Loftus co.. and opened in
Auckland (M.L.). In England Dampier played a
good deal in London, at the Surrey, under the
management of “Napoleon Buonaparte” Hol-
land, but he was better known in Man-
chester than elsewhere. At that time he
and Henry Irving and Edward Terry were
great chums, and frequently roomed together.
He came to Australia in ’73, and opened
in Melbourne at the Theatre Royal, as Mephis-
topheles in his own version of “Faust.” I
cannot say precisely by whom he was
engaged, but the management of the Mel-
bourne Royal at that epoch invariably con-
sisted of some combination of Coppin, Hen-
nings, Harwood, Greville and Stewart. Dampier
was essentially a melodramatic actor, but he was
good also in other lines ; his Macbeth, for instance,
was a fine performance. He was skilful in adapt-
ing stories for the stage, and of late years his name
was widely associated withsuch playsas “The Term
of his Natural Life,” “Robbery Under Arms,” and
others. He was also a good elocutionist and an ex-
cellent character actor. For a considerable time
he managed the Standard Theatre, Sydney, pro-
ducing a series of dramas, interspersed with
Shaksperian nights. For Dampier that season
was not financially a success, although others
collaterally interested did not do badly. While
at the Standard he “ brought out ” a, good many
young actors. Walter Baker was in the com-
pany, and learned a good deal from him.
Baker was playing “heavies,” and in con-
sequence was much given to villainy ; he was not
then the persecuted martyr of the later Bland
Holt regime, and his acquaintance with Grant
Hervey hadn’t commenced. I think Dampier
was one of the most even-tempered men I have
ever known. About eight years ago I was with
him, playing one of the singing witches in “ Mac-
beth,” and I noted his methods at rehearsals,
where the average stage manager goes rampant
and encrimsons the atmosphere. When any
little contretemps occurred, and they always do
at rehearsal, Dampier would smile sadly, sigh
softly, and say, “I’ll think we’ll try that again.”
His family, all the members of which survive him,
is a theatrical one. His wife (Miss Katherine
Russell), his daughters, Lily and Rose, his son
Fred, and his son-in-law, Alfred Rolfe, are all in
“the business.”
* * * #■
“Faultily faultless, icily regular,” al-
though not “splendidly null,” Mr. Kubelik (or
just “ Kubelik,” as he rather grandly calls himself
upon a programme .where all other names have
prefixes) is probably the best representative of a
new school of fiddling. That fresh academy seems
to ambition after a technical facility which is
much more astounding than that shown by
the most expert of jugglers engaged in
keeping the largest possible number of simul-
taneous knives in the air. This became
evident when he entered upon the last group of
items in the programme of his first concert. Of
these the Bach prelude was by far the best, and a
long way better than anything else played during
the evening—although the speed at which it was
taken might have greatly astonished (probably it
would also have gratified) old Bach himself, who
ought to be quite pleased to know that there is
still such a good gallop in him. The Beethoven
Romance in G Major was disappointing, and
one suspects that Paganini’s “ Campanella” has
always been too difficult for adequate perform-
ance by anyone but its author. Of course, the
notes were all there, but it is one thing to play a
composition of this kind correctly, and quite
another to stir an audience as Paganini did with
this kind of composition. The Hubay “Zephir”
was better ; it and the other two items already
named take Kubelik into the region in which he has
won his great successes, and show him at his best,
and his best comprehends a wonderful gracefulness
of execution and a capacity for tenderness which
gains in charm what it lacks in depth. Kubelik
never misses a note and never plays in the least
out of tune. His violin went out of tune more
than once on Thursday night, bnp that defect
was beyond the control of the player, and the
Sydney atmosphere, with its great hydrometric
variation, is particularly trying to strings. The
cultivation of both hands is complete, the staccato
both up and down is perfect, and the left hand
pizzicato is astonishingly vigorous and true. It
may be doubted whether harmonies could be by
any possibility better produced.
If there be one thing that is lacking in
Kubelik’s style, it is sonorousness and breadth
of tone. This was conspicuous in the “Ave
Maria,” which was recently played very much
better by Premyslav. There was nothin?
intense or devotional about it. As far as th
mechanical can go, Kubelik is perfect—mechani 8
cally. But all the time, however much one’s
wonder and even one’s admiration maybe stirred
there is a sense of something wanting—a lack of
intensity, of passion, and of vitality. Close your
eyes and you are listening to the Marie Hall
kind of work idealised, for Kubelik is as far beyond
Marie Hall as the ordinary competent soloist ia
above the average orchestra player. Perhaps
(despite his overcast and overburdened childhood!
his life has been too happy. Foolish comparisons
have been made between Kubelik and other vio
linists, such as Remenyi and Musin. It cannot
be too clearly understood that Remenyi never was
a player whom the violin world took seriously
The only violinists who have visited us
who could be placed in the first-class
have been Wilhelmj, Mrs. Neruda, Kruse, Heer-
man, and possibly Premyslav. Kubelik belongs
to a different school, and there are many
who hope that he will live to add to his present
great capacities something of the more solid and
quietly noble style of the artists mentioned.
Meanwhile, and until we have a chance of hearing
such masters as Ysaye and Kreisler, Kubelik’s
playing is much to be thankful for.
** * *
In the “ Havanaise ” (second concert) the
artist was again at the top of his artistic condition
exhibiting perfect finish, delicacy and ease
under the tremendous difficulties of the com-
position. And the subsequent “Polonaise”
of Wieniaweski may be described as an
embroidery of diamonds wrought by ex-
traordinary bowing and wonderful technique.
Mr. Schwab, the Kubelik accompanist, fills his
unenviable, because uneasy, post to perfection.
The two ladies of the company are not highly
equipped in the matter of their respective accom-
plishments. Miss Uyason is a very mediocre
pianiste, and Miss Erna Mueller’s mezzo-soprano
suffers from bad voice-production. But both girls
are fine-looking and well gowned, which is some
compensation.
* * *
“The Midnight Wedding” was celebrated
repeatedly this week and last at Sydney Criterion,
the happy pair being Madge Mclntosh and Har-
court Beatty. The bride looked charming at each
successive hitching, and the groom carried off this,
the most embarrassing situation of a man’s life-
time, with the aplomb of a practised bigamist.
** # *
“Sherlock Holmes,” revived at Sydney
Royal last week, is a fine thrill. It represents
“ The Face at the Window,” written with brains
instead of by a dull mechanical process devoid of
all real imagination. The improbability is all
there, but it is the kind of improbability which
attracts —not the sort that merely stupe-
fies. Most of the plays that are borrowed from
novels are failures, for obvious reasons. “Sher-
lock Holmes ” isn’t included in the list, because
the dramatist has boldly departed from the book
He has considered stage effect more than faithful
translation, and has made in Moriarty of the Den
a figure of as good effect as Holmes. The present
revival introduces to Sydney new players in most
of the principal parts. Kingston presents
Holmes as quite another Sherlock from the
one that Cuyler Hastings invented. All the
same, he makes the frozen and drugged de-
tective a very impressive figure. There is a
little more humanity in his Holmes than there
was in that of Hastings ; and the theatre-goer
who likes a “ happy ending,” gets from him more
reason to go away hugging the idea that, after all,
Sherlock will marry the girl. Mrs. Brough,
of course, gives an artistic and finished pre-
sentment of Madge Larrabee, and her
companion in villainy (Cyril Mackay) is
a good deal above ordinary skill in putting
on the mask of wickedness. Miss Nellie
Calvin does something to confirm the good im-
pression she made in “Brewster’s Millions,” and
Gregan McMahon wears with credit the mantle
of Moriarty conferred upon him (indirectly) by a
judge who insisted on taking theatrical marriages
seriously, and said “six months” to the player
who had made the robe of the Napoleon of Crime
his own peculiar garment. “The Prince of
Pilsen ” makes its first Australian appearance on
Saturday.
** * *
This week “ Humpty Dumpty ” is to be
taken off the wall at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and
given another coat of paint, whereupon it will
resume falling to the accompaniment of some new
songs and a quantity of fresh-laid jokes.
** * *
The “Poor Clares” are not such dead-
broke Clares as they were, because of Mr. A.
Nugent Robertson’s new farcical comedy,
“The Microbe of Love,” given in aid of the
nuns (and for copyright purposes) at the Standard
Theatre (Sydney) last week. A big audience,
that crammed the aisles, and jumped the other
fellow’s seat, paid honorably for its chair—paid to
a man, woman and bantling. Also from start to
final curtain it laughed the laughs that are laughed
upon “ Charley’s Aunt ” and “ The Private Secre-
tary.” Tneprincipalcharacter, theDeanofGlaston-
bury, is one of those political churchmen who are
met commonly enough in England, and whose
principal purpose is to advance their worldly in-
terests. He is the kind of man that would
naturally drive up to the gate of Heaven with two
coachmen and two footmen, who would be all
damned as soon as they had seen their burden
safely at its destination. The Microbe is dis-
covered by an eminent scientist, Sir Arthur
Kingswood, and he is naturally anxious to find a
suitable person upon whom to try its effect.
But out of pure cussedness the scientists
nephew, Charlie Kingswood, gives the germ
to the Dean in a glass of wine. Charlie
and the Dean’s niece are in love, but the
churchman wants the girl to marry a dissipated
Somebody whose influence is calculated to shove a
cleric along the road to preferment. So confusion
sets in. Instead of the Dean fixing his affections
on a severe spinster (one Elizabeth, related to the
scientist), as the voungster intended, the holy man
falls rabidly in love with a pretty servant maid,
also named Elizabeth, who enters inopportune y-
Low comedy is provided by the jealous man-
servant, who is in love with handmaiden Elizaoetn.
Scandal and gossip make the Dean’s life troublous,
and in the end he becomes the unwilling betrothed
of an elderly meat-axe kind of spinster; but he
never really gets the germ out of his system, and
he is never quite the same Dean again. Ihe
situations are joyous and amusing, and the dia-
logue is as good as the situations. _ “ Ihe Muns
amateur combination acted the piece. Messrs.
Fletcher Wilson, Carey, and McKay, and Misses
K. Brooke, Eva Stacey, Annie Walker, and Eva
Turnbull were the cast, and at the close there were
loud and insistent demands for “Author.
Miss Dulcie Deamer, the remarkable
writer of short stories of savage strength, has a
fine yarn in next Saturday’s Lone Hand, -the
First Born.”*


Money with the Cinematograph.
Let us show you how—write for full particulars
o day free. We have everything for the show-
“'an. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
' ;^^' nema t°o ra ph Specialists and Electricians,
m George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Miss Florence Young writes, in next month’s Lonk
Hand, in defence of the Australian chorus girl. Watch
for it on Saturday.*
The magicians of the Maskelyne and
Devan>Co. having moved on from Sydney Palace,
wherertheir season closed last night, the theatre
of Saracenic design will be occupied, on Saturday,
bv the Scarlet Troubadours, a costume concert
company, under the direction of Mr. Edward
Branscombe, of Westminster Glee Party fame.
The Troubadours are six, but they are accom-
panied by two ladies, who are extras—Miss
May Glenn and Miss Maud Fane. Miss Glenn
was a pupil of the great Garcia, and at the
age of 17 was singing in grand opera. Miss Fane
is a discovery of Mr. Branscombe’s, and is said to
be gifted with a soprano of unusual clearness and
sparkle. _ The Troubadours’ main strength
is their singing of solo and concerted numbers,
particularly the glee and part singing of an
unaccompanied male quartette. The music is
punctuated with bursts of humor, and with Mr.
Percival Mackenzie’s sketches in chalks and
crayons, in which the time limit is 60 seconds to
each picture. The season lasts one week only.
* * * *-
Sydney Tivoli bill this week has been
cheered up considerably by the arrival of three
new items. The three Deanes have a knockabout
turn which includes some humor, and a clever
contortion act on the part of one member, who
folds up his anatomy and transforms himself into
a hat-rack. The Ahlbergs are rather clever hand-
balancers who flavor their share of the evening
with the small but agreeable jest; and Alberto—
who is described as “ the talking magician ” —is a
person who keeps his tricks well oiled, conse-
quently his performance goes like a Marconi
spark. The rest of the programme includes the
comedian juggler Sylvo, Fred Bluett, the weird,
frog-like Ardo, and Will Lochrane. The Kauffman
Troupe of trick Cyclists will defy the laws of
gravity until the end of the week, and then depart
to defy them elsewhere. People like the Kauff-
mans, who waltz bicycles backwards on one
wheel, have no use for the laws of gravity—they
wouldn’t recognise them if they met them.
** * *
At Adelaide Town Hall, the Royal Artil-
lery Band has started its Australian tour, financed
by a S.A. syndicate. It calculates to put the
“Besses” and all other rivals quietly away to
rest on a top shelf. The conductor is Robert
Smith, of long and varied experience. He does
his work without the book. His son Robert is
one of the finest clarionettists living. Robert,
junior, is with the team ; so is son Charles.
The cornet man, McEvoy, and the two
Arboms, who handle the piccolo, are also
front-rank performers. The 36 music-makers
mostly come from Newcastle-on-Tyne (England).
Their performances (two every day) have sent
Adelaide almost hysterical. Tone and volume,
solo and chorus, are alike perfection. There is
one string instrument, a double bass, a full set of
reeds, and everything known in brass—with one
or two weird novelties. The programme has a
way of starring “Zampa” and “ Tannhauser,”
and then giving as encore the most reckless
American rag-time danc-es. The band imitates
the organ, it imitates the bagpipes, it imitates
the cracking of whips and the baying of hounds ;
occasionally the players help with a whist-
ling effect or a mouthful of chorus. The
Royal Artillery persons are going to have a big
Australian success. They have made other shows
in Adelaide seem quiet for the week. Bland Holt
is steadily successful at the Royal. Irving Sayles
has gone from the Tivoli. Rennert has been
wrestling at the City Baths, where the Challenger
sailors joyously help to deal out the Punch that
gets the Purse.
* * * *■
A revised edition of “Miss Hook” pre-
sents itself next Saturday at Melbourne Royal.
Which is highly advisable. Parents and comic
operas should always be altered, after reaching
that point where one begins to comprehend them.
“Miss Hook,” anyhow, is going to develop novel
features and new songs.
** * *
“Home, Sweet Home,” the Andersonian
plea for virtue and monogamy, continues its
chaste ways at Melbourne Bijou. The Bulletin
sees much virtue in this phantasmagoria of drab-
ness, deadening though it be. It defies the old-
established law that bellowdrama is violence.
This one is not. Very, very gently it intrudes
just a speck of devilism in the shape of one Lucas
Lyle, whose wickedness glows like a park lamp
in a fog. Lucas is a pale, little, drooping pansy
in the “Ha! Ha!” business. His malfeasances
are saintly and apologetic. His depravity is gone
in the knees, and has lung trouble. Occasionally
he lapses into saturninity and fulminates with the
timid ferocity of a croquet expert. He is a
palpable frost —a toy man with tin works is Lucas.
In contradistinction to him, Stephen Armitage,
the hero, is a deity. For one tense second in the
last act, Stephen is a religion. He is about to
slay the craven Lyle. He is about to compress
into one burst of splendid madness the complex
sensations of an anarchist and a hangman. Then
he remembers the hearth, the home, and the kid.
He Btops rigid, as one who has burst his sus-
penders—while the “gods” sigh. However, last
night (Wednesday) should have seen the last of
him. For to-night and to-morrow night, the out-
rage “East Lynne” is again meditated. On
Saturday Edwin Geach tumbles in with “Lured
to London.” Seven days hence this journal will
again size up the allurement.
** * *
At Melbourne Her Majesty’s, “The
Merry Widow ” has become a synonym for
daintiness and girl. While the music is a linger-
ing stream of languor and charm, girl, with all her
riches of pinkness and warmth, clusters and
scintillates on the fat, bare body of the yarn,
that, of course, is meant to be an idyllic manner
of speaking. Criticism is a heavy task in the
? ase of the “Widow,” for the whole production
is almost faultless in its effect. Said effect is one
of harmony and color tones rather than of intel-
lectual brilliance; but there is so much harmony
and such stacks of color tones that the show doesn’t
want intellectual brilliance. It would be sheer
waste, like bestowing an extra wife on Solomon.
Irue, Baron Popoff dollies out a few faint lustrous
specks of conversation, but even the Baron is
Pcor ore in the way of dialogue. As a copper
proposition he wouldn’t amount to more than 7
per cent, and copper is down just now. But it
wouldn’t matter if the Baron were a mere 5 per
cent, proposition. The music and the color and
he girls can go on their own. “Vilia,” Miss
Moore’s opening song in Act 11., fetches the ador-
atlo"°f the million; whilst “ The Cavalier”—part
c ?hdie and part raillery—touches a responsive
chord in the heart of the handmaiden in the gal-
ery, who has already been more than half-inclined
° smile on the suit of the baker at the back door.
The two duets, “ Love in My Heart” and “I
Love You So,” will have their aftermath of
delirious trouble, anyhow. Reginald Roberts is
the star songster and the best of an exalted vocal
team. But Andrew Higginson and Fred Leslie
are so good that Roberts will have to sprint to
keep his lead.
*’ * * *
A visit to West’s Pictures (Melbourne
branch) is now almost as obligatory as a wash.
Indeed, some people might make the pictures and
the wash alternate celebrations. West’s reper-
toire has been fattened by excerpts of Swiss and
Korean scenery ; so that, after a few moments of
iced atmosphere and dazzling landscape, one is
whirled through the quaint, little-known land of
the Morning Scrum {vice Calm, deceased), where
the Simian grins in majesty. Korea is a country
of glittering paradox and hyperbole, so to speak ;
but it is tremendously interesting to Victorians.
Apparently it invented the plug hat that adorns
the dome, or rather the knob, of Victoria’s one
and only Knox. Knox is an asset such as no
other State can boast. He is a Great Natural
Resource.
THE LATE (AND LAMENTED)
ALFRED DAMPIER.
At Melbourne Princess’s the programme
of “ The Merrymakers ” has been considerably
remodelled—seemingly an abasement to the
rabbit-oh and the mere critic of “fags” and
half-pints. Whether the alteration was necessary
is altogether questionable. On the opening
night, the fare was appreciated arid enjoyed
by most of the house. It was but the
delicate, retiring pushite and his kind who
were said to have guyed it. Presumably
their opinion must be respected. It has two
verdicts—“boshter” and “rotten”; and it
knows nothing between. The present menu,
though the musical comedy burlesque has been
cut out and several new items have been intro-
duced, has not lost merit. It is artistic—perhaps
too artistic—and it reveals that the whole com-
pany is accomplished and versatile. Of the lot,
The Bulletin prefers Miss Betty Ohls, a lady
who is almost bewitching at times. She has a
piquant style, brains, and a nice physical equip-
ment. Her French chansonette is an eloquently
meaningless item to most, but the lady makes it
captivating. Of the remainder, Herbert Clayton,
,T. M. Campbell, Sam Walsh, and Doris Lind
divide the pastry. By the way, the selection of
The Princess’s for such a show seems rather
ambitious.
*# * *
In Melbourne Town Hall the Scarlet
Troubadours, though but newly arrived from the
fogs of London, manage to put some life into
mediocre voices. In particular, there is a fair
tenor who shows some promising glimpses of
humor. The half dozen are headed by a stiff
warbler whom some echoing feminine voice in the
audience one night called “so distangay,” while
another enamored maiden cast her sixpenn’orth
of violets at his confused feet. Presumably en-
couraged by the scented vegetables, the troubadour
took charcoal in hand and laboriously drew a cat
which wouldn’t have alarmed any but a very
short-sighted mouse ; also he sketched a canvas
that was a picture whichever way you looked at it.
■jfc -71$ •s!£
At Melbourne Opera House Frank Har-
wood is still reciting “Devil-May-Care.” J. P.
Ling is an excellent relief. Small Marjorie Bray,
who chortles of frocks and frills with matured
wisdom, is also a tolerable feature. John Higgins
has taken to springing over a carriage, and the re-
appearance of Irving Sayles, “Ethiopia’s Irre-
pressible and Inimitable Vocalist, Comedian,
Dancer, and Eccentric,” is prophesied.
Methodist parson R. H. Blamires, who
died at Oakey (Q.) the other da»y, belonged to a
family which took to the preaching business as
ducks take to water. His father and all his
brothers—there are four of them—are wrestlers
with the Devil, and are said to have swung him
round by the tail quite frequently and banged his
horns hard against the wall.
The Tory rump in Adelaide is almost
persuaded to cut in for Kingston’s seat in the
Reps. In a straight-out fight the rump knows it
wouldn’t have the fraction of a chance; but
A. J. McLachlan, Kingston’s last partner and his
confidant in many personal worries, is out,
practically on the dead Patriot s platform, and
Roberts is also hustling for the seat, and between
these two hard fighters there is going to be such a
dust that the Tory crowd chuckles, and waits a
chance to step in, with some drab-colored candi-
date like Vardon, who won the last Common-
wealth seat. If such a one wins it will be another
deplorable result of the absurd division between
Radicals and Laborites.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Snell ”: What moles these parsons are ! How can the
Rev. Harry Worrall live, breathe, and have his being in
an Australian city, and hug to his sacerdotal bosom the
faded delusion that the well-dressed, painted, and be-
jewelled actress meets the curling lip of scorn wherever
she turns? I am not going to say anything about the
lady’s deserts, but the painted, bejewelled, and extrava-
gantly-costumed actress gets more adulation in these
cities (as differing from “ this country ”) than any other
class of performer, human or divine. In fact, your divine
might walk the streets of Sydney and Melbourne till he
was hoof-galled, and he wouidn’tget as much glorification
as would burst on Miss Tittell Brune in 10 seconds, and
she doesn’t need a single diamond or the lightest pat of
rouge to help the boom.
“ Hiphen ” : When one is induced to go to Melbourne
Princess’s, and plank down five of the infrequent bob, one
expects something for one’s money. Anyhow, I’m one of
those ones, and when I rend myself away from my good
shekels of silver to witness the performance of much-
boomed “ Merrymakers,” and am handed a Pierrot enter-
tainment of decided feebleness, I reckon I’ve got a kick
coming to me. When one has been used to a
bright little Pierrot show (such as the one on
St. Hilda Beach) for a modest shilling, and one can
smoke to one’s heart’s content, it hurts to pay big
money to witness an inferior (though English) affair,
where one is even denied the luxury of blowing a
cloud of the product of combustion. When the “ Merry-
makers” go to the Athenaeum Hall with maximum
charge of 25., they will have hit their level. At the Prin-
cess’s, with full regular prices and one piano as orchestra,
they are an insult to the intelligence of the enlightened
community of which I am an ornament; further they are a
snare and a delusion, and many other horrible things. The
best joke they perpetrate is a modest and naive request
printed on the programme: “ Please buy your drinks
inside the theatre, as vve get a commission.” The only
effect this had on me was to cause me to walk many
hundred yards down the street to a distant pub. I
wouldn’t go to any pub within a furlong for fear these
people might have a wide radius of commission.
“ Melb.” : As usual with such things when vaunted, the
renowned waltz .in “The Merry Widow” fails to get
whistled. People don’t even know which it is, the whole
opera being so waltzy. I took it to be one at the close of
Act 1., when Higginson valses out with six ladies in suc-
cession ; but my newspaper says it is in Act 11., when
Hig. waltzes with Miss Moore. She backs diagonally
across the stage with bended knees, and he cranes over
her, as if to sniff the hair oil in her back knob. Stupid
looking ! Their practice in the opera is to stand in pro-
file, and stick the tips of their noses almost together, as
if about to rub, d la Maori. Funny place, London, for
new ideas. However, the music is bewitching enough.
Composer Lehar’s notion is to keep up a kind of sub-tune.
Violin and harp form his favorite combination for this,
and they purr like two large cats.
The trouble that has befallen James B. Wood, theatri-
cally known as “Jimmy” Atholwood, is an essay on the
folly of being slipshod and untidy. When “Jimmy”
first met the lady whom he subsequently married, she
said she was the wife of one Yelverton, theatrically known
as Barry Marshall. Some time afterwards, she told
Atholwood (this is Atholvvood’s yarn) that she was going
from Melbourne to Maoriland to divorce Yelverton ; and,
having assured him on her return that she had done the
deed, the pair got married. James didn’t bother to
inquire whethershe had actually got adivorce ; even when
he subsequently came to have doubts about the alleged
divorce, it didn’t seem to strike him as desirable to
learn whether there ever had been any necessity for
breaking the bonds—whether there had ever been any
bonds at all, in fact. He just assumed things in
a loose, sloppy fashion. Then, happening across
another lady, and finding her charming and
desirable, he married her. That, anyhow, was the
effect of what he told the Law when it asked him what
he meant by committing bigamy. Also he assured the
Law that, for the sake of the children he had acquired by
both wives, he had dwelt with them as a husband con-
temporaneously ; and he owned up to having had a
strenuous time of it. The second wife also admitted that
she knew she was sharing James with the other woman ;
and after the first wife had also made some quaint
admissions, the Law came to the conclusion that alto-
gether it was a slovenly way of doing things, and on
general principles it handed Atholwood six months’ gaol
as a reminder to be more careful and tidy in future.
Apparently some people have been saying things loudly
enough for J. C. Williamson to hear, and the Firm has
thought it necessary to issue a letter stating that it isn’t
“ dominated by Victorian influences,” and that it tries to
give Sydney and Melbourne a fair deal in the matter
of first nights. From the time when the present
Firm began up to the date of the letter (May
15) new pieces had appeared as follows: — Sydney :
“L’Aiglon,” “Theodora,” “The Cingalee,” “Brigadier
Gerard,” “Merely Mary Ann,” “Leah Kleschna,”
“The Little Miehus,” “The Virginian,” “Bluebell,”
“Robin Hood,” “The Scarlet Pimpernel,” “Brew-
ster’s Millions,” “John Glayde’s Honor,” “Parsifal,”
“The Lady Dandies,” “Alice In Wonderland”; and
Melbourne: “Sunday,” “The Orchid,” “His Majesty’s
Servant,” “Veronique,” “Dorothy Vernon,” “The
Squaw Man,” “The Spring Chicken,” “ The Dairy Maids,”
“Blue Moon,” “Lady Madcap,” “The Girls of Gotten-
berg,” “The Dictator,” “On The Quiet,” “Mother
Goose,” “Humpty Dumpty,” “Peter Pan.” That made
16 for each city. Then Melbourne was to get the first
sight of “The Merry Widow” and “Mrs. Wiggs,” but
against that Sydney is to see “The Prince of Pilsen ” and
“The Red Mill” before its reptile contemporary town
gets a look at them; also Margaret Anglin’s company,
with six new pieces (including “ Diana of Dobson’s”), and
bringing with it Australia’s dear old friend, George
Titheradge, opens at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on June 27.
After these explanations it is hoped that secession from
the Commonwealth will be postponed.
It is just whispered that Sam Hordern intends building
an up-to-date theatre on the' N.E. corner of Goulburn
and Pitt streets, Sydney, and that J. C. Williamson will
be the tenant.
Dulcie Dearner, The Lone Hand’s champion story-
writer, made her dibut as an actress with the Taylor-
Carrington Co. at Greymouth (M.L.) this month. She
played Paulette in “Is She Guiltless?”—and played the
lady well.
“Snell”: Stage management is now a science,and the
mischief defects in this department can inflict upon a
show was made manifest at Melbourne Princess’s on the
occasion of the first Australian appearance of “ The
Merrymakers.” At the Princess’s are all the necessary
curtains, but “ The Merrymakers” hungup in addition
one of those ridiculous split contrivances that fall from
each side and meet in the middle—the sort of curtain
parlor entertainers carry with them to rig in the Bigbog
Shire Hall and the Neddywadd.v Mechanics’ Institute.
There were other defects in “The Merrymakers’” per-
formance that helped to inspire the anger of the gods,
but the insurrection of the gallery was largely due to
that idiotic curtain. A split counterpane that refuses to
conceal a climax till a performer dashes out of the
tableau, grabs the two halves, yanks them together, and
hangs on, is calculated to provoke popular derision. This
one did.
Laurence Irving, a son of the great Srenry, has be-
taken himself and wife to the music-hall stage. A storm
of protestis still raging gustily in England, concerning
this alleged “degradation of an honored name.” It is
harder than usual to grasp the British point of view here.
The modern “halls” in all the English-speaking countries
pay their performers as well as do the theatres (those in
which the highest class of grand opera is produced always
e'xcepted). Socially, morally, and so on, the average
player in a variety show is a reputable enough person ;
and the genuine artist is almost as frequent in the music-
hall as in the theatre proper (c/. the late Dan Leno,
Gen6e, George Robey, and others). Part of this intoler-
ance of the “ Hall ” is, apparently, tradition (handed
down from Colonel Newcome’s “ Cave of Harmony ”
days); partis an elusive form of snobbishness; and all
of it is plain blank foolishness.
Charles Frohman, who is gradually getting London and
Paris into his grip as well as the U.S., announces a coming
musical comedy, to be called “ Fluffy Ruffles,” and to be
staged by him regardless of expense. First act laid in
New York—American players ; second act in London—
English actors; third act in Paris—French comedians.
(But surely the hero and heroine will remain the same all
through ?)
“M.”: Re first cast of “Colleen Bawn” in Mel-
bourne (B. 23/4/’08). Henry Edwards was the original
Hardress Cregan, not George Fawcett, who added
Rowe to his name when he went to England. Tom
Fawcett was Kyrle Daly; Richard Stewart, Myles
na Coppaleen; O. W. Barry, Father Tom ; Rosa
Dunn, Eily ; Mrs. Guerin (Mrs. Stewart), Mrs.
Cregan; Fanny Young (sister of Charles and wife of
George Washington Daniels, comedian) was Anne Chute ;
John Dunn was Corrigan, and Charles Wheatleigh was
Danny Mann. I saw the first performance. One of
George Fawcett’s big successes was his impersonation of
Dr. Alexander Hunter, an eminent, if eccentric, surgeon
who lived in Collins-stre.et, Melbourne. Hunter dressed
peculiarly, hessian boots with tassels being a part of his
costume. He was elected to the third Parliament (1861)
as member for East Melbourne on the eight-hour ticket.
Hunter afterwards went to Maoriland and died there.
His only son went to England to study medicine, and was
returning as assistant surgeon in the s.s. London when it
foundered in the Bay of Biscay. He, it was said, offered
£lOOO to buy a seat for a young lady in the only boat that
was able to put off.
“ J.A.C.”: I find the following advt. in London Referee
of March 15: —
"WANTED, CLEVER ACTRESS with good Singing
’’ Voice for Sketch in Music-Halls. Must be able
to influence first-class booking. Address, etc.
That means she must have, or create bv some means or
other, a certain following who will patronise the enter-
tainment because sheisin it. From one aspect, the sugges-
tion is not a pleasant one. Many of our managers expect,
and get, more work out of their performers than they
actually pay them for ; but they have not yet descended
to asking them to “ influence first-class booking.”
“Arsemo”: The Melbourne “ barracker,” not content
with being allowed a free voice at football and cricket
matches, scraps, race meetings and dog-fights, is now in-
vading the theatres. Went to see “ The Southern Cross ”
at the Bijou the other night, and was astonished at the
casual way the audience “chipped-in.” In the first act,
when the heroine denounced horse-racing- as one of the
most cruel sports, the house almost cheered itself
hoarse. One man who cheered very loudly at
this stage I recognised as an old acquaintance of the
course, who had tried to “ whisper ” to me down at
Richmond. In the same act, when the younger brother
was, for no visible earthly reason, allowing himself to be
robbed of his share of the family cash by his big, bad,
elder brother, one of the audience told him ioudly, “Yo’re
a dashed chump!” Then, when the Ballarat publican
killed the digger, the comic-relief Irishman was watching
him through the window, and a voice from the gallery
cried, “Aha! Y’re nicked!” Strange to say the Irish-
man, who, we were given to understand, was a brave,
honest man always ready for a “ bit av a shindy,”
made no attempt to prevent the murder; he
just waited outside until the limelight was played
on the window, and the Bung-homicide declared
that “ dead men tell no tales.” Then he threw
open the casement, paused in the limelight for a
moment, and shouted, “No ! But live men can /” Then
he and Bung stood and looked at each other for five
minutes while the audience said “ Hooray,” etc. Later,
when the murderer denied his guilt to the enraged
diggers, a disgusted voice shouted, “ Garn, we saiv yer
do it! ” In Act 4, when the audience was worked up to
a great pitch of excitement, expecting the soldiers to
attack the Eureka Stockade at any moment, and Frances
Ross came on and commenced to delay proceedings by
indulging in a little love scene with Inman, an excited
member of the audience asked—“ Why the ’ell
can’t she stay erway, en let ’em ’ave the
bloomin’ scrap at once?” When, in the last act, the
money-lender was auctioning the estate of the hero’s
family, and, the bids having run up to £53,000, the hero
walked on and offered £60,000, thus practically making
Moses an unnecessary present of £6OOO, the house cheered
as though South had just beaten Carlton by one goal.
During the Ballarat scene the murderer was bled of all
his money by the two police officers, and there was a
general murmur of approval throughout the house, one
gentleman venturing the opinion that “ they would be
silly fools to miss a charnce like that there!” All this
promiscuous barracking was quite apart from that of a
lady who persistently took exception to every brave
sentiment uttered by the hero, and inferred that he
didn’t think or act that way in his private life. An even-
ing at the Bijou is a pleasing circumstance.
EXIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Alfred Dampier, the well-known actor, died at his
residence, Paddington, Sydney, on Saturday night.
And so it ends. The rustling curtain falls,
And, deep in thought, we sadly move away
With wistful, backward glances at the stalls
Wherein we watched the play.
“ Vain, vain your foolish laughter and your tears ! ”
So drone the dull, reverberating drums.
“ You play your parts thro’ all the restless years
Till the Last Prompter comes.
“ And then it ends ! The player steals away,
Leaving the ringing speech and rippling jest
To others until, weary also, they
Go to their well-earned rest.
“ But still the play—the endless play—goes on,
Tho’ one you loved is missing from the stage.
He bravely played his part and he is gone.
Exit. Turn down the page.”
N.S.W.
KODAK.
A WORD OF CONDOLENCE WITH A 24FT. PYTHON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alive.
Snake 24ft. Long.
The “ Python,” or Rock Snake of India.
Imported at Great Cost and Risk. The largest
snake ever seen in Australia. Charge to view:
Adults, 6d.; Children, 3d.— Advertisement of
Janson’s Young Zoo., 206 George-street North,
Sydney.
Last week I paid a silver coin, and stood
Watching you piled up in your narrow lair,
Linoleum carpet-like ; the while a flood
Of pity surged in me that you were there.
Gazing in your unwinking eye of gloom
Methought I won into your inmost mind ;
And straight a vast dark forest ’gan to loom
Before me—and I was in tropic Ind.
And you no longer crouched pent in a case,
The sport of shop-hand, journalist and Chow ;
Joyously free you wound from place to place
(A thing our George-street by-laws won’t allow).
Eftsoons you stopped and scaled a regal tree,
About whose branches you entwined your frame,
And patient waited. Came your mate, and she
A near-by monarch chose, and did the same.
Time sped—and now adown the darkling glade
A stout young native fares. He trolls a hymn
Of Sank (or Mood) y ; for the Word has made
Him blithe, what time it filched his figure slim.
A creak, a startled howl, the swish and whisk
Of up-snatched savage—and a nig. may boast
With Mr. Janson that he’s ta’en a “ risk,”
And has, moreover, anted up the “ cost.” ,
ENVOI.
The vision fades ; and in your tomb of glass
You lie once more with dreams of bygone bliss
Haunting your thoughts. The tragedy, alas !
Of one who—having “ lived "—has come to this.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


m
A New Model for the full, stout figure,
medium bust, long flat front and long
hips and back. In White Coutille.
Sizes 22 to 30. Price 29/6.
The New American Corset
Royal ...
Worcester.
EVERY DAY in our Corset Room Mrs. Porter,
from New York, will be pleased to “talk”
Corsets to perspective Customers, and advise
as to the Corset best suited to their requirements.
This places them under no obligation to buy,
but if they desire the new slender figure which
“ makes for” long straight lines and gracefulness,
they cannot but be attracted by the Royal
Worcester Corsets.
Call, or write for our Corset illustrations.
All Corsets are sent to any part of the Com-
monwealth, carriage paid.
David Jones Ltd
SYDNEY.
f
r 4i
J
HARRINGTON’S
THE LARCEST IMPORTERS OF
CAMERAS —AND
PHOTO MATERIALS
IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
The “ Crackshot ” Camera, 7s. 6d. “Victor” Cameras from
30s. “ Kodak ” Cameras, various styles.
Goerz Anschutz Cameras, Studio Cameras, Reflex Cameras.
Dalimeyer, Goerz, Voigtlander, and other famous makers
Lenses. > ' _
The New Adhesive Dry Mounting Machines and all accessories.
PHOTO MATERIALS, an immense stock in every department.
OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE NOW RE ADI.
rhe “Australian Photographic Journal, published in <
mlarged, up-to-date, 4s. tid. post free for a year. (P .
i ssue ;—Superbly Illustrated Article on Australian Bira ■)
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD., Photographic MerchantSi
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, AND 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Vulcan”: The Yankee is patriotic or
dead —vide his coaling arrangements for the ap-
proaching U.S. A. fleet. The first whisper of the
coming visit caused local suppliers to forward
flying offers to coal the fleet. The reply sort o’
dazed them. It said, in effect, that the fleet
would be coaled in Sydney with American coal,
Yankee dug, and forwarded in U.S. vessels. It
is calculated that the fleet will require 20,000 tons,
which will necessitate a whole tramp fleet to bring
it here. The extra expense will be big, but Uncle
Sam’s troubles, so long as the money goes into
his other pocket. It is interesting, albeit painful,
to contrast this with the recent howl at the Aus-
tralian Government’s proposal to give from 5 to
15 per cent, preference to Australian goods for
Government supplies.
• * * w
The Sydney suburban dairy is in distress,
for the new unimproved-value tax hits the acre or
two acreblocks of evil-smelling premises very hard.
These institutions should have been ordered away
long since. If there was a low-lying piece of land,
or a chasm, or a pit anywhere about the uneven
suburbs —any old hole which even the jerry-
builder couldn’t bring himself to fill up with
cottages—it nearly always blossomed out in course
of time into the Sweet Violets, or Grandview', or
some such dairy ; and out of these undrained holes
came a good part of Sydney’s milk supply. Now
the rents of these holes have been put up to meet
the higher rates, and a number of the dairies are
likely to move out into sweeter country. Some of
the slant-eyed gardeners’ domains of cabbage and
turnip are also doomed. This unimproved-value
arrival is a fine healthy infant.
Apparently the Victorian Ministers think
it is up to them to hang someone, so they have
decided that John Charles Manning, the old
and apparently loony person, who killed his wife
at Bendigo and then sawed his own head half off*
is to be the victim. Victorians haven’t had a
hanging for a long time, and possibly that has
something to do with the decision. To the lay
person—or to some of him, at least —Manning
seems to have been about as irresponsible as they
make them. For years he had been piling up
tons of manuscript about all manner of childish
things. In these diaries he declared that he saw
signs and portents, and heard strange sounds.
The whole thing was a Babylonian jumble, such
as no healthy brain could have constructed. Cer-
tainly after he recovered from his own blood-
letting and had been medically treated for months,
his mind was clearer; but, even at the trial,
Manning was still a wild, staring person with
moons in his hair. And the Bent Ministry (Bent
now says that he was once a reporter, and perhaps
he has still a craving for news) will hang him by
its deputy on June 1.
Concerning a great “ reform ” :
Kalgoorlie and Boulder are going the way of all mining
towns —the way that is supposed to lead to Respecta-
bility, and a long black coat on Sundays, and tea-meet-
ings, and the habit of putting the cat out and locking up
at half-past nine. Hitherto the goldfield has played the
sinful game of football on the Sabbath ; but a ballot of
ratepayers has now been taken, and by 1577 to 1104 it has
been decided that the accursed thing shall no more be
permitted. It isn’t easy for the average person in the
more or less ancient, old-established city to realise
what the change means. In the more or less
ancient and old-established city there are generally
some Botanic Gardens or Parks to wander in,
some Manly or St. Kilda or Glenelg to seek for a
“ blow,” some relatives to visit or entertain. But the
mining town has no Manlv, no Gardens, no Parks ; it is
generally a place of boarding-houses and cheerless, com-
fortless bachelor camps. Other days there is work to do,
or the front door of the pub is open ; on Sundays there
is no work and there is no pub—anyhow, through the
front door. So the best and cleanest and straightest men
of the mining-town population have gone out to the
football match; the crowd that isn’t so clean and
straight sneaked into the pub by the back-
way (and generally not the best pub either),
or cultivated two-up in the camp. Now Sunday foot-
ball is proscribed at Kalgoorlie, and the clean and
the straight will be bored until they drift towards the
back way of the frowsy little pub or join the two-up
school. It is a great reform. Broken Hill, that other
great dreary mining camp, trampled the life out of Sunday
outdoor exercises years ago ; and to-day parson Schafer
and parson Paterson say the low-down pubs are thronged
on the Sabbath, and the general state of things is too
“ awful ”to mention. It is something for Kalgoorlie to
look forward to.
“ Itan,” who is an old and hardened Bris-
baner, and probably knows :
The success of the single Railway Commissioner system
is demonstrated by the experience of Bananaland. The
trains are slow, it is true —they always are on the 3ft. 6in.
line—and the rolling stock is starved somewhat, as a
result of the waste which raged during the regime of the
Continuous Government, and the dead horse it left at its
successor’s door ; but the standard of efficiency is very
high, all the same. In many respects, the methods in
vogue show the more wealthy States many points. For
one thing, no passenger has ever been killed on the
Queensland lines. Occasionally stray cows and horses and
sheep are cut up, but this is no fault of the organisation.
When there is a rush of passenger traffic, the Queensland
railway management makes up two distinct trains. In
N.S.W. and Vic. the frequent custom is to hitch on extra
carriages and add a second engine to aid the hauling, and
then the long serpent of a train has to make two stops at
short, stunted platforms, and keeps losing time till some-
thing comes up behind and hits it. Then the northe u
State never runs the tender first, as is sometimes done in
N.S.W. and Vic. Screw couplings are employed in
Queensland on long goods trains so as to prevent the
accumulation of slack on uneven grades, slack being more
dangerous than drink. In N.S.W. as many as 110 trucks
are included in some goods trains, coupled with links
only, so that the slack amounts to 70ft., and this train
may be negotiating three distinct grades at the one time.
A NOISY PET.
It may be advisable, if the senseless clamor of States
Rights cannot be terminated any other way, to perfect
Federation by unifying.—Aon.
AUSTRALIA: "Shut up! Or Til wring your
blooming neck! ”
Two of Ballarat’s oldest inhabitants are in
course of disappearance—the Hermits’ Cave, a
wooden hotel that was a popular resort of the
diggers of the ’fifties; and the ex-Duchess of
Kent, at which pub Catherine Hayes, G. V.
Brooke, and other notables used to camp. Here
also Peter Lalor, Corboni Raffaelo, Fern, and other
Eureka leaders drew up their plan of campaign.
Her Grace of Kent has been doing duty of late years
as the laundry of one Ah Sin, so it’s about time
she was abolished.
* * « *
To-morrow, May 29, will be the 73rd
anniversary of the arrival of John Batman at the
Yarra to inspect, in the interests of a Van
Diemen’s Land syndicate, the grazing capabilities
of Port Phillip. Exactly a year afterwards
Governor Bourke sent George Stewart, police
magistrate at Campbelltown, to see what Batman
and Fawkner were about. Four months after
that, Captain Lonsdale, of the 4th Foot, was sent
down as Resident Magistrate. And in March,
1837, Governor Bourke himself dropped in,
approved of the plan of the town, an 1 named it
Melbourne, after the then British Prime
Minister. In June following', sur-
veyor Henry Hoddle, from a stump,
held the first land sale, and sent the
proceeds to the Treasury at Sydney.
TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR.
HE: “ Miss Brown , whenever I hear the piano
I shall think of you.”
SHE: “ And whenever I smell whisky I shall
think of you.”
A nice little trick played on the public by
the street tramway companies in Victoria is to be
tested at Ballarat. Like the Melbourne Tramway
Co., the Ballarat Co. increases the holiday fares
on some of its lines. In Melbourne, on certain
days, the city l|d. tickets are refused by the co.,
and a heavier fare is charged. On the Brunswick
line there is, for ordinary days, a threepenny
return system. This is suspended on Sundays
and holidays. Here is just the difference between
the much-lauded Private-Enterprise transportation
system and the hounded-down Government-owned
railways. The latter invariably provide lower
rate excursion fares on holidays. The Ballarat
co. increases its ordinary twopenny fare to three-
pence at such times, and its right to do so is being
challenged by a local solicitor. He declares that
he will fight to a finish, and if Ballarat doesn’t
give him a helping hand, it is meaner and more
stupid than it looks.
*
“ Harrison O.” holds 4th
In The Bulletin (10/4/’08) “ D ” writes upon the tragedy
of being called Ermyntrude, but this is a nothing in com-
parison with the tragedy of not being named Algernon
Reginald de Von Hiphen Anstruther. lam a mere clerk,
and my girl is a mere shop-girl, and she is, or was, the
possessor of the name of Mary Anne ; still I loved her, and
I did not mind her name. But lately she has taken to
reading the Family Herald and Horner’s Weekly, and
has now become foolish —also Marian. She has grown
cold towards me, and deplores the fact that my name is
not A. R. de Hiphen Von St. Gregory. She has asked me to
shave off my moustache, just because Reginald Horrible
de Blowfly, the hero in “A Wronged Woman,” does not
wear one. He wears “ clean-cut features,” and a “ straight
nose,” and a “ determined chin,” and my features are not
clean-cut, and my nose is not Roman, and my chin is
hesitating. Things are rotten, and it is all because my
parents were so fond of me that they refused to name
me Augustus Hiphen de St. Bosh, etc. Plain Brown has
no chance now with a girl unless he becomes Browne, and
Smith may as well pawn his fancy vests and neckties and
retire, for nothing can raise Smith to dignity unless he
calls himself Psammetichus, which was the name of old
King Smith, of Egypt.
Hassan ’ : One can’t walk down a Mel
bourne street now without meeting a counle ni
dozen people with their arms in slings, or tLi!
heads in bandages, or hobbling along on crutches
These be the victims of the Braybrook accident
I hey are very thick about the second Civil Court
where the inquest is being held. I counted 3271
there this morning, and, as I came down Lorn
dale-street, a crowd of them were trvin? tn /*!*,
into the Titles Oifice, probably to prove their
titles to compensation. It is a remarkable thin?
how badly a wound heals previous to the coranen
sation. And when Tait’s Claims Department
pays up, one will be able to walk down Bourke
street without seeing a bandage, and the odor of
iodoform will suddenly cease from troubling It
is remarkable how a wound heals up when the
owner has got his compensation.
* * * *
It is evidently much easier to wander in
and out of Pentridge prison than the Victorian
authorities think it is. The other Saturday a
junior football club,
playing on a reserve
alongside the “female”
wing of the big gaol,
unintentionally sent
the ball over the wall.
The sentries had re-
tired for the day, so a
new ball w* j s obtained,
and after the match
the club s sec. applied
for the bladder that
had gone astray. He
was told to fill in a
form in the manner
provided, guaran-
teeing that he
wouldn’t an-
nex any of
King Ned’s
property or
hold com-
munication
with any of
his prisoners
and so forth,
and a day or
two later, when
the application
had been duly
noted and per-
mission to search
had been granted,
and everything was
in proper order, he
was told he might
step inside and look
for his ball. He said
he was sorry to have
put anybody to so
much trouble, but he
wouldn’t bother to look
now. A couple of nip-
pers had noted the ball’s
disappearance, and had
entered His Majesty’s gaol
on the Sabbath evening,
and recovered the lost pro-
perty without making any appli-
cation or leaving traces of their ex-
ploit. The circumstance probably ex-
plains the ease with which “swags”
may be “planted” in Pentridge, and letters
passed from prisoners to “ cobbers ” outside.
* * * *
Taifc, of Victoria, the Man Who Weareth
the Cigar in his Countenance, is nearly ready with
his dining-car on the Sydney-Melbourne express.
And out of this fact may arise ill-feeling.
Hitherto the wanderer from Sydney has break-
fasted at Aiburv when the rim of the sun was
fighting its first round with the horizon. Now he
will probably go straight on to the train of Him
Who Burneth Tobacco in the Middle of his Face,
and eat his leisurely breakfast on Victorian terri-
tory about the time the train is doing more than
two miles per hour past Wangaratta. Therefore
it may be that the sausage at Albury will be
unsaleable, and, if so, there will be ill-feeling, and
a tendency to knock things into the centre of next
week. “
“ Jando ” sends some good Australian in
vile handwriting:—
When you bowl out those who say that “white men
can’t work in the Northern Territory,” they fall back on—
“ Well, anyhow, white women can’t live there.” And
that’s where I come in ; for I have not only lived there,
but worked hard there. The worst that happens to you
is prickly heat, and that is appalling enough. It lasts
six months, too. But there is nothing else for a sober
clean-living woman to fear.
By chance I was offered a billet in the Territory, so
went round the coast and entered upon my new position.
I found it, in many ways, a vast improvement on others
I had held of a scholastic nature—a vast improvement,
though it was as servant in a hotel. There is no Factory
Act there, and no appeal beyond C*sar (the missus is
Caesar). Moreover, there are only' extremely primitive
domestic inconveniences. In my case the work was in-
cessant, early and late, the seven day's round. Wages,
were £6 per month. This was lower than usual; but
then I had been a governess and wasn’t experienced in
the new duties. But it was not at all a hard life. The
heat is great, but not enervating, and evening generally
brings a delicious cool puff of wind southward across the
It is utter and indefensible claptrap to say white men
cannot do their share in holding this portion of Australia
secure from Asiatic claims. Given fair health and gri
to begin with, they can —and they know it, too. cer-
tainly with white labor the capitalist cannot be so certai
of becoming a millionaire as he can with the cheape
None of my bosses (I had about forty, besides the
missus) ever said it was too hot for me to work for tne ,
though all were yellow-labor advocates.
A SONG OF FAST COLORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The plain girl. . . can now, as the American professors
hbpefully put it, “ buck up.” If Grecian noses are worn,
the tip-tilted feature is moulded to the most perfect
specimen . . . The “ rosebud mouth,” always a favorite
with the strong, big man, can be evolved to pattern . . .
The professors have numberless patterns of eyes . . . The
tints that match these articles are produced by lotions,
and the colors are guaranteed fast and true to sample.—
Argus (15/5/’08).
The perfect bloom of the faked-up fair, and the doctored
eyes that shine
Below her bang of expensive hair ; and the foliage,
autumn-brown,
That’s bunched at the back of her well-trained ears, like
a beautiful ball of twine ;
The neck that, pigeon-plump, appears at the top of her
youthful gown ;
The eyes that Reginald loves the best, and the exquisite
nose he’s chosen ;
The charming tints that still suggest fat years of youth
and beauty ;
The nobbiest mould of frontal-bone, to which her fancy’s
frozen—
These are the things a girl should own if her Reginald
knows his duty.
The small, round, artificial kiss that you gather from
rosebud lips—-
From the fresh-tucked lips of the modern miss with her
sweet, new-fashioned dial—
The chin, one-storeyed, superfine, and the firm, pneu-
matic hips;
The feet where grace and strength combine ; the toupee
bought on trial ;
The ample, pleasing contours too, and the dimple to
please her lover;
The warm, pink, automatic blush, and the snowy, fatted
mauler ;
The neat, reversible, loose, brown curl that impertinent
winds discover —
These are the charms of the new-made girl when she sits
with her young male caller.
The Perfect Woman is built that way from any old lumpy
start ;
Her smiles are sketched in, bright and gay, with a pencil
of crimson grease ;
Her eyes, of amber or grey or green, are samples of eye-
lash-art ;
Her hair is golden or carroteen, and it’s hooked on, piece
by piece ;
Her colors are fast, they stick like glue, and they’re
plastered around in plenty ;
Her cheeks are centred with pink tattoo, or pallored with
bleaching lotions,
And yet pig-headed man will choose a foolish young
sweet-and-twenty,
Not patched nor plain—just a beauty who’s a Girl with
None o’ these Notions !
vio.
FRANK HENTY.


THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
slowly but surely ; it first relieves —then cures the
dreaded Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
it- Imitations do no good—don’t accept them.
Their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the CENUINE RHEUMACNETIC RING
(Patd.)
u
Made of Highly - Polished
Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on Application.
THE BHEUMAGNETIC BING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 2
Bilious attacks may be prevented by taking
three of CHAMBERLAIN’S STOMACH and
LIVER TABLETS as soon as the first indication
of the attack appears.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George Or King-streets.*
A SWEATER
that appeals
A Sweater that appeals to most
men. If you have not worn
a Sweater you would want one
if you saw these fine goods.
In Winter or Summer they are good to wear.
In Winter for warmth ; in Summer to have
for changeable weather.
It is indeed almost a necessity for Winter.
We have it with roll or polo collar in all sizes
—the highest class of sweaters possible to
procure.
When ordering give measurement of Chest.
PRICE, 6/6 EACH. POSTACE 6d. EXTRA.
Peapes & Co. Ltd,,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
. Clerical rows about the immorality of one
town or another in Australia have been from the
beginning. The present Broken Hill bobbery is
nothing to that raised by early Parson Marsden—
Samuel the Flogger—over the criminality of Syd-
ney and Parramatta. Marsden’s wails roused
England, and even set the House of Commons to
ask questions about the new Sodom and Gomorrah.
It was the intensity of the wailing that caused
Commissioner Bigge to be sent out on a mission
of inquiry. Macquarie and Wentworth told
Bigge that, with the exception of Marsden him-
self, there was hardly a wild, gay man in the
Colony, and Bigge reported to the British
Government that the wailing parson was really
more concerned in trade than in religion.
One of the curious little side-shows that
the Sydney Harbor Trust has to look after is a
Model Lodging House, which was established in
Kent-street over 25 years ago. In the beginning
it was patronised almost exclusively by seafaring
and long-shore men, and so it was put under the
Trust’s wing; but nowadays there isn’t much
smell of tar or salt about it. Last year, for in-
stance, there was a wholesale clearing out when
shearing started up country, and again when the
Northern Rivers and Queensland called for men
for the sugar farms and mills. Still the place
pays, and isn’t any trouble, so the Trust holds on
to it. All the labor that’s called for is a wards-
man and a laundress or so to scrub and scour ; so,
though the charges for a “doss” get down to the
point where you can’t see them with the naked
eye, there was £554 left over last year to pay in-
terest on the capital cost.
THE DIRECT METHOD.
Some of the prominent English Suffragettes have been
visiting New York to shake the staid and dignified Ameri-
can ladies up.
“ No! This is the way, ray dear."
The Vie. Presbyterian Assembly was most
awfu’ cautious the other day. One grateful
meenister proposed that a special Sawbath should
be set apart as “a day of thanksgiving for rain
which has fallen throughout the State.” Imme-
diately several holy men rose, and objected that,
inasmuch as rain had been vouchsafed only oyer
certain limited areas, it would be proper to give
the Almighty only limited thanks. What the
Assembly really ought to do in such cases is to
have a map printed, say in two colors. Then a
map could be hung up alongside each pulpit, and,
while Providence was thanked for the rain sent
on all that part or parcel of ground marked green,
He might be invited to forward a little more
moisture on all that part or parcel tinted blue.
THE UNPARDONABLE SIN.
“ Hallo, don’t you speak to Mrs. Smirk now?”
“ Speak to her! I don't even look at her. Can't
you see she's had her frock made the same
as mine ?”
“Dog-growl” explains what happened
when he had dinner with the cook :
I don’t know whether the lots we are importing are the
same ; but the crowd of English domestics I once worked
with, at a most exclusive vice-regal residence, had the
curse of snobbishness born and bred in them. There were
upper and lower servants. The first was the steward’s
room crowd. At the head was the pompous side-
whiskered butler; then the housekeeper and lvdies’
maids in their respective order. They were the little
Josses and Jossesses. The lower lot was made up of the
servants ’all push, presided over by Jeames, first
footman. Jeames is generally the most egotistical
person on God’s earth. The two classes mealed
separately, excepting once a day—at dinner. That
was a ceremony. The plebeian crowd was all seated,
looking with longing eyes at a couple of hot joints steam-
ing on the table. Not a soul dared help himself or any
of the others until the patrician element entered in
solemn order. Then there was a munch, munch, munch
in deadly silence. It was a hanging matter for anybody
to speak in the presence of the upper servants unless the
lord chief butler first addressed him. After the first
course, the stewards’ room people went off to their own
dining-room to finish the meal. Thus was a good old
English custom religiously observed in Australia ! I stuck
to it for a little while, helped on bv the one sensible regu-
lation in force—beer served out four times a da}’.
* •* * m
The growing popularity of the soda-
fountain, where you can get for 3d. almost any
color of fizzy iced stomach-
ache, is advanced in proof of
the increasing sobriety of the
times. Perhaps. But only per-
haps. In America—and pro-
bably the same applies to Aus-
tralia—the soda-fountain has
been found guilty of some
dangerous dopes, strychnine,
morphine, and cocaine enter-
ing into the composition of
some of the drinks retailed.
Thus in dodging the Scylla of
Alcohol, you go plump into the
what-you-may-call-’em of a
drug habit. And there is this
to be said of alcohol, that it
is possible to get drunk on it
decently and decorously. You
can get doggy and disreputably
and disgracefully drunk if you
want to; but there is a fairly
respectable alternative. But the
drug fiend is always a beast.
Sometimes he is plain beast;
other times he is beast with fearful trimmings.
But always beast.
* * * *
Tait’s railways have become somewhat of
a joke at the Melbourne suburb of Canterbury.
Many pot-hatted and black-bagged people pour
out of Canterbury in the morning and pour back
in the evening ; and every evening they give way
to fury. There is one youth in charge. He is
supposed to be (1) at the exit, taking tickets ; (2)
at the window, selling tickets ; (3) rushing up and
down the train, shutting doors and giving the
starting signal. As the last job is the most lmport-
ant —for if he doesn’t start the train it may stay
there till next week—he simply locks the outer
door till he is ready to take tickets, and the top-
hatted black-bagged crowd, caged up like some-
thing at the Zoo, speaks bitterly about Tait and
all his belongings.
» * * *
“Hub”': My wife is a White Australian
from the roof of her crowning glory (which is
a, shimmering "brown) down to the soles of her
No 3 boots, which are tan, and worn with tan
stockings. She dislikes the yellow man, hates the
brown person, and despises the nigger. Conse-
quently her indignation is like the bicycle tyre
that is blown up too tight, and she now has to
wear her blouse open at the back. the other
night she visited the market to purchase about
2s. 6d. worth of vegetables for Is. After strolling
through an avenue of 397 Chinese market gar.
deners, she at last came across a stall presided
over by a lone white man. She bought. Ihis is
where her indignation comes in. That man took
the money, went up to his Chow employer work-
ing alongside, who asked, “ How muchee ? and
handed over the change. I want to know what
to do if she should burst.
“ 8.K.” : The demolition of the old
Town Hall buildings in Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne, is almost completed, and already are
being laid the foundations of the new and im-
posing structure that is to fill the vacancy.
The older pressmen of the city heave the sigh
of remembrance over the carting away of the
former City Court, where Call, P.M.,
and afterwards Panton, held sway
what time the “Binch” was not
occupied by some of the remarkable
old magistrates of the honorary type
who usually contrived to yield a large
amount of fun to the square inch of
avoirdupois. It was here that a
famous Solomonic decision was de-
livered by Mr. O’Blank, Jay Pay. He
was presiding, with two equally in-
tilligint brethren, in a case of larceny as
a bailee. “Phwat th’ divvil’s thot?”
he inquired of the clerk of courts, when
the charge was read out. The clerk explained.
“ O-lio, the scoundhrel,” whispered the beak,
“illagally used his implyer’s money, did he?
Well, hurry on, me lunch is waitin’.” They
did hurry on. Depositions were smartly
taken, and the usual committal for'trial was
awaited. Mr. O’Blank was brief and to the
point. “Foive years,” lie announced. The
accused nearly had a fit; the policemen re-
moved their helmets in their astonishment;
and the clerk agitatedly entered his remon-
strance : “Your Worship cannot give that
sentence. You must commit for trial, unless
the accused elects to be dealt with by the
Bench, in which case you can fine or im-
prison.” Mr. O’Blank raged against the folly
of such a law, but finally asked the sti.il
partly-paralysed accused whether he would
prefer to be dealt with by that Court.
“Yes,” said the dazecj man. Then the
chairman consulted his colleagues, one
of whom was for three months, and the
other for six. “Well,” declared Mr.
O’Blank, “ Oi’m for twelve meself.
Thot’s twelve and six is eighteen and
three is twinty-wan. Twinty-wan
months, me man, and considher verself
lucky.” Again had the clerk to protest :
“You can only give twelve months, sir.”
The chairman spoke bitterly and severely
of the makers of the law, and at last asked
the clerk for advice. “I think you’d better
split the difference, and call it three months,
your Worship,” said he. And his Worship,
bethinking himself of his luncheon, accepted the
quartered split, or the ruins of the split, in a rush,
and entered up a sentence of six weeks.
• • * *
“Stony”: I happened along the Block,
the other afternoon, and there, standing at a shop-
front, I saw a woman wearing a face that gave
me a dull pain. The face was a study in white
and vermilion —lip-salve and white face-powder.
After the first horror-stricken glance, the
thing that seized my notice and held it
in a firm grip was the red-and-white
lady’s extraordinary veil. The last time
I had seen anything like it was up on
the Murray, when a middle-aged
traveller rolled in with a swag and
called for beers. This tourist wore
the not unusual line of corlc-scraps,
dangling from the hat-brim, which
is the terror of the Australian fly.
In the case of the female with the
face, she wore what, at first glance,
seemed to be a replica of the travel-
ler’s flv-chaser. It was a short veil
of invisible mesh, carrying at foot
a row of dark-brown blobs, half-an-
inch apart, and they grotesquely
danced and joggled as she stepped
away to meet a slender youth with
pink hair and a pale eye. Her face
gave me a dull pain—and her veil
made me so tired and thirsty, re-
minding me of the traveller of the
Murray, that I retired to a little
place around the corner and saw a
man about a terrace of dogs.
‘ ‘ Prawn ” writes :
The fish-oh gentleman who perambulates Sydney’s
suburban area with last week’s marine denizen is airing a
grievance. A more or less favorite sport in Sydney is
outside schnappering. For a few shillings you hire a line,
some grandfatherlv prawns, and a few feet of bulwark
area on a villainously lively steamer. The schnapper
craft starts away any time after midnight and staggers up
or down the coastline to a likely spot. The sports on board
look out for the softest plank on deck, and try to get a
sleep before the fishing begins. It always blows half a
gale on these jaunts, and a lively jobble disturbs their
slumbers. Reaching the schnapper grounds the ship
heaves to. Also it heaves generally. Generally here all
hands heave up, for a light steamer with no way on
rolls horribly. After some hours everybody is in a fright-
ful mess with bait, fishing lines, fish, salt water, etc.
Most often the catches made on these excursions (hilari-
ously advertised in the “Amusement Column ”) are poor
in number and beggarly in quality, but occasionally they
are a great success. It is here I get back to the original
fish-oh gent. Among the fishermen on the steamer there
is an occasional sport who would risk his life for the out-
side fishing in a pulling boat if there wasn’t any steamer,
but the large majority of the regulars (they are mostly
regulars, for the experimentalist is satisfied with one
voyage) are on the job for keeps. They sell their catches,
and they sell them well, for their customers are guaran-
teed fresh fish. But these parties haven’t licenses, and
“ the trade ” is moving for prosecutions against the fish-
ing amateurs. The threat is disturbing the schnapper-
ists. They don’t want the expense and worry and
degradation of a fish-hawker’s license. Yet after a sleep-
less, seasick night on a villainously-lively steamer, what
satisfaction is there in landing a 501 b. schapper, easily
worth £l, if you have to give it away ? Even one’s best
girl would be embarrassed with the present of half-a-
hundredweight of dead fish.
The Sunshine (Vic.) smash has apparently
had a good effect in South Australia, and roused the
shadowy figures vaguely referred to as “the
authorities ” to recognition of the fact that their
employees are not mere machines. Recently the
rear portion of the Cockburn-Petersburg goods
train broke away and started back towards the
last station, where there was a passenger train in
the direct line of smash. The guard did not lose
his head, and, by jamming on his van-brake hard,
hurl the whole mass off the rails. He scrambled
thoughtfully along the line of trucks, letting down
the drop-brakes by lifting the levers with his feet
while he clung to the sides of the vehicles. Before
he got to the end of the trucks some three miles
had been traversed, but with all brakes on,
barring that of the van, which was in front of the
procession, speed fell, and a few turns of the van
brake brought the whole mass to a stop in time to
avert a monumental accident. Commissioner
Pendleton has ordered the guard a gratuity of
£5O “ for pluck.” This is unprecedented liber-
ality. In other days it would have meant merely
a good mark in the general conduct and record
ledger, and have done duty only as a counter-
balance against a bad mark for losing time or
arriving on duty 2£ minutes late.
* * m ■*
Geelong (Vic.) was long accused of being
so slow that stout, elderly worms pursued the
residents and bit them ; but it is now moulting
the habit to some extent. At present it is talking
about an electric tramway ; it isn’t sufficiently
aroused to undertake the business itself, but it is
discussing the matter with the usual syndicate—
the usual syndicate with the usual habit of turn-
ing up while a town is only half-awake, and notin
a fit state to defend itself. Also in these days
Geelong actually already owns a Harbor Trust;
it is slowly dredging a place for ships to
move in, but so far it has done better work
in turning some of the Barwon flats into
fertile patches. It hasn’t done that valuable
job, however, without having numerous clods
thrown at it; some of the neighboring “backbone”
want to know what the Board means by com-
peting with Private Enterprise like that. Also
in other lucid moments Geelong has taken over
the waterworks for £265,000, and now it is filling
every available pigeon-hole with reports on a pro-
posed local sewerage system. J. H. Cardew, of
Sydney, gave his opinion some time ago ; and
now A. J. Martin, of London or thereabouts, is
being imported to give another opinion, Geelong
being as yet only half satisfied that Australia has
a sound opinion on even the digging of a gutter.
Still the place is getting on.
HE GOT THE JOB.
Employee : “ What experience have you had in
the way of managing ? ”
Applicant : “ Eve managed to keep a servant
for six months ! ”
Bent, Victoria’s extraordinary Portent,
Omen, Manifestation, or whatever he is, claimed
proficiency in yet another avenue of toil last week.
He told a newspaper man that he, Bent, was “a
born journalist.” He had, he seems, “in a
most marked degree what in the newspaper world
was called the ‘ news instinct.’ ” “ Wasn’t lon a
newspaper once?” he inquired wildly. “It was
at Brighton (Vic.) that I turned my hand to re-
porting. Pretty fair at it, I was, too.” It is
comforting to reflect that Bent’s orgies of skite
should be drawing to a close. He has now pub-
licly acclaimed himself a champion at pretty well
every profession, art, business, game and sport on
earth.
MONEY MAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A novel plea has been put forward by an American bank
cashier who is charged with absconding with £270,000.
The accused pleads that, under the stress of the recent
financial crisis, he became “ money mad ” and was not
responsible for his actions.— Cable.
A clever notion this which we
Receive from o’er the water,
Whence also came the “ brain-storm ” plea
For murder and manslaughter.
And now the nimble paying clerk
Who fakes a little docket,
Or that cute chap who cannot work,
But neatly picks your pocket,
Will say his case is very s*d
(Misled by some fair Tottie),
Though really not innately bad,
It chanced that he grew “ money mad ”
Financially dotty.
For man, because he’s weak and frail
His flag has oft deserted,
He’s caught with sugar on his tail,
And fiscally converted.
While that good gentleman in black,
Who ran his institutions
So far that he will ne’er come back
With our cash contributions,
He’s not a voluntary cad,
A cold and crafty skipper ;
He took to sovereigns as a fad,
And presently went “ money mad
Right off his golden dipper.
Folks differ, as our daily round
And town events betoken,
Some are financially sound,
And some are cracked—or broken.
’Tis not a paradox or quip
If Jones and Smith are stated
To lose their balance when they skip
With Brown’s. They’re vindicated
By knowledge of the kink they had.
It couldn’t be prevented.
Though Brown was penny-wise, noor lad,
The other two were money mad,'
And quite £ s. d.-mented !
VIC.
SILLAS SNELL.


LOCOMOTIVES.
Light English Locomotives
as made by
Hudswell, Clarke & Co. Ltd., Leeds.
Represented
by
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Stree
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
, BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK — Winding 1 Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps or
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & C 0.,, Lt <>
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary fcng
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department
Added
Claims Provided to In-
and Sur- Ex- against De- surance
Dec., Revenue, renders, penses. preciation. Fund.
1897.. £398,121 £205,193 £59,164 £133,764
1898.. 410,148 210,245 58,825 £4,650 136,428
1899.. 421,569 211,383 69,639 14,400 136,147
1900.. 423,700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901.. 460,753 256,100 59,194 145,459
1902.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
This office is not making very rapid progress. It does not
pursue policies outside Maoriland ; so its scope is limited.
Moreover, it has very strenuous opposition. The remark-
able prosperity of Maoriland under Ballance and Seddon,
who pursued a policy which Anti-Sosh in Australia
says means Smash, attracted not only the Australian and
American offices, but even one from England. Gradually,
however, Maoriland drifted away from the policy laid
down by Ballance and pursued by Seddon in his earlier
days, and went in for wholesale borrowing. Money was
scattered in all directions ; tourist-resort crockery was
charged up to loans; the preservation of scenery was
paid for out of the same bag. Naturally, as these
things don’t pay for themselves, the public have
to pay the interest in the shape of taxation. It
takes a lot to spoil the good work that Maoriland did ;
but the job is being managed. Thousands of Maorilanders
have therefore grown anxious about the future. They
know that, owing to the vast borrowings—the net public
debt has increased from £51,837,631 in 1902 to £61,276,542
in 1907 —the Dominion has be,en enjoying a fictitious
prosperity ; land and property values have been artificial;
nearly everything has been artificial. Maorilanders, on
the \vhole, think very much of their State Life Insurance
Department; but they know that it is confined to Maori-
land, that over 56 per cent, of all its assets are in Maori-
land mortgages, and they are now therefore patting their
owm office on the head, and passing by. It isn’t the fault
of the office. It is the fault of Maoriland, and especially
of the Maoriland Government’s borrow-and-boom policy.
True, on the basis of total income, the expense
rate shows no change for the worse :
Expenses in Propop tion to Total Income.
1898 .. £l4 6 10 per cent. 1903 .. £l3 19 4 per cent.
1899 .. 14 2 11 „ 1904 .. 12 11 8 „
1900 .. 14 10 0 ~ 1905 .. 13 0 0 „
1901 .. 12 16 11 „ 1906 .. 13 7 6 „
1902 .. 13 5 5 „ 1907 .. 12 13 2 „
But, before those figures are of much value, we have to
know what new business has been got in. And it is at
this point the trouble shows itself; the amount of new
premiums received is not as large as it reached a few
years ago, while the lapses are larger. Assuming that
the renewal premiums cost 7 per cent, and the annuity
business 3 per cent., then the charges on those branches
of the business were £21,790, leaving £44,879 as
the cost of the new business; and that was at
the rate of 206 - 2 per cent, of the new premiums. There
is hardly one Australian office —certainly not one in the
front rank—whose figures are so high. Some allowance
must no doubt be made for the fact that the premiums
are low’, and also on account of the heavier taxation
which this office has to pay. Private Enterprise says
State competition isn’t fair because the State doesn’t
make its busihess start from scratch. Here, however, is
a race in which the State’s business actually starts from
behind scratch ; for while taxes account for 10’5 per
cent, of the total expenses of the A.M.P., they account
for no less than 16’6 per cent, in the case of the M.L.
State office.
The Assurance Fund now amounts to £4,147,411.
There is, besides, an admirable reserve in the shape of an
Investment Fluctuation Fund, £63,809. Combining them
they show the following interest earnings :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 8 3 p.c. 1904 .. £4 6 10 p.c.
1901 .. 4 7 8 „ 1905 .. 4 8 11 „
1902 .. 4 7 5 „ 1906 .. 4 8 5 „
1903 .. 4 6 11 „ 1907 .-. 4 8 10 „
The weakest feature in connection with the investments is
the excessive proportion represented by mortgages.
Compare the holdings of three typical offices :
M.L.
A.M.P. Citizens’. State.
Public securities.. 31 - 6p.c. 58’7 p.c. 19'9 p.c.
Mortgages .. 41’5 ~ 22'5 ~ 56'2 ~
Policy loans, etc.. 18’5 ~ 5'9 ~ 16'4 ~
Freeholds.. .. 4 - 0 ~ 9’3 ~ 2’9 ~
Cash, etc... .. 4'4 ~ 3’6 ~ 4’6 ~
Broadly, the difference between the public security and
the mortgage is, that the one is backed by the whole
credit of the country that issues the security ; the
mortgage has nothing behind it but the variable value of
the particular property on which the advance has been
made. Given sufficient skill and experience, mortgage
business can no doubt be conducted w’ithout loss ; but
there are large risks, and the return ought to be big to
counterbalance those risks. Yet last year the A.M.P.’s
average interest earnings w’ere £4 9s. lid. per cent., or
Is. Id. per cent, more than those of the M.L. office.
A very unfavorable feature of the Maoriland
office’s experience is the excessive proportion of lapses or
surrenders, especially among young endowment policies.
Few offices furnish the data for a comparison ; so the
A.M.P.—whose experience is certainly very favorable—
must be taken for the purpose. The figures are compiled
from last year’s reports in both'cases, annuity insurance
being disregarded:—
A.M.P. Maoriland.
Death or maturity £938,555 = 40’9 p.c. £236,842 = 38'7 p.c.
Surrender .. 887,851 = 387 „ 113,650 = 18-6 „
Lapse .. .. 469,143 = 20-4 „ 261,643=427 „
£2,295,549 = 100 p.c. £612,135 = 100 p.c.
So of the amount represented by policies which left the
M.L. office’s books last year 427 p.c. was forfeited through
non-payment of premiums. From that one can only
judge that Maoriland has developed the bad habit of
biting off more than it can chew—it takes out a policy
and after paying two premiums or so lets the thing slide ;
and under such circumstances a satisfactory expense rate
is impossible.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Accident In-
surance Department :
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Income. Profit, pired Risks, serves. serves.
1901 ..£11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4,096
1902 .. 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9,785
1904 .. 24,188 5418 978 4440 15,203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,775
1906 .. 21,929 1604 1604 23,379
1907 .. 22,835 4901 4901 28,280
When this branch of the Government’s Life Insurance
Department was organised, accident insurance profits
were more gorgeous than they are to-day. The insurers
have had the benefit of the change—a change brought
about partly by this State enterprise, partly by the other
private-enterprise concerns which were attracted by the
previously-mentioned gorgeous profits. With the State
business in the field, insurers, however, have this guaran-
tee : there won’t be any combination to put up rates,
because the State’s interest in the business is not to make
profits but to provide insurance at cost price. Its busi-
ness, in fact, is to do with regard to this brand of
insurance what the mutual or co-operative insurance
offices are doing with regard to life insurance. So the
value of this office is not to be measured bylts figures,
though the figures are quite good enough to stand on
their own merits.
From the beginning, the gross income has been
cut up as follows :
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1901 .. £2O 8 2 p.c. £45 3 4 p.c. £34 8 6 p.c.
1902 .. 51 19 3 „ 41 9 4 „ 6 11 5 „
1903 .. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 „
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6 „
1905 .. 45 3 10 „ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5 „
1906 .. 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3 „ 7. 6 6 „
1907 .. 49 8 8 „ 29 2 1 ~ 21 9 3 „
The reserves, as shown by the first table, amount to
£28,280 ; but £9588 of that "is a reserve to cover risks still
current—in other words, that amount represents
unearned premiums. The funds have grown so satisfac-
torily that the whole of the Government advance upon
which the business was launched has been paid back ; so,
though less than seven years old, this thriving business
has provided all its own capital—a fine answer to
the Anti-Sosh fanatic who tells the people that they can
never do anything for themselves, but must be content
to pay through the nose to a handful of very ordinary
men (calling themselves Private Enterprise)for the things
they must have. The Accident Branch’s funds are kept
apart from the Life Insurance Funds, and are practically
all out on mortgage. The}' ought, by the way, to be all
in State securities. State enterprises of this kind should
be —as a side issue, but a very important side issue all
the same—agencies for getting the country out of Bull’s
pawnshop and making it its own public creditor.
The Wellington and Manawatu Railway Co.
(Maoriland): —
Railway Land Dividends Total
Feb., Profits. Profits. and Bonus. Reserves.
1899 .. £6,258 £1,849 5 per cent. =£8,500 £62,731
1900 .. 8,094 8,099 5 „ „ 8,500 70,424
1901 .. 8,773 7,866 6 „ ~10,200 76,863
1902 .. 7,969 3,624 6 „ ~10.200 78,256
1903 .. 10,361 35,221 16 „ ~27,200 96,638
1904 .. 11,066 6,940 7 „ ~ 11,900 102,744
1905 .. 10,389 6,201 7 „ ~ 11,900 107,434
1906 .. 11,265 10,629 7 „ „ 11,900 117,428
1907 .. 11,447 10,477 7 „ ~ 11,900 127,452
1908 .. 11,495 13,600 7 „ ~11,900 140,647
This co. was formed in 1882 to construct a railway under
the powers of the Railway Construction and Land Act,
passed in the previous year. The contract made with the
Government retained for the State the goodwill in the line,
and on that basis empowered the Government to purchase
on giving 12 months’ notice. The State on such pur-
chase was to pay only the value of the undertaking,
apart from goodwill—that is to say, for the line and
rolling stock only—on a valuation to be arrived at by
arbitration ; and 10 per cent, is to be added to that for
disturbance. Once or twice hitherto, a little alarmed at
State opposition, there has been a movement to push on
the purchase: six or seven years ago English share-
holders approached the Government, and promised to
use all their influence to get a fair bargain adopted. The
Maoriland shareholders were, however, less agreeable,
and nothing happened ; but a little while ago the
Government gave 12 months’ notice, and the business in
connection with the transfer is now in progress.
There has always been threatened trouble over
the valuation of the line and rolling stock. Possibly with
a view to suppressing some of the profits, or possibly with
a view to preparing for the time when the land-sales
profits would disappear, the directors have been not only
writing-down the book value of the line out of revenue or
gross profits, but have also been building up a very
respectable maintenance fund from the same source.
This shows the actual position during the past few
years:—
Transferred to
Gross Maintenance Written Net
Feb., Profit. Account. Off. Profit.
1903 .. £12,371 £2OlO £10,361
1904 .. 15,550 3500 £984 11,066
1905 .. 14,613 3000 1224 10,389
1906 .. 24,384 4500 8619 11,265
1907 .. 26,578 7000 8131 11,447
1908 .. 29,083 9000 8588 11,495
Look at the column showing net profits, and there
doesn’t seem to have been any improvement worth men-
tioning : turn to the gross profit column, and the horse
isn’t tbe same old flea-bitten grey. When it has come to
taking over the business, however, and the Government
has said, “ We will accept your book value,” some of the
shareholders have been quite indignant about it, and
have pointed out that that isn’t the real value at all.
But that difference of opinion will not stop the transfer ;
the arbitrators needn’t even look at the balance-sheet,
for that matter.
The co., anyhow, has had time to get rid of
nearly all its land, so no section of the shareholders is
likely to break its heart over the transfer. All ttiat was
left of the “ freehold land ” item on Feb. 28 was £8995,
as against £59,315 in 1900. How the thing will pan out
for shareholders depends, of course, upon what view the
arbitrators take of the value of the line. If they say it is
worth book-value (that is, if the amounts written off have
been just enough), the co. will be in this position, taking
no account of this current year’s profits :
Value of railway £828,376
Liquid assets, after paying debts .. 205,076
Lands 8,995
Total assets £1,042,447
Less Debenture debt 680,000
Total for shareholders.. .. £362,447
Out of this the current dividend of £6BOO must be taken ;
the balance of £355,647 is represented by capital,
£170,000; reserves (as in table above), £140,647; and
maintenance reserve, £45,000. Add to the value of the
railway 10 per cent, for disturbance, and the total avail-
able for shareholders, on this basis, would be £438,484,
equal to about £2 12s. per share. Evidently the specula-
tors expect that much at least to be realised, for the market
price of the shares has moved up to £2 Bs. ; they were
worth only £llBs. twelve months ago.
* * * »
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., which was
formed in 1903 to take over three boom wrecks :
Deficit (pre-
liminary
Oct., Profit. Dividends. expenses).
1903.. £3116
Dec., Reserves.
1904.. £4.899 Nil 1783
1905.. 4,610 Nil 6393
1906.. 9,925 4i per cent. = £11,389 4929
1907.. 15,965 6" „ „ 17,083 3811
During tbe boom there were these three concerns, among
the rest—the City of Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank
of Australia, and the English and Australian Mortgage
Bank. After the boom, their affairs were taken over
respectively by the Melbourne Assets Co., the Federal
Assets Co., and the English and Australian Assets Co.
These three, though bound together by a common sorrow,
kept up separate houses for some years, but they mingled
their tears freely. Then, after talking over it for a
long while, they decided to set up one establishment
among them, and they called it the Melbourne Trust,
Ltd. —which wasn’t much of a title : British Trust and
Melbourne Boomsters’ Cheek, Ltd., would have been
better, only that the cheek wasn’t limited. The new
concern issued 1,366,666 shares of 4s. each and £392,485
of debentures ; also £20,704 in cash. Per share of the
several assets cos. the Trust debentures, shares, etc.,
were cut up in these proportions :
4 per cent. Trust Trust
Debentures. Shares. Cash.
Melbourne £9 0 0 30 lid.
Federal 6 6 0 21
English and Australian 2 2 0 7 4s. 3d
One of the terms agreed upon when the cos. went into joint
housekeeping was that any profits made from the sale of
assets or purchase of debentures should not be paid away
in dividends until all the debentures had been wiped out;
and that has, no doubt, hurried on the purchase of de-
bentures. The Trust’s history in that respect has been as
follows :
Profit on Profit
Redeemed Purchase on
Debentures During of De- Property
Outstanding. Year. bentures. Sold.
Oct., 1903.. £392,485
Dec., 1904.. 304,514 £87,971 £2107 £12,175
Dec., 1905.. 262,383 42,131 858 26,817
Dec., 1906.. 189,579 72,804 648 31,274
Dec., 1907.. 150,693 38,886 213 15,545
Totals .. .. £241,792 £3826 £85,811
And the directors say that another £56,700 of debentures
have been extinguished since December 31, leaving
£99,997 outstanding.
In 1906-7 the secretary was sent out from Lon-
don to confer with the Australian Board as to the valua-
tions of the assets. The book values, upon which the
Trust had been established, had been arrived at in 1899.
On a revaluation as at December 31, 1906, it was esti-
mated that properties standing in the books at £417,586
could “ reasonably be expected to produce a sum more
nearly approximating £581,667, assuming that the
present policy of realisation be continued, a id sales
effected at prices commensurate with th se obtained
during the year under review ” —which was the
boom year 1906. Last year was another boom year, and
'the results appear to have been even better ; so that,
whereas formerly on £417,586 of assets (book value) a sur-
plus of £164,081 was expected, on the present £364,362 of
assets (book value) a surplus of £167,380 is expected—
again assuming that “ prices commensurate with those
obtained during the year under review” are obtained.
If that figure can be realised the position will be as
follows: —
Properties in hand £531,740
Advances .. .. .. .. 146,169
Cash, etc. ~ .. .. .. 31,852
Total assets .. .. £709,761
Less —Dividend £17,083
Other debts .. .. 7,825
Debentures .. .. 150,693
■ 175,601
Available for shareholders .. .. £534,160
There are 1,366,666 shares out; and the above amount is
equal on that bundle to 7s. lOd. per share. But all that
depends absolutely upon the valuation of the assets “ at
prices commensurate with those obtained during 1907 ”
being supported ; and there is very considerable doubt
whether they will be. As to current profits, the assets
include sheep stations and a sugar estate in Fiji, both un-
certain sorts of property. On the other hand, if (as has
so far happened) it takes less than £1 of assets (book
value) to pay off £1 of debenture debt, it ought to be
easier to pay dividends in the future than it has been in
the past. On the property realisations so far there has
baen a surplus of £85,810, and that amount the co. has,
as it were, to the good, earning money for shareholders —
or for the management; for there isn’t any recent reduc-
tion in the outlay on this latter account.
* * * *
The Swan Brewery Co., the highly profitable
concern that attends to Westralia’s copious thirst: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. off. serves, serves.
£ Dividends. £ £ £
Mar., ’02.. 20,483 24 p.c. = £9,131 554 10,798 81,444
Sept.,’o2.. 15,144 24 „ „ 9,131 617 5,396 86,840
Mar., ’03.. 23,660 32 „ „ 12,174 308 11,178 98,018
Premiums on new shares .. .. 2,275 100,293
Sept.,’o3.. 14,740 24 p.c. = 12,160 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new shares .. .. 12,834 115,443
Mar., ’04.. 29,717 32 p.c. = 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new shares .. .. 5,265 133,866
Sept.,’o4.. 19,571 24 p.c. = 12,174 326 7,071 140,937
Securities written up 1,350 142,287
Mar., ’05.. 24,706 32 p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept.,’os.. 19,663 24 „ ~ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’06.. 24,383 32 „ ~ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6.. 13,038 24 ~ ~ 12,174 832 32 165,742
(and Div. Tax.)
Mar., ’07.. 24,601 24 p.c. = 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept.,’o7.. 14,528 24 „ ~12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’OB.. 22,829 24 „ ~12,783 786 9,260 186,928
The dividends look very dazzling, but they are not all
quite so dazzling as they look, for the large amounts of
capital received in the shape of premiums on new share-
issues have to be kept in mind. As reserves have been
accumulated from premiums and undivided profits, the
co. has rapidly increased its holding of hotel properties.
For example:—
Mar.,’o2. Mar.,’o7. Mar.,’oB.
Brewery, land and buildings £49,740 £73,292 £74,392
Hotel properties .. .. 49,045 170,594 176,293
All these items are in the balance-sheet at cost. Some
years ago a beginning was made to write them down ;
but the nucleus of the fund for the purpose was
presently wiped out, and, presumably on revalua-
tion, the properties were written up again. No
doubt there has been a very big increase of property
values in Berth and some other parts of Westralia ; but it
has to be noted that most of the co.’s properties have
been bought since 1902 (anyhow, the bulk of the book value
has been added since 1902), and the biggest spring in values
had taken place before that. Of course, there is no sure
way of telling from a balance-sheet whether properties
are over-valued or under-valued. You can look at the
rent return, certainly ; and that shows a shade under 8
per cent, per annum on the book value, or a shade over
7 per cent, after paying* for repairs and maintenance ; and
under ordinary circumstances that wouldn’t hint at over-
valuation. But, then, high rents are often charged (as on
mining fields and centres that depend on mining fields) to
counterbalance excessive risks of depreciation ; for the
bottom falls out of the best of mines some day. Part of the
high rent in such cases ought really to be regarded as
sinking fund, and not profit at all. That is the special
risk of this co. And then there is the ordinary brew-ery
risk, represented by the growing influence of the party
which insists on ordering not only cold tea for itself, but
cold tea all round ; and because this co. has practically
every farthing of its own in the Bung business, besides
£43,317 of an overdraft and £15,871 borrowed on mort-
gage, it would be affected more than a brewery co. which
has put part of its reserves into some other form of
security. On the other hand, this general brewery risk
probably isn’t so imminent in the West as it is ip most
places. In Australia enfranchised woman has made the
License and No-License question peculiarly her own ; and
the proportion of woman, enfranchised and otherwise, is
still very small in Westralia. Meantime, while the danger
looks still a good way off, this co., though it keeps its hotels
in at cost, is nevertheless accumulating what is apparently
some sort of informal reserve—“ Accounts in credit, in-
cluding goodwills accruing, £5715.” On a previous occa-
sion the co. deducted a corresponding item from the
book-value of hotels. Now'it doesn’t show it that way;
it treats it as a little bit up its sleeve, which may possibly
come in handy perhaps for fighting purposes presently.
Elsewhere—in S. Aus., for instance—the drain on the
current profits of breweries for trade-defence purposes is
nowadays something very substantial.
Illawarra Mutual Building Society (N. S. W.):
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1906 .. £706 6 per cent. =£sl7 £lB9 £1789
1907 .. 729 6 „ „ 535 194 1983
1908 .. 651 6 „ „ 604 47 2030
This little society, now' 28 years old, has a capital of
£10,786, and works wholly on that and its reserves. In
fact, it could apparently do with more advances without
borrowing to make them, for it had £1933 in the
bank on March 31. The past year shhws poorer profits
than usual, owing to a loss of £125 on the sale of
securities. This see-sawing of property values constitutes
the society’s risk ; and in a mostly mining town like
Wollongong, ups and downs are inevitable. Still’a re-
serve of £2030, equal to just 20 per cent, of mortgages and
freeholds, is a fairly substantial protection for the society’s
capital. }
* * * *
The Privy Council having at last said that there
was nothing in the rules to stop the A.M.P. policy-holders
from pursuing business in either England or Hongkong if
they feel that way, the officials who are to superintend
the beginning of the foolishness have left for London
H. W. Apperly, who is to have charge, went six weeks
ago ; General Manager Teece followed ; and chairman
A. VV. Meeks left last Saturday. The official idea is that
England is a place flowing with millionaires and money
and that, instead df getting the paltry £lOO policies that
have to be pursued at great cost of tongue and shoe-
leather in Australia, the £5OOO policy will drop in almost
any morning before breakfast. As a matter of fact, the
average “ ordinary ” policy in Great Britain is only £315 •
so the prospects with regard to the £5OOO policy are
prettv cheerless.
* * » *
Though it does nothing to speak of, except sit
down and wait, the V.D.L. Co.—Tasmania’s great octopus
—shows a natty little profit of over £BOOO for 1907. This
is all cut up among shareholders, save £39. If Premier
Evans, instead of wailing over State debts and Common-
wealth surpluses, went in for a graduated land-tax, he
would be doing better work for his little island, and might
possibly keep some of its young male population at home.
A slice of the co.’s ground is being floated off in London,
the new concern being the Burnie (Tasmania) Timber and
Brick Co. The object is to hand over to the pup the
sawmills at Burnie, brickworks at Cooee Creek, and
10,000 acres of land for £22,500. The new co., which
also has the option of taking up another 15,000 acres at
30s. per acre, is to cut out the timber and sell or lease the
land. Of course a big slab of the cash subscribed will go
to the vendor co., so the land will have to be prettv
heavily weighted to give much return when re-sale take’s
place.
* * * *
From “W.W.D.”: “Recently I wrote through
the Union Bank in Melbourne, in connection with the
scrip in the Marconi (Canada) Co., which I and hundreds
of others were two years ago induced to buy from the
travelling representative of Munroe and Munroe, the
alleged agents of the co. in New York. I asked the bank
to send along my interim receipt to New York, and get
the scrip, as arranged. The bank has now replied, through
its New York agents, under date of 19th March, 1908, to
the effect that Munroe and Munroe’s office is closed.
Interim receipt has been returned to me. This seems a
very extraordinary affair. Hundreds of people besides
myself must also be affected, and I thought per-
haps by writing to The Bulletin some further particu-
lars might be available, or some suggestion given so that
we could get a fair go. The position seems to me to be
that we have lost our money without having a fair deal;
but it would be consoling to know that H. G. Robinson
got whatever he deserved.”
The money put up in Australia to buy Marconi
shares certainly seems to have gone. Marconi himself
says he has nothing to do with the business ; and Mar-
coni’s Canadian Co. repudiates Munroe and Munroe. The
latter firm appears to have been knocked out in the
American financial troubles : the one consolation for their
Australian creditors is that they were knocked out once
before, and subsequently came up smiling and handed
out cheques (good) all round. As for Robinson, he may
have known that M. and M. didn’t really hold the shares
(they were big speculators, and were no doubt merely
“ selling forward ”), but he couldn’t have known that his
principals were going to smash. Seeing that the Union
Bank allowed its name to be mentioned by the Robinson
crowd, it seems a fair thing for that bank to at least offer
to represent the Australian creditors in New York, and
recover what it can out of the w'reck.
* * * *
To make sure, the M.L.A. and Citizens’life-
insurance offices applied to the Courts of all the States to
sanction their amalgamation. There w'as threatened
trouble in Victoria, but it was withdrawn ; and in S. Aus-
tralia Justice Gordon’s scruples were overcome. All that
now remains to complete the business is to serve some
formal notices in Queensland. The businesses of the two
offices will be amalgamated as from December 31 last.
* * * *
One would expect young Australian smelting
cos. to be modern in their methods, so it is surprising to
see on one co.’s tariff sheet a reversion to the old Cornish
idea of buying ore on the 21cwt. to the ton basis. It re-
quired much strenuous opposition on the part of Ameri-
cans to knock this system out in Cornwall, but it was
managed in the end ; yet it is now revived in N. S. Wales.
Just as antiquated is the reference to “ draftage," a com-
plicated scheme, allowing the buyer 24£lb. per ton
(which makes his ton equal to 2376£1b.) for oversea ship-
ment. Certainly this old-fashioned tariff has the infor-
mation that no draftage deduction will be made—as if
anyone thought it would! Again, the deduction from
wet assay, usually fixed at I‘3 units to allow for smelting
losses, is replaced by an old, but perhaps fair, method
of varying this amount according to the grade of the ore.
Ver.v few' buyers, however, now depart from the usual
American practice. When an ore-buyer introduces mys-
teries of this kind into his business, the ordinary miner,
with small parcels of ore for sale, has some difficulty - in
appreciating the fairness of the deal, although the net
result may be quite equal to that got from a simpler
tariff.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 Co.
Written
Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1903 .. £2,247 Nil £ 5,522
Mar., 1904 .. 2,618 Nil £904
Forfeited capital added to Reserves, £29 ..
Sept., 1904 .. 2,578 Nil -
Mar., 1905 .. 533 Nil 178
Profit. Reserves.
Sept., 1905 .. 21,855 Nil 21,677
Premiums on Pref. shares, £476 ••
Mar., 1906 .. 17,595 £6,335
Sept., 1906 .. 22,963 11,500 4*’®'°
Mar., 1907 .. 54,747 21,500 £4333
Sept., 1907 .. 78,170 36,500 4179
Mar., 1908 .. 11,217 36,500 338/ 82,611
The profit for the half-year would have shown up a bit
better but for the necessity to refund £lO4O over-
draum against the previous half-year’s output,
the other hand, the co. has been drawing “ ea f
upon its very slim resources of carbonates; other
it would have shown a loss. Its sulphides are low-g
and refractorv : they' carried last half-year (till the mi
shut down) only 11'9S per cent, lead and B’B7oz. silver, as
against the South’s 15 per cent, lead and s’4oz silver , aim
w'hile the South’s recovery was 75T per cent, of the
and 54 - 9 per cent, of the silver, Block 14’s was only 6 P
cent, of the lead and 41 percent, of the silver. Block >
garding it as a sulphide mine (and the carbonates a
mere handful), is, in short, only profitable while meta
markets are strong. With improvements 1
metallurgy of silver-lead-zinc sulphides, things J
change ; but that is the position at prese' .
During the metal boom of 1899-1900, when lead averageu
£l5 is. 6d. to £l7 3s. 7d„ Block 14 paid 4s. P«* hare * a ' f t
year ; but in 1901, with lead averaging £l2 14 • ■>.
paid only one dividend, and it didn’t get on the s The
till 1906, when lead was booming up again to
co. has one advantage : its financial position is ’
and, w'hile it is poking about after new ore bodie,
a patch of carbonates here and there in the upp
ings with which to keep the pot boiling. h>\ . eto
slump lasts, therefore, it is not likely this time
undergo the humiliating reconstructions of P*? .^e
assuming that the Board won’t foolishly weaken l tne
position by paying any more dividends out of rese
* * * * -
It’s cruel to do it, but here it is, the record 0


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
T n c ? ofc route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
UJB.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
PW NEW ZEALAND.
U K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
•rom 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
the Board has its own offices
p n vi* Gunter Street, for dealing direct with the
With! for , al ! INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
a, fhf* eci i w ‘ re t 0 Cable Terminus at Southport,
cnnaiin ?® ce a 'l Standard Code-Books may be
At a B other places in Commonwealth,
at P^ 68 ™ ai 'l ce< l “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
o ratT ,_ 1 * n J d Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
at slUt i ‘ per word > “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
atallTeiegraph Offices.
inform 6 ?™ 11 orms > Maps, Pamphlets, and all
‘"formation on application to
THE pacific cable board,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T™ Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
ourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Ralls, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks always on Hand.
of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials
of all kinds, [l
the Broken Hill Junction—or, at least, as much of the
record as there is room for :
Depreciation
Loss. Written off. Deficit
Mar., 1904 .. £l9lO £i 6o o £27 014
Sept., 1904 . 1868 1520 10’k99
Mar., 1906 .. 8708 1381 35 481
Sept., 1905 .. 2468 1303 39 252
Mar., 1906 .. 6802 1249 47303
Sept., 1906 .. 3731 1177
Mar., 1907 .. 1172 1118 54,501
Profit.
Sept., 1907 .. 3524 1066 52 043
Loss.
Mar., 1908 .. 11,523 1012 64 578
For seven weary years before that list opens no dividend
had been pa'd. Just before that-in 1896 and the early
part of 1897 aivs. had, however, come with a rush * 11 of
is. each were paid in 1896. Then the rich shoot was gutted
and shortly afterwards the unsupported mine fell in*
As shown above, the accounts as at September 1907’
showed a profit, the first for many years. But the con-
centrates on hand at that date were over-valued where
fore £3241 had to be added on that account to this past
half-year’s actual loss. Really, therefore, the previous half
year’s gross profit was £283, and the past half-year’s loss
£8282. Seeing how things were going, the directors shut
down the null early in December. Up to that date there
had been an average loss of about £1 os. 6d. on every ton
of lead produced.
Anything is liable to happen at the Junction •
it is a mine of erratic shoots and bulges of ore some of
them very rich. Unfortunately the co. has neither
money nor calling power (on May 11, it had “an available
credit of approximately £4000”). The reconstruction
therefore proposed is in the shape of a new co in the
same number of 10s. shares (200,000), sixpence payable on
application, the shares then to be credited as 4s paid
Development will be proceeded with ; later on it can be
decided whether the mine shall send out ore or concen-
trates on a poor lead market, or wait for things to
brighten up. The latter, on past experience, is the”only
way the co. can hope to make money.
Now that the directors of the B. H. Junction
are talking of reconstruction, the once-despised ore body
in King’s section is being dragged into the limelight and
clothed in glad raiment. In the old days King section
which was then far removed from any proved ore body of
size, was shamefully neglected. After being despoiled of
its small deposit of high-grade ore, it was left in such a
state from the 100 ft. level down that before stopino- can
safely be resumed on the 400 ft.—supposing there is any
ore there worth stoping—an expensive lot of filling and
securing will need to be done. The fact that stringers of
sulphides have been met with in King shaft from the time
the lode passed out at 355 ft. may mean a good deal, and
it may not. At any rate, it is a good indication that the
lode, such as it is, will be struck when plat-cutting opera-
tions are started on the 400 ft. level.
* * *
The 16 Elmore machines at the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s plant in Broken Hill are out of swaddling clothes
and Elmore, who has been the most patient of nurses, has
departed, confident that the delicate youngsters can 'now
go ahead on their own. The machines certainly are
doing good work at present, and a further improvement
is expected from a new filtration scheme which is beino-
introduced.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop.’s output of lead for
April (four weeks) was 7213 tons, which is the co.’s
record. But it wasn’t all from the co.’s own mine ; the
purchased concentrates begin to arrive. This may be
taken as approximately one-tenth or one-eleventh of the
world’s entire output.
* * * *
There is talk in Melbourne of a proposal to
amalgamate the Broken Hill Prop., B. H. South and B. H.
North. Probably it’s a kite, sent up by the B. H. Prop’
to see which way the wind blows. The first thing that
strikes one about the scheme is that no two of these mines
n-e neighbors. Between the B. H. Prop, and the South
i.o Block 10 and the Sulphide Corporation ; between the
B. H. Prop, and the North lie Block 14, the British, and
the Junction. Many years ago, when the B. H. Prop, was
still the big mine, Thk Bulletin printed a theory that the
Broken Hill lode was, longitudinally, saddle-shaped, with
the pommel in the Broken Hill Prop, and the flaps at
the South and the North. The comparatively disappointing
resultsin thedeeper B. H. Prop, levels, and the excellent
results in the deeper levels of South and North, support
that theory. Seeing how things were shaping, the B. H.
Prop, lately decided to get the benefit of its great works
equipment by reaching out after the customs smelting
business. This newest scheme may be a more ambitious
reach-out with the same object.
* * » •
Mt. David (N.S.W.) crushed 560 tons for
2940 z., just over the half ounce. What the profit is can
only be guessed, but it certainly doesn’t amount to £5OO
a month, and it requires every penny of that to pay Is. in
dividends a year. The report gives one the impression of
extensive workings, but the levels which run out to the
south-east from a winze are only 60ft. apart, so 560 tons a
month means rapid depletion of the ore reserves. The
shoot of payable stone is solid and strong at the deepest
level, so when the new shaft is sunk to the required
depth the development of Mt. David will be worth watch-
ing. Because the shoot to the north of the old shaft
petered out at a shallow depth, the idea gained ground
that there was nothing to sink for ; but now that it is
proved that the reef lives to 480 ft., Mt. David has to be
considered in quite a different light.
* * * *
Shares in the New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.)
have had a big fall. So far as they were based on the
Eleanora, the high prices were never justified. As a mat-
■ / aG b though the Eleanora has not crushed up to
othcial expectations, it has come just about up to its
reputation, which was none too good. If the stone is not
carefully picked and as carefully treated, good returns
need not be expected. The gold is associated with anti-
mony, and the latter mineral is patchy. The fact that
tributors are anxious to get into the mine is a good sign ;
out tributors would not stope out the reef so lavishly,
and if the stone is heavily mineralised, they might adopt
a better method of recovering the gold. The Eleanora
id not publish assays of tailings, and it would be in-
erestingtoknow what extraction the new mill obtained.
as to finances, there have been ugly rumors, and the co.
nould say something definite. The big power scheme
in have to be paid for ; and if the tonnage handled is not
rea ® e( '> •-he expensive electrical installation will be so
uch dead-horse, requiring a long time to work off unless
v,® 1 ® Phenomenally r joh gold is found in Smith’s or
•no. 2 vein.
* * * *
John Fox is evidently finding Queen Bee
ahv > l j t°uf?her proposition than he expected. He
nn Yu j a h *»h ?P>nion of it, and put up, or got put
cwk y, deposit to L.id an option last year; but
mnno° U • ’ ex . am ' n od it for J. Bull, couldn’t see the
bepnYv, ln t “ e uiine. Later on Fox, who formerly had
the co.’s chairman of directors, went into the
mSeno de^«. that ' thou * h the co - bad latterly
make a nrnfl?™ ? ia. Wlth co PP erclose up to £lOO, he could
the face of X th ? t °5 per at under £6 °- It was tough
oftt of the four ro doesn 6 come as a surprise that two
h is uronoJpH f T erbB u re t 0 close down, though so far
Th epthe< ? tWO arid the small blast
mints have t»'iroo h 1 mine lo , oks fair ’ but no big develop-
poor inarket. aken P ace ’ and there is no ore to waste oh a
* * * *
It is many a day since any N.S.W. mine has
Tt fri 110 ree l absurd 'y boomed than the Cangai, at Grafton,
been content'^„ USrh little mine ; but a few people haven’t
hive boomed n represent a 9 a good little mine-they
com,e at rirl I T m , ammoth > capable of turning out
pofnted out ther • y ° W pnces - A while a P° it was
the matter 4 of n ?°" le & !i udy estimates then published
run t ntlLl/ refining and realising, etc., which might
I 1 afc l. ea st £8 per ton, had been overlooked. Now it
coiner Ther’e^rt 0 '! tona of 10 P-C-.ore has yielded 45 tons
lieablolmelv f ! / d ' 9 . cr epancies-(l) Unless the slags
lither tl?e fc id ean , ( . W . hlch 18 Poetically impossible)
either the yield couldn t have been as stated, or the
ore was worth more than 10 p.e. ; (2) the coDDer
then^wolked 06 * 1 1° a comparatively’poor matte, and
then worked up to a 60 per cent, product, and again
vertfnf/the° °® Bes ; (3) no losses are provided for in con-
i« to lor. th mat t e to blister copper—in fact, more copper
s to come out of the pot than goes in ; (4) apparently in
deDrelillfon OStB nothin S : is allowed for development,
sKncelolhr’k d « manaßement ’ Under these circum-
bettll he sniffin' 3 f gu ‘d es resrard mg the Grafton mine had
oetter be sniffed at and passed by.
0n!? har f ter i a - Towers still hugs the hope that the
fine reef which is being followed east through the N. B.
W?th h I ilflf? y . the . back of the Brilliant formation.
1 7' tb a re . ef 4ft - wide in sight, and another vein proved in
“ h tv,e h n n ur n? r a • "ear the boundary, the punter fancies
more fhln Tnnnfl" fr ° nt -° f everyt hing.” Brilliant Block,
more than 1000 ft. away, is crosscutting to prove the ex-
momentona lVf l)^ y DaWn aC N °’ 13 = a " d tha t IS the
IT ," 0 ? blt , of Prospecting that has been done on the
held for a long time. The old theory was that this eastern
l)ay Dawn shoot either cut out or was displaced by diorite
bars, or crosscourses, and merged into the Brilliant.
There is some ground to modify that opinion, but very
little for the optimistic idea that the eastern shoot of the
Day Dawn will extend for thousands of feet behind the
famous Brilliant formation. 'Yet the bare possibility of
this is causing all the excitement, and punters have been
snapping up Brilliant Blocks on the off-chance. The New
Brilliant Freehold development is about 1500 ft. from the
surface ; the shaft on the other side of the lease is 1150 ft
deep. It is surmised that there will be about 90ft. of
backs to the East Mexican boundary, to which the level
running out east is nearly parallel.
Itast Mexican joins in the Charters Towers re-
vival though shares fell as low as 7d. last December.
The New Brilliant. Freehold could not follow its reef very
tar in an upward direction without entering the East
Mexican ; so the latter is confident of getting the reef, in
spite of the blank of poor ground near the boundary.
Speculators who bought at low’ prices no doubt remem-
bered that some of Mills’ United levels have had 100 ft. of
poor stone, subsequently making into a highly-payable
reef. Poor stone, unfortunately, shows at Mills’No. 13
but there are hopes that a rich shout may be met with.
The development of Mills’ United deep levels is of great
importance to the N. B. Freehold, because cf the exten-
sion of No. 7 into Freehold ground. Brilliant Extended
is the next most important development; the underlie
below No. 16 at a vertical depth of about 2700 ft. has good,
but capricious, prospects.
* * * *
“Punter”: How long, I wonder, will the
Charters Towers racket last! The market there has been
deadly sick for the last couple of years, and it looked as
if it w’ould take something sensational to put any life into
it; yet there has been a very decent flutter—on what ?
The developments in the Brilliant Freehold have been
expected for months past. The stone on the Mills United
boundary was reasonably expected to last for some time ;
yet Mills United shares have been dropping steadily for
months past, in spite of splendid yields. They know how
to rig the market all right on the Towers." While the
copper boom was on nobody would look at gold scrip.
Now that copper is sick, it looked good enough to have a
buck with the old yellow hoss. The weather, too, is
delightful up this way ; and the racing season is over and
politics are quiet. Well, they have turned over a fair
number of shares ; and a few of the jobbers and brokers
will be able to live for a year or so more. But where will
the general public come in ?
* * * *
“ Pyrrhotite ”: Great Fitzroy (Q.) was one
of the mines lately mentioned in The Bulletin whose
reports may mean anything or nothing. The official
report for April shows 2225 tons ore smelted for 87 tons
copper and 4990 z. gold. This was produced at a cost of
345. 4d. per ton of ore—which includes mining at Bs.—or
about £44 per ton of gold-bearing copper. If this cost
includes the marketing of the metal, then 8., M. and Co.
are in for big profits. On- the other hand, if these costs
are incurred in simply'producing matte, then the profits
that now loom will disappear ; for the report contains an
item re retreating 76 tons of W per cent, copper
matte, made in March. This makes doleful reading.
If the ore furnaced does not produce mattes of a higher
grade, perhaps it accounts for the excessive flux cost of
14s. per ton of ore. The furnace was specially designed
to obtain an oxidising and roasting reaction in the upper
zone, and the smelting would occur on the ground-floor
in a twinkling. This metallurgical freak, it was said,
would produce 100 tons of matte per day. In view of
this, it would be interesting to know what fraction of a
week was occupied in smelting the above tonnage of ore.
The directors of Mt. Molloy (Queensland)
appear to have become flurried towards the end of last
year, when it was found that the expenditure on the
railway had been very much heavier than was antici-
pated. The engineer assured them that he could finish
by Christmas, but the wet season beat him, and the
financial position began to look a bit rocky. The
directors then sanctioned a furious effort on the
part of the engineer to get the line through, with
the result that the expenditure increased out of all
proportion to the progress made ; “but this was accepted
as a corollary of the energy necessary to completion
within time.” By the middle of January cash gave out.
Then the Q. N. Bank bucked, and further progress has been
financed by another bank. This loan had also for its
object the inauguration of new business. The Scheme
for raising further funds involves the issue of 50,000 pre,
ference shares of £1 each, to be issued as fully paid up on
payment of 10s. per share. These are to be offered in the
first place to existing shareholders at the rate of one for
every two ordinary shares. The liabilities, other than to
shareholders, are set down at £11,603; the assets are
stated at £146,981, plus the timber concession, with
rights to remove 10,000,000 super feet of timber within
five years after Ist June next from an area of 36 sq. miles.
tr ft ■* *
Mt. Molloy (Q.) has several projects on hand,
and it is doubtful whether the £25,000 it proposes to
raise will give effect to all the bright ideas that have
grown out of the financial muddle. There is the bit of
debt to pay off, there is the railway to complete, and
alterations to the smelting plant are called for, including
a new lead furnace. Mt. Molloy should, later on, get a
fair customs trade in smelting. But it won’t have things
all its own way. Free smelting ore is just the sort every
ore-buyer is trying to get, and Mt. Molloy, with its
small capital, cannot afford an elaborate plant such as
Chillagoe possesses for crushing and desulphurising sul-
phides. A concentrating plant has also come up again
for discussion. Then there is an important departure in
the erection of a vertical saw bench. This should pro-
vide cheaper firewood, and turn to account any cedar or
other valuable timber that can be hauled to the mill.
* r • #
Marvel Loch, at Southern Cross (W. A.), is a bit
of a mystery. The mine was floated in Melbourne, last
fc " e strength of “ three good reefs,” and £5OOO
or thereabouts was subsequently called up. Some
™ hln / 8 w . er ° * hen taken out . but in October last the
manager retired because he could not get enough cash to
keep things moving as he desired. Sihce then; if official
'„ p " rts , ca " be relied on, the property has been opening
up wonderfully well; yet its market valuation still stands
f ew thousand pounds. Either unwarranted esti-
mates of the value of the ore have been made, or the
public is missing a good thing.
Peak Hill Co. (W. A.) is doing no better. The
annual report to June 30, 1907, which only came to light
V®? 1 London the other day, shows a loss of £8133. This
added to the balance brought forward from the previous
account, swells the debit balance to £18,606. Still the
concern is run on “ flash ” lines, as the following items of
!!£??? j“ re show : management, salaries, travelling, etc.,
£5746 ; directors’ fees, £B5O ; trustees’ fees, £3OO ; secre-
tarial allowance, £5OO. As the proceeds are in-
sufficient to meet the cost of current development
and exploration, shareholders are asked to subscribe for a
further proportion of unissued shares. The inducement
held out is improved prospects ”; but as the mine is
notorious for its big blanks and small patches, and as the
co. has, apart from other debts, a weighty millstone in
the shape of £45,000 worth of 6 per cent, debenture stock,
shareholders had better look twice before they leap once.
It is announced that the Ladv Miller, Norse-
man (W.A.), is crushing stone from recent development
work, and that the prospects of the mine are very good.
But what about the 30,000 tons of 80s. ore that was
estimated to be in sight a few months ago ? Have these
reserves vanished, or are they being kept for show
purposes ?
• * » *
The blow-out of the Barrambie (W.A.) seems
to have knocked the heart out of the Barrambie South
t ® co "“ ri ’ which was floated with a preposterous issue
of 40,000 £1 shares. Only £9500 oash was raised, and the
vendors got £4OOO of that. Of the balance there was a
whole Bs. Id. left in the bank in Melbourne at the end of
the half-year, besides a pound or two in the West. The
co. appointed Sanderson Bros., Hopking and Co. general
managers ; and “ work was suspended on December 12 to
enable the general managers to complete the sam-
pling. There was 159 ft. of a shaft on the property
and 42ft. _of a drive ; and where there is any
reef at all it doesn’t average more than 12in. wide ; still
writing on May 18, the directors say—“ the results of the’
sampling have not yet come to hand.” The Board got
tired of its English general managers some months ago,
and appointed a local man ; but by that time there
wasn’t an3' money left. And, in any case, if there were
any money left, this show wouldn’t be worth risking it on.
The German-owned Tasmanian Smelting Co.
hasn’t been able to squeeze the Government of the small
island to much effect, so far as a loan is concerned
Mariner Evans will only “go” £20,000 at 4 per cent.’
repayable in 10 years ; and if the Mariner wants a mort-
gage over the works, the Matesdorfs and Steinthals who
own the concern will no doubt answer that they don’t
mind putting up that much on the same security them-
selves. Accustomed to trade subsidies, they remark in
effect—“ You say you want a smelting industry. All
right. Pay for it. If you won’t, Germany will ; for it
also wants a smelting industry.” But if it comes to sub-
sidising somebody, why subsidise the foreign Matesdorfs
and Steinthals?
* * * *
Metallurgist Rae is having no luck. A few
months ago he went up to Cannindah (Q.), on 8., M. and
Co. biding a block of shares in that concern ; but he
found things anyhow, and, after reporting to that effect,
was frozen out. Since then the mine was shut down, and’
keeps shut down, so Bae wasn’t as wrong as he was
alleged to be. Now, having had the job of fixing up the
Oolebrook smelter (Tas.), Rae reports (what a Bulletin
contributor reported, by the way, some months ago) that
there isn’t enough ore available to keep the thing going,
and that vastly more development is needed. In fact,’
Rae’s opinion is that there isn’t a week’s work for the
furnace if it is to he run on 3 per cent, ore; vet it was
officially stated that there were at least 50,000 tons of that
grade available.
* * * *
Senator Clemons and his co-directors on the
Oolebrook are now crossing swords with ex-manager
Rae over the smelting. The directors say that poor stuff
was put through by the staff. The staff says that that is
so because nothing else was to hand. This is the crux of
the matter. Williams, the old manager, reported 3 per
cent, copper ; hut how did he sample the mine? Even if
his report were all right, the Board, when putting in a
newcomer with instructions to provide a reduction plant,
ought to have made him check the sampling. Anywa3',’
Oolebrook stands a “ busted ” show ; but no one knows
where the blame should be put. Premier Evans might
have the whole thing officially investigated. All northern
Tasmania is, in fact, asking for this.
* » » *
News is over that the Hercules (Tas.) has col-
lapsed. The excuse given is the shutting-down of the
Zeehan smelters. The fact is mining at Zeehan won’t
pay with metals so low ; so both smelters and mines have
to bow to fate.
* * * *
Recent rains put some joy into the hearts of
N.-E. Vic. sluicing cos. Fletcher’s plants at Yackandan-
dah are alive again. His bucket dredge, working some
rich ground, is slowly nosing its way up the creek. The
oft-debated question of how much gold a dredge leaves
behind is likely to be answered, as Fletcher wilbprobably
follow up his dredge with his cheaply-run jet-elevator
plant. The young Wallaces are erecting two bucket
dredges on Sandy Creek, below the Argo. Their barge at
Allan’s Flat is working full time, and Rowdy Flat is’pav-
ing its way. The mills on Clear and Twist Creeks, Yack-
andandah, are making themselves heard, too, since the rain.
One trial crushing at Clear Creek went 22dwt. Roper
put through a few tons which went 4oz. to the ton ;
Mitchell, on Twist Creek, sent a parcel that went 2£oz.’
Both these districts want capital to develop the reefs.
The Go-Ahead Co. has struck water in a new shaft, and
will have to erect machinery.
South Birthday, Berringa (Vic.), takes off its
hat to Minister McLeod and expires. The Sludge Board
wants retaining dams built and half-a-dozen other
hindrances to mining provided ; so, as the co. is already
losing money, the cage is hauled to the surface, steam is
blown off, and all hands are sacked. Mines that handle
under sdwt. dirt cannot go in for luxuries, and that is the
position of the South Birthda3 r . Other Berringa mines
must go also if the sludge bugbear grbws bigger.
Exit also Junction Deep Leads, Moolort (Vic.).
The curtain was rung down at a sale of assets at Maldon,
when the plant realised £690. The co. now only holds
a quarter interest in the electric power-house used by the
Charlotte Plains and the Victoria Deep Leads. Deben-
ture-holders have a prior lien over the assets, but there
Will be little left to hand the trustees when the winding
up is done and legal exes have been met. Altogether,
£50,000 has flowed through the exchequer of the co., yet
the wash has never been touched. Thus ends another of
J. Bull’s Victorian experiments.
• * * *
Madame Berry West, Creswick (Vic.), is think-
ing of the happy dispatch. Back in the Madame Berry
day, Isaac Weedon was the plucky soul who held that the
West ground was no duffer. Since then nearly £600,000
worth of gold has provided a memorial to his perspicacity.
Only £9OOO in calls was wanted ; but the ground was, for
all that, never rich, and divs. came irregularly during the
long career of the mine, so that the co. ends up
with a dividend record of only £82,000. That,
certainly, is nine times the capital sunk. The
gold yield makes the Berry West one of the big
mines of the alluvial group. Its death leaves the
West Berry Consols as the last of the nest of the four
Berry claims which at one time were the mining stars of
Victoria. Three of the old-timers will fittingly see
Madame Berry West through—Joe English, W. Maughan,
and W. Brookes.
* * « »
The American money markets are still rackety,
and topple at a touch. This week, there has been
another disturbance, and, on receipt of cables reporting
a small smash in lead, tin and copper, Tuesday’s mining
market opened under conditions that looked like panic.
The weakest feature, especially with regard to tin, is that
quotations for three months’ delivery are persistently
lower than for cash. There appears, however, to be a
little more strength with regard to copper.
The Aerial TRAMWAts which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for t.andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
k 'if 1 , ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
tor the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
S™*! P™e 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * ♦
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
B elton, Grim wade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying 80b.h.p.,
and operates on the “Otto” cycle; 180r.p.m.; fitted
with most recent improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft. dia
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer ; “ Magneto ” ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-staling doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
wjth double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.
The Accumulator is of large size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austra l Otis Engineering Co., of South' Melbourne, in-
stalled this plant, and are now manufacturing these plants
* * * ' *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, of
London, under date 31st July, 1907, writes as follows:
So, to conclude, we are not writing without justifica-
tion when we say that the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is a thoroughly sound, go-ahead office, with a
great capacity for expansion.”*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * m
Cameron and Sutherland’s new catalogue, just
to hand, is the best thing of its kind that has been pub-
lished in Australia. There is hardly a line of machinery
and mining plant required for either copper, tin, gold
coal, or indeed any class of mining, that is not illustrated!
described, and quoted in this issue. They are distributed
gratis, postage paid, and all mining managers will find it
to their advantage to secure a copy. The firm’s addresses
are: Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Queen’s Bridge
Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,‘Ballarat; and. Pall
Mall, Bendigo.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for'their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 621 Collins Street,
Melbourne ;*B7 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * ■* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• » * •
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst,
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the, manu-
facture of 48in. and 64in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A ” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for •
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for tht
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Those who saw the Shay Locomotive for the
Commonwealth Oil Corporation being erected at Darling
Island, a few weeks ago, will be interested to learn that
this co. has placed its order with Gibson, Battle and Co ,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, for another “Shay,” this making their third
order. These locomotives, which are coming to the fore
in Australia, will solve many of our Railway problems.
Specially constructed for service on steep grades and
sharp curves, they obviate the necessity for tunnels and
cuttings, thus making railway construction cheaper and
reducing working expenses.*


EDUCATION BY POST
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
There is no opium or narcotics of any
description in Chamoerlain’s Cough Remedy, and
this makes it a favorite with all. It can be given
to a baby as confidently as to an adult. a
cure for bad colds, croup, or whooping cough, it is
unequalled, and may be depended upon with the
utmost confidence. It is pleasant to talte, which
is of much importance. It always cures, and
cures quickly.*
The Austral seasons come and go
In summer’s heat and winter’s snow ;
And spring unfolds her fresh green shoots ;
And autumn brings her gift of fruits.
Each change is fraught with human ills,
With coughs and colds and sudden chills ;
But life is safe, and health is sure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. ljd*
ABORITIN-
ALITIES
“ Hassan ” : The crow has broken out in
a fresh place. Kerang (Vic.) has a “goff”club.
It has also quite a number of crows. It is very
proud of the golf club, but is not conceited about
its crows. And yet it seems to me that the crows
of Kerang are birds that any township ought to
skite about. They gather on the golf-links when
Councillor Smith and Mayor Jones are playing
“bogie,” and after they have goaded the players
to the edge of insanity by their coarse guffaws
when an approach is foozled, or a niblick is
mashied, or a hazard is brassied, they wait
until a good drive lands the ball on the green.
Then they sneak it, and a frantic golfer consults
his rules and finds nothing to fit the case. It is
said that the birds steal the balls in mistake for
eggs. That explanation is all right for those who
don’t know the malevolence of crows. Crows know
the difference between eggs and golf-balls as well
as an importer does between the invoice he shows
the Customs and the one he keeps on his file.
VARIOUS KINDS OF BEGGAR.
THE GENT : “ Aren't you ashamed to be begging
in the streets? ”
THE OTHER GENT : “ Yes, sir. I’d sooner do it
at a church bazaar or in the pulpit, but fate
is agin me.”
“ H. 8.” writes: “ Peter O’C.” (B. 7/5/’08)
says that my statement re “the wild fight” be-
tween the police and the Hatfield bushrangers is
mostly “wild imagination,” Then he goes on to
say that it was an open question who shot Con-
stable Power (not “Powers” as “P.O’C.” calls
him), and adds that it was “quite likely it was
one of the excited force of sheepmen who went
to the arrest.” If it is not “a wild fight” when
things are so confused that it cannot be demon-
strated whether the shooting was the work of an
enemy or a distracted friend, perhaps “P.O’C.”
will explain what a tame fight is like. As to the
Hatfield malefactors being “ tea and sugar ” bush-
rangers, the fact that they were convicted of shoot-
ing and seriously wounding a constable who tried to
arrest them, and that they stood committed on at
least half-a-dozen charges of robbery under arms
(which the Crown did not proceed with after
their conviction for attempted murder) should, I
think, sufficiently dispose of that theory. Gor-
man, the leader of the gang, is the only one not
accounted for. Constable Power committed suicide
some few years after the Hatfield affair, and Mark
Beresford, who led the attacking force against
Gorman and Co., was killed by the blacks in
Queensland a little while after Power ended his life.
“ Toilah ” : I protest strongly against this
scheme of Chapman’s for reducing the size of
cornsacks, I’m only of medium stature myself,
yet in many winters spent out of doors all over
the Commonweatlh I have never yet been able to
extend my toes without being frost-bitten, and I
have developed an ingrowing thorax in the vain
endeavor to keep inside the diameter. Now, you
want to make ’em smaller ; and I ask you as man
to man how d’you expect me and Wade to manage ?
It'll be worse for Wade than it will be for me—
he’s longer. Have you no heart ?
Though Geraldton (Q.) always reckons
itself the wettest puddle in Australia, its light is
put right out by Crohamhurst, in the Blackall
Ranges, so far as a day’s record goes. Croham-
hursfs dampest day was on Feb. 2, 1893, when
35'71in. were registered. Since Geraldton has
had something to measure the moisture in, it
never did better than 17'13in. in 24 hours, and that
was back in 1889. For second place, so far as records
go. Whim Creek, in nor’-west W.A., and
Mooloolah (Q.), swim pretty well up to the same
decimal point; Whim Creek, with 29'41in., just
wins.
“Verax”: Re paspalum (B. 7/5/’08)
“Boronia” is not altogether correct when
he says that the grass becomes a “pest and
a nuisance,” if neglected. In the Northern River
districts of N.S.W. paspalum has been the salva-
tion of cocky, neglected or otherwise. It is the
recognised pasturage for all lands other than rich
alluvial flats, and even when neglected and
allowed to grow up a fathom high, it has its uses.
Know a case on the Bellinger River, The
manager of the Raleigh estate (dairy farm), some
three years ago, was at his wits’ end to know what
to do with a surplusage of tall and rank paspalum.
He decided to mow it and throw it up in a heap
in a corner of the paddock. Here it remained
through the following winter. In the early spring
he noticed the calves pulling out the straws from
the stack ; subsequently the cows took to devour-
ing what had been hitherto considered rubbish,
and although the young grass was coming on
apace, the latter was practically left untouched
until the stack had been devoured. At the present
time, cockies in various country parts are earning
big sums gatheringthe seed, and in many instances
the grass is cut (after the seed has been gathered)
and stacked for winter feed. It is an accepted
fact on the Northern Rivers that the high prices
ruling there for grazing lands are due mainly to
the advent of paspalum.
X- * * •
“ Lof,” from Dargaville (Maoriland) :
During a five years’ sojourn in this much-boosted
country, I have often heard it claimed for the Maori that
he possesses massive intellect, excels in business, is a
great toiler, and is generally the boss colored man of the
globe, and better than most whites—outside the land of
the Prohibition craze.
I have long suspected the solidity of the argument,
and have just had the suspicion duly sealed, signed and
delivered.
On tenders being called by Brass and Co. for falling
and burning of ti-tree on certain land and the fencing
thereof, my mate and I decided to take a hand. We
calculated carefully, didn’t spring too high, and felt
pretty confident.
But we struck a cow’s nest in one Hone Tangiporangi
(as near as I can get), who, roused by the present record
slump in kauri gum and the attendant dearth of beer,
brought the alleged massive intellect to bear, tendered
about 7f furlongs below us, and got the job.
Ignoring several good camping places on the outskirts,
Hone elected to roost on a partially-cleared spot near the
centre of the job, and, with the help of his browner half
and numerous progeny, he built the whare. Then he
drowsed and smoked for two days, and after that, backed
by his spouse and braced by the leaps and veils of his
dirty small fry, he solemnly started —to build the fence.
Hone didn’t make the pace a very fast gallop, but
in due time the five-wired obstruction became an accom-
plished fact. Thereupon Brass was gently tapped for
enough money to pay for five days’ drunk.
On being granted pratique by the local publican, Hone
and co. again waded in, with the small fry yelling very
faintly now. He waded at such reduced speed that the
major portion of the ti-tree was in fair burning order by
the time chopping was finished. Then Hone fired up and
let her rip. She proved a pretty good ripper, with a taste
for fences.
Mooching round this afternoon on the off chance of
flooring a stray pheasant for the camp pot, I saw the
scene of “me colored brudder’s” undoing. Of the once
boshter fence only an occasional post remained. The
stringers had vanished, except some stunted bits sus-
pended by the top wire. Glancing across the stream
towards the whare, I made out a queer wreck, bearing
much indication of having fought a game but losing
battle in a public house with a six-engine Bendigo special.
It was Hone, and he had beer-leaves in his hair.
* * * *
Leslie Davidson (Fiji) enthuses: Re par
(B. 9/4/’OB, p. 10). Have lived in Brisbane most of
my life, and never heard anyone speak of
“ Lamington Plateau.” Still I recognise the place
referred to. It lias been, for 30 years, to my
knowledge, known as Mount Tambourine. About
18 years ago one of my brothers had a very bad
lung haemorrhage, which necessitated a health trip
to Europe, Asia, etc. After three years spent in
a fruitless search abroad, he came home and
tried Tambourine Mount. He found the climate
so good that he has lived there ever since.
As a combined health and scenery resort Tam-
bourine comes near to Kosciusko. I know a
cottage on its highest point which overlooks the
whole Eastern area. From its verandah I have
seen a vessel rounding Point Danger and mooring
at Brisbane wharves. The Western aspect em-
braces the great cattle stations Tambourine,
Mundoolan, Beaudesert, Telemon, etc., etc., the
Briner Valley, with Ipswich, Dugandan, Boonah,
etc., back to the Macpherson Range, with Cun-
ninghame’s Gap (Toowoomba), the Dividing Range
and Mount Lindsay right alongside apparently.
As to scenery, travellers tell me that Tambourine,
with its wide coast and sea outlook, is preferable
in a hundred ways to the Swiss mountains. For
the rest, this was always Government Botanist
Bailey’s favorite haunt. ’Tis here that the
Cycad Denisonii, a botanical species belonging
to an age 500,000 years ago, is alone found in full
vigor. Small orchids—both tree and ground—
teem on all sides; there are 4000 acres of giant
pines and gums unequalled in Australia, and the
fern-growth is astounding in its magnificence.
Finally, the mountain, which belongs to a differ-
ent geological period from the surrounding coun-
try, is one of the few diamondiferous regions in
Australia. When provincialism dies finally, and
Queensland ceases to be known as a separate part
of Australia, the State’s beauty spots will get their
best chance of having justice done them. In that
day, with Dalgety as the capital, Tambourine will
assuredly be one of the Commonwealth’s chief
sanatoria.
HONEST ENTHUSIASM.
Officious Part? (with our country's real welfare at his heart's core): “ What are all these
men hanging so suspiciously round the private bar door on Sunday morning for, my
dear young man? ”
“ Well, guv'nor, this fellow inside’s suspected of Sunday trading, and we're just watching the
’ouse for the perlice.”
“ Paul Cupid ” : The correspondence re
“Jimmie Pannikin,” like the official correspond-
ence about a missing postage-stamp, has grown
too great, and requires & precis. From the bulky
testimony before me I gather the following
His name is a misnomer. He should be “Jimmie
Tank,” and not “ Pannikin.”
Assertion by some that he knows nothing of the bush
or Western ways, totally disproved.
He is acquainted with Ooolibah Charlie, Hooshta Ramit
Khan, camel odor, and other tangible things.
He dismounts at imaginary gates on the road, and
sucks consolation from a bottle at times.
At other times he absorbs bad whisky, beer, and flies at
Outback shanties.
He browses betimes on billy-goat, has admitted bathing
with a police magistrate in the pigs’ swimming hole, and,
after all these things, he wanders round examining
youngsters and directing pedagogues, but with ever an
eye peeled for a likely paragraph.
* j&( * * •
“ Sans Terre ” : The bagman or swagman
camps in strange places at times—bad times.
Beds this orphan has crept into and slept in in-
clude hollow logs and trees (once up one), grave
yards (once in a vault), mine tunnels, tanks,
boilers, haystacks, railway trucks, stables,
porches, fowlhouses, cowsheds, pigsties,
coaches, boats, caves, threshing-machines,
circus tents, caravans, goods’ sheds,-
gunyahs, pavilions, showgrounds, race-
courses, sawmills, travellers’ huts,
drain-pipes; also in deserted mission
stations, joss-houses, homesteads, bat-
teries, wine shops, mansions, pubs,
schools, churches, shops, stockades,
prisons; likewise under waggons,
viaducts, wool-sheds, verandahs,
halls, wharves, and bridges. That’s
all ! If any reader of The Bulle-
tin can equal the above record, I
will give him my swag, three sets of
ration bags, a toothpick, a billy, a
copy of “ The Simple Life,” a
“Traveller’s Guide,” a pocket mirror
in which to see himself starve in the
winter, and much good advice.
~,T nl • „ a • ~
“ Mallarapoome : Set as it is among its
, j , r • • ... i , ■ ,
shady nauhima, wild pear, and other sub-tropical
trees, beside the huge riband of yellow sand
fringed with paper-bark, gum oak, and pandanus
that is called the Etheridge River, and with its
undulating gravel ridges studded with outcrops
of snowy quartz and dark-grey granite that
spread like the floor of some great basin to the
feet of the tablelands on the blue horizon, a pretty
enough little hamlet is Georgetown, ’way back in
the Queensland Gulf Country, to which it is (or
was) proposed to build a railway. But exactly
why Georgetown should have its railway is known
only to Providence and the people of Georgetown,
To the casual observer, the great natural resource
of Georgetown is Goat. William and his missus
flourish on the granite ridges of the Etheridge like
the lusty, well-manured onion, and rear profuse
progeny with great dignity and perfume. And
Bill prefers not to he disturbed by any hooting
locomotive. Otherwise the inhabitant of George-
town reluctantly admits that Camooweal or Birds-
ville is as much entitled to its railway as his town,
though he alludes to certain large low-grade
mining propositions in his district that have
religiously remained unprospected, and, to empha-
sise his remarks, points to the hole where the gold
came from 30 years ago. A few of him have the
cheek to mention Croydon as his backdoor. But
unless mining matters react violently there, the
year’s output of poor old Croydon will soon be
carried away in a pannikin.
“D.R.”: The outlook for the Mary-
borough (Q.) district in the very adjacent future
is green with the greenness of the Noogoora burr.
From watercourses where it grew, and wasn’t
annoyed by the tired shire council, its seeds have
been spread by the swirling torrents of the late
rains, and have produced a crop like to the rice-
fields after the Nile has crept back to its bed.
From uncultivated paddocks, where, through the
inertia of responsible parties, odd plants have
been allowed to grow, the frolicsome zephyr and
the blusterous gale have scooped up the seeds and
acted the part of the sower who sowed in various
places, and many fell on arable soil, and were
fruitful and multiplied. Wherever there have
been a few patches, stock have been permitted to
meander through them, and have carried the
clingsome seed on their raiment and eyebrows to
parts previously clean. Now the council and
others are waving their hands with an animation
and horror which ought to be a warning to other
districts.
TOM SUN'S COMMISSARIAT CORPS.
Mr. J. Thomson, speaking at Redfern on National De-
fence, put forward the original proposition that Mr.
Deakin’s 80,000 men could be increased by perhaps an-
other 10,000 for the fighting line, if, in hostilities, the
commissariat and other work were done by the Asiatics
among us. News Item.
PLIVATK OR LI ( Tom Sun’s Cabbage Corps):
“ You likee nice cabbagee or lettucee to-day,
Colonel? ”
“Cict”: AroundtheTumbarumba(N.S.M,)
district, the fruit-grower at present carves out
portion of his leisure confabbing with others of his
kind on the advent of the flying fox. Up to yet,
the orchard-spoiler is generally regarded as a sort
of curiosity, and his peculiar gait, his dozing pose,
diet, etc., all form subjects for speculative dia-
logue ; but, so far, no serious effort is put forth to
stay his increase. As yet, he wanders round the
landscape in singles only, and as but a verv few o
the apple-raisers here around have ever descne
him in his haunts as he appears on the boutn
Coast, he is regarded as rather a minor sort o
pest. In consequence, he meanders his
fruitful way practically unmolested. Up to a
couple of years or so back, the oldest tn
district knew the winged Reynard by hearsay
only, but, unless he wakes up about now or short y
afterwards, he bids fair to have more than a mere
nodding acquaintance with the bat. The mourn,
tain forests and gullies are the very best of too ■
eries or bateries, and Mrs. Bat is no mean hand 1
the multiplication problem.
TAROLANGA VALLEY.
[F[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Taralonga Valley grow the scented cedar trees,
On the slopes of native thyme,
And clematis withes, that climb
To the heights of upper branches, to the hunting grounds
of bees,
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea.
You can hear the rollers sounding in the hollows of the
rocks ;
You can hear them rush and roar,
Day and night, along the shore,
When the seawind rounds the capes, and the gulls come
down in flocks,
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea.
Along the double headland slanting melaleucas stand,
Hardy growths of twisted trees,
Leaning landward from the breeze
That heaps the struggling grasses with the shifting dunes
of sand,
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea.
When the sand-drifts block the creek at the winding
valley’s mouth,
There a rippling lakelet fills
With fresh water from the hills ;
And the black swans dip to harbor on their journey to the
south,
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea.
It’s a lonely place and sad when the wintry winds wail out
Their dirges of the deep
Bound headlands dark and steep ;
When driftwood of the wrecks in the waves is cast about,
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea.
But when Spring with bud and bloom breaks the dreary
winter’s spell;
When the flowers fill the West;
Then, in splendid raiment dressed,
All the'beauty of the world seems to gather there and
dwell
Where the Taralonga Valley meets the sea !
vie.
( C.G.A. COLLES.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
AN ENERGISING CORDIAL.
The Lucky Opal —
BLACK....
The opposite of white opal. Marion
Crawford writes as under in “Soprano” :
“ I wish you good luek,” he said lightly.
“Thank you,” she answered. “One can
never have too much of it, never. Get
talisman, a charm, a * Jagoo.’ . . .
Exquisite Ruby and
Sapphire in centres
surrounded by
Diamonds, £3B.
Exquisite Fire Opal
Centre and
Diamonds, £l2 12s.
Opals and Olivines,
our own make,
£5 ss.
BLACK OPAL is the best, but if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy it, find it,
or earn it: otherwise it will have no effect.”
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful Gem in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the
mines. We cut it—we mount it—we set it—in Sydney. We export it largely. We retain some of the
best for our Sydney retail trade, and sell it at half London retail prices.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
Richard Kelly rhapsodises, somewhat con-
vincingly, re Cairns (N.Q.): —
Before coming here I had heard Cairns spoken of with
disrespect and opprobrium. Certain Southerners,Who
had never seen the place, said it was Hell. I used to be-
lieve them. But I have since spent ten years’ battling in
this wondrous northern land, and am, as a result, con-
vinced that the assailants of Cairns were (and are) un-
veracious recorders. Cairns is hot certainly. So are
Sydney and Melbourne and Adelaide, to say nothing of
Bourke. Any one of these places can put up readings
which leave Cairns in the cool shade. I have stood on apeak
outside Tumberumba in November, and watched the snow
tumbling down Kosciusko’s sides, not many miles away,
while the glass said 90°. Don’t forget that, ye Southerners !
Granted that the heat of the north is more oppressive
than that of the south, yet the higher temperatures down
below more than equalise matters. Cairns is thriving
and expanding rapidly. It is going to be a Northern
Melbourne in the coming tariff-protected decade. For
about eight months in the year, the winter
months especially, the climate is glorious—days
of mellow sunshine, and nights of crisp cool
winds. Here the grass is always green. So are the
mountains, when they are not made blue by distance.
Barrenness is a thing unknown. The town is ramparted
on all sides by fractured mountains, and when the south-
easterlies swirl through this valley, life is indeed worth
living. In the winter days, when the atmosphere stands
out with an azure-tinted translucency, flying scuds sail
up and over the hills, and drop down fantastic shadows
on the greenery below. Sometimes one of these scuds is
rain-charged, and striking the topmost height, will
empty itself, the sun meanwhile standing by to brighten
up the picture. Then the cloud, broken and spent, floats
away in detached fragments to hitch on to others. Cairns
proper, despite the squalor of its Chinatown, is not an
altogether unpicturesque setting for the fair scene
around it. Its long, level streets, the macadam fringed
on either side with green grass, and the Esplanade, with
its pretty cottages, combined with the splendid shady
trees, accidentally, but fortunately, spared by the pioneer
vandals, all lend a helping hand to harmonise with the
near-by scenery. Rabbits, I say, to the man who assails a
place lie has never seen, or who, having seen it, is too pur-
blindedly prejudiced to give it honest appreciation 1
WHAT HE REALLY CAME FOR.
LITTLE WILLY: “ Please, Mrs. Smith, can you
lend mother a saucepan?”
MRS SMITH : "No, I won't.”
LITTLE WILLY : “Oh, it wasn't the saucepan I
came for. Mother said you'd say what you
said, and she said to be sure and say you're
a horrid, ugly old woman."
“Lantana”: Not only does the horse
choose his own cemetery at times, he even
occasionally chooses the period of his death.
Iwo ancient neddies that I knew were in the
habit of running together for years. One of
them chucked a seven. He was cremated near
the spot, and his mate went round the funeral
Pyre in a circle—making a respectable circus
track—for a week after. He had decided to die,
a nd though he might not have fixed the time to
an hour, he had evidently a date in his mind,
then he, too, closed his eyes and laid his tail out
nat, and his ashes went to fertilise the soil and
bring forth a good crop of clover next year.
THAT UNFORTUNATE ALLUSION.
STOUT POLITICIAN: “ How much are the bananas? ”
RABBO REUB : “Sixpence a dozen. Shall I put ’em in a bag?"
S.P. (enraged): “How dare you—you—you I shan't take any at all now.”
R.R. (to his mate): “Lor' blime, what did I say to that old pot to get him in such a nark?”
“ J.S.Gr.”: Re locating bee-trees(B. 7/5/’08).
A little flour used in the right way is not the
subject for high scoff that “Janor” imagines. Here
is my hive-finding recipe. Dilute some honey
with water, pour into a piece of honeycomb, take
to the bee’s watering place and invite one to step
on and try a taste. Dust the experimenter over
with a little flour when fully loaded. Said ex-
perimenter will then start homewards, taking care
withal to remember where the comb is. At this
stage pull out your stop-watch and note how long
it takes the burdened one to appear on the comb
again. In calm weather a laden bee flies 100yds.
in 34secs., and stops in the hive 2mins. to unload.
On windy days allow for wind. Having the
direction of flight and distance of the hive, you
simply shoulder your axe, pace straight ahead,
bump into the correct tree and set to work.
From “ Mallarapoonie ” :
Bill was the biggest boy for his age that ever attended
the old school at Doghole, and Bill’s casual remark was
law to us other nippers. Later on Bill’s father took him
from school and taught him how to yoke oxen and make
14ft. of plaited greenhide talk. Then his father and Bill
took their teams to join the ruck of the roaring days
out west, for the Great Northern Railway had crawled
over the backbone of Australia and was wending its way
down the valley of the Upper Flinders. Some years
afterwards I met Bill again. He had a bushy brown
beard, and a hand and forearm on him like a
gorilla’s, and was bigger than ever. His father had
some time since sold out his old hides and
started Bill in life with the more modern horse team
—the champion team of the west—and had then gone the
Great Road that all old bullockies go. Soon after this,
Bill married “ Big Annie ” Delaney, daughter of “ Cocky ”
Delaney down at Reedy. Annie was the sort of girl that
broke in her father’s heifers to the bail. “ Yer orter see
’er ’andle a piker,” a Burdekin cattleman remarked to
me one day. Bill took his missus on the roads with him
for a while. Then he put on his record load of wool out
near the 143rd meridian, and went into the railway, tak-
ing his missus with him. He came back that trip with-
out her, but on his return from the next he had her with
him, and she had something small wrapped in a new shawl,
with which she was very gentle—marvellously gentle for a
handler of pikers, I thought. We used to chaff Bill
and his missus about not being able to show something
bigger than that. His missus always had important
business in the back premises when we visiting cattle-
men started to chyack Bill like that ; but Bill would only
smile quietly into his whiskers and “reckon it’d grow.”
It has. And now young Bill promises to be as the giant
his father is, and has a brother and two sisters, the
youngest of which is still small enough to make Bill look
ridiculous when he nurses it. And all this happened
away up north, where some persons allege the white man
can’t live.
* * * *
“Cict”: Re “Hamer (B. 23/4/’08) and
his dislike for magpies. I presume “ Hamer’s”
story is anent the bird known as the white mag-
pie, and not the black or the grey one. The two
latter are plain scavengers—consumers of the
defunct and the decaying ; but the white skunk,
though protected by law, and generally suspected
of preserving the lives of numerous and varied
eucalypti by extracting the grubs which tunnel
through same, is a truly hateful little wretch.
He begins by constructing his residence adjacent
to a road, and then spends a lot of his time attack-
ing wayfarers. Between times he assaults the
local chickens, cats, and other animals, often in-
flicting ugly wounds. Any tame bird suspended
in its cage or wandering round the homestead is
worried and pecked unceasingly by the pompous
and bullying mag. Fowls and ducks, especially
the latter, are made the butt of his one-
sided jokes, and generally emerge from
his onslaughts fit subjects for a post mor-
tem. Yet should the cocky pass him
the half-pint of small shot he so truly deserves,
that cocky is liable to be pounced upon, and made
an example of by the itinerant P.M. to the tune
of a sov. and costs. The other week a Riverina
State school teacher pleaded guilty to destroying
a ’pie, which had long been a nuisance to the
school children, and had perforce to contribute
245. lOd. to the revenue for his wantonness,
though it was proved that the piebald one had on
more than one occasion assaulted a pupil of his.
True, the horrid fowl can sing, but his vices far
outweigh his scrap of melody, and his extinction
would be eagerly welcomed by the Blokes on the
Dust.
“Phoenix,” who sends some teeth in a
match-box: —
Enclosed please find some teeth from the jawbone of a
sheep’s head. Said head was boiled to make broth, when
it was discovered the teeth were coated with metal, as
you will observe. So that, after all, the joke about gold
being found in the teeth of the frozen mutton sent from
Australia to London may have had some truth in it.
Don’t suppose, for a moment, that I think or believe that
the teeth I send for your inspection are plated with the
precious metal, for they are like the Brummagem ring
that was sold by the spieler for 18-carat gold, but
wouldn’t stand the acid; besides, if the metal was the
real genuine article, I am not wealthy, generous oridiotic
enough to part with it for the price of a short par ;
especially when, like the sheep’s head, boiled down in
your editorial cauldron, it would not be worth much ;
although, peradventure, you again might consider it
worth less. Still, the metal is there beyond a doubt.
Possibly the sheep was doing a bit of “surfacing” and
prospecting for a big auriferous deposit, and struck an
antimony lode instead, or may be lead, tin, silver,
or even a galena patch ; or was endeavoring to get
nourishing sustenance before finally “ pegging out,” and
so pegged a claim, and sunk on the reef, and put in a winze,
and then stoped out. Or possibly he might have been
afflicted with the fluke, or some other disease, and, know-
ing of the existence of a cinnabar vein, he commenced
chewing the ore until the mercury penetrated and per-
meated throughout his system, causing salivation and
complete cure. The quicksilver, however, during the
mastication and pulverising, was in active operation and,
having united with other matter, created an amalgam
which filled and coated the teeth cheaper and better than
any dentist could do it. Of course, this is only a specu-
lative theory thrown out for the benefit of the inexperi-
enced in the feeding and breeding of the producers of our
staple industry. But the metal is there, right enough.
There’s no getting away from that fact; and it shows the
vast mineral resources which we possess lying promiscu-
ously upon the surface in abundance ; and also proves
that our undeveloped wealth will, as old Kruger said,
“ stagger humanity ” some time with its importance.
By the way, I do not wish the teeth returned.
* * * *
“Stony” : There is a peculiar par in B.
30/4/’OB, written by a man named “Jean Sibi.” (I
suspect him of being a man, at least.) This jour-
nalistic mystery, who is no miss although a Jean,
writes of dried dogs’ livers ! (By the same token,
writing of Jeans, I once heard, at a hall of mirth
in Hobart, a singer who labored under the name
of Jean de Lacy. “Jean!” scoffed one of the
corner-men, during the performance, “Jean
de Lacy ! Pro’bly they call ’im John Tomkins
at ’is own place !”) This Jean Sibi, at any rate,
writes of dried dogs and their livers. (It is
worth noting that “My Pretty Jane” is
nowadays called “My Pretty Jean ” when
sung by those beauteous, budding tenors who
have collected an alleged English accent
on their way along the tracks of suburban high
life. I think, moreover, that My Pretty Jean
Sibi should change his name and let me go on
with this par.) Well, then, this Jeanie of the
ink-pot makes mention of a “ lady who collects
dried dogs’ livers, and hangs them over her bed as
charms.” Personally speaking, I think the writer
exaggerates. I never heard of a dried dog being
called on to supply charm. There is a well-known
Dry Dog, of course, but he is much more valuable
as a complete specimen than his detached liver
ever could be ; and he is immortal, anyhow, so his
liver is unapproachable. As to getting a dried
dog in order to obtain his liver, the only dried
dog I ever saw had no liver —only bones
and a little hair and hide. It is a difficult
thing to dry a dog so that his liver will
remain suitable for use as a charm ; and charm
wouldn’t be the word, even if the liver were avail-
able. I think Australian Laddie Jean should be
careful about spinning yarns like this one. I find
it impossible to believe (coming as I do from a
highly respectable Baptist family of the most
reputable superstitions)—l find it very difficult to
believe that any lady ever had to do with dried
dogs, no matter how dried they were, not to
mention the liver of such an one—let alone quanti-
ties of livers, as Jean Sibi declares.
TRYIN’ HARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s tryin* hard to rain up north,
It’s tryin’ hard to rain ;
Shyly the longed-for clouds creep forth,
But melt away again ;
While cockies scan the wide land’s dearth
And dumb slaves writhe with pain.
For weeks the dome is azure blue,
The air is crisp and dry ;
Then withered is the bushland through
As cloud-queens sweep the sky
In soft perukes of sombre hue,
Yet loth, alas, to cry !
It’s tryin’ hard to rain our way ;
Big, big drops start to fall—
We think that luck has come to stay.
Till, at some mystic call,
There’s naught but barely-sprinkled clay,
And Sol beams over all!
It's trvin’ hard to drip to-day—
The same old way for years—
With puny man the Fates make play
With losses, strifes and fears ;
Since he stores not, in Wisdom’s way,
Nature’s surfeit of tears !
VIC.
PERI WINKLE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
fro notice (except Of a hostile character) Will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany ,
R. P. Thomson : “Independence” sounds well,
as you say, but a population of li person to the square
mile, and a military force of 21,911 men and some
rifle clubs and cadets, and a naval force that is
mostly the old gun-raft Protector, are hardly
enough to go alone upon. It’s always best to
have at least one bower before you go alone Snipe:
A good joke, but it wouldn’t lend itself to illustration....
Grey Lynn : That church story looks as if it were loaded,
and also as if the gun were liable to burst at any moment.
N.H.B. : Plaint needs to be better written... ,J.C. :
You don’t rise to the possibilities of it... .0.8. R. :
Thanks, but wouldn’t reproduce....J.McC. : Will com-
municate with his Adelaide friends Ratcliffe : It
came to us on a beautiful morning when all the world
seemed fair ; yet even then “ ’possum ” wouldn’t rhyme
with “occasion.” J.H. : “Old Mack’s” deserved dis-
comfiture by the foot-rot inspector too ordinary a hap-
pening. The “Old Macks” and other liars of this world
meet their foot-rot inspectors with uncanny frequency....
R.A.H. : “Destiny of Australia” doesn’t break any new
ground “The Analyst”: No justification for your
theory that J. Iscariot,- J. Governor, and Nero all
vyore white socks. The socks of people we justly dis-
like run to all shades... .A.G. : Pretty, but not strong.
Just sweetly pretty, like Miss Brown’s hat....Q.: All
writings dealing with sheep dogs, blowflies, and a pickle
bottle are yarded deftly into a wicker pen, and thereafter
burnt with contumely. This has been the office custom
for years Mundala : “Outback Funeral” very pur-
poseless and dry and dragged out—in fact it is, for its
size, one of the draggedest things we’ve met....H.T.:
“Hiawatha” didn’t even create a thirst... W.H. : “A
Screed Built During Toothache ” is in flagrant imitation of
a well-known Jawbone Neild lyric. One verse :
The whole night long I lie awake,
And listen to the hell hound ache,
While devils from the Brimstone lake
Do act the goat,
And try to drive a mad earthquake
Fair down my throat.
H.A.W. : Neat, but hardly strong enough....
Jeffrie M. : Rather feeble and squashy.... Dill: Yes ;it has
merit, but you lack skill. Pay more attention to metre
....Anna K. : Not bright or crisp enough... .R.W.T. :
There’s poetry in it, but some of it is awkward and far-
fetched. ...H.L.V.: Rejected, after some hesitation....
Yeoman: Passed “ Vanguard ” out, after much hesita-
tion. “The Legion that Never was Listed” has been
written up so often that only a poet who takes a big size
in verse can say anything new about it.... J. W. Hogg:
Both have good lines and bad ones—too many bad ones.
.....D.E.J. : “Defence, not Defiance ” is too remarkable
in the metre. . ..The Tramp : If “ At Home ” were a little
madder, it might get in for its madness, and if it were a
little better, it might get in for its goodness, and if it
were a little worse, it might be printed as a specimen of
bad verse.. . .Xaxa : Verse didn’t get more than half-way
up to the pinnacle of publication ... .No. 99 : Too rugged.
....St. Jimmy: “Summer in Northern Vic.” is a very
ordinary catalogue of miseries.... Grey Girl: A poetic
idea, but the metre is too much like the teeth of a saw....
E. : We have tried to explain frequently that there is
little space in this column to reply to mere paragraphs.
As to your remarks about how Dalgety looks at its worst,
and Canberra at its best—has Canberra, even at its best,
a river that will supply an immense amount of cheap water
power for factories ; has it any river scenery ; has it any
special advantage in climate (the difference in winter tem-
perature between the two sites is reported by Australian
Meteorologist Hunt as two degrees) ; has it any convenient
port; and are there any darned points about it at all?
Clinker : Too obviously modelled on Kipling S.W.N. :
The basket had some difficulty in swallowing it. Have
another shot... .G.F.: Yes, it’s better; but still not
good enough Gryffyd-ap-Llewellyn : The Linlithgow
statue project isn’t worth exhaustive criticism
F. : You promise well as a humorist, but you are very
crude as yet... .Mimosa: They don’t reach print-1eve1....
Barry S.: Just got its nose in, so to speak Arthur S.:
The versification is perfect, but moral reflections of that
kind are hardly in our line Riverina : Spoilt by the
weakness of the second stanza. Regret to throw a brick
at a good old contributor like this, but it’s a very small
brick, and we boiled it to make it soft... .O.T. : They are
good enough to justify another try Felix : You haven’t
done so badly with a difficult theme, but your rhyme and
metre are faulty... .Onward Vic: Required more skilful
manipulation Donald Mac : Just beaten on the post,
Try again....E.S.C.: “Love’s Garden” is a pretty
trifle to put in the album of a nice girl—
a blue-eyed, golden-topped girl for preference
T.A.G. : There’s an element of greatness in it, but the
dramatic force is ill-directed, and your education needs
much improvement. Note the places marked... B.K. :
Not bad stuff, but the metre is impossible Skater:
Required a more skilful hand. In terms of painting, it’s
a “daub.” Alick D.: Too many faults of form....
Eric B. : Neatly written, and some good points towards
the end; but, as a whole, too suggestive of the
Family Herald A.S.:No apologies needed, but it isn’t
well enough done. Also, that racecourse circum-
stance is well stricken in years 8.G.: Parts of
them are so good that w e are sorry sundry weak
lines block them..... .R.W.T.: Well, you are such
a good-humored loser that we don’t like turning you
down....R.L. : Just wanted another ounce or two of
weight.. ..8.0.M.: Yes, it is too long for its interest, but
otherwise it isn’t too bad A.V.S.: The funniness of it
is too well wrapped up—if it’s there at all F.K.:
Plain drunk. Even the fact that the reveller was “a
prominent business man, alderman and J.P., fails to give
the episode national interest.. .F.J.K.: You opine that
an occasional reference to Geelong would be appreciated
by readers there, and then weigh in with a massive par.
beginning:—
“ The progressive spirit that is making for better things
in Geelong has been kept in a state of healthy glow by Or.
T. E. Bostock, who is now serving his third successive
year of office as mayor of the town,” etc.
Consider the feelings of readers who are not Geelongites
... .Cocky :If you really “ have never seen a single bird
dead in any of the paddocks after poisoning operations,”
there must be a kink in your vision. The damage that
is done to bird-life by the poison-cart is a back-blocks
truism.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Bob Scott: The idea lacks freshness. In fact, it gave
up being fresh very long ag0,... E.R.M. : One dirty;
others no value for picture purposes.. ..Gerald A.: Picture
doesn’t make the case very clear, and it isn’t much of a
case nor much of a picture... .May R. : Sorry can’t say
anything encouraging M.E.P. : An artistic failure....
Alex. N.: See no reason to encourage you in further pur-
suit of art.... Halo: Declined. Never since the days
when Jobson was Emperor of Greece has anything been
done in the way of art that was less likely to arouse
enthusiasm or disturb the mental equilibrium. The pic-
tures aren’t even humorously bad—just ordinary.... P. 8.:
Didn’t catch on.... Fad: Considering tw T o of them as
suggestions C.S.G. : It will probably appear in due
course. Can’t say when is due course.


A Healesville resident, in a Wtter to
the Premier, states :—“lf you will rent
me the Coranderrk aboriginal reserve
for, say, tive years, l will keep all the
natives and half-castes at present there
at Menzies’ or the Grand Hotel, and
will pay six .months’ boaitl for them in
advance. ,k Mr. Bent handed the com
munication to the press.
King Bill of Coranderrk la under-
stood to be agreeable. His Majesty
doesn’t care whom be eats with.
FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
“ The appointment of Messrs. Weedon
and Boyd to undertake their ridiculous
mission was laughed at and scorned in
every part of Victoria, and that they
should be refused admission to the open-
ing of the show is an appropriate
climax to a sorry farce." —Age.
Lor’ Mayor Weedon (at a crack):
“ Hush 1 Mats off; I can see
the coat-tails of His Gracious
Majesty the King/’
Some clerical opinions on the difficulty
of conducting missions to city men :
“Unless we can speak fo men while
they are eating, wt shall never get to
them at all.
“ And we shall never get the busi-
ness man unless we can speak to him
while he is taking his luncheon."
Cautious City Man: •• Afore ven-
turin’ further, Mister, I’d like
to have your assurance that free
beer goes with the counter-
lunch? 99
“There were men employed by the Church living on the veree of hnnoe.
near the precipice that the least untoward circumstance would in* 8 ’
The Rev. Hugh Kelly said that the average stipend was £95 ave TV, *? .° TBr '
w . w,. s™... „„ t-ZJStzZSSZ
SSKK *- .. 0n..-
to eat hi. oats.” X ,re 1,0 compcllea
TO END THIS SUSPENSE.
Some of the Sydney papers inform us that Mr. Reid is keen on the of
» projected political crisis. He has not yet lost hope that half-a-dozen memberf of
the Labor party may be ind iced to give him his long-waited-fojr seat on th®
Treasury benches."— Age.
Qeorgw: “I’ll let go of this if you chaps will break my fall.”
Ua bo rites ; 44 But what about the chances of your fall breaking us ? "
VICTORIAN VISIONS.


Dr. Arthur suggests that the
A merican visitors be taken up to the
Never-Never country. And here
,'ou see Dr. A. pointing out to an
American sailor the great resources of
Outback, which consist mostly of ring-
barking trees with American axes.
It is here foreshadowed that some of
our public men might, to make our
visitors feel at heme, adopt the cos-
tume, manners, and other peculiarities
of the ‘‘greatest kentry on Gahd’s
green urth.”
It is said that speculators have •• cornered ” all the available
recreation grounds about Sydney, and it now is up to some
enterprising genius to “corner” the view of "the Harbor itself,
charging admission to the foreshores, and, incidentally, covering
the screen with “ ads.” There’s millions in it!
And if Bruce Smith, say, could see his way to ask the Admiral on landing
for a “ chaw of tobacker,” it would do much to clinch the entente cordiale.
Demosthenes used to practise oratory on the seashore with his mouth
full of pebbles. Our local “ Demostheens ” is said to be preparing himself
In like manner with a clothes-peg astride his nose to enable him to acquire
the desirable “twang.”
$
/////
4 ///
///4v
*<//;/
UNCLE SAM IN SYDNEY.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321,
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is not only
a safe and harmless medicine, but the best in use
for coughs, colds, and croup.*
“Father Tuck” —ergo Raphael Tuck’s —of
Christmas card fame, is once again doing the Australian
tour, but this time there is something besides stocking
up the trade with everything that art and novelty can
derise in three-color, four-color, oiletteand photogravure.
Father Tuck’s Australian business has grown to such
dimensions that he contemplates fixing up a regular
abode here. Mr. Reginald Tuck, who is out here con-
sidering things for presentation to his illustrious dad,
has gotten with him everything, and talks of wondrous
trade achievements. For instance, Father Tuck’s post-
card competition for the largest collection of Tuck cards,
issued in one year without duplicates', resulted in one
lady sending in a 25,000 entry, and two others 15,000 and
10,000 each. That is hardly surprising, seeing that
Father Tuck has 150 artists on his regular staff and issued
60,000 different post-card designs in one year. Talking
about the post-card craze, Mr. Reginald Tuck states that
when he was in New York recently he ascertained from
the authorities that over a million post-cards per day
were being imported. The latest doing of Father Tuftk
was the purchase of Herbert Schmatz’s celebrated
Academy picture, the “ Awakening of Galatea,” for re-
production.*
There are woods of high mercantile value,
Rare woods of great beauty and price,
And woods of such close grain and hardness,
As resist all white ants, rats, and mice,
But the Woods of all woods to be lauded,
(You all will agree, I am sure), _
Is the Woods to whom mankind’s indebted,
For the only Great Peppermint Cure.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died suddenly on Sunday night, Colonel
Waddell, chief citizen soldier of N.S.W., and
brother of State Treasurer Waddell. The death
was quite unexpected. Colonel Waddell lost his
wife by death a few days ago, and that perhaps
preyed on his mind. He was a genial, hearty man,
and very much liked by a wide circle of friends.
His recent appointment to command the Field
Force of the N.S.W. fragment of an army was
hailed as a good move in the direction of en-
couraging the citizen soldiery.
Among the Junior Ear’s sources of income
are the motions to oust suburban aldermen,
arisinar out of tinpot local rows. Quite a crop of
cases have taken up the time of the N.S.W. Full
Court this term, and that institution has to run a
double shift in consequence. One humorous case
was that of Jones v. McMurdo (North Sydney).
Jones’ names are Henry Augustus. His rival has
to stagger through life owning up to William
Montague Scott McMurdo, known familiarly as
Monty Mac. Monty beat Jones at the poll, but
while Jones had put his complete Henry Augustus
on the nomination paper, McMurdo had only
called himself Montague, and had drawn a veil
over his William Scott. He went out over the
point, but he went out at Jones’ expense in Costs.
This pathetic testimony to the popularity
of C. C. Kingston appeared in the Adelaide
Advertiser of May 19
Campbell’s Creek (N.S.W.), May 13.—News of the
death of Mr. Kingston arrived at a camp of drovers in this
outlying country to-day, and to show how such good men
are respected by people of the bushman type, who seldom
see the cities, on receipt of the new s all the men in camp
removed their hats, repeating together, “Here’s to the
memory of Charley Kingston.”
There are mighty few Australians who would get
a spontaneous send-off like that. It means more
than a 40-ton monument.
Exit, on six months’ leave and six months’
salary, Government Printer Vaughan, of Banana-
land. Starting as a compositor, he was made
Hansard overseer in 1884 ; and on Gregory’s re-
tirement in 1902 he became Government Printer.
The leaking of Cabinet secrets that came into his
hands caused him some restless nights. There
was, for instance, the case of Morgan’s famous
Land Tax Bill, prepared as a surprise packet for the
House. A confidential copy disappeared, and its
contents were published in full by the Daily Mail.
Vaughan searched high and low, and couldn’t ex-
plain the mystery of the leakage. Finally, John
Cameron, of the squatters’ brigade, confessed that
he picked up the document on the floor of the
House and thought the printing of it too good a
joke to be missed. That was how the Mail got it,
and the printer breathed again.
DAD COMMONWEALTH : “ Boys , I’ll take over your
debts, and give you a liberal allowance so as
to help you to live straight .”
THE BOYS : “ We don’t want you to take our
debts over; we want to make 'em bigger , and
we want a bigger allowance so as to get on
the loose worse than ever.”
Old James Hayes, M.L.C., died on Sun-
day morning at Stanmore (N.S.W.). He was in
the Assembly for nearly 20 years, and then when
he ceased to be in urgent demand as a legislator
for another three years, he was made, as the usual
practice goes, a legislator for life in the Upper
House. He was a quiet, Ordinary man, and re-
puted to be bursting with knowledge about land.
Some birthdays for June : Panton, ex-
P.M. (Melbourne), 77, on the 2nd; Prince of
Wales (England), 43, and Labor Leader Archi-
bald (S.A.), 58, on the 3rd ; Education Minister
Propsting (Broken Prop, of Tasmania), 47 on the
4th ; Dill Macky (who sees the Scarlet Woman in
his sleep), 59 on the Bth ; Bishop White (Carpen-
taria), 49 on the 9th ; Independent Party Leader
Burgoyne (S.A.), 81 on the 10th ; Alex. Peacock
(of the guffaw), 47, and Mrs. Humphry Ward, 57,
on the 11th; Federal Statistician Knibbs, 50 on
the 13th (but he doesn’t look it) ; Archbishop
Smith (Melb.), 72 on the 14th ; Prof. Kernot
(Vic.), 63 on the 16th; Louis Becke (who wrote
the ‘ ‘ By Reef and Palm ” stories), 51, and Henry
Lawson, 41, on the 17th ; Essex Evans, 45, Agent-
General Rason (Westralia), 49, and Education
Director Tate (Vic.), 45, on the 18th ; Crouch,
M.H.R., 39 on the 19th; Explorer David
Lindsay, 52, and Professor Anderson Stuart, 52,
on the 20th ; Chief Justice Griffith, 63 on the
21st; ex-Senate President Baker, 66 on the 22nd ;
Town Clerk Ellery (Adelaide), 36 on the 23rd ;
A. L. Gordon shot himself 38 years ago on the
24th; Dr. Liddell, M.H.R., 46 on the 26th;
Bruce Smith, 57 on the 28th ; Justice Higgins, of
the High Court, on the 30th.
John Campbell, a brother of recently-
deceased British ex-Prime Minister Campbell-
Bannerman, is buried in the old Fremantle (W. A.)
cemetery. He was partner in a business firm at
Calcutta (India), and four years ago fell ill and
proceeded to remove to Hobart (Tas.). He had
become so much worse, how-
ever, bythe time the vessel
reached Fremantle that
he had to land, and he
died a few hours after-
wards. Another broth-
er of the ex-Premier
passed out the other
day. The Camp-
bells are going
sure enough.
THE IMPORTERS GOSPEL.
During the last few weeks quite a number of cases have
occurred in which unfortunate men or boys have been
seriously or fatally injured by the bursting of a sporting
gun The possibilities of danger inherent in a cellu-
loid comb must be insignificant in comparison with the
risks attending the discharge of cheap Belgian guns, the
bursting of which has become so painfully common of
late.—Sydney Telegraph.
Granny Telegraph: “ Gracious, child, don’t fire
that gun. It’s one of those cheap Freetrade
things, and it’s certain to hurst.”
L.B.M.: “ Great Scott, Granny! Why, I bought
it on your recommendation.”
Ex-Governor-General Hopetoun (or Lin-
lithgow) died leaving £921,141. The average
private wealth of Great Britain runs to about £3OO
per head, so 3069 people have to be utterly penni-
less to make one Marquis of Linlithgow. It isn’t
a pleasant recollection to die with.
There are several men in Maoriland by the
name of Murphy. Some of them are
Irishmen. There is also a man whose
name isn’t Murphy, but whom the writer
will call Murphy to disguise the fact that
his real cognomen is Isaac Macdonald.
Murphy, or O’Brien, or whatever he
may be, is an aspirant for political
honors, and, during the course of an
address he gave t’other night to the
electors of his district, he grew
rancidly eloquent over the oppression
which the Government has laid upon
the poor farmer. Said Hoolan : “Take
our Charitable Aid now ! The farmer pays
taxes for that ! He does ! He pays taxes to
keep up our Charitable Aid ! Yes,) that’s
what the poor farmer does, and all the time
he’s paying them he knows that, as long as
ever he’s a farmer, he’ll never be fortunate
enough to want Charitable Aid!” Then
the laugh lifted the iron roof off its nails,
while McGuinness,stood by with a “ Whaffor ”
expression on his face that was beautiful to
see.
About an old gas-man :
May 24 w.is the 67th anniversary of the lighting of Syd-
ney streets with gas. It was free gas for the first night.
The company was very small potatoes in those days, and
the sending of £lOOO to London for preliminary plant was
considered a huge undertaking. The company was in-
corporated on Sept. 7, 1837. The Governor and his
Council were so scared that the making of gas within the
town boundaries was prohibited. As the company
couldn’t get a suitable piece of land outside the bound-
aries, this prohibition was presently set aside. Colonel
Barney was the first Chairman of Directors ; but that
“ Pooh Bah,” Ralph Mansfield, parson, journalist, book-
seller, stationer, etc., etc., was the actual founder. He
was secretary for 43 years, and only retired at the age of
80, one year before his death.
“Mr. James,” of Sydney Morning Herald,
lately becamqa director of Burns, Philp and Co.,
Ltd. The Fairfaxes are now identified, asllarge
shareholders qr as directors, with over a dozen of the
largest local commercial enterprises. A
motto of old John Fairfax, in his
struggling days, was : “ There’s
nothing like having one business
backing another,” and prosperity
finds the family true to this ideal.
If the Herald were a paper
with convictions, it might find it
embarrassing to be identified
with so many commercial in-
terests, but it isn’t. “I don’t
think,” said a Herald editor,
“in my long term of office we
ever lost an advertiser by in-
temperate advocacy of any
cause”—or words to that effect.
Th e butter-factory king of Maoriland
Thomas Joll, passed out recently. He ran seven
factories in and about Taranaki, and if the tram
which struck him had behaved itself better TnO
might have lived to see the number doubled.'
T 5 Betheras, the Commonwealth’s
1 üblic Service Inspector for Victoria, who dierl
the middle of May, had climbed up nearly a S high
as a public servant can get, starting from tV
bottom rung, where the telegraph messengers
perch. He missed few rungs, either-not even
the rung on which you have to put on a red coat
and teH Merely Mary, hanging over the side-gate 1
that her Steady William hasn’t written this post!
The Barrier district (N.S.W.) still holds
one of the very few survivors of the little
syndicate that first owned the Broken Hill Pron
Block 10, Block 14 and British mines. This
old sticker is George Urquhart, who for
years was “on the track ” with cattle for
the Kidmans, but now,
in his old age, is in
charge of
their Black Hill
stock depdt. H e
must have been in
the West Darling
over 50 years ; an
uncle of his held
Kinchega station,
which nearly that
long ago passed
into the hands of
the Hughes family,
and that family
has held it ever
since. George Ur-
quhart’s memory
goes back to the days
when the only postman
west o’ Darling was a
black-boy, who was in-
duced to go from station
to station by the promise of
a tremendous feed at the
other end. The postman always
got his promised “blow-out”:
but on no account did he ever get two at the
one station—and that kept him moving.
The trains in Bananalaud do not rival the
comet for speed, but they seem to be tolerably
safe, judging by the number of railway employees
who grow toothless in the service. Dunbar, ex-
General Traffic Manager, who resigned the other
day, after 44 years’ continuous employment, has
been succeeded by another youngster, who has
already completed 41 consecutive years’ toil on the
Q. railways. The new G.T.M., Mr. Charles
Evans, entered the Department in 1867 in the
traffic branch at Toowoomba ; then he became a
guard, a traffic inspector, a superintendent, and now
has just one more step to reach the railway blue
ribbon, attained by the present holder through a
similar process of promotion. Since Queensland
got rid of its gilded imported railway specialists
in the engineering and traffic departments, it has
made marvellous progress in the efficiency and
safety of its railway services.
Melbourne Herald lately discovered what
looks like a genuine centenarian in the person of
Mrs. Hannah Osmond, of Hawksburn (Vic.). The
old lady, who, according to tolerably good evi-
dence, was born May 20, 1808, in Devonshire,
reached Hobson’s Bay in the Westminster in ’4O,
too late to see Batman, but soon enough to make
the acquaintance of his widow and her daughters
and Johnny and Mrs. Fawkner. With her hus-
band she presently went to dwell at Jika, as the
Hawksburn district was then called, and has
remained thereabouts ever since. Beyond being
a trifle deaf and having attained a considerable
age, she is a normal old lady, who has never
nursed any grievances, or caught the Stinking
Fish complaint, or done anything to bring herself
ittto unfavorable prominence.
Captain Arthur Lloyd, who has, it is
feared, gone down with all hands in the steamer
Orion, belonged to a family that had salt in its
blood. His father lived a long life on the ocean,
and now, at 91, dwells in peace at Hobart.
Brother Frank is chief officer of the Wyrallah,
Brother Henry went to D. Jones’ locker with the
rest of the crew of the Ketch Ethel, off Tassy’s
coast, some years back. Arthur, who, it seems,
has followed him, had had one previous close
shave. On the West Coast of Tasmania, not so
long ago, he and five others put out in a whale-
boat to catch a mail from a vessel that was ex-
pected to pass. The boat turned turtle, and four
were drowned at once. Lloyd and a mate
scrambled on the capsized tub and hung there for
50 long hours, when the mate slipped off. Next
day the derelict drifted ashore, and Lloyd, more
dead than alive, with clothes in shreds, and
hands, legs and feet torn and bleeding, dragged
himself 13 miles till he collapsed, luckily within
sight of succor. Most men would deem that
experience a guarantee of immunity from death
by drowning ; but the sea wanted him, and it
seems to have got him at last.
BRINGING IN THE WOUNDED.
A lecturer on the Defence Question suggests the for-
mation of an Asiatic Ambulance Corps to be attached to
the Australian army. —News Item.
A tailor named Heller, who lives and is
repaired at Gilgandra (N.S.W.), recently broke
his leg while boxing, and remarked as he fell that
this was his 19th fracture. Though only 25 years
old, Heller has broken at various times both jaws,
both arms, and both legs, and his collarbone ana
ribs and sundries. As a sorrowfully brittle person
this tailor is about the limit.
MY EPITAPk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I do think of many a friend—
The world to me a shambles is ;
Where Butcher Death doth make an end,
Alike of smile, and sneer, and kiss.
He lifts his pole-axe o’er the tall,
And bloody end he gives to all.
Two months ago he killed a mate
Away in far Nyassaland ;
Three months agone the Axe of Fate
Laid low, upon the Torres sand,
A man whose life was all too brief—
A trusty pilot of the Reef.
One passed his checks at Hobart Town ;
One threw the seven in Papua ;
One slung his alley in to drown ;
One starred and burst by Burnett Bar ;
Pluck palpitation was one’s fate ;
One turned it up in Foveaux Strait.
And, taking now a stitch in time,
And Chronos by the forelock (such
Old metaphors do make for rhyme.
And don’t obscure the meaning much),
Of all my friends whom death must seize
I’ve written the obituaries.
Some are in prose, and some in verse ;
On all their virtues I enlarge ;
With song I cover up the hearse,
With lyrics deck the funeral barge.
A centenarian (what is truth?),
I weep because of my lost youth !
The friend who drinks in glee to-night!
I’m ready with his earthly end ;
My muse with bombazine bedight
(I’ll show you how to plant a friend)!
Ere yet the breath has left his clay
His funeral ode shall see the day.
But when I’ve finished all my pals ;
When dead are all the men I knew ;
When worms—Death’s grisly seneschals—
Have hid them all from fleshly view ;
I’ll vainly search on land or sea
For one to write an ode on ME !
And as I could not quietly
Stay in my grave unless ’twere done ;
I state now, without hope or fee,
How good it was ere Time was run ;
Careless of blame or praise or laugh
I write here mine own epitaph.
IN MEMORIAM RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Died 31st Dec., 1968.
When all his virtues I record,
The manly act—the pregnant word—
And think how good he was and wise.
The salt tears well into mine eyes.
Tall, golden-haired, and debonair—
(A duke from penny novelettes)
The Bow Bells Decorative Heir —
(The one who always paid his debts).
His blue eye challenged, to outshine,
The sun, his golden hair flowed down
His shoulders—generous and fine
Of Nature’s King the Native Crown.
Quiet his mind, and calm as death ;
No impulse swayed his equal days ;
He ever drew the equal breath ;
And walked in clear, unclouded ways.
A writer he —a poet great—
(His metres, envy said, were rude) ;
Great novelist —tho’ ’twas his fate
By critics to be labelled crude.
A statesman he (or would have been),
Master of Witanagemotes ;
A salved Australia you’d have seen,
But —he polled insufficient votes !
But for that trifling circumstance,
A greater, grander Hampden, he ;
But smaller men achieved the chance,
Lost by that mere discrepancy.
Hampden and Shakspeare rolled in one,
He might have been ! (’twas not to be !)
Oh great heart hidden from the sun
With gold broad-barring all the sea !
He might have been—well, anything !
Napoleon, Dante —all that lot!
He might have Caesar been, or King !
Alas, alack ! But he was not.
He might have been an Orangeman !
Rejoice an early death his fate
Saved from disgrace by that last ban—
His young life ends at ninety-eight.
He might have been a councillor ! ! !
Kind death has driven away our fears ;
He’s saved from being a mayoral bore—
The thought gives gladness to our tears.
He loved to walk the earth around,
Sauntering the world, and up and down
The forests that the deep seas bound,
And wearied quickly of the town.
Rest deep then, Randolph ! Rest for long !
Tho’ rest to thee will be a pain ;
And when the boys, with jest or song,
Come to thy grave, then rise again.
When tremulous, the earth’s green breast
Grows with the clamant life of Spring,
In your best Sunday bones rise, drest,
And roam the bush, and have your fling.
Where bony youth and grisly wench
Foot it in Bacchanal, and pass
Each other by the narrow trench
That is their home below r the grass !
All of my friends may me forget !
What need have I of friendship now?
When this my dirge is writ, and set
To wait the chilling of my brow ?
When life becomes but lees and draff
I’m ready with my epitaph !
VIC.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


V
0
*
l'l
c-
v *
o
a
<*■
a
ft r
? *
-O
a»
fc
a
>/
fl
ft
ft
JK
r >:
*
* m
«r
\
'i
>
/
/
Sir
♦
/!
<
✓
sr
V
y
m-
•*
Girls* Dining Room at the British Australasian Tobacco Company's Sydney Factory. The Men*s Dining' Room will appear in a subsequent issue
WHERE YANKEE DOODLE and CHAMPION TOBACCOS are made.
817 Tons of Yankee Doodle Tobacco zvere smoked in the Commonzvealth in the year 1907.


The sale of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
extends to every part of the world. Does not this
show conclusively that it is a remedy of great
merit ?*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability GuarantMd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M.n.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The owner scratched the favorite horse,
The punter scratched his head,
And gazed distracted to the course ;
Then to his friends he said :
“ This punting may allure, but not
As other things allure,
And I would sooner put tny lot
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
GrO TO TT~RT-T
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr?d. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis
When you have a cough or cold give
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy a triah and see for
yourself what an excellent medicine it is.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Hal/-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns apd Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
it
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DEHYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
While the Premiers’ Conference was de-
ciding that the States could do things much better
than the Commonwealth, Bent explained that the
State in Victoria was just going to spend a lot of
money opening up Victorian land. “ But,” he
added, “nearly all the good land has gone.” As
proof of how wonderfully well the State can do
things. Bent’s remark was convincing. The idea
■of interfering with a State that can get rid
•of nearly all the good land and still have so
little cultivation to show for it Bent evidently
tregarded as preposterous.
AN UNSATISFACTORY CLAIM.
AUSTRALIA : “ Can't see a speck of payable dirt.”
The delegates of Australian Chambers of
Commerce, lately in corroboree at Brisbane, aren’t
quite all Tory StateFrighters, though a good many
are. Redwood, of Toowoomba, speaking on the
everlasting cornsack question, said they ought to
support the Federal Minister. If the matter were
left to the States, he added, they would never
have the grievance removed. And that dictum
will apply to a lot of matters besides corn-sacks.
Kendall, the stationmaster in charge at
Sunshine during the recent smash, became very
informative when questioned at the Coroner’s in-
quiry. He said that the shifts ordinarily were
from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., 1 p.m. to 11 p.m., and from
11 p.m. to 8 a.m. ; and that, from 7.15 to 11 p.m.
on the night of the accident, he had been work-
ing entirely unassisted. Asked if he had ever
been able to get through the whole of his duties
during his shift, he replied, “Never once!”
Asked further if he had worked regularly over-
time, he said, “Fully three hours every day.” So
this pampered civil servant—the servant of the
people, please note—was putting in about 90
hours a week, for which he received a little under
£3 ; and he had risen to that magnificent position
after 25 years’ service.
The Federal Parliamentary Committee
which has been wrestling with the problem, pro-
poses the passing of an Act by which persons who
libel Parliament or any of its members may be
tried before the State Courts. If that idea is
adopted, a certain gang of fat men and bejewelled
women will be well-advised to go slow over the
“ confiscation ” lie and the “ free love and burst-
ing of the marriage tie ” perjury. And Petriana
Myths will have to be dropped for fear of gaol.
The somewhat eerie notion ofaSydneyevell-
ing paper that, in the event of Wade
giving himself the Chief Justice-
ship, the Governor would send to
the Legislative Council for a new
Premier, recalls the fact that Go-
vernor Hercules Robinson actually
tried to do something like that,
with the result that severe remarks
were exported to him from Eng-
land. The Governor had suc-
cumbed to influences exerted on
behalf of bushranger Gardiner, and
when the Assembly threw out
the Government as a protest,
Robinson sent for W. M. Man-
ning, M.L.C., to form a new
Cabinet. The coup didn’t 'Come
off. Of course, if Ashton sees' the
Premiership coming his way he
can resign from the Council and
hustle after an Assembly seat, and
thus qualify himself. But is the
Premiership going the way of
Honorary Minister Ashton ?
Brisbane Worker (9/5/’08) :
The young Australian nation, to hear the Premiers talk,
needs to be kept in leading strings, and never allowed out
without a nurse—six nurses, in fact! The notion of a
grown-up Commonwealth in long pants, with money of
its own to spend, is most repellent to them. But it’s'got
to come, and the sooner the better. The need of the hour
is for one whole Nation, for one supreme power in the
house, with a firm control of its interests, and a coherent
policy for its welfare ; not six wrangling spinster sisters,
six petty bosses, all pulling different ways, and for ever
snarling over their alleged rights.
In the interests of Yictorian closer settle-
ment, T. Bent has lately threatened to grab the
aboriginal reserve at Coranderrk, where about 70
natives and semi-natives d well. If Bent proceeds to
carry out this shameful intention, the Vic. Parlia-
ment should surely be able to skirmish up enough
honesty and decency to stop him. The need for
land is great, certainly, but it will be time enough
to dispossess poor Brother Billy of the little that
has been left him when the State has forced to
use the infinitely larger areas which have been
already grabbed from him by the Fat Landlords.
The claim put forward by the State
Premiers that the Commonwealth should pay
~ ~ .. ~
them £16,000,000 or so for their lighthouses,
is a very idiotic business. Suppose the Com-
monwealth does the large, blatant, unwise
deed, what do the States gain? There are
various ways of doing the thing. (1) The
Commonwealth might assume £16,000,000
worth of the States debts in payment—but
then the Commonwealth is just offering to
take over all the debts in any case. (2) The
Commonwealth might borrow £16,000,000 and
pay it to the States, and the States could pay
off some of their debts with it, thus chang-
ing a State debt into a Federal debt. In
either case the Commonwealth could only
pay the interest on the £16,000,000 by taxing
the people of the States. Or (3) the Common-
wealth might tax the people of the States till
it had accumulated the £16,000,000, and then
pay the £16,000,000 back to the States,
whereupon the same people would still own
the same lighthouses, only they would own
them in a Federal sense, instead of owning
them in a State sense. The only thing to be
gained by the State Premiers’ idea is (a)
delay, (b) cost of valuing lighthouses, (c) pos-
sibly a considerable outlay in commissions and
expenses.
It stands to the credit of C. C. King-
ston that he was defeated at the polls once.
That was when, after being seven times re-
turned to the Assembly, through which he
had repeatedly carried bills for the reform of
the Fat-ridden Council, he retired from the
Assembly to carry the fight into the Fat-
ridden Council itself. He appealed to Fat in
Fat’s stronghold—the Southern district—and
Fat did him the honor of rejecting him. But
he soon had a chance to appeal to the rather
less Fat Central district, and got into]the Council
after the fight of his life.
A comparison between the polished satire
of Laborite W. M. Hughes and the vulgar abuse of
Freetrader Joe Cook, a man who would be Prime
Minister if he had his “ rights” :
Mr. Joseph Oook : You are a dirty little rat. (Oh ! oh !
and laughter.)
Mr. Hughes : I have never understood why the Trappists
imposed silence as a primary rule of their monastic
establishments, though I have often been sorry that the
hon. member’s religious predilections have not permitted
him to join the Order. (Loud laughter.)
Mr. Joseph Cook : You are an abusive little rat. (Oh !
oh !)
The Australian Government has to struggle
against an almost incredible amount of hard lying
on the part of the State Fright papers and poli-
ticians. For instance, take this perjury re the
proposed division of the Australian revenue
(Launceston Examiner, 13/5/’08): —
If the Customs revenue averages £2 or £2los. per head,
is it not reasonable to claim one half of that sum to assist
in the development of the States ? There will be railways
to build, roads to make, harbors to construct, education
to be provided, justice to be administered ; but IT WILL
ALL HAVE TO BE PAID FOR OUT OF DIRECT
STATE TAXATION if the Commonwealth absorbs all the
Customs revenue of the future.
Not a word about the fact that the Common-
wealth offers to take over all the State debts, and
leave to the States their railways, etc., clear of all
liability, so that the revenue from them will be
the States’ biggest source of income. Also not a
word about the fact that the States’ land revenues
will remain to them intact. It would be hardly
possible to go further in the way of gross misrep-
resentation—yet probably the person responsible
for the above lie would call himself a gentleman
at a push.
Another tragic manifestation of the results
of having a Protectionist Administration running
things occurred (19/5/’08) at Cockatoo when the
largest hopper barge Australia has yet seen was
launched. A sum of £2599 3s. lOd. was distributed
locally in wages during this vessel’s construction.
S. M. Herald notes, in rather a sad tone of voice
in this connection, that “the erection of the
frames (which are all constructed) of the Common-
wealth trawler will be put in hand at once.”
THE SAME OLD DRAWBACK.
The Wages Board system, under which a legal minimum
wage was fixed, worked well in Australia. But although
the machinery was suitable to existing Australian condi-
tions, he thought the conditions of British trades put
formidable difficulties in the way of its application. . . .
The success of Wages Board determinations in Australia
was contingent upon Protection.— Special Commissioner
of the Board of Trade before the House of Commons
Select Committee.
THE BRITISH SLAVE : “ Well, I dunno, but
sorne'ow I never seems to get anywhere on
this old crock o' mine. I think something
with a, bit more life in it ’ud be more useful.”
Governor Harry Rawson made a sensible
contributiontotheEmpire Day oratory (24/5/’08): —
You in Australia have a very fine flag of your own, one
you are right to be proud of. I hope one of these day's
you will have a day set apart for honoring your own—the
Australian—flag.
N.S.W. has only five persons to each
square mile (as compared with England’s 586 per
square mile), but owing to State Government
muddle the land famine is a dreadful thing. One
day this month the State offered five little farms
at Carcoar for sale by public gamble, and inside
six days 217 applications were received. Some of
the gamblers told lamentable tales. Probably the
most pathetic was that of the individual who
started three years ago in pursuit of the fleeting
farm. He had £6OO then. He has spent three
years and £4OO travelling round trying his luck at
the official gamble, and not a look-in has he had
yet. He has now hardly enough money left to
make it worth while hunting the will-o’-the-wisp
any longer, but he still plods manfully through
the empty country in search of the one thing it
doesn’t seem to possess—land.
Although Local Government in N.S.W.
has hardly got started, it has already come round
to Premier Wade with the hat—in fact, it looks
more like a coal-pit with a brim on it than a mere
hat. The position is that, when Local Government
was established, roads, bridges, culverts, and
other works were handed over to the Local Govern-
ment bodies gratis—the mayors and councils
weren’t expected, as the Commonwealth is, to pay
for the works. They also received a handsome
endowment with which to keep in order the works
that cost them nothing. And now they say that
some of the works are a trifle old, and suggest
that the Government Should pay for having them
put in order, in addition to handing them over
gratis and supplying an endowment for mainte-
nance. Wade took the idea quite kindly ; but,if it
had been a Federal deputation which asked him
to hand over all the resumed properties gratis, and
to repair them first, and also to leave around a
little loose cash for future repairs, the attitude of
Wade—well, the dictionary goes bankrupt about
here.
WHEN MON ARCHS MEET.
The King- starts from London on the 29th inst. to meet
the Ozar in Russia. —News Item.
At the St. George (N.S.W.) election the
Deform vote was 1268 less than it was a year
ago; the Labor vote was 884 more than it was
a year ago; consequently the Wade majority
dropped from 3838 to 1686. Also the man who
went up on the Secession ticket got TEN votes.
There is a silver lining.
Melbourne is grumbling about the threat-
ened increase of 2d. in the £ in the Metropolitan
Board’s rate. But if the citizens had nous and
energy enough to put the whole Government of
the city and suburbs—water supply, sewerage
street maintenance, lighting, etc. —into the hands
of one comprehensive, popularly-elected body, it
would actually be able to reduce the rates—es-
pecially if it pursued such profitable businesses as
milk-supply, street-tramways, lighting, under-
taking, etc. The number of unnecessary town-
halls, mayors, mayors’ cupboards, town-clerks
rate-collectors, and dog-inspectors, in Melbourne’
as in other Australian cities, is a disgrace and a
very poor joke.
You can pretty well tell the sort of Pat
House the Westralian Leg. Council is by the
occupations of the people who go there. A third
of the total members had to be elected the
other day. Two merchants and a K.C. were
unopposed ; and two solicitors, a merchant; a
grazier, and a newspaper proprietor got five other
places. There was still one seat left. A merchant
find a publican tied for that, and the Returning
Officer, apparently reckoning that the Labor
crowd ought to have a look-in, if only through a
crack, gave his vote for Bung, Bung having been
accused of being more or less a democrat.
THE ALTERNATIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Many leading men in the Labor movement show them-
selves so suspicious of the military class, that they cannot
listen with patience to any'suggestion for the creation of
•even a citizen force for Australian defence.— Daily paper.
The Labor-man, imbued with scorn
Of military pomp and pride,
Arose in agony to warn
His fellow-workers far and wide
Against the risk of being shorn
For laces, feathers, frills, and pay,
To deck the martial popinjay.
Youths taught in camps were spoiled, he said,
As sound electors, to a man ;
And he beheld, with hate and dread,
The prospect of a fighting clan
Of privilege and hatred bred,
Whose aid old Fatman might invoke
To end a strike in (powder) smoke.
But people cried, oppressed with fright:
“ If foemen come across the main ? ”
•■Said Labor-man : “ Oh, that’s all right.
We’ll simply turn them back again.
So set this legend well in sight,
Upon a sign-post deeply rooted :
‘ Trespassers will be prosecuted ! ’ ”
'VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
A WORD OF ADVICE FROM AN AUSTRALIAN
LOYALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The State Governments, continued the Premier, would
insist on their rights. Members of the conference should
go back to the country districts as missionaries in the
cause of State Rights. In thus fighting they were doing
the best thing to maintain inviolate the sacred spirit of
the Federal Constitution.—C. G. Wade’s adjuration to
the N.S.W. Shires Conference.
Well, gentlemen, you’re gathered here together
To hammer out the country’s destiny,
To set your sev’ral minds to finding whether
Of many policies one best may be.
It is a question that I’ve brooded over
Till corrugated th'ought-lines mar my brow.
Here’s the result; You must emerge from cover
And promulgate the father of a row.
Urge on your fellow-yokels that Defence laws
Are not designed to benefit this State.
(What though the Jap or Chow impose immense paws
On Vic. or Q. ?—that’s their unlucky fate.)
Stir malice up regarding postal matters,
'Jbie as to letters lost, and wires gone wrong ;
Argtie all patriots are stark-mad hatters,
Batter and bang on the secession gong.
Clamor for Freetrade now the tariff’s settled ;
Wail about Sosh (but grab State-aid like mad);
Chafe publicly and fret like racers mettled
Anent the way poor injured Ma is “ had.”
Thus, and thus only, will you do the right thing :
By all Australia, and the Mother State
Bj’ raising Hades one is plainly bright’ning
Australia’s cause, pure and inviolate.
n.s.w. to-; ,
M.
TO CURE RHEUMATISM PERMANENTLY
Drive the Poisonous Acids out op the
Blood.
Rheumatism is a Blood Disease. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, a Blood Medicine. Cured
one Sufferer when he was nearly driven
M.AD WITH PAIN.
Once rheumatism gets a hold, it comes back
time and time again. Some people have it every
winter. It’s acid in the blood that causes hot,
swollen, aching joints. It’s worse in cold, damp
weather. In warmer weather, sufferers runaway
with the idea that the complaint has gone, only
to be disappointed in the next change of weather.
There’s only one way to banish rheumatism ;
drive the acid—the cause—out of the blood.
What will do it ? Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
That’s what they’re for ; a blood medicine to cure
anything that a good supply of rich, health-giving
blood will cure. They have cured hundreds of
Australians, and amongst the latest is a Sydney
man who gives the following account of his cure
“I had rheumatism off and on for about two
years,” said Mr. James Walker Peacock, St. John
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney. “ I was attacked from
the neck to both hips, across the shoulders and
down the arms. Every now and then I’d have to
knock off work and lay up at home. At times I
could hardly move in bed ; at other times I could
not turn my head nor move my arms. It was a
great trouble for me to lace my boots; bending at
all gave me a great pain. I was rubbed with
turpentine and various liniments, but I only got
ease for a time. Every rubbing made the parts so
tender that I could not bear anyone to come near
me after each one. The least movement and I
suffered fearfully. I could only walk very slowly,
and very often I was so stiff that it was all I could
do to drag myself along. I never knew when an
attack was going to take me. Perhaps I’d go to
bed all right and wake up in the morning practi-
cally unable to move. I’d be like this for days
before I’d get a little ease. I might get a sudden
bout when working and have to come home and
take to my bed. My mates can tell you how I
couldn’t get my coat on with the pain ; I had to
get one of them to just throw it across my
shoulders. Often the pain was so fierce that it
took me all my time to keep from singing out with
it. I went off my food completely and lost weight
fast. I went to a doctor and took his medicines,
but I can’t say that I got much better. A friend
of mine in New Zealand told me to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. I did, and it was
marvellous the way they cured me, and they cured
me for good, too, for I have never had a return of
the rheumatism since. My health in general is
excellent.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medi-
cine dealers, or, if you cannot get them locally,
send direct to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d. for one box; six
boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.


Crj>
O
j $ i>
<>■■s
■-nr .'“-.iia
aSSSmSM&iSSSSSIESm
SOLE AGENTS
These fii’mly established
favorites Have a reputation
of years in Australia.
Made entirely by BRITISH
WORKMEN, they are grand
wear resisters, and are
specially recommended for
Colleges and Schools where
worK is Heavy.
They are ricH in tone
quality, and delig'Htfully
free in toucH.
The Case worK is very
effective.
We sell these Pianos either
for CasH or on Easy Terms,
and Catalogues are free.
W. H. PALING CO., LTD
•J
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Business Suits
J'OT Country eTowrv Wear.
s»
illl'
Best Value
ia
Australia
rf 1 1
w%
a
Write for Patterns
and
Se\f Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
SUCKLEYC'NUNN ll®
Bourke St Melbourne.
COLLECT
Green Coupons
THE COUPON SYSTEM.
CHAPTER 11.
IN Chapter I. we showed you how, under
the credit system, the honest man had
to pay • for the bad mark, and how the
Coupon system had come to his rescue.
We are now going to show that under the Coupon system the purchaser gets
his goods at the lowest price, and that he gets fresher goods and better goods
for less money, and that the Storekeeper is also the gainer by the system,
because when people pay cash instead of taking credit the Storekeeper gets
hold of more ready cash himself; and with that ready cash he is able to go to
his Master, the Importer, and make better terms for himself, because the
Importer in turn has to give his customer, the Storekeeper, discounts also for
paying cash ; and the Storekeeper, instead of having to get long credit from
the Importer and having to pay interest for the accommodation, becomes
independent of the Importer because he pays cash for what he gets, and
thus buys at the lowest possible price and is able to give his customers, the
public, the benefit of this good buying.. And you will see, too, that as the
Storekeeper’s business gradually turns from a credit one into a cash one, the
losses from book debts become less, and so do his expenses of keeping books,
so that the public and the Storekeeper benefit from this splendid system.
In Chapter 111. we will show you how it is worked.
Visit the Showrooms:
387 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite The Strand).


Cherry Brandy
... THE BEST is ...
Peter F. Heering's.
NO COMPEERS.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl!
Early in the morning
before you get out of bed,
then’s the time to appreciate
a cup of Robur tea—it will
brighten and refresh you so
that the rest of the day will
pass as if there wasn’t a worry
or trouble in the world.
k
£
w
The No. 1 Grade is especially
good —it has a beautiful
flavour, and is wonderfully
economical—Grocers sell it in
packets and tins.
SOREELE
(THE MISSES CLAPP)
Will be in Sydney as usual Early in July to show
Their New Spring Models and Materials
Thev will take a fitter with them. Notification of
‘ address and date will be given later.
it
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCE PS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 26, 1908.
My Dear Arint, —
So Lord “Dick” Nevill is journeying to these
parts once more. It is well from many points of
view ; and especially well from the Dudley point
of view. The tall, grave person with the suave
manner and the inscrutable “Abergavenny eye”
is simply invaluable as counsellor and friend to
the gubernatorial tyro. Lord “ Dick’s” acquaint-
ance with the precise grades of Society in every
big city in the Commonwealth is encyclopaedic.
He takes his unique knowledge very seriously,
and uses it to the promotion of Peace and to the
satisfaction of everybody. To the ordinary human
being it is not apparent why Mrs. Blank (who
frivols somewhat, and is suspected of husband-
beating) should regard it as an outrage if asked to
meet Lady Asterisk (who husband-beats, and is
suspected of frivolity). Not everyone is aware,
in fact, that either dame shudders at the thought
of knowing the other ; or cares a low-priced ex-
pletive on the subject, anyway. Lord Richard
knows the full strength of every such situation in
each State capital, and gives it his thoughtful
attention. His carefully-selected dinner parties
during the Tennyson riyime were marvels of har-
mony. He reduced almost to vanishing point the
tally at Federal Government House balls of per-
sons who cut each other beside the very steps
of the vice-regal dais. The dark Angel of Hos-
tility was even banished more or less from the
numerously-attended garden-parties. A Governor-
General in search of an easy social run for his
salary couldn’t do much better than hire an
expert mentor like Lord Richard, who, for diplo-
matic tact, ranks beside such giants as Wallington
and Share.
I have much pleasure in congratulating
the people of Australia on this appoint-
ment. It will undoubtedly tighten the silken
bonds, heighten the crimson hue of kin-
ship, and all round bring the country into
closer touch with the Motherland. But much re-
mains to be done. So far as I can discover, the
Governor-General.has at present no Stick. If he
had a Stick or two (which Heaven send he soon
may !), we might have news, now and again, re-
sembling the following, which I cull from London
World :
Field-Marshal Sir Evelyn Wood, Colonel of the Royal
Hqrse Guards, is to be Gold Stick in waiting' during
April.
Lieut enant-Colonel Ferguson, 2nd Life Guards, is to be
Silver Stick on duty.
I don’t know how many other sticks are attached
to the Person, but I see no reason for Australia to
lag behind in this regard. Senator Lieutenant-
Colonel Neild, whose personally-invented uniform
aroused the envious despair of half the European
chancelleries, when he visited cold climes a few
years back, positively clamors for recognition ; as
does the Right Hon. (U.S.A. designation) Daniel
O’Connor, P.M.G., etc., etc., who, after a brisk
Vatican engagement, wrested from the Pope an
order “ corresponding in every respect to the
Victoria Cross.” And there are stacks of others.
Captain Rome, the just-appointed Dudley
A.D.C., is an Australian ; the Rome parent bird
on the male side was a Queensland station-owner.
The family abandoned Australia a decade ago,
and settled in Cheltenham, the excessively gen-
teel abode of spinsters, Anglo-Indian civil servants
(retired), and ex-Army persons. Lord Dudley’s
future A.D.C. went to Harrow School, where he did
great things as a boxer. He represented his
school and, later, the Army in the heavy-weight
branch of that disfiguring pastime. Providentially
in the case of Captain Rome no permanent face
damage resulted. His countenance does not
look as if the Turkish hordes had passed
over it. He is a beautiful young man with
a peerless profile (despite his athletic tastes),
and a height-score of some 6ft. and odd. His
mother, a Brisbaneite, was famed in her day as
Queensland’s loveliest girl. Captain Rome and
his fellow officers (Captain Fitzgerald, brother of
Melbourne’s “ Ted ” Fitzgerald, is one of them,
by the way) are known collectively throughout
the service as the “ Cherubim ” ; and the return-
ing Australian is claimed by his friends to be no
less cherubic than his brothers-in-arms.
Mrs. Kubelik floated about Sydney’s streets,
the day of her arrival, buying postcards of her
children. She was dressed in cream shantung,
with a big Panama" hat turned up in front
and not an atom of trimming on it. A com-
mentator said that none but a countess in
her own right would dare to wear such a hat.
That misused and overwrought word, “charm-
ing,” would go straight to Mrs. K. if you posted it
without an address. She is the inyinue in manner
and appearance, and most probably in disposition.
She doesn’t look married, much less a mother,
more less the mother of four. She has fair hair,
beautiful brown eyes, and well-accentuated
dimples in her cheeks when she smiles like an
artless child, and tells of her children, and shows
her fancy-work-embroidered things to hold Jan’s
fiddles —and mentions in her limited English that
she admired the native flower decorations in the
Town Hall. Jan showed great judgment in his
choice of a wife, and in his selection of his hair
and his instrument.
Kubelik looks a boy, just as his wife seems a
girl. He is in his 27th year, but at close range
his dark eyes have greater antiquity. He has no
mannerism but his basin-cropped hair—and that’s
more an advertisement than a mannerism. He
says his nationality puzzles his interviewers most:
“ I don’t belong to the Aryan branch of the human
family, but to the Slav—-the Czechs are Slavs, as are
the Russians and Poles. The diplomatic language
of my country is German, but for the last
30 years we have been making a rousing
fight against the Germanising of ourselves.”
He speaks English very well, without effusiveness
or gesture of any sort. Only once he used a
foreign word: “One, an old gentleman once in your
Box ah, no, that is not the word—in your
Cabinet, I met in San Francisco before the earth-
quake. He had the long white barbe ” (Jan
placed a small, nervous hand on the third button
of his speckled, wool waistcoat), “ and was like
the twin brother of the King of Belgium.” “ Dan
O’Connor,” suggested someone, and K. gravely
answered, “ He was so called.”
At Kubelik’s first concert his management had
formed a corner in Ministers (not Gospel ones).
Messrs. Wood, Oakes, Hogue, Moore, and Ash-
ton, and their wives, were, with the Mayoral
Hughes, seated right and left and behind the
smiling Countess K. Last appeared to be wearing
a gold bangle on her topknot of hair. But it
proved to be an arrangement of little gold combs.
She looked Parisienne in her mauve chiffon
velvet.
Mrs.* J. C. Williamson, back that day from
44 The Merry Widow” in Melbourne, was present,
wearing one of her new old-world garments —a
Bedouin cloak, of dark crimson cloth, with an
Asiatic border. Mrs. D. J. Fitzgerald, a niece of
the great Mendelssohn, was among the applauders,
although there was nothing of uncle’s on the
programme. Uncle’s concerto was on the second
Kubelik programme.
Mrs. Forbes Mackay, wife of our new chief
electrical engineer, is a bright addition to
Smartest Sydney. They—the two new electrics —
are glowing at the Australia. There also a recent
bride is blooming—surely the plumpest bride
(using the word in its fattest sense) that ever took
Sydney by the eyes. She is a very pretty bride
all the same, and as long as the fat is youthful fat
no one has anything but admiration for it. She
was a Miss Simmons, and is now Mrs. Pritchard.
Her Brassbound is a lieutenant on one of the
warships.
Newest thing in Sydney, these days, is the set
of turquoise waistcoat "buttons worn by the
melodious baritone Burnes-Walker. They are set
in cut steel, and are in such perfect taste that they
have inspired me to clutch again the wreath and
lyre that I had laid aside since I won a Limerick :
The pay buttons that flash on mv vest,
They are made out of turquoise and steel.
The whole town’s got its eye on my chest,
And it lends to my life quite a zest
(Which is nice, for they cost a good deal!).
There is staring and nudging wherever I pass,
And I hear them all whisper, “ They're nothing but
glass ! ”
But I lounge by the rabble and stare at each ass,
For I know that they’re turquoise and steel 1
Miss Dorothy Cooper, who was married in Eng-
land this month to one Henry Streatfield, a
Grenadier Guardsman, is by way of being a sort
of semi-Australian. She is a daughter of Cooper,
the baronet of Newmarket, whose father was Dan
Cooper of Woollalira, and the first Speaker of
N. S. Wales Assembly. Miss Dorothy is
descended on the female side from “ Old Will ”
Hill, whose daughter married her grand-dad in
1846. She is thus privileged to claim relationship
with a whole crate of indigenous Wentworths,
Hills, etc., who have married and inter-married
and disposed themselves about the N.S.W. land-
scape. It is expected that the bride and her
soldier will visit these parts shortly, when the
Hills, Wentworths, etc., intend to roll up in force
and give the young couple the glad start of their
lifetimes.
The young Parbury couple arrived back in Syd-
ney from Melbourne last week, and started on a
round of visits to cheque and present donors.
Outwardly they appear unafraid, and well-pleased
with the world and with things in general. Yet
they are, did they but know it, at life’s most
crucial point. The crossing of the bar which
separates the troublous, exciting sea of newly-
hitched rapture from the still, calm, not to say
stagnant and dull, waters of Matrimony on the
commonplace or weekly-bill plan, is a feat calling
for all the normal couple owns of forbearance and
tactful address. I never observe a pair of re-
turned honeymooners without thinking of Blondin
slack-wiring it across Niagara ; Harcourt Beatty
defending himself on a staircase (s’death) against
hordes of armed caitiffs ; Dan O’Connor battling
with his priceless MSS. against the flames of San
Francisco, or Smithfield, or wherever it was ; and
other jumpy situations of the kind.
A sorrowful young woman will set foot on M.L.
soil within the next few days. Her name is Mrs.
Rose, and she is journeying there to join her
parents, the Lycett Greens, who are on a visit to
the land of trout scenery and ineffective liquor
prohibition. Mrs. Rose married a soldier-son of
millionaire G. D. Rose (the son in question was in
a British Life Guards Regiment) a few months
ago. Shortly after the honeymoon the young
man fell ill and died. The Lycett Greens are
well-known figures in London, and even more so
in Cannes, where they own a particularly gorgeous
villa. The widow, apart from her progenitors’
riches, is not likely to want, as her dead husband
willed her his all before passing over.
The coming of the American fleet has let loose
the newspaper amateur correspondent, and he has
risen to the occasion. The papers are full of
suggestions for entertaining the squadron itself, or
for commemorating the great event. The following
suggestions have come under my notice :
(1) That the A.J.O. should hold a special race meeting,
with one special event of 30,000 dollars added money.
That the Fleeters be taken out by special trams before the
rush sets in, and given a free lunch on the flat during the
afternoon.
(2) That a statue be erected on Circular Quay depicting
Captain Cook shaking hands with Christopher Columbus.
(3) That a clam-bake be held in Centennial Park.
(4) That the Post Office carvings be removed for ever.
(5) That some of the shops in Lower George-street
should get their top windows mended.
(6) That nothing should be done at all, but that our
visitors should find us in our natural state and as we
really are.
Another idea is that all our publitj buildings
should be painted with stars and stripekrand that
Mr. Dan O’Connor should orate from the top of
each building. Also the American fleet might
take away all our State grievances in a bag, and
carry them back to the United States, and deposit
them solemnly on Jeff Davis’s grave.
Mosman Musical Society has made gay five
nights with “ Les Cloches de Corneville,” the
Ding Dong Bell opera with the wild-thyme heroine
in the short skirts. In a sparklet little paper, which
issues gratis and goes by the name of the opera
just mentioned, the deeds and needs of the society
are set forth. It is five years old, and there
never was a more promising bantling. Mana-
gers of grown-up professional combinations
of the like nature —managers with diamond
buttons on their overcoats—are beginning to ask
interestedly after the youngster, and to remark
upon how rapidly it has outgrown its pinnies.
The society wants more subscribers, and aims at
being a permanent institution in its much-water-
frontaged suburb. The paper that sets forth the
history of the melodious five-year-old also pub-
lishes the portraits of some very personable mem-
bers —Mr. A. H. Norman, the hon. conductor;
Mr. Harold Reeves, Mrs. Fred England, stage
manager (in a theatre coat with a Medicis collar);
Miss Winifred Birch and Miss Lena McLaehlan
(looking prettily sassy), and Mr. Glasby, who, as
the Bailie of the opera, was such a dog among the
girls.
Another job presently for the overworked
instrument that peals out the Wedding March.
Mr. C. Osborne B. Lamb, a runholder from some
Elace near Wellington (M.L.), marries Miss
arella Mackenzie Cox, daughter of Mrs. E. M.
Cox, of Sydney, and granddaughter of the late
G. H. Cox, of Mudgee. The event befalls some
day during this mild Maytime, or Indian summer.
The new Governor of New Caledonia, with his
wife, son, private secretary, and aide, drifted
through Sydney last week en route to his rather
isolated job. His name is Richard, and he is a man
of uncommonly distinguished appearance. He
doesn’t speak Australian, but his secretary does-
like an Englishman. The secretary is a grandson
of the famous violinist, Charles Halle.
Concerning Margaret Anglin, whose engage-
ment by J.C.W. is an accomplished fact, I have
written this with a pair of scissors :
She presents one of those rare instances of an artist
who lingered but a very short while at the bottom of the
ladder. Like Mary Anderson, she played leading roles
almost from the beginning.
Miss Anglin’s career presents another phenomenon.
She is about the only one among America’s dozen fore-
most actresses who is a dramatic-school product. Miss
Anglin attended one term at the Empire Theatre School
of Acting. From the day she entered, the conductor
knew that in the slender Canadian girl he had a student
of rare promise.
“ You will be leading woman downstairs some day,” he
said to her once, meaning that she would head Charles
Frohman’s then famous Empire Theatre Company.
“In how long?” Miss Anglin asked.
“ In about seven years.”
But she got there in five years.
Miss Erna Mueller, the Bendigo mezzo soprano
who comes with the Kubelik, is a fine, big, buxom
girl. All her hundreds of pounds’ worth of gowns
were left behind by mistake at Vancouver. Some-
body whose fault it was got his dismissal" over the
frocky disaster.
A Royal Artillery Band with a wonderful repu-
tation is on its way from England, Home and
Sooty, to give 12 concerts in Sydney Town Hall.
The “Besses o’ the Barn” played it out of the
Docks.
Spencer’s Theatrescope has a grievance. It
sticks a nib into me for calling West’s Town Hall
Flickergraph a Theatrescope when I was telling
of the love idyll between the Vestal and the
Roman soldier in last Letter. The Theatrescope
is Spencer’s property, and is also showing the
same idyll. It’s just as I suspected ; that vestal
is leading a double life.
The hon. secs, of the Civil Ambulance Juvenile
Matinee Ball write as follows :
The committee of the Juvenile Matinee Ball, in aid of
the Civil Ambulance and Transport Corps, has decided to
again hold the ball in the afternoon. The hall will be
darkened and all daylight excluded, so that the ball
will have all the appearance of an evening entertainment,
the electric light adding the finishing touch to the differ-
ent fancy costumes.
His Excellency Sir Harry Rawson will be present, and
Miss Rawson has promised to give the prizes away.
The Lady Mayoress is president of the committee,
which includes G. Wade, Mrs. Jas. Ashton, Mrs.
Burdekin, Mrs. Anderson Stuart, Mrs. Lane Mullins, Mrs.
Tom Rolin,Mrs. Hamilton Marshall, Mrs. J. C. Williamson,
and several other ladies who have the interests of this
deserving charity at heart. Mrs. Leonard Dobbin and
Mrs. Purcell Cohen are joint secretaries ; Miss G. Allen,
53 Eiizabeth-street, organising secretary.
The ball is to be held on the 24th June, the hours being
from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., thus enabling little ones to have
their enjoyment without interfering with their night’s
rest, which is so necessary to them.
Tickets are now available, and may be had from any
member of the committee or from the organising
secretary.
One item in the Bega inquiry interested house-
wives. That was the weight of the turkey. The
Court had a witness under cross-examination as
to the burden of the cargo, and he gave that of a
turkey at 701 b. Judge declined to swallow that
bird. A 151 b. turkey is a fine one. Perhaps the
coop was weighed in. Anyhow, if there was a
701 b. turkey on board, we may assume that the
vessel was lost through the bird roosting on the
rail.
The Powerful and long-looked-for dance
occurred last Thursday night. It was timed for
9 p.m., and so much of Sydney’s beauty and
chivalry as was bidden arrived at that hour pre-
cisely (together with a healthy cataract of rain)
to see how the Admiral and Admiraless com-
ported themselves on a ball-deck. The lady lay
low somewhat, but her gorgeous husband proved
to be an energetic performer. He opened the ball
with Mrs. T. H. Kelly, and did his share of the
dancing business with a sustained enthusiasm
that put to shame the callowest salt present. It is
a refreshing fact that you never find a blase,
cynical, and utterly world-weary sailor over 20
years of age. After the third dance the drought,
which had been breaking violently since the
beginning of the proceedings, exploded suddenly
with fresh vigor, so that the decks became damp
and sodden, and took on the semblance of the
tear-drenched floor of a suburban secesl) gathering.
Even the British tar —the most expert deck-
swabber in the world —failed to cope with the
prevailing sloppiness, and went away and poured
liquor into himself in very despair.
An oak leaf and a gum leaf were the symbol
presented to visitors at the Girls’ High School
Empire Day demonstration. That item, and the
impressive sight of Mr. G. H. Reid going into
the Exchange celebrations with Mrs., Miss, and
a small Reid in Highland kilts were the only
crumbs I filched from Empire Day. Sydney does
love an excuse to stop working and line up in
thousands, leaning against the atmosphere for
hours and staring at a cordon of large police keep-
ing an entry for an Admiral or an Excellency.
“ Mario ” sends some items from Brisbane
Four more rosebuds “oped their rosy eyes” in the
vice-regal glare at the Brisbane Rowing Club’s ball of
Thursday evening. The brightest among them was Miss
Pauline Taylor, the little sister of pretty Miss Florermo
Waldon Taylor (Mrs. Hugh McNeile), of the “Fatal
Wedding Co.” of last year. Miss Vera Baynes(the eldest
hope of Mr. and Mrs. Ernie Baynes) was another successful
fluffer. She fluffed in silk net chiffon and silk. Mi Bs
lletherington and a dainty little Jones lady made up the
quartette. The Frozen Lady smiled approval upon the
well-manned function in steel grey and silver, and
gentle sprinkling of diamonds. The decorations, which
until this year have been excellent, were only very so-so
Talking about things being “so-so” brings me back
once more to that fearful and wonderful institution the
Children’s Hospital, where everything from the drainage
to the amiability of the house staff and the general
management has been denounced at one time or another
as more or less dead. One infuriated parent recently
removed her offspring in the middle of the treatment
and now the committee is asking for reports from persons
with grievances, and I hear that so many are coining in
that the institution may yet be sorry it spoke. The'im
fants’ ward and that destined for the diphtheria patients
are still in the far beyond, and meanwhile threats of
various resignations are in the air, and things are mostly
clamor and confusion.
Cardinal Moran has arrived in Brisbane to lay the
foundation stone of a new Mater Misericordiaj Hospital.
The astute prelate has been telling an anxious young re",
porter that “there are now no sides in the Federal
House, but that all are united for the development of
Australia a mixture of Arcadia and the Millennium
right off the ice, so to speak.
Their Exes, had an unpremeditated holiday last week.
They sallied forth to Tamrookum (the homestead of the
R. M. Collinses), for the opening of the Beaudesert Show
but some authority had opened the windows of
Heaven, and they had got jammed and couldn’t
be shut again, and the show had to be postponed. So the
vice-regal visitors just rested, or hunground, or leaned
against a post or something. On Friday afternoon his
Ex. expressed a total ignorance of Braille writing from
the chair of that association’s annual meeting, while her
ladyship occupied a seat in the front row, and smiled while
an archdeacon was humorous with difficulty.
“ Peter Pan ” had a big reception on Friday, and a
packed audience sat it out, although the final curtain did
not descend until 11.40. The fact was that the co. only
got possession of the stage at midnight on Thursday, and
even though it worked like a swift motor car possessed of
an evil spirit togetthings ready, “ Peter” appeared under
difficulties.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Desire to be Beautiful is only natural,
indeed it would be unnatural for any woman to wish to
be otherwise. You cannot afford to neglect your skin and
complexion if you wish to be beautiful, for without a
good complexion you haven’t, a chance, and yet any girl
can have a skin to match any beauty’s in the world.
Valaze* That is the secret. Valaze is at once the
mightiest guard and the finest food of beauty as concerns
the beauty of the skin. Valaze is of incomparable value,
but its actual cost is 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., postage 6d. The
Valaze Massage Rollers will banish wrinkles, fill out
hollows, and rejuvenate the whole appearance of the face.
To the woman who desires to keep her skin permanently
healthy and beautiful, these are the absolute necessaries
of the toilet. Single Roller Bs. 6d., a set of two 18s. /J.,
and full set of three in case 255. From all chemist ,or
direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co., Valaze Mas -,ge
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274 Collins F eet,
Melbourne ; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z. f / [jj


HARDY
BV APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
HOUSE .N THE CO**
-for..
Solid Silver Toilet Requisites
1
1
SOBS
AQUVB
SOLID SILVER TOILET SET IN MOROCCO CASE
£lO-0-0
SELECTIONS SENT ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON - ADDRESS 19-CHARTER-HOUSE-STREET
Have YOU any Difficulty
Do you notice something missing' in that Razor of yours? Have
you any difficulty in keeping it up to the shaving- quality of a
good Razor? Try the PLUM. It will be a worthy substitute,
for it needs very little stropping, and its edge will maintain its
sharpness.
PRICE 10/6. Postage Paid to Any Part of Australia.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
v
mw
The Lone Hand
June Number on Sale Next Saturday.
PAGE
Consider the Contents :
An Equestrian Portrait—George W. Lambert Frontispiece
Memories of Papua—(lllustrated)—J. B. Higginson 117
Explorations in Industry—No. IV. : The Girl-in-Waiting—(lllustrations by D. H.
Souter) —Beatrix Tracy "--- .-.....124
The Beauty Quest j,j
Aerial Navigation—No. I.: “ The Dirigible ” —Robert Schaeffer -
The Poet—Will Dyson -
The Australian Chorus-Girl—Florence Young -
Editorial Finger-Prints
P Rom the Oldest World—Louis Esson- ......
The Poet’s Songs—R. Crawford ........
Some Snapshots in Switzerland
The First Born—(lllustrations by Norman Lindsay)—Dulcie Deamer
Fairy-Led—(Decoration by Alek Sass) —Roderic Quinn ....
The Deceitful Insect—(Photographs by G. H. Robinson) —Edmund Jarvis
The Big Five—(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay)—Ambrose Pratt
The Devout Lover—(Decoration by Alek Sass) —Frank Morton
Two Battlers AND a Bear — (lllustrations by “Hop”) — Edward Dyson-
Diplomacy—(lllustrations by Alek Sass) —Erie Cox .....
A Little Essay on Boarders—(lllustrations by Alf Vincent) —“Kodak”
Bondage—(Decoration by B. E. Minns) —Roderic Quinn ....
Shino—(lllustrations by Alf Vincent) —G. Eromluf
137
142
M 3
146
149
153
154
155
161
162
165
174
175
181
187
190
192
A German-Australian Village—Written and Illustrated by H. Heysen-
Mighty Hunting in Africa—(lllustrated) igg
The Australian Salt Harvest—(lllustrated) —W. H. Macfarlane - - - 201
The Day of a Cat—Norman Lindsay ......... 204
John Longstaff, Portrait Painter—(lllustrated)—J. D. Fitz Gerald - - - 206
A Rondeau—Hugh. C. Wilson-
For the Public Good—
Food Adulteration
Mimes and Music—•
Towards an Australian Drama—Leon Brodzky - - - - - . -223
Australian Grand Opera ! Why Not ? —Helen Jerome 224
Life and Letters—
Dante in Australia —B.S. - v 227
Sarah —Furnley Maurice ............ 229
The Bear and the Basket 231
The Judicious Thief xxxiv.
WAS EVER A BETTER SHILLING'S WORTH OFFERED to the PUBLIC ?
There's Art (much of it) ; Science (the article on Aerial Navigation is a text-
book on the subject); Poetry (of the best); Fiction (humorous, tragic, romantic,
by the best writers of the day) ; Fun (in picture and prose); and a big budget of
articles about our great Commonwealth.
Buy THE LONE HAND for your own pleasure; and then post it abroad to
advertise Australia.
Worth 2/6. Costs 1 )-
The joNE Hand 214 George St., Sydney.
Our
Acetylene
Gas
Burners
Cive Satisfaction.
We will forward our illus-
trated price list of latest
patterns on request. It
will save you money.
Send 10/- and we will mail to
any address, post free, 1 dozen
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (SL CO. Ltd
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
ipiem
ckSS£
Ve^
n
POST
m
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
[POSITION
Bg y
apleodid
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHANO,
•PENMANSHIP.
ENGLISH.
languages, sc.
agricultural
SOIL MANAGEMENT
ORAINAGE and
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
m *nagement or
LIVE STOCK, SC.
Commercial
iv —— —
ART
drawing.
LLU ST RATING.
advertisement
WRITING.JY
DESIGNING. SC.
E&rnMore Homy.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY lor FREE
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
stotts^^H
56 HUNTtR ST SYDNEY
**2B COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
RJ
A
T
K
4*
V?
\
tN
'V
U*~
Milk Chocolate.
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub-
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the “ Old Country,” by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury's Cocoa
of which “ The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health ”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”


The food fhaf makes The Baby Grow
&
Hr- Si
B
m
vz
<A\
A
Sold by all Chernies
and Grocers
NEUROSINE PRUNIER
Pure Glycerophosphate of Calcium
Recommended by Specialists for General
Debility, Influenza, Nervous Disorders, &c.
. •
3K
Gracefulness
and Beauty
Of figure—smartness and attractiveness
of appearance —are features desired by
every woman. “ P.D.” CORSETS are
famous amongst leaders of Fashion
throughout the world as the ideal in
these respects. Skilful French cor-
setierres have embodied in every pair
those exquisite lines —the perfect sym-
metry that adds dignity to your
carriage—a distinctiveness of style
combined wi h the acme of comfort
and excellent service. You will be
delighted with them —but you should
insist, and be careful that you get a
“P.D.” —initials only on every box.
“D TV”
Corsets £ Corsets
First-Class DRAPERS
Only*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 25, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
A writer in our own Evenin’ ’Erald calls on
women to give an approving hand clap to the pre-
parations for Australia’s defence. “We want to
see the men astir; and we want to know who are
worthy to be classed as men. To Australian
women no others need apply.” Perhaps it’s im-
prudent to give the show away ; yet it is the fact
that when lovely woman says “ yes,” it mostly is
yes; so woman’s hand-clap is worth angling for.
It has been so thoroughly won in some parts that,
for example, the Swiss youth who has not served
his term with the forces need not propose to
Fraulein till all others are suited. Australian
women can. make service with the Defence force
popular if they choose ; and the man who is not
willing and competent to defend those he loves is
a poor son, a worse husband, and no sort of lover
at all. - -
A queer case mooched into a State Supreme Court
last week. A yokel applied for a writ of habeas
corpus —or some other thing that reminds one of
King John—for his children. And he unfolded a
bathetic story. His missus had reached the age
of forty (which is woman’s most enterprising
period—the time when she commences to stake
other peoples’ peace in her own game). The pair
had a trio, of .children. .Madam took in a
boarder ; a commercial-minded youth aged
twenty-one.- This young man, after living
in the chest or bust of the family for
a while, concluded that the housefather would
have to go. If he stayed, he would have to pay
ss. a week for board and lodging. When the poor
husbandman refused, the boarder pushed him out,
and wouldn’t let him see his own children. At
presjnt the boarder is in full possession of every-,
thing appertaining to the family, and the husband
of the landlady makes plea to an astounded Judge.
This little tragi-farce is suggestive in its way.
For one thing, it’s full-brother to a story which
Boccacio hadn’t time to- write. And it establishes
the fact that Australia is growing a hectic imagin-
ation, like unto that which made contadini
into countesses -and poisoners, during the
ages which were adorned with gold-leaf
and with working-jewellers who made classic
literature. -Think of the frenzied unlikeli-
hood of this up-country boarder’s action, and
admire the youth’s fine combination of primeval
arrogance, wild romanticism, and squalid
twentieth-century avarice. Also ponder the
eternal passivity of woman, which—paradoxically
enough—knows only one initiative, and that is to
eagerly submit to the boarder and his kind.
Oswald Syme, the youngest of David Syme’s
sons, was married quietly the other day to Miss
Rowe. Mr. Oswald Syme was for some time in the
office, but lately has had the management of one
of the Lilydale farms.
Melbourne baseball clubs are busy sprucing
themselves up—putting a nicety on their ball
curves and a pointed epigram on the neces-
sary language—to be ready for the Americans.
The fleet is bound to have at least one fine team
to each ship, Baseball is the Joss of the Ameri-
can, as cricket is worshipped by the Australian.
Cricket clubs in the U.S.A. are dotted about
casually, and enveloped in enthusiasm of the dis-
tinctly local and isolated brand that baseball and
lacrosse clubs rouse here. Baseball gets all the
wild, breathless interest and the barracking in
the U.S. A., and it is to baseball that the Ameri-
can girl with the loud hat brings a hat-pin and a
definite prejudice in favor of one particular team.
The Beau Brummel of Melbourne’s Upper
Crust is Ned Fitzgerald. He has a wonderful
way with him—a curious mixture of the starch
of his dad, the Hon. Nicholas, and the dash of
his great old Irish grandfather, John O’Shanassy.
Where kiddies are concerned—if they be “ex-
clusive ” enough, of course—he is supreme ;so he
will be “ all there ” when the Dudleys arrive, for
he has always been a Government House pfet since
the Hopetouns ruled at the State Government
mansion. There has been no nursery population
at the tower house on the Yarra bank during the
last two regimes.
Miss McGowan, a well-known Melbourne pen-
woman, won the £25 prize for the best history of
the Women’s Exhibition.
“The Merrymakers,” at the Princess’s, live up
to their name, but it is scarcely a show for a big
theatre. A piano and pot plants in the familiar
orchestra porner make for a thin tinkle that
strikes drearily in the intervals, and the,delicacy of
the fun-making refuses to waripjjo).y»ja space.
The quality of the show is above A little
Pierrette who dances and warbles Frfeneh songs—
Miss Ohls—is the daintiest and quaintest thing
Melbourne has seen for some time. The satins
and silks of their scarlet-and-black toggery are a
telling factor.
McCubbin follows the fortunes of other artists
with a View, and his paintings make the Guild
Hall odorous with Blue Gum scents. Some
of McCubbin’s best portraits have centre
place on the green screens. Panton, in his prime,
is a strong piece of work, and so is a life-size
portrait of Mrs. McCubbin, trailing a grey gown
through gum leaves. “ The Bathers,” bought by
Mr. Abrahams, is an impressionist touch of
realism—a hot moon and the cool, dusky shadow
of a river. “A Passing Shower—Melbourne,”
which belongs to Lord Northcote, showsa tropical
rainfall at Cathedral Corner, with its heavy bridge
traffic. It is the heart and soul of Mud.
Some monotypes and etchings of Full wood’s are
included in the exhibition ; his etchings are fine,
but the color work lacks finish. There are one or
two characteristic sketches of Lambert, and a
canvas or two of Davies. Gilbert shows half-a-
dozen small pieces of sculpture, so it is not a one-
man show. The pictures are to' be on view
for a fortnight. a
The Glaciarium is doing well on a popular
shilling tariff. The Upper Fluff are feeling the
indignity in their very toes, and command and
implore and bewheedle for the old Two Shillings
and Tone, whereon they may cut the ice to a pro-
perly frosty and kaw-ty atmosphere away from
the beastly Crowd. Manager Reid grins back
suavely. The dignitaries deserted him last winter
and went running after some new fad. Now they
can come in with the “ bob rabble,” as some one
called it, or stay away.
One of the clever McChesney sisters (two pretty
girls who pull the aching molar in up-to-date
rooms in Collins-street) stopped work last week
just long enough to get married to Mr. Trehearn.
She spends a honeymoon week in the novelty of
playing about with a house—then goes back to the
tipping of pearls with gold.
The British Art Gallery has jumped into favor
as a background for stylish entertainments since
the electric lighting has made evening shows
possible. The paintings lift a whole handful of
exertion off the hostess’s efforts, and back
up the vapidity of a Crush’s talk and orchestra
patter. The Staughton dame gave a party one
night in the artistic atmosphere, and last week
stout John Forrest and his lady spread their
sociable feelings in a shi voo. In the galleries, the
glare of big, round electrics was screened by gay
parasols (Byron Moore patted himself on the back
throughout the night for the original idea).
The guests of the evening were Their Frigid-
ities the Talbots. The Lady was in a
watered silk gown frozen stiff with snowy
richness. The Forrest lady received most royally
in sweeping black velvet, with enviable lace
draping her shoulders. Iceberg Irvine, growing
quite ruddy, brought his wife, clad in wine
color. Others I noticed were Senator Keating
and his youthful lady, Mrs. Alison-Fairbairn
Balmain with her captain, and Willie-motor
Kelly and his Morrell wife, who quite
sparkled (in a frosty way) in Grecian drapery.
Railway Tait’s wife looked like an elongated
Columbine ; her dress had three-foot gauge lines
of black and white tulle. Two remaining Wes-
tralian visitors shone like lamps in dresses of gold
and silver tissue—with tassels to match in their
hair. They almost lit up the etchings room
when the electric light struck.
Mrs. Williamson was in Melbourne for the
introduction of “ The Merry Widow.” She has
brought some adorable gowns to arouse green
.envy, in women friends’ breasts. One spread
itself like a sunset cloud in the box on First
Night. It is pinky and cr6py, and quite crumples
up with the weight of what women reverently
call “ that new embroidery .” Another Dream
materialises in pale blue ; it evidently had purple
iris thrown at it and fixed for keeps with gold
thread. Another gown is keeping its glory in
tissue paper for Flemington—an ivory-cloth
backed up with ivocy silk and an inspiration of
braid y broidery.
One of the “ Holme ” Rennie girls, departing by
the Runic last week, showed that a Toorakite
every-day girl can attract as much brass band as a
Butt or other celebrity. She was almost fined for
overloading the deck with vegetable tributes, and
farewelling friends called her a jolly good fellow
over a champagne lunch on board until they were
practically thrown off.
Bent, the assertive, was lately bombarded by
anxious deputations of suffragists. “You’ll never
get woman’s suffrage,” snorted the Rotund One
bluntly. “For why? Yer can’t get the votes.”
Which was a pretty speech for a Premier to make,
considering the fact that the Bill has passed the
Assembly four or five or 16 times, and been blocked
each time by the House of Rich Landlords.
Edith Lansell, who went off to London to get
fitted for her Court-dress, the other day, is seri-
ously unwell. On the voyage she got malaria,
and, as fogs don’t cure, the disappointed young
capitalist is sentenced to a convalescence in a
place where no one speaks a word of the Aus-
tralian language.
Mrs. Trentham, the milliner, whose long experi-
ence of local heads and local incomes has made
her look like a star-tragedienne, has returned to
the scene of some of her former achievements.
Her own “Incelay” investment goes on under
the management of some new optimists. Paquin
style gowns don’t command Paquin prices in this
pretentious city. Instead we hale our suburban
rag-stitcher before imported creations, and,
threatening her hideously, command that they
shall be copied, and that the extras shall
be kept well under the nominal half-dollar.
The other alternative we have is to buy Paquin
on long credit, and pay for him by instalments.
When may come the day when we’ll consider it
bad form to gird ourselves in gauze for a shopping
expedition, and will instead wear utilitarian
galateas and such fabrics ? I have a theory that
mean clothes make for an increase of national
beauty. If girls were barred adventitious aids
they’d miss the agonised wrinkles which other
women’s clothes produce, and start complexion-
acquiring, figure-building, and manner-improve-
ment in real good earnest.
Through the death of Richard Betheras the
Commonwealth loses its first Public Service Com-
missioner in Victoria. An autocrat, who was
alleged to even command the Chief Commissioner,
the genial D. C. McLachlan, the late lamented
didn’t manage to make himself popular with the
women clerks and attendants, who said he never
could properly appreciate their good qualities.
He would much have liked to become Deputy
P- M.G. of Victoria ; but on account of his other
job he wasn’t eligible to apply, and that was a
blow to his ambitions from which he suffered much.
Yet, Richard Betheras at home was a sociable
man, and with a charming wife entertained
largely at Camberwell. Mrs. Betheras was a
Miss Oswald, of a squatting clan. The family
came into much notice, some years ago, through
the Dutton divorce case, which lasted nearly as
long as the Wallace affair. Mrs. Dutton, who
secured the divorce, was also a Miss Oswald, and
Richard Betheras was one of the chief witnesses on
her side.
The sad story of the Cleric Gnash drags its
wounded length along to the sounds of factional
abuse. His supporters and opponents, for the
most part, are having a high—and low-church —
old time amongst themselves, but the victim is
enduring a suburban form of martyrdom. The
Canon looks like the battered wraith of his earlier
urbane self. He still commands the silken charm
which made him likeable, but now it seems a
pathetic attribute. One thing which recom-
mends him to the unbiassed, is the way he has
borne up even under the good offices of his
friends. As the Smart Setter said in “The
Londoners,” it must be a dreadful thing to be
rallied round. Mr. Gnash hasn’t squealed publicly.
He has quelled the frenzied rhetoric of his cham-
pions when he could, and turned a pallid unflinch-
ing countenance to his assailants.
A fellow-feeder at the Kubelik steamer-table
discourses upon the fiddle and the Countess
Ali-Choo—which is a flippant variation upon her
sneeze like Czaky-Czell name. “They’re just
dears,” says the gusher. “ He’s quite frivolous
in a harmless way, and she’s too funny. We can’t
make certain if she was a widow. They’re most
obviously in love —hold hands, and gaze at each
other in public, just as though they were sitting
in the dark. She’s got gorgeous clothes—which
she hardly ever wears. On the way out, white
silk shirt waists and linen or cloth skirts,
matched exactly in color and fabric by big som-
breros, with crepe-de-chine veils, were practically
all her visible garments. But her evening frocks !
and her jewels!! My! they’re exquisite—lovely
hand-painted things (the frocks I mean), and per-
fect pearls and diamonds. He’s not very affected,
and is a little scared, I think, of her. She treats
him like a small boy if he shows temper. But
really they’re just dears !”
The Women-Writers’ Club, which is an unob-
trusive little coterie of more or less gifted
scribblers, is going to move—and into “more
commodious premises,” bless your heart ! They
go from Nicholson’s Chambers to a suite in the
Block Arcade. Bright Henrietta McGowan, of
the Age, has been the club-star since its incep-
tion, and she has ideas about room-adornment
which are beautiful and cheap. Wherefore the
new rooms have a chance of being up to the
“ jdst-sweet ” level of artistic comfort.
The folk who sympathise with poor old Jimmy
Atholwood, who was flung into gaol the other day
for being courageous enough to commit bigamy,
talk about making a subscription for him and his.
children. It’s only fair that something should be
done. He has shown such invariably artistic work
on the stage that his, audiences will forgive the
inartistic mess he made of matrimony.
Great are the preparations for the “Pygmalion
and Galatea ” matinee next Saturday, and greater
is the advertisement thereof. So extensive has
been the latter part of the charitable dames’ cam-
paign against public negligence that folk are
beginning to wonder if all the fuss is made just on
Mrs. Freeman-Nott’s account, or because of the
poor hospital. Photos of the female portion
of the cast simper or stare from every
corner of the city (the males have the sense
to hide their ridiculous heads and legs). Plump
Mrs. Freeman-Nott, in draperies that suggest a
washing-day arrangement of sheets, stands with
outstretched hands on a hundred hoardings. And
the Pinschof Carmen ogles, and Mrs. Minister
for Lands Mackey enjoys biographical notices in
admiring weekly papers, and also flaunts her
Greek drape in their columns.
Clever Harry Hill steps, late in the day, into
the stage-management of “ Pygmalion.” * There
is now increased hope for a rational performance.
The Cats’ League had its annual ebullition of
Empirical loyalty on Friday night, at the Masonic
Hall. It took the form of a spoiled “at’ome.”
The music and tableaux obscured its political sig-
nificance (which is barely visible at any time) and
the maunderings of the awful Embling, M.L.C..
were a tiresome excrescence upon the gentle
warblings of some amateurish young people. A
good deal of time was occupied by the reading of
a letter from Janet Mrs. This remarkable epistle
is worth quoting in part :
We do not know the thousands of unknown heroes who
have led others in all sorts of dangerous places to honor
and glory for the Empire. . . .■ I know how women hate
anything that savors of self or party. For ourselves our
franchise gives us lessons in self-control, ability to see the
best in all
Oh, Janet Mrs., what about the Labor party !
and the certainty that God will bless our work. No
monument could be greater, no gratitude so far-reaching
for the Earl of Meath’s perseverance in establishing
Empire Day all over our world. I end with our motto,
and may God bless our Emperor King Edward.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
There are to be great capers when the inter-State
’Varsity boys come over this way, in a day or so. Chan-
cellor Way is to hold a reception for them at Montefiore ;
there are to be drag picnics and garden prancings, and a
ball, to say nothing of half a hundred private leapingsand
boundings. The rowing grads and undergrads are to berth
at Port Adelaide and at Semkphore-on-the-Outer-Uar-
bor. Thither the Adelaide team has already carried down
the toothbrush and the pallid nocturnal garment, and in
its spare moments is getting into practice for the fray. Mr.
Henry “ Anlaby ” Dutton is taking much interest in the
carousal, and has put his own private, particular launch
at the Committee’s disposal. Our boys have great plans
far giving their brethren of t’other States the time of their
little lives.
Adelaide Art Gallery has just received the David
Murray bequest of £3OOO and 25 portfolios of prints and
engravings ; and now it is clapping itself on the back,
when it isn’t too fat to get round to its own back, and
telling itself and anybody, else who likes to listen that it
has the finest collection of prints and engravings in the
hemisphere. These Murray treasures were gathered in
Italy with the help of the Director of the Pitti Gallery, of
Florence. The accompanying shekels were designed for
the establishment of a Print Room in connection with our
gallery ; but as there isn’t any need to build a special
room, it is suggested that the interest on the money be
used to buy further treasures of the same sort. The Mr.
Murray who has done all this for us made his fortune out of
ribbons and such ; he founded the wholesale “rag” house
of D. and W. Murray, and during his lifetime did much
for the'University next door.
Musical manager P. A. Howells—he who, years ago,
first brought the Crossley voice to notice—has retired
from the music-selling firm of Howells, Young and Co.,
and will henceforth devote himself entirely to concert-
managing. He started work, last week, with the
Royal Artillery Band, which arrived from New-
eastle-on-Tyne-where-the-eoals-come-from. The band
was given a public reception—(would you like one?
We have heaps of them in Adelaide)—in the Town
Hall on Wednesday afternoon. The band from the Chal-
lenger and the band b longing to our own army escorted
the visitors from the station, played sweet ditties to them,
grid sat on each side of them and held their hand during
the reception. His Ex. and Mayor Johnson, musical
Captain Bass 6, and Major Patterson all made pretty
speeches, and the crowd remarked “Hear, hear” a't
tlie right places. The bandmaster, whose name is Smith,
started out in life as an engineer under Robert Stephen-
son, son' of the famous George. Unlike the lately-
departed “ Besses," the present noisy lot mixes wood
with its brass, and may be more generally appreciated on
that account. And, besides, there’s one thing about the
harmonious Tykes that deserves five illuminated addresses
and a fanfare. At the end of each performance they
stand and play “The Song of Australia,”. wnich is our
national song, as I have told you before.
Invitations are out for the Mayoral ball, and Mr. Frank
Johnson and his sister will receive the bows of many
hundreds on June 24th, and listen to the creakine- of
joints as they straighten again. b tneir
, D . le i 1 , 8^ d , en1 /’ fch . e °ther day, Bosley Jenkins, husband
of Adelaides dressiest amateur mummer—she who .
Miss Bosley, made a very brief experiment in the n™
fessional ranks lately. Bosley Jenkins was a couraeeoni
and mostly lucky speculator on Adelaide ’Ohanire »nd
’Change shut up for half-a-day to let the remaining men.
bers show they were sorry that a good, energetic chum
had gone. lum
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.
“ B.” about Empire Day
Having-{razed on the recent Empire Day celebrations
attentively three several times— viz., in the mormne- in
the afternoon, and in the evening of the 25th ’ I
conclude that they are bad; nav more fatuous
They do not boost “the flag which has braved”
etc., worth a cent. On the contrary, they brine-
a measure of ridicule on that far-flung bit of soft-o-oods
which is damaging to its self-respect. The adult local
Empire Day celebrant of the O.K. or frothy brand (B
Smith is a fair sample) is a humorlessly maladroit person
and he has to face the proposition of the cynical Australian
kid. (The celebrations—all denials notwithstanding— are
solely for children ; the adult doesn’t even shut up hisshon
or his bank that he may attend.) A Bathurst C of E
clergyman wrote to one of the local papers last week stat
ing sadly that a child whom he cross-questioned regarding
the “ lesson ” he had borne away from last year’s
flag-saluting ceremony replied acidly: “They" (to
wit, the notables of the town) “ made stale speeches
and then gave us stale buns.” A painfully just summing
up of the situation. And it is more. It indicates that
the labored platitudes concerning “ the grand old flag”
and so on, which are fired off by earnestly self
advertising politicians at fellow-citizens who are not
of an age to make effective protest, produce the
opposite effect to that intended. The victim listens
apathetically, howls, with his tongue in his cheek the
doggerel he has been forced by his school teacher to
memorise, and then goes away, and, for the preservation
of his own self-respect, pokes epigrammatic borak at the
whole business. For ever after he associates the emblem
of Britain’s might with bad new songs and worse old
pastry. The Union Jack has “ braved the battle,” etc
in some pretty rotten causes. But it is, after all, too in.
spiring a world's asset to be made food for mirthful con-
tempt in the grotesque Empire Day manner. A move.-
ment in defence of “ The Flag” needs to be inaugurated
without delay. It should have as its primary object the
total prohibition for all time of speech-making and bun-
feeding to infants on the part of G. Reid, B. Smith and
Wade.
♦
The second edition of Johns’s “Notable
Australians” is 11-times more pretentious than
the first. It is now printed on thick, uncut
paper, and that isn’t an improvement handling
it as a book of reference. To the old title, Johns
(himself an old Adelaide Registeb man) has
added “and Who’s Who in Australasia.” This is
by way of a remark that Maoriland is also covered
now. The book is vastly useful and, indeed, ex-
ceedingly interesting. But, like almost every one
of the kind, it is not too well balanced. Mr.
Johns announces that these are biographies, not
autobiogs.—he writes them himself ; so, by com-
parison, and in spite of the author’s remarkable
industry, the S. Australian biog. occasionally
appears very ample, the Other-States’ biogs. occa-
sionally very “skimpy.” Still, the information,
if at times a little belated (the book seems
to have dawdled through the press) may be
accepted as accurate ; for, though Mr. Johns is
responsible for the writing, a proof has in every
case been sent to the subject, and, as the long
preface tells us, “the return of the communication
was essential to its insertion in the book ’’—the
best guarantee that the publisher could have that
there are, at any rate, no mis-statements of fact,
even if the method has occasionally resulted in
omissions. But when the national character if
the work is realised there will be fewer omissio s
on that account.


/ ■■ -'3
/•'
■ *•
/
P.
w
■ ■
/? f
\
m
x
k
v
■MM
Yi‘>
< i
<£
ft
V
-C
A
RQ
O:
<£
P
XI
P
.■ i
r 2
iJv'
*y
•/v*
Q>
1
V\\T*
SC
o
CO
‘V.;
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
HE name of Wes-
tern Australia to-
day is written
indelibly in gold.
Gold made it vital.
Gold gave it men
and ambition.
Gold is in its brief history.
Gold furnished it with an objective,
thrust it into the sight of its neighbors and
the world, a little over twenty years ago. Up to
that time the metal had been torn from the earth
in comparatively small quantities. Payable
patches had been found as far back as 1868 ; but
the beginning of the industry practically dates
from 1884, when one, Hardman, discovered indi-
cations of the metal in the north-west country.
Succeeding discoveries awakened Australia and
the world to its riches. Strong, hardy men, with
the gold lust in their eyes, came from overseas,
trudged into the Beyond with billy and pick,
and flung the wealth of the earth into the light of
day. They toiled, but the\ 7 peopled the Beyond.
Cities of wood and stone, cities with all the modern
marvels of machinery and locomotion, grew on
the sight of the primitive towns of canvas and
rude boards. It is a tale of great endeavor and
almost romantic results, all of this. Mt. Barrett
in ’B5 brought men to its almost unassailable
field. Yilgam called in 87 ; and so the movements
went on to the time when Bailey laid bare the
riches of Coolgardie. To-day, Westralia is, above
all things, a Gold State ; while, in timber or in
agricultural resources, it is in no way mean. Up
to 31st December,. 1906,16,828,471 oz. had been dug
out since the first discovery. And the output has
increased with improved facilities. For the
decade 1881-90, the record was 46,9670 z. For
the decade 1891-1900 it had shot up to 5,870,6640 z.,
an increase of 5,823,6970 z. in ten years. The
yields soared in value up to 1904, when the
figures for the year read 2,373,0210 z. There-
after they dropped to 1,955,316 fine oz., valued
at £8,305,654 in 1905 ; and again to 1,794,546 fine
oz., valued at £7,622.747 in 1906. But there is
still gold in Westralia. The auriferous area is
computed to exceed 300,000 square miles in 19
fields, of which the largest, in point of output, is
that of East Coolgardie. Its contribution has
been, for the past year or two, about half of
the total for the whole State. Westralia,
however, is not without other mineral
resources. Coal, tin, copper, lead,
silver, and tantalite, etc., are also
found in payable quantities. In-
deed, some of the yields are
considerable. In 1905, 127,364
tons of coal and 359,7440 z. of
silver were taken out. From the
point of view of its mineral
development, Westralia is full
of interest. Down at Fre-
mantle, they tell of the roar-
ing days of : 92, when the
eS
steamships of the Five Companies landed men
from the Eastern States. Those men tramped
to G'oolgardie before the railway was laid down.
They dug holes, and mostly existed on bread and
strong tea. They gouged out the yellow metal
with greedy hands. They brought to Westralia
vitality and additional strength. Henceforth, its
warped life ceased, perhaps for all time, and
Perth and, Fremantle benefited. The mines
wanted machinery, labor, water. The miners
wanted victuals, clothing, and all things neces-
sary to the expansion and growth of tented com-
munities into cities. They had them from
Fremantle and Perth. To-day Kalgoorlie, Cool-
gardie, and Boulder City are linked to the metro-
polis by rail and telegraph ; and the traveller
leans back in a luxurious railway carriage, feeds
in a dining-car along the route, where men, in
’92, tramped adventurously into the Beyond to
make history.
pS?
The foundation of Westralia, or rather the
beginning of settlement, goes away back to 1825.
In that year a number of British soldiers landed
on the spot now known as Albany, and, in the
usual casual manner of the British in those days,
gazed around, admired the scenery—and stayed.
There is a tolerable suspicion that Britain wasn’t
anxious to increase its Empire about that time,
and really only annexed the State to avoid the
possibility of French tutelage and foreign neigh-
bors. However Britain stayed, and being, as it
is now, a fairly dogged coloniser, things improved.
One, Stirling, surveyed the Swan River in 1826,
and found the country in its neighborhood excel-
lent for settlement. Immigrants arrived, and
voted the fertility above suspicion, and thus fol-
lowed, in 1829, the foundation of the city now known
as Perth. Perth is situated about 10 or 12 miles
from the river mouth, the beautiful Perth water
washing the base of the slope upon which it is built.
In the season, this lake-like reach of the river pre-
sents an animated and picturesque scene, ifys
situation and extent being eminently adapted for
all manner of aquatic sports. As a city, Perth has
some pretensions. Its environment is admirable
from all points of view. Its streets are wide and
noble enough to suffer comparison. Many of its
buildings, notably the new Houses of Parliament,
at the western end of St. George’s Terrace—the
commercial artery, by the way—are impressive
and not inelegant;. Furthermore, Perth has its
distractions. One may speed down to Fremantle
and back—a happy trip for the visitor untutored
in river scenery. Again, the plantations and
natural growths, the nooks and shady corners
along the Swan, are unrivalled for idylls
aeux, always presupposing the chaperon
either a heavy sleeper or short-sighted. Picnic
par ies may find some grove, obscure enough
r r 'i nc^e a debris of corks and fowls’ bones.
Jhe poet may continue his “Rhymes of the
eac les, the surroundings furnishing in-
spiration thereto. The philosopher—well, he
voncets. It is a jolly trip. Fremantle, where
r e * v 'e Pom panics land the anticipatory tourist
10m the East, supplies ideas in harbor improve-
ments. Its suitability as a port of call is, by some,
doubted ; but, by most, extolled. Certainly, the
erection of two moles, one from Rous Head on the
north, the other from Arthur Head on the south,
have enormously increased its advantages.
Whether it is comparable to Albany on King
tieorge s bound is another matter. The European
mail steamship companies use it, anyhow. To
return to Perth, one may take either the train or
e nver steamer—it depends on one’s preference
though the steamer is quite as good an expedient
as the train, and, moreover, has the virtues already
mentioned. As for the tourist, he should not
omit to take a drive through the King’s Park,
situated on Mt. Eliza. Admitting an acquaint-
ance with parks and reserves in Eastern States,
the drive is still worth the time and the incon-
siderable expenditure that its cost involves. Also,
during the season, the excursions from Perth to
the wild-flower districts and Jarrah forests should
be utilised. A jaunt to Mundaring Weir, some
two or three hours’ journey from Perth, is par-
ticularly to be commended in the rainy season.
Inis is the head station of the great goldfields
water scheme, which pumps the liquid a distance
of nearly 400 miles to Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie.
! inn a , lllng .’ tl,e water is lifted to a height of
1400 feet, where it pours into a reservoir with a
capacity of 20,000,000 gallons. From the reservoir,
the water gravitates through mains to Kalgoorlie, 36
miles distant. It costs 7s. (id. per 1000 gallons to the
consumer, for tw j o or three millions of money have
been sunk in the scheme. Kalgoorlie, Coqlgardie,
.Boulder City are all extraordinary examples of
mushroom growth, so to speak; have all the
equipments of civilisation, such as electric trams,
hotels and postage stamps, and are mightily in-
structive besides. If the traveller desires, he can
go down to Bunbury, where the neurotic Perth
citizen recuperates and acquires fresh health ; or
to Busseltoti, near to the Yallingup Caves ; or
to Albany; or to a hundred
other places. Though it
looks- like—and pro-
bably: is—a catalogue
of names, it suffices.
The mere mention
of them magnetises
the prospective tour-
ist. Inevitably he
is drawn to the
offices of the Five
Companies.


NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
i
i
UjjjjUg
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE
| MOLLER’S |
GOD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette:
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : “It is quite
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, London.
Factories: Lototen & Christiania, Norway.
ORLICK’S
, MALTED MILK
At
break-
f a s t'
time or
supper time
Horllck’s'
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL \+
\CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
n es s.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Food Co., Slough. Bucks. Eng.
ZEISS
FIELD-GLASSES
WITF
ENHAN(
fi
CED
Distance between
te. Ocnlnrs. ■
Increased .
distance between Objectives.
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH—29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
Featuret
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision,
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
We are ontheSPOT
with Crystmate Billiard Balls
ALCOCX6 CfpryMJ.
&
The •
Onty •
Subsrifufe
for *
Ivory
iSS •
EUZABETJHS?
MEz,B.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on each Bottle.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
I
UIS
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies .
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
OSTRICH PLUJTES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address*
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for
money in any other house. They are t order
Australia. Write to-day. Send p ost free,
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
i Pitt-street, Sydney*
[Mention Thb Bpu-ituc.]
Alto at Gomor of Bourko and Swanston Straott, MELBOUBH
Business, Robbery, etc.
Dear Bulletin,— Poor old “Doctor,” he’s so
blown up with his own importance that he gets up on his
hind legs at my remarks (B. 2fi/3/’ot>). Well one can t
blame him. It’s his bread and butter, arid 1 expect
if he lost his job—beg pardon, his position (the difference
is o-rave)—and had to take off his collar, lus head would
fall off tnrough lack of support. But it’s your fault, Mr.
Bulletin, that “ Doctor” is choked with indignation and
charges me so furiously. What I said was that I knew a
bov who paid an honest tenner to join a bank, at £3O a
year and £3 to the Guarantee and Provident
Fund thus giving his services for 12 months
for £l7. I did not say / was the cove. And
I’m game to bet “ Doctor ” that I can tell him who
that bov is and where he is now, though by this
time 1 expect he’s had a £lO increase. But I was the
bloke that did the goldfields work on £lO5 ; and
“ Doctor ” knows it. I can remember the time when
“ Doctor ” thought his fortune none too good. Now he
savs he’s lucky. Thank Heaven, I’m not, then. He s
“practically” his own boss. A good word is practi-
cally.” I know all about the bossing business. And he
has to buy only his clothes. He's badly treated ;1 1 s a
wonder, considering how fortunate he is, that the bank
doesn’t buy them for him. What about beer, tobacco,
fuel light, char-lady, washer-lady, etc.—does he get all
those thrown in ? Yes, “ Doctor,” lots of my acquaint-
ances get £3 10s. per week —but not from a bank. I can
go out now and earn £3 10s. per week. Another mistake
he made. He said he knows me. He doesn’t—not now.—
Yours, etc., Jobber.
* * * *
Melbourne Co-operative Society’s bakery, the
largest south of the line, has started work. Of the
acres at Richmond, lj are occupied by the buildings,
while on the remainder some two score workmen s cot-
tages are presently to be erected. The storeroom is to
carry 20,000 bags of flour ; thence it is taken per elevator
to the fourth storey, where mechanical mixers get it
readv and then from floor to floor it is shot down to the
oven's where 2400 loaves can be baked in 25 minutes.
Machines work up the dough, and shape and parcel out
the loaves, just as bricks are made, and endless belts run
the wedges of dough on the oven plates, and then run
the loaves off to the delivery carts waiting outside.
Everything about the place, including the stables where
the 100 horses are housed, has been constructed for effi-
ciency and economical production, with a view to paying
high wages and giving the best value. The concern
generates its own electricity for light and power; and
most of the machinery, the buildings, and the design of
the undertaking are the work of Australians.
* * * *
“M’poonie”: Ride over the just-being-built
Etheridge line (N.Q.), and you’ll like Private Enterprise
railways more than ever. I purposely refrain from quot-
ing the freight charges lest Capital should become horri-
fied and leave the country ; but the passenger fares are
3d. per mile, and the accommodation runs to a ballast or
material truck. Passengers sit on what Nature provided
them with for the purpose. The co. is a great believer in
Nature—also in thrippence. But the thrippence doesn't
buy much from that quarter, and no civility is chucked
in. Right to the rail-head beyond the opened section the
co. religiously collects the same old thrippence per mile,
and if anyone makes ribald remarks, the railway
officials look at him with the sort of expression one
would use to drive a dog away from its bone.
Did a stranger to the land compare the construction of,
say, the Cloncurry line by the State with the construc-
tion of, say, the Etheridge line by Private Enterprise, he
could not but arrive at one of two conclusions : either
that the poor old State, owing to its mad generosity,
ought never to have left home and mother and gone out
into the hard cold world, or else that Private Enterprise
is a plain ungarnished rook. And not the smallest argu-
ment in favor of State construction and ownership
of the Etheridge line is the quality of much 6f the country
over which the line passes. So rich is some soil that were
anyone accidentally bogged in the alluvial plains out there,
he would have difficulty in extricating his leg before
it started to take root.
The largest windmill in the world. Made by the
Steel Wings, Ltd., Bay-road, North Sydney.
The tired Asiatic, who, moreover, mostly can t
read, struck a brilliant idea lately for dodging his con-
tributions to the Mohammedan priest. At least, a cute
Yankee drummer struck the idea first, and started to
tdrn it into money in the Yankee drummer’s way. He
got favorite pieces of the Koran droned into the phono-
graph, after which he had a few thousand records made ;
then he started to hire out machines and records to “ the
Faithful.” “The Faithful ” found that listening to the
Koran came much cheaper that way, and the Yankee’s
phonograph business boomed. But the priests naturally
took a hand and pronounced the machine accursed, and
notices are now put up in most mosques in India warn-
ing the people against the spiritual d .nger of buying such
records and listening to them. Kven that, however,
hasn’t stopped the Asiatic rush to get salvation at bar-
gain prices, wherefore the Habibul Akhbar, of Bombay,
proposes “ a great public meeting to pass resolutions,
praying H. E. the Governor to forbid the production and
sale of such profane things bylaw.”
THE HOLY WHISKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When fierce, religious whiskers go with gamp and flogger-
tail;
When holy grocers mix their trade with Jonah and the
whale
When ha’pence somehow grow in grace
Upon good butchers’ bills ;
When bakers’ charges soar apace
To prosper pious tills,
It’s then I look my tradesman in his dim, religious eye,
And mark him down for cursing in the angry by-and-bye.
When now your holy coalman comes with coal-dust for
your fire,
And charges you a “ special price,” what price your honest
ire !
When firewood’s “ up,” because o’ coal
A-gettin’ scarce ’n’ dear,
You say, deep down within your soul,
“The blighter’s beat me here !”
And all the fervor in his eyes, the blatant goodness there
Would melt, you’d think, before your own sincere, com-
pelling glare.
When Sunday morning brings The Trade to church in
gorgeous guise ;
When, with a fat and flashing paw, Food chases off the
Dies ;
When your small sixpence—only that!
Falls tinkling in the plate,
You see him of the Sabbath Hat
A-reckoning up the date ;
And when your Monday morning comes, with all its toil
ahead,
The-trader shoves his bill on you against your daily bread.
When shameful spuds and peaches hold all sorts of horrid
stock ;
When parcelled smells assault your nose with several
kinds of shock;
When, with a bunch of silly tracts,
Your grocer salts his biz ;
When every swindling tradesman acts
Like one in whom there is
No guile at all—when now your faith in ’em begins to
Your soul turns red with rage to see the holy whisker
wag.
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


Representing' Australia at the
l?! an co-British Exhibition.
» ..
'X ? > -7-
• ‘ •
4 • • '
■
The piano from which this drawing was made is a
BEALE AUSTRALIAN FULL CONCERT-GRAND,
and was, like all Beale Australian Pianos, made entirely in Australia.
The whole of the cabinet-work, every detail of it, was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The whole of the iron frame and all other iron Castings were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The whole of the SOUnding-board was made entirely in own factories in Australia.
All the bronze, gunmetal, brass and aluminium castings were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the SCrew-StudS; action-bolts and nuts were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The pedals, even, were made entirely in our factories in Australia.
The whole of the keyboard was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The ball-bearing castors was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the carvings were executed by hand, entirely in our own factories in Australia, from our own original designs.
The tuning-system was invented by us in Australia, and patented throughout the world.
The wrest-pins were invented by, patented, and are all made by us entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The improved hinges for the top (whereby a moulding may be had on all four sides, an impossibility with imported pianos) were designed and made
entirely in our factories in Australia.
The scale was calculated and drawn out on plan entirely in our own factories in Australia. This is by far the most difficult and technical item in
, piano manufacture.
Australian pig-iron, copper, and other metals are used in this instrument. A special Australian glue (which, after long experience of both we find
superior to imported) is also used.
The veneer-presses and other apparatus used in the manufacture of the instrument were made by us entirely in our own factories in Australia.
No less than six different machines, automatic and semi-automatic, used in making the patent wrest-pins, drilling the patent iron wrest-plank, makin ti-
the agraffe-studs, making the screw-studs, action-bolts, and nuts, Avere designed and made by us in our own factories in Australia. *
The above is a categorical statement of the details of our pianos which we make in our own factories. We deliberately assert that no other piano
manufacturer or piano manufacturers in the world accomplish such a wide range of work.
The only part of the above instrument which was not made entirely in our own factories is the action (the mechanism which causes the hammers to
strike the strings when the keys are played on). Action-making is a separate trade, and the mechanism of this piano was made by the action-maker
acknowledged to be the best in the world, whose actions are found in all the best instruments. The style used by us is his very latest double-repetition.
The only details not already mentioned are the wood-screws, and the steel and copper wire. Inasmuch as these are not yet made in Australia
Nettlefold’s screws are used by us, and the wire was imported; but, even then, the copper wire was wound on to the steel in our own factories on machines
designed and made by us.
As to the tone of our piano, no words can adequately express its wonderful charm, coupled with its unequalled volume, purity and sweetness. It must
be heard to be properly appreciated.
m p l '"
A DUPLICATE OF THE ABOVE PIANO IS NOW ON EXHIBITION AT
BEALE’S,
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide S A •
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland). ”
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in Gto 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messra. E. H. FOTH6RCILL & CO., Ifi Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Points from S.A. Jockey Club’s three-days’
Adelaide Cup meeting: Stakes given, ±4OOO ; local
owners Aloorhouse, R. M. Hawker, J. James, and Rovven
getting all the biggest cheques—contrary to the usual
experience. In the only weight-for-age race, Rowen’s
True Scot beat Dyed Garments comfortably, and the
latter could only get third in the Cup. A. J. Staughton,
who took Currandooley over to romp away with the
Leger, received the “ third money ” as well, there being
only two starters ; but, even so, he only won ±270 ; and
he was the biggest winner among the visiting owners.
Through the totalisator went close on ±37,000,
of which the club gets ±2750 and the Govern-
ment ±9OO. The figures are now back again at the
level they reached in the flush times of 1903, and seem
likely to go on rising ; for the new Gaming Act has shut
up most of the gambling shops in the city, aud when you
get to the course you must bet on the machine or not at
all. A useful dividend, on the final day, was Rusk’s
±2O 15s. in the Juvenile Handicap, the much-fancied Son
of a Gun running second, and giving his backers 19s.
return out of their ±. (The Man with a Bag doesn’t give
losers their money back.)
* * • *
The Hurdle race at Rosehill (Syd.) on Saturday
was of the same depressing nature as most other jumping
events Sydney has seen for some time. Of nine in the
book, three faced the starter. Bellerophon, after a
touch-and-go experience, discharged his rider. Victorian
mare Louise, a two-to-one-on favorite, turned turtle ; and
Last Chance (appropriate name !) had the course to him-
self. The people who had backed him from 12’s to o’s
rejoiced. But what a holy show! That specially
prepared steeple course at Mooretield is to be .used again
on Saturday next. Last time a similar event was decided
there six of the 12 entered started, but only three
finished, among them being Blend, who then appro-
priated her third consecutive Moorefield Steeple.
Although there has been nothing to encourage clubs to
include jumping events in programmes, they are persisted
in, and big money is set apart for them. A really good
jumper would prove a gold mine just now.
■K * * *
Kuala Lumpur, who gathered both steeples at
recent A.J.O. meet, carried the back-breaking load of
13st. 31b. in Bendigo Grand Annual ’Chase on Thursday
last, and won, thus notching his fourth successive success.
K.L.’s rider, J. Smith, has, to date, ridden seven con-
secutive winners—Kuala Lumpur (four times), Quail
(twice) and Conde.
0 * -K *
A record ip its way. Amateur rider Mr. O. B.
Halloran was up on eight of twelve successful nags at
Wellington (N.S.W.) two-days’meeting, Friday and Satur-
day last. Second day saw him land five consecutive first
prizes. #
Winner, Edna May, of Nursery Handicap at
Rosehill (Saturday) is among the two-year olds that are
worth watching. ' She started favorite, got away well,
and was leading early, and stayed there in a manner that
was impressive. Edna May is by Playbill (imp.) from
Puritan, by Positano from Wood Nymph, by Musket from
Sylvia, by Fisherman —a pedigree that is high-class indeed.
The amateur interest of Sydney Rugby on
Saturday centred on the discussion between South Syd-
ney and Newtown at the Cricket Ground. Newtown had
been dished before, while South possessed an unbroken
record from the beginning of the season ; therefore, on
form, South was good enough to win. The Newtown men
rushed on to the ground in single file, lined up, and de-
livered an awful and blood-curdling disarrangement of
yells which scared the spectators and froze the marrow of
the Southmen. There was a dark suspicion that the
whole Newtown XV. had gone suddenly dotty or had
swallowed some live cats. But it turned out
to be nothing' worse than a newly-invented war
cry. In spite of the fearsome yells, South was
easily first favorite. The club possesses the faculty
of getting off some very pretty charges, which moved the
Newtown captain to make a few remarks: “Fall on them
sudden —as sudden as possible. Smother ’em, and block
them getting the machine going, and if you can do it
we’ve got them done—done like a dinner.” So when
the scrap started Newtown remembered the words
of wisdom, and fell on South with awful suddenness—
suddenness which, like the Darkness of Moses, could be
felt, and which prevented the Sandpipers getting the ball
to their back machine. That formidable instrument
could only race about the field and curse dismally while
the forwards struggled with their heads down
and the site of their tails up, trying to
bullock a passage through the Newtown pack. It
wasn’t a football match, but a series of individual
struggles in which the man with the ball saw himself
surrounded by claws and talons. And through it all the
scream of the referee’s whistle sounded persistently. It
drove the players wild, and moved the barrackers to
anger ; but a referee who knew his work stuck to it
grimly. South was for the most part on the defensive,
struggling right on its line quite a considerable portion
of the game ; but though so overmatched it managed to
keep the raging Newtowners from scoring till right on
time. Then they suddenly let loose a five-man pass
which went right through the Southerners, and made
Newtown victorious by three points to nil.
* * '* *
The other unbeaten Union team, University,
sent its blue and gold whirlwind to the University Oval,
where it amused itself blowing over Western Suburbs
with the phenomenal score of 40 to 3. At half-time the
score was 21 to nil, but during the second half Western
Suburbs broke the lamentable duck-egg of its circum-
stances with a penalty goal. Then hope flickered out.
Still smarting under the memory of two initial defeats,
the sanguinary-clad Glebe crowd fell upon poor little
Manly at the local oval. Against that large mass of meat
and bone the struggling Manly boys had no hope, and the
record was 21 to 3. At Rushcutters Bay oval, Balmain
astonished itself and paralysed the spectators by narrowly
missing a win over Eastern Suburbs. But in football, as
in other things, the miss is as good as the missus, and
Balmain was beaten by three to nil. St. George scored
its first win of the season, dowming North Sydney (which
has gone to the dogs as far as Rugby is concerned, having
lost all five matches this season) by six to five.
The result of the scramble was to leave Uni-
versity the only team that has not been beaten this
season, and the blue and gold tornado heads the com-
petition list with 12 points. South, Eastern Suburbs, and
Newtown are together with 10 each in the second row.
Glebe, which constitutes the third line with eight, is a
very dour and somew’hat ferocious team just now. Be-
hind it the rest are in an almost hopeless position, not
because of the difference in their scores, but through the
inferiority of their players.
Like those of the Union, the League matches
were altogether too one-sided to be really interesting.
Newcastle (it sends a team to Sydney each week end)
battered Western Suburbs by 24 to two ; Eastern Suburbs
crushed Balmain by 21 to eight; Newtown flattened out
Cumberland by 16 to six ; and the only game showing
anv signs of equal prowess was that between Glebe and
North Sydney, which the former won by seven to two.
» * * »
The Glebe-North Sydney affair took place at
Wentworth Park, and was a much more even game than
the scores would suggest. North Sydney backs covered
themselves with dirt and glory, and maintained a fine
defence against the rushes that Glebe, backed by the
strong wind, crowded on them. A hefty struggle saw the
Northmen almost exhausted at half-time, when Glebe led
by four to two. On resuming, North Sydney kept up an
incessant bombardment, trying long shots at the goal.
On the other hand, Glebe had splendid combination and
considerable speed. Keeping the ball well down, it
made a great pace, and the North, which had not
recovered from the effects of the first half, looked
like fizzling right out. Yet it made a wonderful
recovery, and carried the leather right to the Glebe line,
where the butchers saved the situation by forcing three
times in rapid succession. Although, right on to the
finish, North Sydney pressed very hard, and raged con-
siderably on the Glebe line, it failed to score and wipe out
the margin of points, and, when the whistle blew, had
the mortification of being beaten by seven to two in a
game in which it had mostly the best of the play—which
is an obscure saying that can be only explained by the
time-honored remark, “ You know what I mean 1”
* • • *
In the wrecking of Balmain by Eastern Suburbs
the dribbling rushes of the Eastmen were as effective as
they were pretty. Newcastle also showed some fine
dribbling against Western Suburbs when playing against
the wind, and good combination among the backs when
the wind was behind them. Right through the men are
beginning to forget the old Rugby, and no longer, when
hard pressed, do they “find the line” by sheer force of
habit. The result is that the games are faster. Under
Union rules, any over-matched team that knows its
business can use the line to such purpose that half the
time is spent in the line out. But under League rules
the struggle goes on all the time. It’s rough on the team
that is down, but more interesting for the spectators.
* * * *
In the competition, Eastern Suburbs and Glebe
head the list with eight points each, South Sydney is alone
with six, North Sydney and Newcastle have four each,
and Balmain and Newtown are together with three. The
rest are not worth mentioning.
•* * * #
In British Association things are looking up
with a great and energetic look. In the past the game
has been confined largely to the districts around
Ultimo and Pyrmont, and the players from those
parts are to a great extent heathens who will
not pay up their subscriptions, and who expect to find
everything ready for them, like a stage in a panto-
mime. The game is now quite decentralised, and
controlled by five different associations —Newcastle,
South Coast, Hartley, Granville, and Sydney,
although Hartley and Granville being weak, will
probably amalgamate to form one strong body. The
present’season sees the Sydney Club revived and a new
club formed at North Sydney, and owing to the plethora
of footballers and lack of opportunities to play in first-
grade matches in Eastern Suburbs and South Sydnev,it
is more than likely that Association clubs will be formed
in those districts. During the season six inter-Association
matches will be played, one at Sydney, one at Lithgow,
two at Newcastle, and two at Wollongong. With the
exception of the Gardiner Cup, trophies have been
eliminated, and in future all that the winning clubs will
have to show will be a pennant and a large and gaudy
certificate in an elegant frame on the clubroom wall.
* * * *
The British Association people are also con-
sidering the question of starting an inter-State contest or
competition for an Australasian championship. West-
ralia, South Australia and Maoriland are all anxious to
send teams. Westralia has six first-grade teams,
and the British Association game in Westralia is
second only to the Australian form of leather
kicking. In Adelaide alone there are eight first-grade
teams, and, though the Maoriland numbers are unknown,
the game is particularly strong in the north, and in a good
financial position. This Australasian championship idea
was first mooted last season, but owing to iinpecuniosity
the idea was turned down for a year. Westralia is now
prepared to send a team and put up £lO per man towards
the exes. With an increasing membership and the exten-
sion of the game to North, South, and Eastern Sydney,
the idea is likely to blossom this season. Westralia,
owing to its priority of claim, will be the first State to be
given the honor of a scrap.
* * * •
The sudden upheaval of Garden Island Soccer
team is due to the fact that it is composed entirely of
new men. The former team has gone back to Britain,
and this crowd consists of men who played the game con-
siderably in the Cold Country. It. is heavy, has good
combination, dribbles well and shoots magnificently. The
team is coifiposed of the men in the workshops—artificers,
gunsmiths, armorers, and so forth—all branches of the
service save the regular Bulldog Boys. They are not per-
mitted to join ; if they desire to go for the Gardiner Cup
they will have to enter their teams separately as “ The
Challenger” or “ The Powerful” teams.
* * * *
In the Australian competition, Y.M.C.A. and
Redfern hdad the list with 16 points each, and East
Sydney—that teeming fountain of mighty ’bailers—is in
the second line with 12 points. Below that there are
single figures only. The Australian game will never pro-
gress much in Sydney till the League can get some
grounds out of which it can make a little revenue. At
present the expense is being borne by private individuals
and by the players themselves, and the strain is too
great.
The death of Maoriland footballer Baskerville
at Brisbane was startlingly sudden. The cause was
double pneumonia, and he collapsed almost immediately.
He was in the office of this paper a few days before his
death, and looked good for another 60 years. He was a fine
footballer and a better man. His book on football showed
that he had brains, and among other things not generally
known about him w 7 as that he had a turn for fiction, and
contributed to Maoriland papers several stories dealing
with post-office life. The yarns created such a stir in the
departmental headquarters that Baskerville thought it
prudent to drop the series with a bang. He was the
originator of the idea of the professional All Black team,
which led to the irruption of the Rugby League in
Sydney.
* * * *
At last it has transpired that the ponderous
All-Maori team that is about to leave Maoriland for Aus-
tralia will play under the auspices of the Rugby League.
Considering that one of the crowd weighs 18 stone, and
14 and 15 stone are common weights, it looks a formid-
able combination. But it will not be nearly so terrible as
it looks. Writer has played against Maoris, and his advice
to the Sydney Leaguers is to just hold them during the
first half, and go for them like Hades in the second.
They’re soft in the fibre, and in the face of a well-sustained
attack in the second half will crumple like a pile of butter
in the afternoon sun.
• * * *
To keep up the existing interest in the doings
of the “ muddied oafs,” Saturday’s Melbourne football
provided some close finishes and a few of those “un-
accountable reversals of form ” that no man can explain.
The League season is but a month old, yet already
“Saints” have beaten South, which walloped Geelong,
which chastised ’Wood, which thrashed University,
which has now jumped on Saints —which conclusion, as
Euclid would have remarked, is absurd. The men from
the Holy suburb played almost the same team which
scored two to one against the mighty South the week be-
fore, but though they were holding their own at half-time
the third quarter saw the students pile on 82 points while
their opponents bogged-in to no purpose whatever. They
rallied in the last term and reduced the discrepancy
somewhat, but in the end St. Kilda finished up 14 points
to the bad—s 4 to 40. An almost similar performance
took place at Oollingwood, where the undefeated Carlton
18 notched eight points to ’Wood’s lOin the first quarter,
increased at half-time to 28 and 24 respectively. This
promised a strenuous and close finish, but immediately
after resuming operations the Blue-and-White forwards
piled on 32 points in a violent hurry, and though
’Wood strove to the very finish, it could only re-
duce the lead by nine points—67 to 39. Just here this paper
would like to remark that a wise captain, perceiving that
the game was gone at the close of the third quarter, and
that it couldn’t be any “goner”—the board showed
Carlton nine goals six behinds, ’Wood three goals
eight behinds—would have crowded nearly every man
on the forward and centre lines and have left the back.to
take care of itself. If Carlton had got the ball past the
centre, it would certainly have scored, but that was the
only way by which Collingwood could possibly gain the
six goals needed to win, and even then they’ would have
had to be snatched before Carlton saw the full strength
of the move. The Blue-and-Whites don’t play the
concerted game of the Magpies, but they possess what the
latter don’t —a few extra-tall men who are good “ marks,”
and a couple of backs who can clear their goals and
transfer play to the centre with one long, powerful
kick. The concussion of South and Melbourne furnished
the surprise of the day, chiefly due to the latter’s wonder-
ful kicking. The team got about 15 fair chances to score,
and half-a-dozen “possibles,” and the score of 12 goals
three behinds shows that it wasted few of them.
“ Skinner’s hirelings,” on the contrary, had slightly the
better of the play throughout, and with anything like
Melbourne’s accuracy of aim w'ould have won handily ; as
it was, their tally of 10 goals 13 behinds left them two
points to the,bad. Richmond discussed the eternal ques-
tion of superiority with Essendon, but failed to make any
impression on the arguments of the “same old.” The
said arguments were conducted with the fist at
times, but there was no actual slaughter, nor any
open riot. Geelong visited Fitzroy, and conducted an
orderly meeting with the Maroons in its customary cour-
teous fashion. The uproar was considerable and strenu-
ous. Right up to the finish it was hard to say who would
get the verdict, four points only separating the two ; but
in the last flying minutes ’Roy toiled furiously and potted
a couple of goals, making its score 60 points to Geelong’s
44. It was a circumstance on Saturday that everyone
of the five losing teams had at one stage scored more
points than its opponent. It appears to be necessary for
the Australian to have his back to the wall before he
battles his best. When he is winning, he grows careless.
* • • •
Yic. Association games also furnished the
“unexpected reversal” that tends to become more and
more expected. Three weeks ago Brunswick beat
Prahran handily ; then P’ran walloped ’Scray, and on
Saturday ’Scray turned to and put a “ dirty doing ” on
Brunswick—by seven goals eight behinds to three goals
nine behinds. Essendon continued its blameless career,
the victory this time being at Preston’s expense, by 100
points to 53. Essendon seems to be cutting things very
fine, as it had to put an allegedly sick man in thelield to
make up its 17 ; but as this invalid managed to kick five
goals he wasn’t as infirm as he appeared to be. Northcote
scored its first win this season, though only by two
points, over the regrettable Ports; and North’s bar-
rackers howled themselves hoarse, and nearly capsized
Tait’s special train on the return journey by reason of a
touch-and-go victory over Brighton—sB points to 53. In
this game Brighton repeated its previous Saturday’s
experience with 'Town, finishing up the third quarter
with 48 points to North’s 27 ; but after that fading away
to nil or thereabouts. Brighton seems to lack stamina,
and as the item “hot sea baths” usually appears in
ciub balance-sheets, it might not be a bad
idea if Brighton actually took a few, just
for the look of the thing. The Association premiers,
Williamstown, tackled P’ran and explained to it, per
medium of the scoring board, that its acquisition of a few
League plavers won’t necessarily ensure it the premier-
ship, and * that practice and headwork go to the
making of a champion team. Scores were ’Town 41,
P’ran 26.
* * * *
The two Yic. football authorities are under-
stood to be pondering the question of amalgamation, or
at least co-operation. The trouble between them began
years ago when the eight stronger clubs formed the
League, leaving the five weaker ones to shift for them-
selves. They, with three junior clubs, formed the Asso-
ciation, adding two more later on, and have pulled along
with more or less difficulty ever since. This year the
League took in 'Varsity, and to make an even number of
Competitors accepted Richmond from the Association.
The Association was very angry at this, and fired out
North and West for merely applying to the League for
admission. North was afterwards permitted to recon-
struct itself, and Brighton and Northcote were taken in to
make up the tally of ten clubs. The trouble is that the
Association, regardless of the evidence of the gates,
“ kids ” itself it is as big a dog in the public estimation as
the League ; and as its clubs seem to have money to burn,
they are perpetually enticing League players to their
ranks, which compliment the League reciprocates. The
practice is now so frequent that it is hard to say
with which club any star ’bailer will play next
week. And, of course, the public grins loudly when
people talk about amateilr footballers. The League last
week appointed a committee of five to confer with
a similar delegation from the Association, “with a
view to bringing about in this jubilee year some
better feeling between the two bodies”; which
is nice and pretty on the League’s part, but
doesn’t promise to meet the case by a jugful. Facts are
these : Football has never been more popular in Mel-
bourne than it is now, but it won’t stay that way long
unless the game is carried on much more honestly than
at present; the League matches are about four times
more popular than those of the Ass. ; an Ass. team that
improves itself and “ makes good ” should have a chance
to gain the first-class State premiership (or even that of
the Commonwealth), together with the profit attached
thereto, and not be compelled to bog along for ever
among the second-rate clubs —witness the present case
of Essendon ; and, finally, the only way to stop the
semi-subsidised seduction of players is to arrange
a genuine scheme of district football, with a stiff
residential qualification, and to pay the players openly
enough to recompense them for ordinary expenses
but not enough to keep them without working—say 10s!
per afternoon. These proposals, together with the pro-
viso that each season the two lowest League clubs should
step down to the Ass. and be replaced by the two highest
Ass. clubs, provided the two highest Ass. clubs have a bet-
ter record than the two lowest League ones, would make
for clean, strenuous football, increased local enthusiasm
and popularity. The difficult point will be to persuade
the Ass. that it is second fiddle, though its balance-sheets
bellow the fact louder than Bent talking about the time
he used to play Hamlet.
* * * *
A special illustrated article on aerial navigation
in The Lone Hand next Saturday. It’s from our Paris
representative, and gives all the information you can wish
on the topic.*
* » * *
The Australian Federal Cycling Council, which
met at Melbourne under the leadership of that heavy
worker, H. D. Mclntosh, last week, decided to make one
more effort to lift professional cycling out of the slough
of obloquy into which it has fallen since Fighting Mac
gave up control of the Sydney League. The Council
reckons that the only way is to bring out the world’s
best riders, and although it means a big sum in appearance
money, negotiations will be immediately opened with the
French champion Friol, also with Major Taylor, Poulain,
Frank Kramer and Ellegaard. At present the sport is as
dead as the oyster which Queen Victoria saw on her plate
before her coronation, and for this the purse-cutting
vagaries of the Australian riders are to blame, so that the
action of the Council in endeavoring to resurrect the
sport by the use of foreigners is fairly justifiable. In any
case, the time is opportune. Many members of the old
crowd which broke things up have dropped out—they
are too old, or have been too long away from the track to
go back to it with any hope of success—and the new crop
of riders is believed to be as good as, if not better than,
the old timers.
* * * *
Overlanding cyclist Frank Birtles, who started
across Queensland for Port Darwin, is now at his goal
—in the fever hospital there. To look at Birtles would
be to pass him as a totally unathletic person, but he evi-
dently has a lot of iron concealed about his slender
physique.
« * * •
Maoriland champion-of-the-world sculler Webb
has accepted the challenge of Richard Arnst, and will
row him on the Wanganui River some time in December.
In the meantime other Maorilanders are hard at work to
qualify for the task of taking on the winner, and Maori-
land is likely to go mad on sculling.
**• * *
Jack, the Tassy sculler who cleaned up Brasch,
Towns and Co. in the recent Commonwealth champion-
ship, is a boatbuilder on the Tamar. His racing shell,
which he constructed himself from Tasmanian pine,
turned the scale at only 201 b. In respect to boats, Brasch
paddled in a 26-pounder, but, then, Brasch is fully 201 b.
heavier than the Tassy expert, and must necessarily sit on
something more solid. Points have been raised in respect
to the amateur status of Jack, who earns his crust by
boats, and, being a watersider, has a distinct advantage
over a commercial like Brasch.
Ex-champion sculler of the world George Towns
will drift down the stream of life in a double-scull skiff
for the future. The great oarsman was married on May
12 at Ulmarra, on the Clarence River (N.S.W.), to Miss
Maud McClear, of that town. The Masonic Hall was
decorated, the prevailing tints being the ex-champion’s
colors, blue and gold, in conjunction with crossed sculls.
• * » »
Sydney hockey was not so interesting on Satur-
day as heretofore. Corinthians First downed the
Pilgrims First easily enough, winning out by five goals to
one. It was not till well into the second half that the
Corinthian pack got properly going, but when it did
the Pilgrims were crumpled. A much tougher struggle
was that between Barbarians and Bandits first teams.
One Bandit had to retire for repairs, and in his absence
the Barbarians made a beautiful charge that resulted in
the only score of the game.
St. Pat’s College, Ballarat, has put up a football
record that will take some beating. Playing against the
local Grenville College t’other day-, it kicked 45 goals
44 behinds (314 points) to nil. Also Port Melbourne juniors
kicked 17 goals 29 behinds, while their opponents, Preston
District, absolutely failed to notch a solitary point. It
is recorded as a game of football, but one could hardly
call it a match.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : Burns, in his contract with the Syd-
ney syndicate, stipulates that while in Australia he must
not be called upon to box a discolored pug. How
this disposition to stand off the image in ebony chime in
with his recent boast that he has £lOOO up waiting for
Black Johnson’s cash deposit? The money is said to be
in the hands of the sporting editor of the New lork
Journal. Furthermore, if this is thus, why is the dark
brown person pursuing Burns across the continents. My
private opinion is that Tommy is drawing the color line
right round the Commonwealth in order to keep the
championship of the whole “ airth ” out of the hands of
Peter Felix.
* • * •
A development of the Bananaland Workers
Compensation Act is the formation of a. Co-operative In-
surance Co. amongst the racing clubs in North Queens-
land. Its object is to protect horse-owners against risks,
and to ensure that all injured riders will rece tie
statutory compensation. Each owner will pay 2s. bd. pr r
mount, which sum will go to the co-operative fund.
The N.Q.R.A. has decided to refuse registration to any’emu
which declines to join in. The clubs incur no liability
beyond the collection of the starting fees. Some surp
cash (£750) belonging to the Association, and the
belonging to the Distressed Jockeys’ Fund will form tt
nucleus of the new undertaking. In the past the gener
plan has been to send the hat round on behalf of tne
smashed-up horseman, but the new scheme lifts
jockey beyond the charity dole and removes the uura
off the shoulders of the owner, which is much better
all parties concerned. Also it saves wear and tear o
hat, and the time-wasting, boot-destroying work of carry-
ing it round.
THE HORSE POET.
The late “Joe” Giuliani (champion rider) had two
bitter, unconquerable dislikes —viz., horse-poets and
motors, in that order of detestation. —B. %l/5/’OB.
Observe the Horse-poet, eatnerado :
He is full, positively full, of strange oaths,
And quaint, unusual blasphemies ;
Weird, unconvincing reminiscences are his,
likewise he is dirty.
Dios ! but he is dirty 1
Hearken while he skites !
Hush !
He speaks of a race run “ in blanky old Dynamite’s year.
It appears that he owned Dynamite,
Also he trained him,
He taught him to jump,
He steered him in his every race,
He weighed in and out with him ;
The animal owed all, abso —blanky—lootly all, of its
success in life to him
The Horse-poet;
Whom mark closely.
Hold while he tells of his astuteness.
Of Ikey O’Brien he now sings, and of the latter’s pathetic
fatuity.
Ike, when up against the Horse-poet, was, it appears, a
Poor Circumstance always ;
He was a Mug, a Lamb, a Jay,
An over-ripe financial vegetable from which the rind
might be peeled
In huge lumps,
Chumps,
And quantities.
Caramba 1
The road to Randwick is paved with bust pencillers
All named Isaac O’Brien,
And each the victim of the Horse-poet,
The triumphant person,
Who knows men and things.
Gather ye now, camerados, around the bow'ed knees of
his Pegasus !
He will tell you how he did it all.
Or rather, on second thoughts, he won’t)
For his methods are Indescribable.
Likewise it were useless in any case to attempt to describe
them ; for they are Inimitable.
And it is just as well that they are,
Since there is no money in them ;
In which respect they resemble the Horse-poet,
Who has done all things,
And most men,
Yet remains, withal,
Broke
(Or durned near it) ;
And sick of Life,
One of whose Supreme and Mysterious Wonders he never-
theless continues to be.
N.S.W.
D.
COMSTOCKS “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets area
purely vegetable preparation, compounded on
scientific principle for the eradication of worm*-
which infest the intestines of children and adults.
They contain specific properties which destroy
worms, but cause no injury to the stomaci
bowels, and do not weaken the system.
Pellets are prepared in the form of a confection or
lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell, u
the contrary inspire children to take them as .
would an ordinary lozenge. The symptoms o
presence of worms are fully explained, and
tions for use in every box. Obtainable a
chemists and stores, or from the W. H._C°
Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney. Price, Is. ca-
per box (six boxes, Bs.).


DEAFNESS.
ITS DEADLY
DANGERS.
Head-Noises, Discharging Ears, Ringing in the Ears,
Perforated Crums, Partial Deafness, Ear Catarrh, etc.
There are greater dangers in deafness than people know
of! Apart from its penalties of the dead sense of sound,
deafness often foreruns deadly brain-affections, abscess on the
brain, etc. Any unhealthy ear condition must influence
for the worse the great organ of thought.
Ear-trouble should be guarded against as one would
guard against a blow. To neglect deafness, a dis-
charging ear, catarrh or ear-ringing is to court
health destruction.
Deaf or partly deaf people will therefore hail joyfully the
system of Pure Natural Aural Kinetics or “EARO-
SCOPE ’ treatment, which is a natural system of ear-health
restoration. It is a simple treatment for any country or city
home, with no detention from any duties, no pain, no
dreadful probing, syringing or harsh treatment,
this is where the “Baroscope ” treatment excels all harsh
surgical methods, which never has cured deafness, but has
often developed serious ear-complications. To apply cold
steel to delicate ear mechanism is most dangerous.
READ THIS
LETTER.
REV. H. GAINFORD,
Hindmarsh Congrega-
tional Church, Ade-
laide, writes: —
“ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a
marvellous change in
my hearing. I recom-
mend it to anyone suf-
fering from deafness.”
~ v h f 6r fea . the EAROSCOPE ’is that it contains no chemicals. Drugs often poison
the delicate parts of the ear. It is also free from dangerous electricity, and is simply the appli-
cation of Pure Natural Aural Kinetics, which has cured thousands of cases that had resisted P all
other medical treatment. This is no idle boast, but facts supported by letters received from
grateful patients proclaimed incurable by best Aural Specialists.
Call or write for full particulars, with abundant testimonials, given orposted Free of Charge.
EAROSCOPE INSTITUTE,
DEPT. 2,
90 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
<n
/ L S
W ( iU C 4
s
FOR YOUR
The chance of
making* extra profit
is a great tempta-
tion to the trades-
man. He makes
more profit on an
article called “just
as g*ood ” than he
does on the real
thing* genera ny
because the ma-
terials or ingre-
dients are inferior,
or the essential part
of them lacking
altogether.
Don’t lead the
tradesman into
temptation by
accepting the imi-
tation brand of
“ 0.T.”
PROTECTION.
When ordering 1
“0.T.,” look for
“ 0.T.” and the
Red Chilli trade
mark on the new-
shaped bottle.
It is there for
your protection
from unreliable
and worthies s
substitutes. You
know what you
want. Do not let
the dealer choose
for you.
And remember
there is no other
beverage “just as
good ” as “ 0.T.”
At all Hotels, Chemists
and Storekeepers.
Would You Like a Moustache?
If you want to grow a Moustache —one that helps your
appearance—there is only one thing for you to use, and
that is CAPILLARINE. For over 20 years Australians
have used it and testimonialised it. YOU try it!
Post Free Anywhere
In Plain "Wrapper,
10/6.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Makes you look manly
Harajj
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
■■STO!
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT
(known as Credit Foncier).
Thirteenth
Issue of
Debentures for £lOO,OOO, at 3i per cent.
TO MATURE 31st OCTOBER, 1919.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parliament
of Victoria, Nos. 11,81, 1722, 1778 and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR. TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head Office, 29 Market Street, Melbourne, until noon on
Tuesday, 2nd June, 1908.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or £5OO, as may be desired.
Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be payable half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being due on 30th April, 1909, at the Commissioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any Tender below £9B per £lOO will not be entertained.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by a Bank Draft pavable to the Commissioners of
Savings Banks, amounting to 5 per cent, of the face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata , the balance must be paid on 30th November, 1908, or may be paid at any earlier date.
Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 5 per cent, and over
fom date of receipt to 31st October, 1908, and will be payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
Comnnssion will be allowed only to Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate of
ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for accepted Tenders.
a ment of these Debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by
the Government of Victoria.
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks.
By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
0 00 g
f r rr r
Boon
■ rr
rr r r
r r r
r rr
BO |l
r rr
fr r
r rr
fr f
'r rr
rrr
rr t
rtr r
rr r
<rr rr
: ®0 0
o
rrri
81
~ Free-
Sample
Write Today,
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pin-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
jmu of it.
We call Congo the “ NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
■Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co Ltd
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
“ Charlie ” Kingston and Josiah Symon
were both articled to Chief Justice Way, and the
former was so highly thought of by the Judge
that he advised old Speaker Kingston to send him
to Oxford or Cambridge. Had he done so, Way
wrote the other day, Kingston would have been
one of the leaders of the English bar. Old George
Kingston, however, said he desired his son to do
his work in and for Australia, and so it happened.
The appalling Docker, of N.S.W. District
Court Bench, refused the benefit of the First
Offenders Act to two youths last week, not
because they were not First Offenders, not because
their crime placed them beyond the scope of the
Act, but because, in giving evidence on their owp
behalf, they had, in the opinion of Docker, “com-
mitted perjury.” It is the main boss of the pal-
ladium of British justice that an accused person
shall be regarded as innocent of crime till a jury
finds him guilty. In the eye of the law these
young men were no more guilty of perjury than
Docker himself. In effect, Docker, in this case,
allowed himself the luxury of sentencing two of
his fellow-men for a crime for which they had not
been tried, and in respect of which they had not
had the advantage of an appeal to a jury. Some-
one should speak firmly to Docker, whose Win-
deyer-like enthusiasm in the pause of gaoling
people is running away with whatever equitable
principles are his.
The imported Johnson is losing caste even
among the crowd that imported him. Thus John
Miller, Deform M.L. A., to his Bathurst (N.S.W.)
constituents recently :
The Chief Commissioner of Railways sat in his office
afraid of political influence. The fact was that he had
not yet grasped the position in this State, but it was time
that he had done so. The railways were not in anything
like the position they were in during the late Mr. Eddy’s
regime. (Applause.)
It looks as if Wade himself might yet begin to
question the essential and inevitable virtue of the
imported English official.
There were three unusual circumstances
about a woman defendant who appeared at the
Melbourne City Court the other day. She is the
legal manager of several gold-mining companies,
she is charged with embezzlement, and she was
arrested and locked up although a criminal
summons would have answered the purpose just
as well. Certainly the latter proceeding isn’t half
as unusual as it ought to be, Melbourne having a
confirmed habit of locking up a lot of people it
ought not to, and leaving out of gaol a lot who
ought to be there. The defendant, a business-like
maiden of early middle age, said she wasn’t guilty
in tailor-made grey jacket and skirt, shirt-fronted
striped blouse, high turn-over collar with linen
tie, and gem hat. The matter was adjourned, but
not till she had assured the Court that she had a
complete answer to the charge, notwithstanding
her charming appearance.
mM
-X-«
svffi
**
k-y.y
DUNLOP
ROAD
RACING
TYRES
for Season 1908.
TO CYCLISTS
Who want to Finish in Front.
The remarkable success and strength of our Open-
sided Road Racing Tyre has been the talk and wonder
of Road Riders throughout Australasia. Everywhere
satisfaction and long wear. Everywhere a success.
These speedy covers, which have been known to run
over 3000 miles, weigh only 16oz. each, and have open
fabric sides, protected by a skin of tough unvuicanised
rubber, which effectually protects cutting of fabric,
without effecting the resiliency and life of the tyre.
This year's cover will be found even a great improve-
ment over those issued last season.
UNLESS ROAD RIDERS USE THESE SPEEDY TYRES
DURING THE FORTHCOMING SEASON, THEY WILL BE
LEFT, FOR THESE WONDERFUL TYRES HAVE NO EQUAL
FOR ROAD RACING AND RELIABILITY.
Ask your Cycle Agent to let you look at one of these covers,
or send us for a small sample section.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
lOS FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


WATCHES FOR the MULTITUDE!
alone Has secured for A. Saunders’ Watches the public’s appreci-
*** * ation of tbe perfect watch. Whatever you’re prepared to pay, you’ll find
that for strength, accuracy, durability, A. Saunders’ Watches stand supreme.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Amethyst centre,
25/.
15ct Gold £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CIRCLE BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
25/.
BUYING BY MAIL.
NO MATTER AVHERE
YOU LIVE, YOU CAN-
SHOP BY MAIL WITH
AS MUCH SATISFAC-
TION AS IF YOU
VISITED OUR SHOP
PERSONALLY. ALL
GOODS SENT CARRIAGE
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Two Heart BROOCH.
Set Fine Opals and
< Diamond.
£2/10/.
.Larger, £3 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls and
Sapphires or Turquoise.
£4/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open Face,
Keyless WATCHES, Short
Wind, Stem Set, Perfectly
Regulated and Adjusted,
Splendid Timekeeper.
15/.
Higher Grade, 20/, 25/, SO/.
Kept in free repair for 1 Year
HIGHER
GRADE.
20/-
FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND US YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND
WE WILL MAIL YOU,
POST FREE, A COPY
OF OU'R LATEST CATA-
LOGUE. WRITE TO-
DAY. ITS YOURS FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Bird BROOCR
Set Diamond and Ruby.
35/
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
“LYRE” BROOCH,
Set Fine
White Pearls.
£3.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Pearls, Ruby and
Turquoise, or all Pearls.
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
A, SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
HEART BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2.
SOLID
SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Richly Engraved Case,
j-Plate Lever Movement,
Fully Jewelled, Patent
Adjusted Balance.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 60/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/, £6/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
SOLID
GOLD.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold
CLUSTER RING,
Set Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART CHARM,
Raised Forget-Me-Not
Spray
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold, Half-Chased Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety Chain Attached, £2.
Smaller, SO/, 35/. Larger, £2 10/, £3, £3/10..
OPEN
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open Pace Keyless “GUARD”
LEVER, Short Wine), Non-Magnetic,
Patent Adjusted Balance, Dust and
Waterproof Cases, Fine or Bold Dial
15/ .
Higher Grade, “Railway,” 20/.
Guaranteed for 10 Years,
and kept in free repair for 1 Year.
HIGHER
GRADE
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Set with Double Cut
Diamonds and
Emeralds.
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM.
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
18CT
GOLD
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct Gold Hunting
Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
3-Plate, Fully Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Per-
fectly Adjusted, Extra Heavy
Case, Hand Engraved.
£l2/10/.
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in free repair for 6 Years.
higher
GRADE
£l5.
Ivf
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct Gold Floral Spray
Cluster BROOCH, Set
fine white Pearls,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS,
loct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Rabies,
or Sapphires.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP
2/6.
Engraved, 3/.
9ct. Gold, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Raised Floral Spray,
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP.
Solid Silver,
2/6.
Extra Heavy, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2/10.
OPEN
FACE.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
J-Flate Movement, Non-Magnetic, Patent
Adjusted Balance, Dust and Waterproof
Cases.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/.
Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in free
repair for 1 year.
Cheaper Grades, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
SEAL PENDANT,
Bloodstone and
Sardonyx.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART and
DUMB-BELL LINKS.
12/6.
loot. Gold. 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT
and NECKLET, set Fine
Pearls and Amethysts.
£4.
15ct. Gold, £5 10/.
Set Pearls and
Tourmalines, £6 10/.
The Lord watch
Betweer Me
ft Thee
BfWS
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM,
8/6.
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
OVAL LINKS,
22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved
Free of Charge.
SOLID
GOLD.
V .
m
m
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Gent.’s Solid Silver llu " t ' n l | t fully
WATCHES, Stem Set, ’perfectly
Jewel.tu, Compensation Balance, P
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Higher Grade, £2 £3 10/ ’ £4 W *’
Solid Gold, £7 10/, £8 10/, £l2 1%
£l5, £2O, £25.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5. and 6 Tears.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S,


DOLLOND’S -The Best Binoculars
This is no empty boast, for we
can prove it. Dollond’s Pris-
matic Binoculars are the finest
example, of British Optical In-
dustry-having: superior defi-
mt'on great rigidity sim-
plicity in focussing-.
They are damp and dust
proof—and can be cleaned by
a child without fear of disturb-
ing the adjustment.
They are made entirely in
England of better quality than
foreign makes provide, and are
specially suited to Australian
light and climate.
Price, «£7 to £8
Dollond’s War Office Pattern
Binoculars,
A Booklet describing both,
will be posted you fro-; if
you send us your add ess.
w
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerftan, Ltd.
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Agents for Dollonds, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government.
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
vy
r v.
Something quite new, a real mystifier, and one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trick,
which can be carried in the vest pocket, never
fails to add to an evening’s amusement, and is in-
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coinage
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal,
and one, two, or three coins can be made at the
will of the operator. Full directions enclosed.
Price //-, post free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting' of a
pair of false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bd. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable),
price 10d. ■ a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
covered with wax,
<s>
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6d. ; and a false moustache, any color
and easily attached to the nostrils, price 3d. each ;
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
THE SPRA Y WA TER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog' or man with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc. Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the most
popular joke novelties ever placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. Price 1/6
post free to any part of the world.
MAGIC BED ELI A BALLS.
Very novel and surprising’.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at onee disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to be found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price //-, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just ‘published.
Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET,
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
SYDNEY.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
THE GEM OF MOWARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil Is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., Mutual Life
Buildings, Pitt Street and Martin Place, Sydney; H. A. Merewether, Mutual Life Buildings, Martin Place,
Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper Estate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ;or The New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
v:m.c.
22
s
T 00K for the U trademark stamped on the
< head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONLY.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
OUR LATEST MODEL.
THE ...
‘REGENT’
Graph-o-
Phone.
PRICE
£5 10s.
Exactly as
Illustrated.
$
This Model has a
Tone Quality
equal to the high-
est-priced Machine.
Send for full particulars and lists
of Records.
Columbia Phonograph Co„
Gen'l.,
255 Clarence Street, Sydney,
IN
IADI
COLUMBIA 10-inch
DISC RECORDS
(New Process),
2/6 each.
BEST QUALITY
NEEDLES, ty-
per box, con-
taining 300.
As the S. M. Herald seems to have a lien
on the directorate of the A.M.P. Society, so the
Suttors seem to have had an hereditary grip on
Parliament. In the first—or mixed—Parliament
of N.S.W., William Henry Suttor had a seat for
the united counties of Roxburgh, Phillip and
Wellington. He was in one Parliament or
another, with a short break of two years in the
’fifties, until 1872, when he finally retired and
died in 1877. His brother, John Bligh Suttor,
was in both Houses, and William Henry Suttor,
junr., was member for East Macquarie (as suc-
cessor to his father) and Carcoar. He held
Ministerial offices, and wandered later into the
Upper House. His junior brother, Francis
Bathurst Suttor —“ the last of the Cardigans ” as
a Parliamentarian —after a long term in the
Assembly and the holding of much Ministerial
office, is now President of the Legislative Council,
and a Knight. He is 69 years of age.
vV
/
m
x/<
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BEI/fS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all castes of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Livei, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
_ soil writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled [or the Complexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALODERMA-JELLY * KALODERMA-POWDER
©fiS
- - 5
-t-;
m
y
MW
KALODERMA E WOLFF&SOHN
seniith geschu’W. ■ . Karlsruhe.
Qf all Chemists. Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be suro you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents*
LOHMANN & CO.,
'Melbourne (S 3. Sydney.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING Sc MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
0
I
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods' are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. _ For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLJRVS Ltd., LONDON. $ Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney


Painful Swellings Formed in Arm-
pits and on Back—ltching Pre-
vented Rest —Suffered Six Weeks
and Became Run Down from Want
x)f Sleep —Three Full Sets of
CUTICURA REMEDIES
ENTIRELY CURED HIM
*'l had been troubled with swellings
under the armpits and on the small of
the back accompanied by a burning
itch to such an extent that I got very
little rest, day or night. This had been
Soing on for six weeks or more and I
ad tried various soothing ointments,
these, however, gave only temporary
relief, and as I was getting run down
from the want of rest, I decided to con-
sult a doctor, but on noticing the Cuti-
cura Remedies advertised in the paper,
I thought I would give them a trial.
I used Cuticura Soap first, but this did
not give the desired relief, then I tried
Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment, and
Cuticura Resolvent Pills for three suc-
cessive times. I am thankful to say
that, though my trouble was painful
and severe, my cure was complete
within a month, and I in the future
shall urge any one whom I come across
afflicted with skin troubles to use Cuti-
cura Remedies, knowing as I do the
great good they have done me. lam
never without a box of Cuticura Oint-
ment in my home. Robert Beatson,
81, High St., Fort William, Dec. 6 and
12, 1906.”
COTICORA
The Great Skin Cure and Purest
and Sweetest of Emollients.
Cuticura Ointment is, beyond ques-
tion, the most successful curative for
torturing, disfiguring humours of the skin
and scalp, including loss of hair, yet com-
pounded, in proof of which a single
anointing with Cuticura Ointment, pre-
ceded by a hot bath with Cuticura Soap,
and followed in the severer cases by a dose
of Cuticura Pills, is often sufficient to
afford immediate relief in the most dis-
tressing forms of itching, burning, and
scaly humours, eczemas, rashes, and irri-
tations, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a speedy cure in the majority of cases,
when all else fails.
A Single Set olten Cures. Sold throughout the
world. . Depots; London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
R. Towns & Co., Sydney; Lennon, (Ltd.), Cape Town,
etc.; B. K. Paul, Calcutta; Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props. es“Post-Iree, Cuticura Booklet.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
REASONS WHY
—may be produced by
the hundreds as to
the remarkable and
consistent popularity
of . . .
li£ STEINWAY
PIANO. .
Suffice for us to say
that it is in demand
on all Concert plat-
forms, and in the most
renowned of the world’s
famous Conservator-
iums. Our beautifully
illustrated Catalogue
(posted free) contains.
eulogistic letters from
all the world’s Great
Masters who have at-
tained to the pinnacle
of fame during the past
half century .
The Steinway
is the Ideal Piano.
‘ . / ’ 1 : .
Cash or Deferred Payments.
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
115,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 8.
and keeps aughing. Red Harry Is.
Biliousness
Headache and dizziness are natural con-
sequences of constipation, which, in its turn
is due to a sluggish state of the liver. It is
the impurities with which these diseases load
your blood that cause all the trouble, and
before permanent relief can be obtained
these impurities must be got rid of. Take
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. This great medicine
regulates the liver and bowels, restores
digestion, and cleanses your whole system.
SICK
HEADACHE,
DIZZINESS
AND
CONSTIPATION
ARE
CURED
BY
“ I can testify that Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is a sure cure for indigestion,
biliousness, headaches, and all such
complaints. I have found it invalu-
able in the home.”—From Mrs. E.
Richards, 15, Bathurst Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W., October 24th, 1907.
Mother
SYRUP
TAKE IT DAILY
AFTER MEALS,
LADY’S STYLISH
BALMORAL, for skating
15/6
Of Tan Willow Calf, this boot is one that we can highly recommend.
It is strongly sewn, has a welted sole, and is one that ladies
will welcome for skating or walking use. Very neat and stylish,
its price is only 15/6.
If ordering in Victoria add
9d. for postage i if in other
States, add 1/-
Drop us a Post Card for our
Booklet “Shoelight,” beauti-
fully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it
FREE.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 1 and 3 Errol Street,
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
FOR
FAT
WOMEN
ex ercise is.
good, but a Sydney physician who has investi-
gated says “ that without any doubt the
most successful, harmless, pleasant, and
certain method, as well as the cheapest, is
“FATCURE.”
It reduces weight in many cases by
over five pounds a week, and when re-
duced the condition does not come on
again. The cure Is permanent.
The method is perfect, its results are
marvellous, its clientele tremendous. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars. Write or call at once.
No ill after-effects result from the use
of “Fatcure.” No Publicity.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance either Castiereagh or Market Streets.
[3o
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles.
THERMOS
PRICES—PINTS from i\ s.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists,
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB * SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOCRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
V
\\
&
\
S
rHIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and 1
;uarantee it absolutely correct and reliable ever)
ime. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
md is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. In e
Chronograph is only in use when wanted— tne
irdinary works keep the'time of day. It is a fully
ewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
ioinpensation balance, polished steel regulator, an
jerfectl.v finished in every detail. It is wound
ind set without opening the case, and tn
ihronograph started, stopped, and set back by sinjP .V
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUiv
VIETAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
rlass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed ir
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not giv
loinplete satisfaction, I will return your
noney in full. This watch is something out of tn<
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any te
niinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I a'
;he same works in sterling silver cases and son
3old Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
60/-
60
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation ofthe |inin(? n)«” br “ e
of the nose and passages which LMR-to »
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and heaW.
destroys taste and smell; the discharge caus 0>
pepsia, and consumption. j,
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Write
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi i, '* fnr M e di-
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings f °L tiree .
cator complete, with 4 months treatmen , p -
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., .
The Inky Way.
“ Reader For 150 Years ” : Several men at the Victorian
Artists’ “ smoker,” the other night, were discussing’ the
question of holding an exhibition of the worst paintings
and drawings in Melbourne. The idea was not considered
feasible ; there is no hall large enough. It has suggested
to me the desirability of putting before you a proposal that
has been in my mind for some years. The Bulletin has
received, and no doubt will continue to receive, some of
the worst, as well as most of the best, that is written or
drawn in Australia. What price a Bulletin of the
(ordinarily) rejected ? It would be cheap at half-a-crown,
and would serve not only to give plenty of amusement,
but also to point the lesson of how not to do it better
than fifty columns of “Answers to Correspondents.”
Preserve the plan of “ make-up,” and all the customary
features —Red Page, Leading Articles, Plain English,
Amusements, Wild Cat pages, Personal, Political, and
Society pars, Sporting, and so on. The poetic parts
should be a dream of joy and a laugh for ever. Adver-
tisers would rush a special publication of the kind indi-
cated, and the treasury would be filled to overflowing. I
am specially interested myself, as the adoption of the
idea would perhaps result in the printing of several little
things of m3' own that have been enthusiastically re-
jected.
W 9 * +
Dear Bulletin. — Re “ Solar Plexus ” and his complaint
in “ Inky Way ” (B. 16/4/’OS), I am glad somebody has
come forward to defend the attitude of the Sydney Evening
News towards its own country. It was about time. A
paper that regards the Commonwealth as a cur that has
strayed into the family of the Ma State, and is only just
good enough to be kicked by Wade and Carruthers, needs
some defending, in my eyes. How long, ma3' I ask
“Solar Plexus,” has the News been a thorough advocate
of a White Australia ? How long has it stood up for the
rights of Australia? It’s been devilish busy over the
alleged “ Wrongs of New South Wales,” but that’s not
the same thing ! Hasn’t it opposed—doesn’t it still
oppose and fight against—the inevitable and natural
development of Australia? Because the News cannot see
that Euclid’s propositions, “ the greater must contain the
less ” and “ the whole is greater than a part,” are incon-
trovertible, it still shrieks frantically for State Rights,
State Parliaments, State Governors, and State Waste of
all descriptions. In any matter cropping up between
Australia and Ma, the News— ignoring the merits of the
case—immediately bellows for Ma and clubs Australia.
This love for Ma is noble and touching, and within limits
entirety commendable, but there are other ways of show-
ing it. We are told that one cannot serve God and
Mammon, and the News (being more or less a religious
paper) improves upon that injunction and declares it to
be impossible to serve Ma and Australia! Well, is
it? Surety to Confucius the interests of Ma State don’t
end at the bottom or top of Market-street? Or the
interests of Australia begin on Wade’s door-mat ?
Let “ Solar Plexus ” throw water over himself, and sit up
and look at his paper, and consider its attitude on an3'
blessed subject that concerns Australia’s general Well-
being, and then he can send round any apologies he wants
to make to the nearest pub, or to The Bulletin office,
and I will be there with the glad hand'that turneth
away Wrath and the long beer that drowneth Enmity.—
O. C. Cabot.
* * * ■*
The vortex into which W. Kidston has thrown Q.
politics by his precipitate change of tactics has left a
number of his friends in an abyss. Little over a month*
ago the members of the Kidston party, including the
Premier and all his colleagues, decided to revive the
Freeman —an election paper which did much to capture
the metropolitan seats for the democrats at the late
elections. A company was proposed, a prospectus
issued, a strong provisional directorate formed, and a
sufficiency of capital planked down or promised. The
essential objects of the paper were to enlarge and
solidify the democratic party, and scatter Philp and co.
to the four winds. Then Kidston suddenly hurled his
ultimatum, ‘f I will no longer work with the Labor
party ” ; and now half the shareholders in the paper
that was to be want to withdraw, and the other half
don’t know what to do until Kidston comes back and con-
descends to say just where he stands. About the only
definite step taken by Kidston before leaving was to
make sure that he .was ieaving.
* * * *
The recently-born Bundaberg (Q.) Daily News is proving
itself a warrior of the readiest fist in the interests of small
cane-raisers, laborers, and Democracy in general, and the
infant is moving along briskly. The Bundaberg Star,
which for over 30 years battled against much Tory shekel,
has incorporated itself, machinery, staff and all, with the
new concern ; so now there are only the Kidstonian Daily
News and the Philpite Wail striving to catch Bundaberg’s
ear, and Bundaberg has just about enough ear to go
round.
THE OUT-BACK EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The}' will tell you in the city that they make a little god,
In the country, of the man that writes the paper ;
That the folks for twenty miles around just live upon his
nod,
From the squatter to the fashionable draper.
That the mayor, and the crier, and the sergeant of
police,
And the S.M., and the P.M., and his sister,
And all the local drunks, and ever}’ Justice of the Peace,
And the missus at the “ Royal,” and her mister
Will wait upon him daily for permission to exist,
And be glad if he but looks upon them kindly ;
On putting their possessions at his service they’ll insist,
And they’ll take his word as gospel always blindly.
If you’re ordered up the country and you hap to be a
scribe,
They will tell you this with such excess of unction,
That you feel you’re almost willing to accept a handsome
bribe,
With a call to go and fill the god-like function.
And then you’ll meet the owner of the Bungo Weekly
Whoop,
Who will cheerfully confirm the glowing story;
And he’ll add his little flourish till you’re sure you’ve
made a scoop
In agreeing to accept the seat of glory.
You will start one morning early, reaching Bungo late at
night,
When your welcome may enhance the vision splendid ;
Or it may be, on the other hand, you’ll think, as you
alight,
That the warmth of local manners might be mended.
The mayor is wholly absent, and, although the trooper’s
there,
You are not implored to sanction his existence.
You do not hear the band, and soon you’re painfully
aware
That the only cab is dwindling in the distance.
Then you light out for the township, and you reach the
pub at last
To be greeted with indifference or suspicion ;
You look into the parlor where your boss is rooted fast,
And you meet a beery leer of recognition.
The lady of the “ RoYal ” says she’ll “ try to shake you
down,”
And you guess it isn’t “ shake ” she means precisely.
Unwilling, you accompany the boss around the town ;
And, later on, you doubt you acted wisely.
In the morning, full of hustle, you are down to work at
nine
In an office whose attractions will astound you ;
Then, perhaps, you lift your chin and say .you fear you
must decline
All the luxuries and honors that surround you.
Or, perhaps, you sink your feelings, and decide to hump
the load
And show the Bungo brutes that you’re a grafter.
But you’d better hump Matilda out along the old, red
road,
For—the Lord have mercy on you ever after !
N.S.W.
WAIF.


“Wat,” in B. 21/5/’OB, describes how a
gigantic volunteer, in an outbreak of baresark
fury, pursued a small representative of the
“enemy,” and missing him by a bayonet point,
remarked, “ Another 10 yards and I’d have stuck
the cow.” This shows how imperative it is to arm
the defence force with judicious supplies of
p.C.L. Whisky—the brand that inspires level
headed action in all ranks, even when under the
fire of frenzy-tempting circumstances.*
— - ■■■ i m,. m*. m.jm.-- *
Arnott s Mill! Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
0. C. Kingston was one of the first to
“ back ” a prospecting party on the Barrier silver-
field (N.S.W.). But, though his party struck a
couple of claims near Silverton from which a few
hundred tons of rich stuff were got, it didn’t have
the luck to light on the neighboring Broken Hill
Missing Friends.
WIGGIN, ELSIE MAY, granddaughter of
the late James Hayes (late of Barker’s
Road, Hawthorn), please communicate
at once with National Trustees Company, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne. Advantage.
MAYE, last heard of in New
* South Wales about 20 years ago, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with JOHN MAYE, Mildura, Victoria.
Tenders.
FREEMASONS’ HOTEL,
WOLLONGONG.
TENDERS are invited for the Purchase of the LEASE.
GOODWILL of the above-named
GOTEL, and w iH be received at my office until noon
on THURSDAY, 4th JUNE, next.
m?' h ?T Lease has . a cilrrenc y of 6 years and 4 months,
ine House contains 29 rooms, kitchen, etc., and is well
and favorably known to all frequenters of the South
Coast. It is situated on the corner of the main road
from Sydney at its intersection with the main street in
Wollongong, and is within five minutes of the railway
station. It is the recognised resort of Commercial men
having three large sample rooms, and has a good
residential connection. A very extensive Bar Trade is
done. Stock to be taken at valuation.
The previous Licensee is now touring the Continent as
a reward for two years’ business.
Full particulars and a card to inspect can be obtained
at my office.
The usual deposit of 10 per cent, cash or Banker’s
Cheque must accompany each Tender. The highest or
any Tender not necessarily accepted.
H. B. JAMIESON, Accountant,
Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street.
20th May, 1908. 5409.
Amusements.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
■ ■ Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 7.45.
Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons at 1.45.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 30.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW PRINCE OF PILSEN CO.
will present, for the First Time in Australia,
THE PRINCE OP PILSEN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 30,
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY.
First Production in Sydney of
THE MUMMY and THE HUMMING
BIRD.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as Usual.
T HE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
1 Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
ls. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY,
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 30,
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
A COMEDY COSTUME CONCERT CO.
(From London).
MATINEE on WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON.
PRICES —45., 3s. 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
BRISBANE SEASON OPENS SATURDAY, JUNE 13.
-|-OWN HALL, SYD N E Y.
EVERY EVENING, and LAST NIGHTS of
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A^ tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million— 6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
gYDNEY GLACIARIUM
The ICE SKATERS’ RENDEZVOUS
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
Morning, 10 to 12 ; Afternoon, 3 to 5 ; Evening, 8 to 10.30.
PRIVATE LESSONS BEFORE AND AFTER
MORNING AND AFTERNOON SESSIONS.
ADMISSION 2s. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission, Morning and Afternoon only, Is.
CHILDREN —Admission, Saturday Mornings only, 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats & Hand Balancers.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
THE DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Continued Brilliant Success of
ALBERTO. Miss NAOMI TANNA.
Mr. MARSH LITTLE. THE TWO WESTONS.
THE SISTERS ALBERT. ARDO, The Human Frog.
Mr. FRED. BLUETT. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
J. R. LING, Mimetic Monoloquist.
CHARLES MILDARE, Whistler.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
IN
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, MAY 30,
EDWIN GEACH’S NEW DRAMATIC CO.
IN
LURED TO LONDON.
Special Engagement ERNEST LEICESTER, Popular
London Actor.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■* Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THE CENTURY’S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Generously granted free by J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, SPECIAL MATINEE
PYGMALION & GALATEA.
Proceeds to equip the new operating theatre at
The Alfred Hospital.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
PEAL ICE SKATING.
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
MORNINGS and AFTERNOONS, 2s. CHILDREN, Is.
Popular Prices Every Evening, Is.
SATURDAY MORNINGS, SCHOOL CHILDREN 6d.
KUBELIK’S CONCERTS.
Under the Sole Management of FRANK BUCKINGHAM.
THE GREAT VIOLINIST WILL GIVE CONCERTS
as follows :
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL—
FRIDAY, MAY 29,
SATURDAY, MAY 30,
MONDAY, JUNE 1.
ADELAIDE—
FRIDAY, JUNE 12,
SATURDAY, JUNE 13.
. . The " CRYSTAL” . .
PARLOUR LAMP
A TACK WILL HOLD IT ON THE WALL
EJust as Useful for the Table.
r
CACH
ron
3 /-*
SSSSHG*
POST FREE
HAVE YOU GOT ONE IN YOUR HOME?
i You ought tv.
Look at this beautiful and most popular
lamp on the market. It is unnecessary for us
to dilate on its numerous advantages. You can see
them for yourself. You can use it on the Table, or by
a simple single movement, instantly turn t into a
Wall or Parlour Lamp by swinging back the ingeni-
ously made Stand, which catches on to a screw or tack
on the wall. When lit it gives a most beautiful,
soft, clear, white light, it can be lighted
without any trouble, and when lit will burn ali night.
Its harmonizing effect makes it the ideal lamp for the
hall, or passage or stairway, or even the verandah.
It is appreciated by all who see it l
The •’ Crystal” Parlour Lamp is posi-
tively odourless. It does not smoke, ii is, therefore,
most valuable for the sick chamber, where its soft
light has a desirable soothing e feet upon the
patient.
Recommended by all the leading physicians I
The “ Crystal” Lamp is of very handsome
appearanc&l an ornament by night or day. Highly
finished in Polished Nickel. We have fixed the price
extra low, so that all of our friends may have one.
Don’t delay in sending.
The price for the present is Only Is 9d each,
post-free anywhere; or a pair tons
3s. post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The anti-Australian papers profess to be shocked
right down to their imported boots at William
Dyne’s forecast that, 10 years hence, Federal ex-
penditure will reach £9,519,000. Yet it will be
marvellous if it isn’t more. Switzerland’s Federal
expenditure is over £5,000,000, and Switzerland
is so bitterly economical that it only pays
its President £720 a year (not £lO,OOO, like
our Governor-General); and the whole blessed
republic is not much more than half the size
of Tasmania. How much money do the anti-
Federalists reckon that they would want to
pay for (1) old-age pensions; (2) two transcon-
tinental railways (2200 miles in all); (3) interest
on cost of resumed properties ; (4) fairly adequate
defense of nearly 3,000,000 square miles of
country; (5) lighthouses, beacons, etc., round
7000 miles of coast; (6) Governor-General, High
Court, Parliament, meteorological service, quar-
antine and sundries? Will the Herald or Tele-
graph or Joe Cook show how they could do the
lot for £20,000,000 a year ?
The Illawarra (N.S.W.) dairy farmers re-
cently formed a union, whereby they succeeded in
raising the price of milk by 2d. a gallon. But the
Dairymen’s Association has found, as other
unionists always do, that there is a certain pro-
portion of persons who, while quite willing to
share in all the victories of unionism, refuse to
join the association and do any of the fight-
ing. So the association is to issue an ulti-
matum to the “blackleg” farmers, and if the
offenders do not join by a certain date, and pay
the association 3s. 3d. each, the big metropolitan
distributing companies will be informed that they
must stop receiving milk from the blacklegs,
otherwise the associated dairymen will refuse to
deliver to the companies, and will cut off the
biggest part of their supplies. In short, the asso-
ciated cow-men demand not only preference to
unionists, but absolute exclusion of non-unionists,
and are arranging a strike and a boycott. Won’t
some Tory paper say something severe about the
Cow-men’s Trade Union ?
There has been a breeze and a dust in the
Vic. Presbyterian Assembly over the sweating
rates paid to parsons. There were many instances
cited of home missionaries who received from £6O
to £75 a year on which to keep a horse
decently and sustain a parson miserably.
An indignant presbyter asked if it was
true that when these men came to Mel-
bourne on mission business they had to battle for
themselves, and an official stated that the Rev.
H. Kelly, on behalf of the church, “ makes special
appeal to people to take them in.” So that the
parsonical wage-slave, when he trips to Melbourne
on business, has to put up with anyone who will
put up with him. But only about a fifth of the
visiting missionaries are provided for by hospi-
table brethren, so the assumption is that the rest
doss in boilers along the Yarra or patronise the
place where the legend on the dim and grimy
lamp reads “Good Bedds 3d.” There is loud
complaint of empty churches, but the wonder
is that they are not emptier by one—the man in
the pulpit.
Bertie Langford, the well-known Melbourne
stockbroker, when he made a rise a while back had the
sense to buy a big interest in a solid business concern—
Allan and Co., the Collins Street big music house to wit.
But it didn’t suit him to hang like grim determination
doing its best on to the handle of a musical business.
And t’other day, when he offered to sell his interest
to the two other partners, George Allan and Charlie
Tait, these keen commercial artists came down with
the cash with a loud bang. It is understood that J. and
N, Tait, the well-known concert directors, have, under
the leadership of elder brother Charlie, acquired a big
interest in the music firm. Allan and Co. were the very
first of Victorian music houses, being known in the days
of yore as Wilkie’s.*
Thus the serene Sydney Telegraph :
We want the defences put upon an efficient basis, not
by conscription, but by the properly organising and
arming of the voluntary forces, which with reasonable
encouragement could be made equal to all our necessities
as long as the British fleet is in command of the only
route by which an invader could attack us.
And therein the D.T. condemns itself out of its
own inkpot. The British fleet is NOT in com-
mand of the only route by which an invader can
attack us. It is at present in command of the
North Sea, the English Channel, and roughly the
Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea. Neither
in the North nor South Pacific is it dominant. The
China Squadron consists of six cruisers, six at-
tached ships of no fighting power, and 10 river gun-
boats supported by seven torpedo-boat destroyers.
The Australian Squadron amounts to nine scrap-
heap cruisers, and if India did join in that
would mean only four more small cruisers.
Against this miserable display the Japs have 15
battleships— some of the Dreadnought type, any
one of which could wipe out the whole of the
British squadrons east of Suez single-handed
without getting the paint knocked off in doing so ;
36 cruisers of all types, and 143 torpedo boats, de-
stroyers, and submarines. And’ in the face of
this hideous disparity the D.T. talks of the British
fleet being in command of the only route by which
an invader can attack us.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant babbles
about early publicans and public-houses—the early
history of N.S.W. consisted mostly of public-
houses :
The N.S.W. Hotels Reduction Court appears to have no
reverence for the antique. Three pubs on the Parra-
matta-road, between Petersham and Auburn, are to close,
amongst them the Plough Inn, at the junction of the
Great Southern and Great Western roads. It was built
in the early ’thirties by, I think, Dr. Ramsay, who mar-
ried a daughter of Simeon Lord, and got Dobroyde, 600
acres, as a dowry. An itinerary of 1833 says, “Public-
house (Speed the Plough) to the right recently estab-
lished.” From its opening until 1850 it was kept by John
Ireland. In the latter year David Frazer had it, Ireland
moving further out towards Bankstown. Later on, the
Plough came into the occupation of the Boylson family,
who had a flour mill and a bakery alongside. In 1883 the
Boylsons gave up the pub part of the business, and
William Jacob came in, and kept the place till ’96, when
George Foster happened along. He gave way to Philip
McAllister, who made room after a couple of years for
Catherine Rigney. The usual time-allowance goes with
the ancient Plough.
The N. S. Wales Government has resumed
for railway purposes the house No. 17 Jamieson-
street, one of a terrace built by Dr. J. D. Lang
in the early’thirties. The Jamieson estate was
C T' U P, an . f . S °M ,n 1831, when the street named
alter the knight John Jamieson was opened. Dr.
Dang intended to complete the terrace right up to
the old church, but financial blight set in, and
part of the land is still vacant. In the western
house of the terrace the doctor lived from the
early thirties until he died in 1878.
Following close on C. B. Fisher’s death
came that of John Maslin, who, with a partner,
some years ago bought Bundaleer station (S.A.)
from Fisher for £250,000. This ranks among the
top prices paid for single Australian squattages.
■“ er on Maslin bought his partner out, and
added run to run and jumbuck to jumbuck. But
his spare thoughts didn’t turn to fast horses, as
. • isher s did : he was much more interested
in the movement to cultivate the habit of wearing
waistcoats on the Congo and other heathen lands
that the missionaries talk about.
On the railway strike-committee during
the big disturbance engineered by Bent and the
Iceberg, four years ago, was Thomas Michael
Burke. With so many others Thomas Michael
quitted when the strike collapsed, and, bucking
m, started the big Civil Service Co-operative
Stores. Now, by a turn of the wheel, Burke be-
comes one of the jury to help Coroner Cole decide
whether the Sunshine smash was due to the in-
efficiency of the men or of the department. It’s
safe to say Thomas Michael won’t be misled by
any legal philandering in his search for the why
and the wherefore.
Mr. T. S. Reed, secretary of the South
Aus. branch of the Royal Geographical Society,
completed his 90th year on Friday; and the
society, with Governor Le Hunte in the chair,
presented the old gentleman with a purse of 90
so vs.—one for each year of his remarkable life.
Ever since he was a lad, T. S. Reed has been
pursuing his hobby. At 19 he was a member of
the British Society for the Advancement of
Science ; at 20 he discussed deep things with Buck-
land, the naturalist; and every year since he has
been in close touch with notables. And he is still
going fairly strong; only a few months ago he
read a paper on some recent personal inquiries
into Maori ethnology.
More Bent reminiscences :
At the early age of 20 I went round the whole place—
I mean Victoria—giving penny readings, elocutionary
exercises, scenes from •‘ Pickwick,” and things like “ Lind
me the Loan of your Grid-Iron.” . . . Then we had spell-
ing bees. Can you spell Woolloomooloo ? I always could,
because I was born at Penrith, and we knew about
Woolloomooloo at Penrith.
M’yes, we wondered where he had learned his
manners. Woolloomooloo is where the fish-
markets are, and were, even in T. Bent’s youthful
days.
Thus Atkinson, M.H.R., to the Yic.
Women’s National League: “ To me the Empire
is the first consideration, while Australia takes
second place.’’ It is a sad reflection on the
Women s National League that it always gets this
kind of piffle from the politicians it patronises.
Still some electorate, with the usual allowance of
men, must have unearthed Atkinson, and raised
him to a position in which the fact that he has only
a second-hand consideration for Australia becomes
a matter of some consequence. It must be an
awful thing to have unearthed Atkinson— The
Bulletin wouldn’t have the digging up of
Atkinson on its conscience for a bag of diamonds.
Thirty-seven years ago Mr. William Aiken
opened Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney, on be-
half of the co. which owns the establishment.
Then for 34 long pleasant years he presided over
the establishment, and the squatter who fre-
quented the place always found at least one
institution unchanged. Labor parties arose,
Unions made war, Ministries came and went,
but Aarons’ Hotel and William Aiken were
in the same spot, unruffled and serene. The liquor
was always the best, the ice cold as ever, and
everywhere the trace of the watchful manager
was obvious and eloquent. Then William Aiken
broke down, and when the squatter came
along next time he had faded out, the
place was a strange house, and there
was no connecting. link with it. So the
squatter chafed, and the commercial man growled
in company. William was badly missed. But a
few weeks back William reappeared on deck. The
old atmosphere returned. The memory of three
strange years vanished quite. Now there is con-
tentment from the Barwon to Deniliquin, for
squatterdom has heard the glad news that
William has resurrected, and Aarons’ Exchange
Hotel is restored to its ancient atmosphere.
Fat has suffered a Blow. Yic. Labor-
leader G. M. Prendergast was cited as co-re
in a divorce case, and if he had been found
guilty he would probably have been struck
for about £5OO and costs; moreover a legal
decision that he had burst up the home of
Gottlieb Poppens would have given the
perjury about Labor’s designs on the marriage-
tie a new lease of life. And, instead of these
things happening, Justice a’Beckett threw G. M.
Prendergast right out of the case without waiting
to hear his defence, and awarded him Costs against
Gottlieb Poppens, and told him to go home and
be at peace.
Are you interested in Papua ? Watch for
The Lone Hand on Saturday. There’s an in-
teresting article on Papua.*
At the Chamber of Commerce meeting in
Brisbane, Thurlow, of Queensland, moved :
That the general council of federated chambers protest
against the construction at the cost of the Federal
Government of a line from West Australia to South Aus-
tralia, and a line from Oodnadatta to Pine Creek, in
South Australia. He said the latter proposal would cost
£14,000,000— T00 MUCH FOB THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
spend on one State.
It is a beautiful piece of logic the money
is too much to be spent on one State.
Australia needs a northern transcontinental
line badly, for defence purposes and to open
up the land; and it can’t make the line whirl
round like a serpent so as to put a bit of it in each
State. Nor can it do the same with the western
transcontinental. Doesn’t it ever occur to
Thurlow that, by his theory, Brisbane Parliament
House should be cut in six pieces and scattered
over Queensland. The value of it was far too
much to spend on one acre of land at Brisbane.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*T\vin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN AND STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. _ _ .
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital ..
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Government Stock)
Interminable ueposit Stock
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
.. 413,296 0 0
64,000 0 C
..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V, RALSTON.
The Colonial [Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, 44,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: a
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P, r
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident'Secretary.
Bank of Horlh Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director: j
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. den Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland,' and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
$
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAI. .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3xr. s.-w.
fflont de pieteO.il. Co., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors-Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs Bright & Oo.); E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood,’ Esq. : J. J- Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager lor Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 CollinB-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) •• •• £27 .’ so ° 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith. Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
F
iACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
nxr. id. i_*.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA 28th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. €485,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LIME.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about Bth
July.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New }fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
* Twin Screw. t New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
> HO LI PAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
- *
CRUISES.*;
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
gank of [|euj South (Jjales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ... .. 1,530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... ... 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Auditors:
j Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
j william Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief' cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
' ' ■
Si
.vv
■
■v
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpilrC Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
"EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: I*’. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Ship pin".
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE *;o and fro.n
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queens'and Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Marloo, May 29.
(Transhipping at Mel-
bourne.)
h S.S. Liurrumbeet, June 17.
S.S. Grantala, June 20.
(Without transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
,S.S. Innamincka, May 30.
S.S. Marloo, June 6.
J test and Cheapest Route to (iold/ielda.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSAGERIES jy/AR/TIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 30.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 6.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
GRANTALA, SATURDAY,
June 20.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, May 30.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
June 2.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 6.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.=—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
(via Madeira).
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,300 Tons. f T ; PRISKf H’ t C h °Tc£ er '
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-ciass
passengers. iqns
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 4th June, i
„ Sydney „ 10th June,
Melbourne „ 15th June, 19
” „ Adelaide „ 20th June, 1908
The Saloon accommodaiion consists of all two-
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior Third-class accommodation eompr'sedo
2,4, and 8-berth cabins, situated on the mam qeo »
amidships, with dining-room on the upl ’ 'decks,
lighted and ventilated cabins and fil .irovisions
Third-class passengers supplied with l an d
from cool chamber throughout the voyage, n
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout.
Tickets issued. Prepaid passages arranged
FARES— Saloon. Third class.
LONDON and 1£49l £49 yos. £l3 13s. £l5 15s- £l7 17s.
Ll Steerage* Fare's from Brisbane, One extra.
To be followed every four weeks by oth , atioD)
screw passenger steamers. For furthe
illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to.
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney. ~n , v , ...r ne
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO Ltd., Melbourne.
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


TOOTH’S
XXX ALE
IS
UNRIVALLED.
AULD JOCK
TOOTH & CO., LTD..
Proprietors,
KENT BREWERY,
SYDNEY.
1907/8.
2
PER CENT.
WOOL.
We have much pleasure in announcing that on and after the Ist July, 1908, our consolidated Wool
Selling Charge will be 2 per cent., in place of 2| per cent, as at present.
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co., Ltd.
Lm F. \
1908/9-
2
PER. CENT.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION AGENTS
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
yijjpp"'-
#
I
I
* ©
I* *
It aets like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
ine oniy Known specific tor
CHOLERA & _
T , _ 4 tw J DYSENTERY.
lhe Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA*
It is the only palliative m Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbag-o &e
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have ffiven
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacv. ’ ndve given
SM by Chemists all over the World , in bottles , Is. 1 \d. ; 20z., 2s. 9 d. ; 40z., 4s. 6 d. each.
CAL fZ,h^ l^'T, E '"' V boWe , of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark,
’ pfi on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
‘The
COMPLETENESS is a Distinctive
Feature of our Stock
Have you had your copy of our
New Art Catalogue yet ? . . .
Come in any day and see what is
probably the most Complete Stock of
Up-to-date Goods at Reasonable Prices
that you could wish to see. We
welcome sightseers as we welcome
buyers—we don’t worry them.
bML
'aws&Tit
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd
If not, it is here ready wrapped up, and
wants but your name and address to speed
it on its way to you. It contains hundreds
upon hundreds of illu-strations of the most
reliable kinds of Watches, Jewellery,
Silverware, Clocks, Purses, Bags, etc.
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 21Sm
Half-hoop of Diamonds,
in 18ct. Gold,
£6 lOs.
Half-hoop of Dark
Amethysts, in 18ct.
Gold, £2 15s.
Fashionable 9ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, with Padlock if desired, in case, £4 4s.
Half-hoop Diamond
and 18ct. Rin<j
£l6 lOs.
18ct. Ring, Diamonds
and Rubies, £2 10s.
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 18s. 6cf.
No. G 4704. Solid Silver Ink Stand, 50s» No. H 2029. 9ct. Gold Links,
18s. 6d. Silver, 3s.
S 5
No. H 7732. Pearl Set, 15ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7 7s.
Nellie Stewart Bangle, 9ct. Gold, £4 ; lighter, 50s. and 70s.
15ct. Gold, £5 15s. ; lighter, 755. and £5.
No. 1906 A. Heavy Trace Muff Chain, 9et., £5 IQs. ; 15ct., £9 10s.
The “ Perseus ” Peggy Bag, with
Safety Purse, : 10s. 6d.
3
15ct. Gold and very fine Opal Bangle, <£ll 10s •
No. H 2035. 9ct. Gold
Links, 16s. 6c/.
Silver, 3s.
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 13s. 6c/.
No. H 7731, Pearl and Turquoise set, Isct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7 10s.
No. H 7094. Our latest in 9ct. Gold Bangles, £3.
No. 1908 A. Heavy Curb Muff Chain, 9ct., £5 10s. ; 15ct., £9 IQs.


Vic. Premier Bent is mad with Labor
member Lemmon for poking fun at his alleged
partiality for appearing in a Windsor uniform,
“with his sword on the wrong side.” Tommy,
who was a Tommy Atkins once, retorted with
great fury that he wore the sword on the right
side —and, by the way, the right side is the wrong
side. Possible Lemmon meant that he should
have worn it on the inside.
“Paul Cupid”: Ryan discoursed on a
close shave. “ Got a scare wonst,” he said, “an’
I allers shave meself since. I struck th’ town late
at night with a month’s beard. Forgot all about
a shave till th’ publican let a room full of us out
th’ back way about wan o’clock. As I strolled
along feelin’ me beard, I obsarved a light in a
barber’s windy. Th’ Divil an’ the whisky
prompted me, an’ I knocked, an’ it was opened
unto me by a faymale woman. I purchased a
couple of cakes of weed, an’, givin’ her a smile,
axed if there was any chance of a shave. There
was, she said, an’ p’inted t’ th’ chair, an’ fixed th’
sheet around me neck. Then she wint into
another room. I lay back expectin’ th’ luxury of
havin’ me beard removed be a faymale tonsorial
artiste, whin I heard a shufflin’ n’ise behind me,
an’ saw in th’ mirror before me th’ image of a
bleary an’ bloated barber hoverin' over me
with his razor. He threatened some jim-
jams in the distance, an’ made a slash
at some fantods behind him, an’ then
started t’ shave me without latherin’ me at all at
all. Sure enough I thought me last cake was in
th’ oven, an’ I tried t’ think of a prayer t’ say,
but I couldn’t. He was makin’ at me ag’in when
he desisted t’ set upon some serpents he saw
climbing about th’ walls. With a wild yell, I
darted out into th’night, tryin’t’get rid of the
sheet that was round me like a shroud, an’ I kep’
cryin’ ‘Murther!’ an’ every strange n’ise I
thought ’d bring help. Heads were poked out
of windies all round, an’ someone with a great
imagination shouted ‘Fire!’ an’ then th’ inhabi-
tants in their night-shirts began pourin’ themselves
out into th’ street in hurry an’ disorder. All the
time I kep’ goin’ like a sprinter’s ghost. Lookin’
over me shoulder, I saw th’ barber with the horrors
had rushed on to the street with a couple of hand-
fuls of razors, an’ a host of astonished citizens —
men, wimmen an’ childer —were flyin’ before him,
like homin’ bats. I didn’t wait t" see if he over-
took any of ’em. I had a good lead, an’ med up
me mind t’ keep it. No; I allers shave meself
now,” he concluded, wiping the beard off the
razor and throwing his mouth round under his
left ear, preparatory to assaulting himself again
with the weapon.
VEST POCKET SECRETARY
THB) MOST WONDERFUL COMBINATION
PEN AND PENCIL CASE
INDISPENSABLE TO CLERK, ENGINEER,
DRAFTSMAN, MECHANIC, SCHOLAR, Etc.
!Bagßagm
FOOT
SO Ls
COMPASS
CLOSED
Made of Fine Nickel-Plated Steel. Durable and Serviceable.
Only 1/6, posted to any address.
THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth Street
MELBOUEUE.
REFERENDUM
UnammousElectioji
of the
Celebrated
9*
%
c u a R RHT tis
ThePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from alt Tobacconists
THE NEW ...
EDISON RECORDS.
You certainly should call at your
nearest dealer’s, and ask him to let you
hear the new Edison Records —some
of the finest selections we have ever
put forth.
Remember that the price has been
reduced to Is. 3d. each.
SELECTIONS FROM
GRAND OPERA.
Five beautiful selections from Grand
Opera have just been issued on Edison
Gold-Moulded Records. They are
taken from “ Sansone e Dalila,” “ Mig-
non,” “Faust,” “ L’Elisir d’Amore”
and “Carmen.”
All are priced at 3s. each, and are
beautifully rendered by leading artists.
Ask for copies of the latest lists.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
COOK
PLASMON
WITH
YOUR
FOOD,
PLASMON
is the whole nourishment of pure milk, and added to your ordinary
food will render it
More DIGESTIBLE, more DELICIOUS, 10 TIMES more NUTRITIOUS.
Ask your Grocer also for the following preparations ready combined with PLASMON:—
* #
> o o O O O 0 *
PLASMON LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
f/;
m
/■<*
S 4«
■: r
■ -a
m
m
«2fc-
m
sas
«**•«
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
mns SHFLTON iB, Crown Street, Oxford, writeslf the value of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF
, •kttc-SVt', ' o k»ir,,r known many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I
ANISEED wa ( years \ I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably
have done for u]| d y j haye several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired
s ~ s me up. , , h attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and aor 3 bottles had the desired effect when all
ekt failed You may make what use of this you nth, 1907.
iu S W BAILEY 32 Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes I may add that I recommend your
BAT BAM - after ia years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers. — January , 1908.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe th“ TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland : -
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR
COUGHS.
sjy^4sL§
<<y
Si
&
FOR
COUCHS.
*l*
Vi
W
\\v
DRUGS!
HY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£,500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
■METH «. corcohah OFFICE HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address
.2


By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
One of the historical churches of Sydney, St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian, will presently be sold as aged material. The
land was a grant from the Government, and is situated
behind St. Andrew s Cathedral. The foundation stone was
laid in 1833 by Colonel Snodgrass, whose private residence
was on the north-west corner of Bathurst and Kent
Streets, a house then the property of Dr. Lang, and still
standing-. The Colonel was father of Peter Snodgrass, an
old Victorian parliamentarian and grandfather of Janet
Missus Clarke. The church cost £2OOO and was opened
for service in 1835, John McGarvie being the first
minister. John Dougall and Robert Lewers followed.
For over ten years there has been no settled or permanent
sky-pilot attached to the premises. Colonel Snodgrass
died in 1853, at Raymond Terrace, aged 68.
The fame of Lionel Terry has gone
abroad, even unto the Cold Country, and the
British Australasian breaks forth into false-
hood :
Lionel Terry, the stalwart and crazy Oxford graduate
\vho shot a Chinese in cold blood with the object of help-
ping to “keep the British pure,” has turned Seacliff
Gaol, where he is confined, into a pantomime. He
escaped again the other day for the fourth time, but was
easily recaptured, it being next to impossible, of course
for a prisoner to get clear away from an island State. It
costs the Government £4OO a year to look after him. He
refuses to eat rice or any food grown in Maoriland. He
won’t eat with the other prisoners, but sits at a separate
table in the gaol library, with two personal attendants to
wait upon him. Every day he runs for hours around the
exercise yard, the menials in weary pursuit. He is train-
ing for his own escape. He is punctilious in honor, and
if he would only give his parole the gaolers would accept
it with confidence, and get a little much-needed rest
But he has made it clearly understood that he means to
escape, and the whole establishment is worn out watching
hnn. Maoriland regards its cultured prisoner with awe
because he is an English gentleman, but one paper has
burst out at last with the eminently sane suggestion that
to save further trouble, the maniac should be tied up in
a strait-jacket.
There is soniething beautiful about the statement
that Maoriland “regards its cultured prisoner
with awe because he is an English gentleman.”
English gentlemen have been hanged in these
parts before now, with a long rope and a short
shrift.
'd/diDuijfj /enjnjv am uo aouvunssy a//7 J °d etsi aaHsnavisa
■XpjDOS luapjAOJd UBi|aj^sny
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
_ . . _ City or Suburban Properties, or on
of e GoJ > Prnl^?«?'n«£ CO ? l,:>i,>ed . ) ’ Pastora * and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
trahan States '"^cribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up topper cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Director— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. JR. j~. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
, n General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
1801 — Longevity
1908
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
matters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1801. Truly a glorious
record ! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy for all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
a
m/A
o
BN
PILLS.
%
>✓
4 WISH
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jisk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
HEARNE'S “'ST
The Famous Remedy for*
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearrje. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She, was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroug-hly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearnc’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. I am 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generaOy. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M‘Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong", m
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows
My son, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor's
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor"
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve'
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M‘KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —-I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived. I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. I am glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Bevere Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’a Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “ Punch ” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed-
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote: —“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact, I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of*
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
*
*
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
(Bengtr s Food is sold in tins, by Ci'iemists-, <?rc,, everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
S>6e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting; Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE*
WE PAY FREIGHT to of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
W from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE MAINE
Pifle
CAN'T
B
BEAT
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight 12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards 15-
Postage on one Rifle-ls 3d, N.S.W. ; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906'edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How TO Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All /.ola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.,
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, 18 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;po»t,
ls3d All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s Iricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d AuSt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of 1-ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stra.nglf.rs
of Paris Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the ’ Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hijndred
Latest Recitations, Is. Aot guilty (B'atch-
fordl 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is bd.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography SELF-TAUGHr ’'3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is -d. f.ew
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
iS
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
‘ cloth-covered edition of this great work. It wjU J)e posted fco
| address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Pitting, etc., Is 3
post. How to Play Billiards illustrated. Is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is od. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
clrd Games (Rules for all Games) 1* Book OF
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Eve.ra
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter W riter Up-
to-D atf. Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is, post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s tci.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
6s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled Into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. JistcLblislicd 1 vctTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROIT THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, ls» id. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* Decrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
~) S Ingf.rsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds' Court of Rondon Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wifes Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiib Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
nlete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HHSIH3NIAL
v. /-•
I
in
IJ fflljfc
, ;*
; 0 M3&&J
tjrw&Xs
'• • , is,'''t/.?'* ** * •'• W "’**•'*?
m
m
MC<£d r "-
tiMSk
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so Strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
D
lightful and wickedly true. 1 ’
“ De-
ECKERSLEY’S
EUCALYPTUS
r
I
Purest A Strongest
Analyst's Certificate
on Every Bottle.
fill
Mail us your order direct for a 16 ounce bottle
PCKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double the
irength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle (16 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECRERSLEY (SL SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Remarkable Results
from “Hair Drill.”
Thousands of Readers Respond to Offer.
m Another Week’s Test now Offered. 1
There was a very notable response to our recent invitation to readers of this paper, in
which they were offered one week’s free test of the only approved hair drill extant;
and we are pleased to report that a very large number of these are most enthusiastic over
the results accruing. We have also been desired, on behalf of those who did not at the
time avail themselves of the opportunity, to renew our offer ; and we now have pleasure
in announcing that arrangements are now complete for another week s tree hair
Let us repeat what the “hair drill ” will assuredly prove:—
A. That your hair can be drilled into fine condition.
B. That your hair need not be too brittle or too limp.
C. That your hair need not be too highly coloured or too colourless.
D. That your hair need not fall out when combed or brushed.
E That your hair need not be scurfy, greasy, or odorous.
We'have received very gratifying accounts from those who participated in our previous
test and the unanimous expression is that the Harlene Hair Drill ’ ’ undoubtedly improves
and benefits the hair, no matter what form of hair weakness and decay it is suttermg
r Quality and quantity are both greatly in evidence even after the week’s free test, and
afford the most conclusive proof of the eventual excellence to be attained by a thorough
C °The proprietors of this famous and celebrated preparation, universally known as
Edwards,’ “ Harlene,” therefore, invite everyone whose hair is weak, deficient or faulty
to subject their remedy to the week’s test alluded to, and are confident that those who
do so will be able.to report a most manifest improvement.
Edwards’ “ Harlene ” is no new untried preparation, but is the great hair specific, of
which Royal and other distinguished personages speak in terms of the highest approba-
tion, and there is no corner of the world from which testimony to its remarkable value
and efficacy has not been forthcoming. .' . ... ... ..
Readers desirous of having proved to them the possibilities of hair cultivation under
proper conditions are invited to send 3 penny stamps (to cover postage) to Edwards
Harlene ” Co., 95 and 96 High Holborn, London, who wij forward their special free
gift bottle of “ Harlene,” their interesting booklet on hair drill and full directions for use.
“ Harlene” can always be obtained at Chemists and Stores the world over.
No greater mistake can be made than to resort to internal remedies which only ruin
the constitution, or to use cheap, worthless remedies which will but aggravate hair decay
and unhealthiness.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
L h l Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
AH P°ST FREE, £1 per year,
i riCC OCI* j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where *
of all the leading Australian papers may oe
inspected. Letters may be addressed care o
the British-Australasian during the hrsi
two months of a visit to Great Britain,
formation on all topics of importance
visiting Australians is supplied by the papei.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsvay),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one ot several testimonials receive d
our head cutter:
Copy of Testimonial. VEmrM ENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
to. »“<'*/•' 'jAKDrKien.


SAYS
I could not
keep house
without Dr.
Sheldon’s
New Discovery.
It has kept me
free from Coughs
and Colds all the
winter. Never
again will I be
without a bottle
in the house.
D? Sheldons
NEW
DISCOVERY
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
/
M
E
R
Y
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
%
I
JC *>
ey es
a moßßisr
IMPERIAL
&
CURES E
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
* (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2£d.
A. de SAILLE, 20, Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
gus
THESE
PRIZES
FREE
A*
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W, BOOKSTALL GO.
/ Post Card S
\ Department /;
476 George-streef, SYDNEY.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT
fo. Nflun
Cough
Cure
COUCHS. COLDS.
dronchiaicatarrh
SPASMODIC CROUP,
WINTIR COUGH,
•nd all Diaaaaaa af tha
Air Paaaagaa.
M'S. H. MACLURCAN
L*r
■e* COUGH MAY MEAN?
Neglected, it may develop into PNEUMONIA,
PLEURISY, CONSUMPTION.
Do not take these risks.
“MRS. MACLURCAN’S COUGH CURE” cures
Coughs and Colds rapidly, and thus prevents
the development of these grave deadly
diseases.
Never take a train or boat journey without it,
and always keep a bottle handy.
THE GREAT “COUGH” CURER,
THE GREAT LUNG INSURER
MRS. MACLURCAN’S COUGH CURE.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, Is. 6d. per bottle.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Aecordeon come
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aecordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, jewellery, Etc, 210 Queen St., Brisbane
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
V*-
0
&
t*.
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
1 KOotS —EI liott Bros.)
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
Driver Brown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAVE you heard the tale, the fearsome tale,
Of the nerves of Driver Brown,
Who used to take the Eastern Mail
From the yards by Tortoise Town ?
Summer or winter, rain or hail.
In the teeth of the night’s black frown,
He punched her out on the ringing rail,
From the yards by Tortoise Town.
In the days when Jones was at the helm
(And trains to the schedule ran),
No harassing doubts would overwhelm
This strong, hard-headed man.
And he had no thought of awkward skids
(And of brakes that won’t come down),
When he said good-bye to the wife and kids
By the yards of Tortoise Town.
When he clambered up to the foot-plate’s grit,
In the open fire-door’s glare,
A strong, bold face the furnace lit,
With a thatch of grizzled hair.
And he gripped his lever with steady hand,
As his signal clattered down ;
And he punched her out like a man of sand
From the yards by Tortoise Town.
But the Service happened on evil days,
Through the kink of a fool man’s will,
And the curse of the vile “ Imported ” craze,
That has come to stay—and kill.
And when they had passed a strong man out,
In the folds of the “ Hempiah’s ” gown
For another they wildly searched about
For the credit of Tortoise Town.
And the dreadful Blobson straight did steer,
In haste from the oversea,
To bid them all be of better cheer,
In that “blawsted kaw-li-nce.”
And he gave a comprehensive “ Haw ! ”
And a grand sagacious frown,
And he gat him on to the Public’s “raw,”
And the nerves of Driver Brown.
And things “went crook” where the wheels are
greased,
And men “ went sore ” in the shops ;
And trains went just as they darn well pleased,
With strange unscheduled stops.
But the dreadful Blobson only winked,
And said that they’d “simmer down,”
And the whole of the System’s joints got kinked
In the yards by Tortoise Town.
When they tested brakes and the pipes were
furred,
With the wealth of a five-year rust;
They gave ’em a bang where the choke occurred,
With a spanner, to shift the dust.
And things like these, which do not make
For the System’s huge renown,
They induced an unaccustomed quake
In the nerves of Driver Brown.
And Driver Brown, when he gazed between
The ribboning steels ahead,
Or looked at a dancing eye of green
As it flashed to an eye of red.
From the nape of his neck to his weary feet
Felt strange little thrills run down ;
And icy cold in the furnace heat
Was the soul of Driver Brown.
And Driver Brown saw things between,
The galloping steels ahead ;
And he wasn’t quite sure when an eye of green
Winked into an eye of red.
And once he swallowed a half-sobbed curse,
For silently rushing down
Came a phantom mail with each coach a hearse
On the train of Driver Brown.
And the fireman laughed as he drank his beer
With his pals from the Engine Shed,
And told them that Driver Brown was “queer”
“And goin’ fair orf ’is ’ed.”
And the dreadful Blobson heard this tale,
And he frowned his great wise frown ;
And—we ride no more in the Eastern mail
With the nerves of Driver Brown.
N.s.w.
O. WEST. INGHOUSE.
A Miraculous Escape.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS strolling through the large pad-
dock adjoining the dairy-farm where I was
spending a few quiet weeks, and communing
with Nature.
As I crossed the gully, and toiled through the
long, harsh grass which almost hid the narrow
path, I suddenly came face to face with a huge
hull. He was about 7ft. high. I should say he
weighed eight tons. The fearsome creature stared
at me with murderous eyes. They were blood-
shot, as if he had been drinking. My heart stood
still, though my legs mechanically carried me for-
ward. As I passed, the monster moved a step
towards me. Was it my red tie which fascinated
him ?
But then, surely, I had fastened a blue ribbon
round my neck.
I was too terrified to move my head and dis-
cover the real color, so I wasted a precious second
or two worrying over it.
The dry twigs broke sharply as the bull followed
me. He had the swift, stealthy tread of the born
murderer.
Heaven ! Was this to be the manner of my
death ? Gored by a bull !
Ten minutes must elapse before I came to the
sliprails, unless I ran, and to show fear would be
fatal. I would never reach them. Presently the
beast’s horns would be in my blouse, and my skirt
and remains would be scattered over the pasture.
I would be buried on the sunny side of the ceme-
tery, and violets would grow upon my grave.
How dry my throat felt, and how cold my
hands! My heart stood heavy and motionless.
Only my legs moved slowly, slowly. My feet
weighed 141 b. each.
Jar away I could see the rails, and close behind
I could hear the bull. His hoofs thudded dully
on the path, and on my heart.
His breath came hot and fast.
Why—why didn’t he rush and end things ? Was
he waiting maliciously till I should be almost safe,
so that he might commit the horrid deed ?
With what rapidity my brain worked ! What
desperate, but, alas, futile plans of escape flashed
through it!
The gaunt, ring-barked trees afforded no means
of shelter. I couldn’t climb them.
I remembered a story I had read of a courageous
woman’s escape. She looked the bull steadily in
the eye, and he presently shuddered and fled with
his tail streaming in the wind.
Should I turn and meet his gaze ? Perhaps he
would kill me before I could get my eye fixed on
Ins ■!
I was nearing the sliprails slowly but surely,
and still the bull restrained himself. But he
breached heavily on my neck, and his breath
smelt of grass and sin.
I wished, with a dry, heartfelt sob, that I
hadn’t led such a worthless life.
I didn’t want to die ! It was cruel to be cut off
in the flower of my youth.
If only the Lord would protect me, I swore to
save up my pocket money and give it to the
heathen.
How near the sliprails were, and how near the
bull ! Safety was 20yds. ahead, and Death was
breathing heavily 4£ft. behind.
Should I make k dash for it! The bull was fat.
As our eyes met beneath the old gnarled gum-
tree, I had discovered that. He might have asthma
or heart failure. I would make one supreme effort.
Eor an awful second my legs absolutely refused
to hurry. Then the next moment I was rolling
with terrific speed under the rails. My collar
was burst. So was my corset. I had lost my hat
and one shoe. My skirt was torn. The air was
filled with my shrieks. My hair was down. I
had a large hole in my stocking.
I lay for a minute with my face hidden, mutter-
ing incoherent thanks for my miraculous delivery
from the horns of death.
Then I lifted my head and looked at the bull—
at lea,st, I looked for the bull. Nowhere could I
see him.
I rose to my feet in wonder. Had he basely
rushed along the fence to some entrance known
only to himself ?
Had he leaped the rails, and was he hiding be-
hind a tree in wait for me ?
Had he ?
But what was that bulky brown object or cir-
cumstance placidly munching the grass under a
certain gnarled old gum tree about half-a-mile
back ?
Was it the bull?
Could it be the bull ? Or was it only a small
brown cow in the distance ?
Then what was following me so stealthily ?
Whence came those heavy footsteps and that hot
breath ?
* * * *
I shall keep my promise and give my pocket-
money to the heathen, with the exception of the
small amount I shall use for dress, etc.
POTTERO.
The Cook.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BUBBLIN’ BILLY ” arrived at Rab-
boburra, a non-union shed, the night
before the roll-call. Assembled at the
shed was a nondescript team of men awaiting the
manager’s order to start making war upon the
wool. Billy intimated his intention of standing
for shearers’ cook. He was not unopposed, as
“ Soda ” Smith, a culinary artist of Outback fame,
just arrived from the cut-out at Gininyabba, was
also present. Popular opinion predicted that
“Soda” would make good at the ballot. Cognisant
of the situation, William waded in to advertise
his ability :
“ Look ’ere, me bold blokes, I’ve got a quire uv
quids t’ say I kin boil bull, bake bread, or bring
canned rain to a bubble faster ’n’ cheaper th’n
enny scran-sparrer this side uv th’ Warrego. If
y’r got a pet p’isener who c’n pip me at th’ tucker
tricks, shoo ’im up t’ th’ food-foundery ’n’ let ’im
Eouch a couple uv dozen jim over the job. Why,
last me corns, I c’n take a lump uv dough ’n’
finger it inter ev’ry letter uv th’ alphybit, ’n’
ev’ry one ’ll be a tart fit t’ take first prize in a
cookery school. When y’r see me puff-pastry
you’ll dip inter th’m like famished pullets inter
pollard. I ’ave t’ be under iron when I’m buildin’
’em. Often when I’ve bin on th’ road with
drovers, a bit uv a breeze iz puffed in just iz I
baked a batch, ’n’ th’ whole bloomin’ lot iz floated
away like feathers. I remember one night on th’
’Ungerf’d-road ’ow they bunked f’r th’ blue before
y’r c’u’d swing a dish-rag. A couple uv days after,
ut th’ 75-mile peg, we bumped un ole bagman
chattin’ about air-ships. ’E said there wuz
two cashed-up coves sailin’ round th’ island
tossin’ tucker t’ tired travellers. ’Twas on’y
a few nights before, when campin’ out, ’e’d
bin caught in a stiff shower uv prime pastry.
After that I fixed th’ flyin’ flour b’ pinchin’ a
couple uv panels uv wire-nettin’ ’n’ riggin’ up a
cookin’ cage. Enny’ow t’ morrer ’ll see the num-
bers up, ’n’ if it’s Bubbler that ties ’is apron on,
y’r stand t’ feel somethin’ special hangin’ between
y’r bingy ’oops.”
He then retired to rest.
The next afternoon at 4 p.m. the roll was
called. All hands were present excepting “ Soda ”
Smith, and although he was diligently searched
for he couldn’t be discovered.
“Th’ bleatin’ uv Bubbler ’as rattled ’im, 'n’ ’e’s
rushed th’ return road,” suggested Paddy, the
picker-up.
Thereupon Billy was installed as chef without
dissent. The initial meal at the shed was to be
breakfast the following morning, and when the
men betook themselves to their blankets that
night they derived great comfort from hearing
the bustle occasioned by William in the galley.
“ You’ll git th’ taste uv road-rations brushed off
y’r teeth in th’ mawnin’, me sufferin’ ’eroes,”
William bawled from t’other side of the partition,
as he banged the carcase of a sheep upon his
operating table.
Shortly after, slumber held the occupants of the
shed.
Greasy Mick was the first to rise next morning,
and he passed into the galley to collect his bun
and pot of coffee. In a dumbfounded manner he
gazed upon the chaos around him. Chunks of
raw meat lay about the floor, and across a bunk
were strewn loaves of bread encrusted with char-
coal. A bag of flour had been spilt around the
apartment, and the walls were decorated with
irregular patches of jam. Over the white-washed
chimney these words loomed like the script on
Belshazzar’s wall: “Th’ way I serve it up t’
scabs. —Bubbler. ”
Then Mick created noise, and the shed was
aroused. Two of the company set out on cycles
to intercept the fugitive food vandal. They re-
turned at midday, escorting a dishevelled person.
It was “Soda” Smith. When asked the reason
of his disappearance, he answered morosely :
“After th’ Bubbler was done spruikin’, t’other
night, ’e showed me a bottle uv stingo. We
dodged inter th’ scrub t’ mop it up. I remember
a bloke in a sulky cornin’ up ’n’ chuckin’ some chat
at us, ’n’ after that mud dropped on me mem’ry.”
CROSS NIBS.


Constipation
Suffered for Seven Long Years.
Many Treatments Failed to Cure.
ffONSTIPATION is one of the commonest of winter ailments. Few
■ complaints require more delicate handling. Two things are
essentially necessary : First, the
trouble existing 1 at the time must be
relieved ; and, second, the patient must
take such a course of medicine as not
only to temporarily relieve, but TO
EFFECT A PERFECT CURE.
In other words, the patient does
not arrive at a perfect cure until
a regular daily action of the
bowels takes place- When this
happy condition is brought about,
Constipation ceases to exist. Bile
Beans are the best remedy for
Constipation. They act gently
and painlessly. They do not
FORCE a passage through the
digestive canal, but promote the
flow of the natural fluids by
strengthening and toning up the
stomach, liver, and bowels.
The following testimony of Mrs. M.
Dougan, residing at 102 Victoria Street,
Lewisham, Sydney, forcibly illustrates
the remarkable efficacy of Bile Beans in
even advanced stages of Chronic
Constipation.
r
/
“ I have been a great sufferer from Constipation for over seven years,” says Mrs.
Dougan. “ I was very ill, and had to give up different employments, owing to pains
across the small of my back and general weakness. Some days I was forced to remain in
bed. I tried different medicines in search of relief, but they had but very little effect. In
fact, I was beginning to think it useless trying any more so called ‘ cures,’ as I was
spending a lot of money without obtaining any benefit. About twelve months ago, a
friend of my husband’s came on a visit from Gym pie, and he advised me to try Bile
Beans. I accordingly purchased a box of this medicine and underwent a course, with the
greatest satisfaction. I can recommend Bile Beans as being the best medicine I have used.”
Bv imparting a healthy tone to the system, Bile Beans ward off colds, influenza, and liver
chill Bile Beans promptly cure biliousness, headache, constipation, piles, indigestion, stomach
troubles, bad blood and breath, and all ailments arising from a disordered condition of the
liver stomach, or digestive organs. Price 1/1* per box, or 2/9 large family size (containing
three times the
1/1£), of all chemists
and stores.
ONE BEAN..
. . ONE DOSE
9
am
The Old Squire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SIR WILLIAM rode to Virland—
He rode to join my sire ;
And stubbornly behind him
Rode Swithin, his old squire.
Sir William would have left him
To rest in peace, behind ;
But horse and sword were ever
More to the old man’s mind.
Old Swithin was a grey-beard,
Still strong of heart and lung,
Who’d fought and loved and wassailed
When old Dame Ruth was young.
But, overlooked, neglected.
His heart was ever pained,
Because of that old knighthood
That once he should have gained.
My knighthood, new upon me,
Still made me chafe and fret—
That fair new coat of honor
Had not worn easy yet.
But he was more impatient
At any evil done,
Because of that lost knighthood
That he had fairly won.
And surely to the thoughtless
Some mirth it did afford,
To look on that old grey-beard
Who wore his father’s sword.
The grand old soul of honor !
For long years tempest tost—
But many men are noble
For knighthoods that were lost.
We met the king, my father—
A quiet man to meet —
And his men looked like soldiers
That marched to sure defeat.
With many carts and litters,
And we knew what they meant,
And lean apothecaries,
And physicians militant.
And —well, we took the city,
The city that was ours,
Although there stood no rebels
On all its walls and towers.
Our men hung back a moment
As from a thing accurst,
And Swithin begged a favor,
That he should ride in first.
But thus they rode together—
The king and squire and knight—
Sir William on the left hand,
And my father on the right.
I followed that old grey-beard,
And our men followed me,
There was in all my lifetime
No better sight to see.
The Black Death held the city,
With plague and famine there-
with misery, pain, and terror,
And helpless, dumb despair.
’Twas held, in other cities,
A horror that was vague,
But here strong men had shrieked it—
The Plague ! The Plague ! The Plague !
We built the fires, and fought it
With reeking smoke for shields,
And bore the sick in hundreds
Into the open fields.
Into the blackest quarters
Old Swithin led his men,
And, with some ghastly burden,
He led them out again.
We cleansed and fumed the houses,
The streets and alleys then —
And lean apothecaries
Can fight like other men.
For they and the physicians
In the tents fought side by side
(’Twas strange, when all was ended,
How few of our men died).
But, often, for the noblest,
’Gainst death there are no charms ;
I saw old Swithin stagger
With a sick child in his arms.
We bore him to the open—
’Twas but a swoon we thought—
And we laid him very gently
On that last field he’d fought.
My father, in a gentle
Or in a bitter mood —
Because he thought of Swithin’s
Old King’s ingratitude—
With his own sword touched him lightly,
While each man felt a thrill,
And he said, “ Rise up, Sir Swithin”—
But he lay very still.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The First Singer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was one who moved apart from the
rest and loved solitariness, just looking
in for meals only. While the others
would be taken up with the chase and strife of
those dreadful prehistoric times, he would wander
by green banks, and sit in the shade, or saunter,
free of care, in pleasant places, and think. He
was very superior, miles ahead of the mob in his
civilisation. He never barked, like some of tne
other Missing Links still did, and, although
he had a tail like the rest, it was only,
as you might say, just for the look of the
thing; he hardly ever wagged it. His calling
was to other things than simply the animal in-
stincts of catching and eating and sleeping.
Even his fur was softer and silkier than that of
the rest of the tribes more like what we have on
the backs of our hands now.
By means of the ways they had in the pre-
speech days, he got to be known among them by
the same sound that they made when they meant
Lavender.
Of course, these advantages and peculiarities
that so marked him off from the others had their
drawbacks. Because he took no part in the
brutal chase, fierce snarls and a baring of savage
teeth would assail him at feeding times, and
threaten assault and battery and slaughter.
But he had teeth of his own, though he was so
superior; and he had friends, too. The chief
Bull Link of all the tribe was his own father ; and
the Bull Link had a back nearly three feet across,
and thought nothing of making three or four
widows in a single morning if the fit took him.
The others, like all the brute creation, took hints
of that kind very quickly and never argued with
him. .
So young Lavender went his way, doing just
whatever he pleased. When it was cold he
would go in the sun, and in the shade when it was
hot, caressing Nature’s moods, and murmuring to
himself, or trying to imitate the dear little song
birds.
O ! how different all this from the fierce murder
of the hunting trail ! .
It was while he was imitating the dicky birds
that he discovered the Voice —that is, the real
voice ; the good, gentle voice, so different from the
roar, bellow, hoot, yell, and screech with which
all the business of those far-off days was done.
No Link, not even of the first families, had ever
before dreamed of Melody and Euphony !
Sounds to frighten or to threaten—these were
the necessaries of life, and had a face value, but
that sounds to please should ever come out of one’s
neck seemed ridiculous and un-Linkish ! None had
ever tried to make such sounds, and if they had
not come by accident, some time or other, they
might never have been discovered, and Caruso
might have been getting 15s. a week in some
oyster bar to-day.
It came out of itself as he was going along won-
dering what sort of a time the killers were having,
it being near lunch hour.
. Not that it was singing, in the proper sense of
the word, you know ; but what there was of it was
in the upper register, and was liquid and melo-
dious-something like a milkman’s yodel.
No wonder he was startled !
Had he made a discovery ?
It was a critical age for discoveries—they were
as thick as blackberries then.
At the present day, when all that is left to be
done are a few finishing touches to the aeroplane,
we are not troubled every minute of the day by
this worry. To anyone who asks now, “ Have I
discovered something?” the answer is, promptly,
“Decidedly not!” But it was vastly different
away back in the times when invention was in its
long clothes. Patents were lurking behind every
bush, and you could never make sure you had not
stumbled on one. One of the Links, only a day
or two before, had accidentally slid down a steep
glacier and discovered the Inclined Plane. He
never knew he had discovered it because there
was a big, hard rock-hard as anything—at the
bottom, but he had, all the same.
So, half-doubting and half-elated, our young
hero excitedly wagged his tail all the way home
—a thing he ‘hardly ever allowed himself to do.
And all the way home he practised yodeling on
these new high tones he had discovered in his
neck.
But was it a real discovery? Like a good
boy, he resolved to put it to his mother. She
would know. O ! the loving trust here exhibited
—even in Link times ! He was justified, too, for,
as he expected, when he yodeled, she jumped
about and yapped exceedingly, which, being
translated, meant “Yes ! yes 1 ” “ Every time !”
“Certainly!” “By all means!” “It’s simply
lovely!” “Do come and hear my Lavender!”
And when the fighting pack of males came home
from the raid they found things in a state
of gush and entrancement unparalleled, and the
yodeler yodeling for all he was worth in the
middle of it. And he got the kidneys and the
sweetbread, and continued to yodel, and was
adored—not by the males, who gave him up as
something beyond them, but by the softer sex,
whose natures were finer and more soulful, and
who hung on his every look and movement, and
worshipped the ground he walked on.
Every marriage settlement after that contained
a proviso on the bride’s behalf, that, of course, if
Lavender ever did condescend to look her way—
well, the whole thing was off !
This was the beginning of the aesthetic cult and
led to many refinements. The tail began to be
ornamented with flowering grasses, or was tucked
away neatly out of sight altogether.
The pack would repose out on the sward on
beautiful moonlight nights, and listen to their
tenor—the males properly sick, the females softly
purring, and the old Chief Link rolling his eyes
up in a frightful ecstasy of appreciation, and
beating time lazily with an immense hand at the
end of an arm so iong that, if we had such an arm
now, our pants’ pockets would have to be in our
boots.
But it was not to be supposed that all creation
was keeping up to this premature tonic-sol-fa
advancement.
The Mesozoic Epoch in the lump took little
stock of fancy tenors !
Now it came to pass, on one of those very moon-
light concert nights, that three behemoths who
were abroad in those parts heard that music.
We call them behemoths; but behemoth, or
leviathan, or whatever you call them or whatever
their shapes exactly, their skeletons, as : we have
them, show them to have been as big as whales
and with mouths like ten-foot rat-traps. They,
in that age, represented the comic element—of
which they had a monopoly. Their enormous
size and consequent immunity from attack by the
rest of creation gave them a debonair bearing
that was unique. Being secure themselves, they
could afford to be humorous.
For “Upon earth there was not their like—who
were made without fear. . . . They were Kings
over all the children of pride. . . . When their
tails moved it was like a cedar moving ! . . . Who
can open the doors of their faces? . . . Their teeth
are terrible round about ! ” Terrible, indeed !
No foolish hippopotami or crocodiles these ! They
could eat anything—small trees with branches,
bark and all, and shells and shingle when nothing
else offered. None understood the Interchange-
ability of Matter better. But they had their pre-
ferences, when the gods were good, and if Link
or lizard or fish were handy—so much the more
toothsome. And here, to-night, were dainties.
“What? Royal Italian Opera already ? And a
full house ! Good enough ! Here, Billy, you
take the gallery. I’ll take the pit, and dad there
can have the circle ! ” And so they rushed in.
Wrapped up in moonlight and music, and cut
off from their caves, what became of that branch
of our family on tt)at fateful night ?
Where the behemoth of the Mesozoic has been,
the ground is kneaded, and kneaded hard, and
everything kneaded into the ground is left under
the impression that it has become rock, and is too
shocked to grow anything for long days after.
So “culchaw” was stamped out, and music
perished from off the face of the earth.
G. BRON.


THE OLDEST JTTRQNGB, BELTT
M
©3
BM
■0&1
m
>VJJ
§3
For over
6O years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia,
Africa, or wherever you will
there you will findthisfam-
ily medicine ready
to give relief.
AYER’S
Sarsapari 11 a
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla-as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IJ. S. A.
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
everv^hon, 0 , in i roduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
INSTRUMENTS nr prizes such as MUSICAL
CHAINS PHOTO l^l? SIUER WATCHES and
v-xiaijne), ±*llolo. CAMERAS loaded for use RABRIT Rim we
ELEGANT 1 ppA»r P^OL S of faith f ui workmanship! LADIES
AlyUfuANi NECKLETS, SOLID COT T} PTNPQ n
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted SOLID SILVER
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONW
SA i I IJL POUNI)S ' All yOU faave to do is to SEND US YOUR
Name AND A.DDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
CanH et t S ?/ °“ rrella^ le seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette
y :uft - J°ppy. Sweet william, etc. Sell the packets It 3 d. per
packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by return
YOfl a ra P R e HKV Knn ß « le v fr ° m our S rand list. WE TRUST
xv-mj- 1 *i±s, RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not cold
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
1S wlthdrawn - We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and 7n every 1
positively as represented in our illustrations. y
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0.52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cure£the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
[m]
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Hemedy ■which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETONS EYE OINTMENT.
In nee since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
THERE IS NOTHING
in the world better than Good Health. It is the greatest prize
of life, and neither money nor anything else can fully com-
pensate for the lack of it. “ Good Health is the Best Wealth.”
It is, no doubt, true that a large proportion of all illness
consists of minor ailments, but so-called minor ailments should
never be neglected. They are Nature’s alarm signals, calling
attention to something wrong. Disregarded, they may develop
into more serious maladies. The stomach, bowels, liver and
kidneyjf are among the hardest worked organs of the body, and
it is not, therefore, surprising that they should sometimes
weaken in their action. There is nothing
TO EQUAL
BEECHAM’S PILLS for correcting all irregularities of those
organs. A single dose will bring relief, and, taken in accordance
with the directions, this medicine will completely cure Con-
stipation, Sick Headache, Biliousness, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Pains after Eating, or any of the many indications of a deranged
condition of the digestive system. “Prevention is better than
cure,” and if you would avoid ill-health, maintain a good
appetite and sound digestion, there is nothing better than a
timely dose of this world-renowned, well-tried remedy. No
household should ever be without a box of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price IOJd. (36 Pills),
Is. lid. (56 Pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills). \
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
l(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—l/1%, 2j9, 4/6.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home—
in dining-room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
6*
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardw are
Dealer ■ ,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack SL; Briscoe &00. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Br<*>klyn, N.Y., U.S.A
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian invention .
Write for Catalogue “C.”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fees, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Dtfficnlty In erpeetoration. Asthma, Herrons Cough*
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediate!]
relieTcd by GRIMATTLT A Co's INDIAN CIGAR
ETTES. Roid by all Chnrristn.
men
A NO
WOMEN
FREE
Or. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK;
“The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
„ „■ _ — from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you amffv tr,
I)r. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 38. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Paces
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for nil
the leases of Men and Women It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with lone-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Com- of
advertisement cut out. rCat W ° rk Free onenclosin ? five Btam P s ( the actual cost of the postage), and this
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARCE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments’*
on receipt of this adversisement. 12?'“/Vote intents
DR. MARTIN, M.D., "*"»'«>' House, ” 151 E/izabeth-st
Please mention this paper when writing. r ii uvr»c PAfflf SYDNEY**^


OILSKIN,
Adjustable
for Riding-,
Driving, or Walking. The
Dtigrong-, 27/6 ; The Rainbow,
22/6. Carriage paid. The most
comfortable coat for out-of-
doors. Ask for samples of
materials.
CLONTARF
MACINTOSH.
An English model coat of light-
weight Italian, with neat olive-rubber
surface. Carriage paid for 30/-
Quote height easy chest measure-
ment when ordering overcoats.
Our Winter Catalogue, No. 17, will be posted on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
TYREE
RABBIT
DESTROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S.W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Hines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv comnressed air, consuming about. 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Stiiotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SotE B AC ! NTB i _ W; & J b LEfVSPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water s
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
PA
s+<r
■
Write for
“ B”
AAIOHdWIS
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
'(IARK
Q3OSOQ
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
CqHF
Mbb
"VOLF
Aa
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at
SYDNEY
" THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Haxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
DON’T DECIDE
on fitting your shed
until you have ob-
t(lined our PRICES. WE are giving specially
attractive quotations, and when quality counts
the M-V is always the CHEAPEST machine. SEND
us an enquiry—not to-morrow — NOW.
Head
Office:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED,
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Bhearingr Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing- Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Bheep Shearing (W. A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
7 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Duplicates and
Supplies obtainable
from all Agencies.
m
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR
ATLAS ENGINES & BOILERS
i
ATLAS ENGINES represent the Highest
standard of manufacture, in every type.
A Good Stock kept in Sydney -
Catalogues, Prices, and all Particulars on application .
((
f-TERVEY’S
- 99
WORTH KNOWING.
MR. JOE BEST, a Well-Known Contractor’s Foreman, writes as follows
54 Fanning Street, Tempe, Sydney, 19th May, 1908.
Having since nay return to Sydney from India noticed a
great deal of talk in the papers concerning Rackarock, I must
say that it surely cannot be yours. Although I have not used
any for the past six (6) years, I can safely say up to 1902 there
was no ammunition in the world that could compete with the
Rackarock made by you, especially for the rock in and about
Sydney, or any other hard rock. All anyone requires to do is to
use it according to instructions. If that is done there will be no
complaints about fumes or its effectiveness.
I used your Rackarock on the second section of the Cairns to
Herberton Railway as far back as 1886 ; that was some of the
hardest and worst blasting rock I ever struck before or since,
and I can safely say your Rackarock was far above any other
kind of Explosive. Since that time up to 1902, 1 have actually
used tons of your Rackarock, both on Railway Contracts and
Government Day Labor Works in N.S.W. and Queensland.
There is no better explosive on the market, if used properly
and given a fair trial. What I mean by a trial is such as use
to be practised, viz. The Explosives used to be weighed an
measurements of Rock taken by the Engineers both before am
after Blasting, in cuttings, quarries, tunnel or heading wore,
per lineal yard. Costs used to be compared and your Rackaroe
was always the lowest.
RA mrPViTY Cor. Clarence and King Streets, Sydney.
• JL JL jLvIV V £/ JL 9 Established 1884. Telephone GlB.
Explosives, Machinery and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing, Irrigation, etc. ; Contractors’, Engineers’ and Builders Sundries.
Sole Agent for Patented Articles and Goods of special manufacture. Hard Work Saving Devices a Specialty.
All storekeepers,
or direct from
BILLETT’S PATENT HOT AIR TUYERE
ai
©
T.n rrr
effects a saving of 25 per cent, in fuel.
Heats the Iron in one-third less time. Thousands in use throughout Australia.
PRICES REDUCED:
No. 1, 355. No. 2, 40 s. No. 3, 50 s.
All Hardware Houses, or the Sole Licensees :
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.. SYDNEY and Melbourne.
